
    
      Patients with ischemic heart disease and diabetes are at a particularly high risk for the
      recurrence of cardiovascular events, conversely, certain classes of oral anti-diabetic
      medications have been shown to cause hypoglycemia with adverse cardiovascular implications
      1,2. Diabetes induces complex vascular changes, promoting accelerated atherosclerosis and a
      hyper-coagulable state, as can be assessed indirectly by a number of markers. Principal
      perturbations include endothelial dysfunction, increased inflammatory plaque infiltration,
      adhesion molecule over-expression and adverse effects of circulating fatty acids and advanced
      glycosylation end-products.

      Cardiovascular safety of anti-diabetic medications is of paramount importance and has been
      under recent FDA and EDQM scrutiny. A number of hypoglycemic drugs, especially sulfonylureas,
      have been associated with significant hypoglycemia and adverse events induced by sympathetic
      activation. Activation of the sympathetic system has numerous implications, including surges
      of heart rate, blood pressure but also pro-inflammatory and pro-coagulant effects. This
      partially explains increased cardiovascular adverse events noted with these drugs. Newer
      classes of antidiabetic medication have recently shown improved survival outcomes in patients
      with cardiovascular disease, yet the exact mechanisms of the observed risk reduction are
      mostly yet to be elucidated 3,4. One possible mechanism is anti-inflammatory effect exerted
      directly or indirectly by SGLT2I or diuretic effect leading to left ventricular unloading
      with NT pro BNP level reduction.

      The aim of this study is to explore the effect of newly added SGLT2I medication or placebo,
      to standard medication regimen in diabetic patients with documented stable coronary disease.
      Reduction of inflammatory marker levels is of great clinical importance and has been shown to
      correlate with reduction in significant clinical events5. Therefore, in the present study we
      plan to focus on possible anti-inflammatory and athero-thrombotic protective effects of
      Dapagliflozin compared to placebo, in secondary prevention population of stable coronary
      patients with diabetes. Additionally, the investigators will explore NT proBNP dynamics,
      which related to ventricular filling pressures in this specific population.

      Key representative markers for the present study are chosen in order to correctly represent
      alterations in: inflammation (hs-CRP, IL(interleukin) -1 beta, IL-6, P-Selectin, TNF-alfa),
      and LV strain (NT pro BNP).

      The effect of SGLT2I on the above-mentioned parameters has not been studied in humans.
      Accordingly, the demonstration of significant improvements in markers of athero-thrombosis
      and inflammation in high-risk diabetic patients is of great clinical importance and novelty
      that may be employed for the reduction of major cardiovascular events in this population.

      Importantly, the effects of SGLT2I therapy will be evaluated in a prospective controlled
      clinical trial in a closely supervised cardiac rehabilitation setting, which includes
      lifestyle changes, regular, quantifiable physical activity, and predefined nutritional
      interventions.
    
  