
    
      The intervention is comprised of designing and providing two years of support for home
      gardens. Families randomized to intervention will receive the following supports and
      services:

        1. Blue Mountain Associates will host a gardening workshop to include crop planning,
           receipt of customized guides to the crops the family selects (these are currently in
           development and will be ready by 2015), and hands-on basic skills training (mid-April).
           CHRs and interested local healthcare providers will also participate in workshops to
           help them prepare for supporting gardeners.

        2. BMA's garden manager and assistant(s) will visit each family to help the family install
           a garden and will provide the family with all needed supplies (late April to early May).
           Based on garden harvest measures collected in the Food Dignity project and the large
           gardens preferred by families in the pilot, the minimum garden size will be 80 sq. ft.
           with at least 30 sq. ft. devoted to crops other than corn and potatoes. The manager will
           design at least part of each garden in a way that allows the least physically able
           family members to participate in gardening.

        3. BMA will host a Facebook support and networking group for gardeners, with ARI, BMA, and
           UW gardening experts providing advice as needed.

        4. BMA's staff will visit each gardening family at least twice more during the growing
           season and will be available throughout the season for phone consultations and Facebook
           advice. For all years, the BMA garden manager will track actual intervention support
           provided to each family (e.g., timing and number of visits, training and supplies
           provided).

      The University of Wyoming research team will collect health measures before and at the end of
      each gardening season with gardening and control families for two years, after which the
      control families also receive the gardening intervention. The investigators anticipate
      enrolling about 100 families into the study with 400 (half adults, half children) people
      participating in the health measures.
    
  