
    
      If participant is found to be eligible to take part in this study, and participant agrees,
      participant's screening, reconstructive surgery, and follow-up appointments will be scheduled
      over multiple visits, as listed in this consent form. All procedures will be performed on
      days in which standard of care procedures would already be performed.

      If it is determined that participant is eligible, the following will be performed before the
      surgery:

        -  The study doctor or a member of the research team will review participant's medical
           information and ask participant questions about participant's medical history and
           demographic information.

        -  Participant will have a physical exam.

        -  Participant will be evaluated by a Physical Therapist to test participant's range of
           motion and strength.

        -  Participant will complete a questionnaire about pain, as well as participant's shoulder,
           arm, and hand range of motion. This information will be used to compare with the results
           after the surgery. This will take about 5 minutes to complete.

        -  Photographs and/or videos of the surgical site will be taken.

        -  If participant can become pregnant, participant will have a urine pregnancy test. To
           take part in this study, participant must not be pregnant.

      Surgery Study Visit (2):

      At this visit, participant's reconstructive surgery will be performed using a robot, called
      the Da Vinci® Robotic Surgical System. The reconstructive surgery is considered to be
      standard of care. Participant will be asked to sign a separate consent form that discusses
      the possible benefits and risks of the standard of care surgical procedure in more detail,
      including information about any anesthetic participant will be given for the surgery.

      A standard muscle harvest procedure takes about 2 hours. A muscle harvest procedure with the
      robotic system is expected to take longer than the standard surgery. The total procedure time
      will vary for each patient depending on the type of muscle harvest procedure and other
      factors in the operating room. The total time to complete the muscle harvest and
      reconstruction will take about 4 hours. Photographs and/or videos of the surgical site will
      be taken.

      Participant will remain in the hospital for 3-4 days after the surgery is complete for
      observation. After participant is discharged from the hospital, participant will need to
      return within 2 weeks for participant's first follow-up examination.

      Follow-Up Study Visits (3-6):

      After participant has been discharged from the hospital, participant will have 4 follow-up
      visits.

      The first follow up visit will take place within two weeks after participant is discharged .
      The second follow-up visit will be between 2-4 weeks, the third follow up visit will be
      between 1-3 months and the fourth follow up will be between 3-6 months after participant is
      discharged.

      The following tests and procedures will be performed at each follow-up visit:

        -  The study doctor will check the surgery site(s).

        -  Participant's overall health status will be checked.

        -  Participant will be evaluated by a Physical Therapist to test participant's range of
           motion and strength.

        -  Photographs and/or videos of the surgical site may be taken.

        -  Participant will complete the questionnaire about pain and participant's shoulder, arm,
           and hand range of motion. This information will be used to compare with the results from
           before the surgery.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      This is an investigational study. The use of the Da Vinci® Robotic Surgical System for
      surgery in the thorax (part of the upper body) is FDA approved and commercially available at
      this time. However, the system has not been FDA cleared specifically for use in latissimus
      dorsi muscle harvest procedures. The use of the DaVinci Robotic Surgical System for this type
      of reconstructive surgery has not been performed in live humans and is what researchers are
      investigating for this study.

      Up to 15 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  