
    
      Participants' eligibility will be accessed based on the following details:

      1. Inclusion criteria:

        1. . Age between 16 to 60;

        2. . Have a full-time job;

        3. . Resident of China;

        4. . Can read and understand Chinese;

        5. . History with non-cancer pain in past 6 months(Nicholas et al., 2013);

        6. . Pain score should be at least 2 when using Numeric Rating Scale, a 11-point numeric
           scale (Pieh et al., 2012);

        7. . Own a mobile phone and can access to mobile phone, computer and the internet.

      2. Exclusion criteria

        1. . Hospitalized patients;

        2. . Experiencing a drug addiction problem;

        3. . Further medical and surgical treatments or interventions is planned.

      The outcome measures will be considered in four aspects, physical, psychological,
      psycho-social using a battery of questionnaires which were used in the previous similar
      studies and evaluation to the program will be measured by asking several questions. As the
      study will be conducted in China, all the questionnaires will use Chinese version.

        1. Physical Brief Pain Inventory (BPI): The BPI is a brief, self-administered questionnaire
           us. Pain severity is assessed by four items and pain interference by seven items. The
           items are rated on a scale ranging from 0 to 10. Previous study showed that BPI can used
           to measure not only cancer pain but also chronic pain and proved that BPI has good
           internal consistency and acceptable test-retest reliability.

        2. Psychological Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS): The DASS is a self-report
           instrument to measure three negative emotional states including depression, anxiety and
           stress. The previous study demonstrated that DASS has excellent internal consistency and
           validity was also proved.

        3. Psycho-social The Pain Self-efficacy Questionnaire (PSEQ): A 10 item questionnaire
           assess the patient's beliefs about his or her ability to accomplish daily activities
           with pain. Higher score indicate greater pain-related self-efficacy.

        4. Satisfaction and acceptability Several questions will be asked at the end of the program
           to assess participants' satisfaction and acceptability of the program: (1) "Do you think
           this online pain management program useful?" "Does it worth your time following the
           program?" "Would you feel confident to recommend this program?" The questions were used
           in the previous studies to assess the acceptability of the internet-delivered program.
           Open-ended questions will also be used including "How do you think about this program?"
           "What are the strengths of the program?" "What are the disadvantages of the program?"
    
  