
    
      We shall conduct this prospective clinical study to define the specific patterns of
      multichannel ECG change in adults with suspected CAD or ACS. For multichannel ECG (M-ECG)
      examination, the signal will be recorded with a Self-built-in ECG recorder. However, the
      examinations, diagnosis, medications, or procedures for the patients will only depend on the
      decision made by the primary care physicians through the traditional ways. The M-ECG results
      will not be used by the primary physicians for any diagnosis or decision-making of the
      patients. That is, the final diagnosis of CAD will be made with coronary angiography and the
      final diagnosis of ACS will be made with the traditional criteria (symptoms, traditional ECG
      changes, and cardiac enzyme changes).

      Multichannel ECG Study The Self-built-in M-ECG recorders have passed the electrical security
      test. Multichannel ECG study will be performed under the approval of the Institutional Review
      Board. Before ECG examination, subjects will receive adequate orientation of the examination
      procedures and will complete inform consent.

      During the ECG recording ,the patent will lie down flat on the bed, and 4 ECG leads with
      commercially available pads (Covidien Kendall ECG electrodes Medi-trace 200) will be applied
      on the 4 extremities, respectively. Using xyphoid process as a right lower reference point, a
      18cm x 18cm patch integrated with 24 evenly distributed electrode pads (Covidien Kendall ECG
      electrodes Medi-trace Mini 100) will be applied on the left chest wall . Then, the ECG
      signals will be recorded through the self-built-in ECG recorders. The overall period for
      recording will be around 10 minutes.

      The postprocessing and analysis of the ECG data will be performed with a PC computer by an
      analyzer without prior knowledge of the patient's clinical information. After ECG data is
      acquired, the analytic software will provide an electrical mapping of QTc dispersion (SIQTC).
    
  