
    
      Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a rapidly emerging viral
      infection causing COVID19. The current strategy uses a public health model of identifying
      infected cases, isolation, and quarantine to stop transmission. Once exposed, observation is
      standard-of-care. Therapy is generally not given to persons who are not hospitalized. The
      doses of hydroxychloroquine being used are within the normal standard FDA-approved doses.

      Hydroxychloroquine may have antiviral effects against SARS-COV2 which may prevent COVID-19
      disease or early preemptive therapy may decrease disease severity. This trial will use a
      modification of standard malaria dosing of hydroxychloroquine to provide post-exposure
      prophylaxis to prevent disease or preemptive therapy for those with early symptoms. People
      around the the United States and Canada can participate to help answer this critically
      important question. No in-person visits are needed.

      This trial is targeting 5 groups of people NATIONWIDE to participate:

        1. If you are symptomatic with a positive COVID-19 test within the first 4 days of symptoms
           and are not hospitalized; OR

        2. If you live with someone who has been diagnosed with COVID-19, with your last exposure
           within the last 4 days, and do not have any symptoms; OR

        3. If you live with someone who has been diagnosed with COVID-19, and your symptoms started
           within the last 4 days; OR

        4. If you have had occupational exposure with known exposure to someone with lab-confirmed
           COVID-19 within the last 4 days and do not have symptoms; OR

        5. If you have had occupational exposure with known exposure to someone with lab-confirmed
           COVID-19 within the last 4 days AND have compatible symptoms starting within the last 4
           days;

      You may participate if you live anywhere in the United States (including territories) or in
      the Canadian Provinces of Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, or Ontario.

      For information on how to participate in the research trial, go to covidpep.umn.edu or email
      covid19@umn.edu for instructions. Please check your spam folder if you email.

      In Canada, for trial information, please go to: www.covid-19research.ca
    
  