
    
      GpR 3 is an observational study of patients with symptoms of gastroparesis with either
      delayed or normal gastric emptying. Epidemiological, clinical, physiological, and patient
      outcome data will be collected to characterize the patients and their clinical course to
      better understand this disorder. The long-term goal is to help phenotype patients into
      pathophysiologically defined subsets. This classification will provide a foundation for
      translational research, facilitating the search for etiopathogenesis and enhance the ability
      to define and conduct large clinical trials, ultimately leading to the development of more
      rational and effective therapeutic approaches for gastroparesis.

      The primary objectives of the Gastroparesis Registry 3 (GpR 3) are:

        -  To create a new registry of patients with symptoms of gastroparesis, both patients with
           delayed gastric emptying and patients with similar symptoms but normal gastric emptying,
           for the enhanced study of symptoms, gastric motility abnormalities, patient
           characteristics, and degree of morbidity.

        -  To follow a well-characterized cohort to further define the natural history and clinical
           course of patients with symptoms of gastroparesis - both symptoms and gastric emptying
           over time. Treatments given for their clinical care and clinical responses to treatments
           will be recorded.

        -  To provide a reliable source for recruitment of well-characterized patients with
           gastroparesis for other studies including therapeutic clinical trials,
           pathophysiological, molecular, histopathologic, or other ancillary studies. These
           subsequent clinical trials or ancillary studies will be conducted under separate study
           protocols with separate consent processes.

      Specific secondary objectives of GpR3 have been developed to allow the patients entered in
      GpR3 to help advance our understanding of gastroparesis:

        -  Assess several areas of gastric motility in patients with symptoms of gastroparesis
           (fundic accommodation, antral contractility, global gastric emptying).

        -  Determine the change in gastric motility over time, in patients with gastroparesis and
           in patients with symptoms of gastroparesis but normal gastric emptying.

        -  Evaluate the clinical symptomatic course (outcome) of patients followed in the registry.

        -  Use the registry to better capture clinical treatment responses to specific treatments
           while patients are in the registry.

        -  Characterize abdominal pain in patients with gastroparesis and gastroparesis-like
           syndrome by:

             -  Describing the abdominal pain seen in patients with gastroparesis

             -  Determining if the pain has neuropathic or nociceptive qualities

             -  Determining attributes of patients with abdominal pain

             -  Assessing patients in the presence of sensory gastric dysfunction

             -  Objective mapping of the abdominal pain and determining central and/or peripheral
                attributes of the abdominal pain

        -  Compare the Rome IV categories of gastric disorders (functional dyspepsia (FD),
           epigastric pain syndrome (EPS), postprandial distress syndrome (PDS), chronic idiopathic
           nausea and vomiting (CINV), rumination syndrome, cyclic vomiting syndrome, central
           abdominal pain syndrome) to our present classification of gastroparesis and
           gastroparesis-like disorder.

        -  Determine the prevalence of hypermobility spectrum disorders (HSD) in patients with
           gastroparesis.

        -  Compare the water load satiety test (WLST) to intragastric meal distribution (IMD)
           during scintigraphy and to symptoms of early satiety, postprandial fullness in patients
           with symptoms of gastroparesis.

        -  Collect serum, plasma, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) that can be used
           for subsequent analysis to address specific research questions.
    
  