
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the feasibility and toxicities of maintenance therapy with sequential
           bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone after high-dose melphalan and autologous
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with multiple myeloma.

        -  To assess whether administration of sequential bortezomib, thalidomide, and
           dexamethasone can improve progression-free survival of these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To assess whether administration of sequential bortezomib, thalidomide, and
           dexamethasone can increase complete remission rate and duration of response in these
           patients.

        -  To assess the impact of maintenance therapy with sequential bortezomib, thalidomide, and
           dexamethasone after transplantation on overall survival of these patients.

        -  To evaluate the influence of cytogenetic abnormalities (e.g., chromosome 13 deletion, 14
           q32 abnormality, t [4;14], chromosome 1 q21 amplification, and chromosome 17 deletion)
           on outcome by performing conventional cytogenetic study and fluorescence in situ
           hybridization (FISH) studies on baseline and post-transplant bone marrow specimens.

      OUTLINE:

        -  High-dose melphalan and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT):
           Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -2 and -1 and undergo
           autologous PBSCT on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously
           beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Beginning 4-8 weeks after transplantation, patients receive
           bortezomib IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive oral
           dexamethasone on days 1-4; treatment with dexamethasone repeats every month for 12
           months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 2 weeks
           after completion of bortezomib, patients receive oral thalidomide once daily until
           disease progression.

      Patients complete the FACT-GOG neurotoxicity questionnaire periodically. Bone marrow samples
      are collected at baseline and post-transplant for cytogenetic analysis by FISH.
    
  