
    
      From October 2012 to March 2018 a minimally invasive one-stage resection was offered to
      selected patients referred to the investigator's institution with a diagnosis of CRC and
      synchronous LM, irrespective of the size and location of the primary and metastatic disease.
      When feasible, a fully-robotic colorectal and liver resection was performed. Prior consent
      was obtained and full treatment options where submitted to all patients treated. Data
      collected were prospectively analyzed.

      Diagnosis and pre-operative staging were achieved with pancolonoscopy with biopsies and,
      where contraindicated or not feasible, with CT colonography.

      Pelvic MRI with rectal cancer protocol was used for local staging of rectal cancer and
      total-body contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) and liver contrast-enhanced magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) for investigation of metastases. In selected cases a CEUS
      (contrast-enhanced ultrasound) or liver biopsy was performed in order to achieve a diagnostic
      definition.

      All cases were discussed at multidisciplinary team meeting. Criteria for neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy were liver unresectability with a potential incomplete liver resection with
      anticipated positive surgical margins and an insufficient liver remnant.

      Absolute contraindications for minimally invasive simultaneous surgery were considered
      unfitness for surgery due to comorbidities not allowing long operative time, the number of
      lesions in parenchymal sparing surgery (generally >5), the pre-operative prediction of
      vascular resection.

      Relative contraindications were considered the need for major hepatectomy and the finding of
      new intraoperative lesions, with consequent potential longer operative time.

      Demographic, histopathological, surgical morbidity/mortality and short term peri-operative
      clinical outcome in all patients undergone simultaneous colorectal and liver resections were
      prospectively evaluated.

      Morbidity evaluation included all intra-operative and early post-operative (within 30 days)
      complications and rated according to Clavien-Dindo classification.

      All data are expressed as mean values ± range when appropriate
    
  