
    
      End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is a major and growing healthcare problem associated with
      substantial costs. By the end of 2010 the global patient population requiring chronic renal
      replacement therapy (RRT) exceeds 2 million, of which approximately 90% relies on
      hemodialysis (HD). The number of patients dependent on RRT are expected to annually increase
      with 8%. Based on this figure, it is expected that in 2030, 7.3 million ESRD patients need HD
      treatment. To facilitate adequate HD therapy a reliable vascular access (VA) is mandatory and
      can be provided by either creation of an autologous arteriovenous fistula (AVF), a prosthetic
      arteriovenous graft (AVG) or a central venous catheter (CVC). Guidelines by the National
      Kidney Foundation (NKF K/DOQI Guidelines), the Vascular Access Society (Good Nephrological
      Practice Guidelines) and the European Dialysis and Transplant Association (European Best
      Practice Guidelines on vascular access) advocate the implementation of an all-autologous
      fistula policy to maximize the use of AVF over AVG and CVC because AVF have the best
      long-term patency, fewer complications and require less interventions once fully maturated.
      Although the implementation of preoperative ultrasonography examination for vessel assessment
      has reduced the number of early AVF failure by improving the selection of the most suitable
      vessels and site for AVF creation, short- and long-term AVF dysfunction remains the major
      cause of morbidity and hospitalisation in HD patients, and is therefore the major limitation
      for HD treatment. This dysfunction is usually associated with non-maturation of the newly
      created AVF or the formation of neo-intimal hyperplasia (NIH) which potentially results in
      decreased access flow and eventual fistula thrombosis in up to 50% of AVFs. On the other
      hand, the low resistance vascular traject via the AVF may lead to impeded perfusion of the
      extremity distally of the AV anastomosis resulting in hand ischemia (HAIDI = Hemodialysis
      Access Induced Distal Ischemia), while an abundant AVF flow may lead to the development of
      left ventricular hypertrophy, both with potentially severe consequences. These high-flow
      complications occur in approximately 20% of fistulae. Numerous studies have investigated
      alternative preoperative mapping tools and criteria for reduction of AVF related
      complications. However, current clinical use of these individual tools and parameters does
      not take into account their potential interplay at a systemic level. Therefore one might
      consider that multiple prognostic parameters within a single patient are likely more valuable
      to improve outcome and therefore it is obvious to tailor the type of AVF to the individual
      patient. A possible solution to deal with multiple independent prognostic factors is
      implementation of a predictive patient-specific computational tool that relates geometrical,
      mechanical and hemodynamical parameters by means of physical laws. As a result, the
      computational tool takes the complex interplay between different prognostic parameters into
      consideration and accounts for individual differences in anatomy, physiology, demography and
      hemodynamics. Such an innovative computational tool opens new opportunities. By predicting
      postoperative flow abovementioned deleterious events can possibly be prevented. High-flow
      (>1500ml/min) and low-flow (<600ml/min) vascular access can then be predicted and
      consequently be rejected and a more suitable AVF-configuration chosen.

      Consequently, simulation of outcome after AVF creation is at hand. Recently, the feasibility
      of VA computational simulation has been investigated and proven in the ARCH FP7 ICT-224390
      project (ARCH; patient-specific image-based computational modeling for improvement of short-
      and long- term outcome of vascular access in patients on hemodialysis therapy). Within this
      technological and clinical study, longitudinal collection of cardiovascular data was
      performed with the intention to develop, calibrate and validate patient-specific modelling
      tools for surgical planning and assistance in the management of complications arising from
      AVF creation. Given the difficult and heterogeneous patient population, the study protocol
      was designed in such way that pre- and postoperative imaging could be performed strictly,
      aiming at complete datasets of structural, functional and demographical data. Although the
      computational simulation model has been validated in a small patient group, larger randomized
      observational patient studies, aiming at evaluating the potential beneficial effect of the
      use of computational tools in reducing AVF-related clinical problems, are needed.
    
  