
    
      Background: Postoperative ileus (POI) remains a significant problem after colorectal surgery
      that adversely influences patients' recovery and prolongs hospital stay. The investigators'
      previous study demonstrated that electroacupuncture (EA) at Zusanli, Sanyinjiao, Hegu, and
      Zhigou reduces the duration of POI and hospital stay after laparoscopic resection of colonic
      and upper rectal cancer (Ng et al. Gastroenterology 2013; 144: 307-313). However, patients
      with mid/low rectal cancer undergoing laparoscopic sphincter-preserving total mesorectal
      excision (TME) or abdominoperineal resection (APR) were excluded. These complicated cases are
      apparently more likely to develop prolonged ileus and morbidity after surgery.

      Objectives: To investigate the efficacy of EA in reducing the duration of POI and hospital
      stay after laparoscopic TME or APR for rectal cancer.

      Hypothesis: Rectal cancer patients undergoing laparoscopic TME or APR within a fast-track
      perioperative program who receive EA will have shorter duration of POI and hospital stay when
      compared with those who receive sham acupuncture (SA).

      Design: Prospective, randomized, sham-controlled, superiority trial.

      Subjects: One hundred and sixty four consecutive patients with mid/low rectal cancer
      undergoing laparoscopic surgery without the need of conversion will be recruited. All
      patients will follow a standard perioperative fast-track program.

      Interventions: Patients will be randomly allocated to receive either EA or SA. Bilateral
      acupoints including Zusanli, Sanyinjiao, Hegu, and Zhigou will be used. The acupuncturist is
      the only individual who is aware of the treatment allocation; the patients randomized to the
      EA/SA groups and the outcome assessor are blinded to the treatment allocation. The patients
      will undergo one session of EA daily from day 1 till day 4, or until the time when the
      primary outcome has occurred, whichever is earlier.

      Outcome measures: Primary outcome: a composite endpoint of time to recovery of upper and
      lower gastrointestinal function (GI-2). Secondary outcomes: time to discharge order written,
      length of hospital stay, postoperative pain scores and analgesic requirement, and
      postoperative 30-day morbidity.
    
  