
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of cediranib maleate (cediranib) plus olaparib as
      maintenance therapy, in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) who have stable disease
      or better (non-progressive disease or non-PD) after initial therapy, leads to improved median
      progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is measured in months from the time of randomization to
      maintenance therapy (after completion of initial therapy), compared to standard therapy (no
      maintenance treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the impact of cediranib plus olaparib maintenance therapy on median overall
      survival (OS) in patients with SCLC who have non-PD after initial therapy.

      II. To determine whether the addition of cediranib to cisplatin/carboplatin plus etoposide
      during initial therapy adds benefit to response rate, median PFS and median OS.

      III. To assess safety and tolerability of the combination of cediranib plus olaparib during
      maintenance therapy.

      IV. To evaluate potential biomarkers of clinical benefit to olaparib/cediranib combination,
      including tumor proteomic and genomic markers, and circulating levels of cytokines and
      angiogenic factors, that that may be associated with clinical benefit.

      OUTLINE:

      INITIAL THERAPY PHASE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes or cisplatin IV over
      60 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 2, and 3. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive treatment as in Arm I and also receive cediranib maleate orally (PO)
      once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients in Arm I who have stable disease, partial, or a complete response are randomized to
      receive maintenance therapy or no maintenance therapy. Patients in Arm II are assigned to
      receive maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO QD and olaparib PO twice daily
      (BID) on days 1-28.

      NO MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients are eligible to crossover to receive treatment with
      cediranib maleate and olaparib upon disease progression at the treating investigator's
      discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-4 months for at least 1
      year.
    
  