
    
      There has been only one prospective study documenting the outcomes of patients treated with
      physical therapy for intra-articular conditions of the hip. These conditions included mild
      FAI and mild developmental dysplasia of the hip. Here, physical therapy was given as a first
      line treatment. Those who did not make satisfactory improvements in pain or wished to have
      surgery were then scheduled for surgery to repair the defects. Patients saw improvement in
      validated outcome measures at one year.

      Although there have been studies looking at age secondarily in patients with labral tears,
      there is no prospective evidence to endorse or refute a recommendation of hip arthroscopy for
      patients of any age being treated for a tear of the acetabular labrum.

      Most recently, the authors involved in this study performed a retrospective investigation
      (unpublished data) to capture patients with clinically and radiographically confirmed
      acetabular labral pathology electing to undergo conservative management defined as the
      refusal of surgical intervention. Based on a retrospective review of 894 patients presenting
      to clinic over a 10-year period, the investigators identified 22 patients with labral
      pathology that were treated non-operatively. Retrospective case control analysis was
      performed using outcome questionnaires administered to both surgical and non-surgical
      cohorts. The investigators found that patients with labral tears managed non-operatively
      appear to score highly on hip function outcome scores, preliminarily indicating there may be
      some benefit in using conservative management alone in the treatment of labral pathology.

      This is a 12-month prospective randomized control trial (RCT), which will enroll 121 subjects
      with evidence consistent with a tear of the acetabular labrum. Labral tear will be diagnosed
      by clinical exam and positive MRI findings. Subjects will receive conservative physical
      therapy treatment alone or arthroscopic surgical labral repair and physical therapy. The
      investigators anticipate that pain, range of motion, activity level, and functional
      performance, as judged by validated outcome measures and serial physical exams, will improve
      when compared to baseline. The investigators also anticipate that the level of response will
      be greater in the surgical treatment group than in the physical therapy group at 12 months.

      Our Primary Outcome is change in the modified Harris Hip Score at 6 months and 12 months.
      Secondary outcomes include changes in other outcomes measures (LEFS, HOS, NAHS, iHOT-33),
      patient satisfaction, and degree of improvement on physical exam, and the influence of OA
      severity (Outerbridge scoring) and location on the aforementioned outcome measures.
    
  