
    
      Study Aims:

      The aim of this study is to understand how food texture and saliva characteristics influences
      oral processing behavior, bolus characteristics and postprandial glycaemic response.

      The study hypothesizes that foods with a more elastic texture are eaten slower and requires
      more chewing, resulting in smaller bolus particle sizes and therefore higher postprandial
      glycaemic response due to an increased surface area for enzymatic digestion. Participants
      with higher saliva flowrate and/or alpha-amylase activity would also have shorter eating
      times and higher postprandial glycaemic responses.

      Study Design:

      Oral processing behaviours have high individual variances (Bolhuis et al 2013; Ketel et al
      2019) and a large sample size is required in order to get significant differences between
      treatments. Based on previous papers on food texture and oral processing, a minimum of 20
      healthy young male Chinese participants will be recruited in this study.

      The study will require participants to attend 1 screening session (1 hour) and 3 test
      sessions (3 hours for test sessions 1 and 2; 1 hour for test session 3).

      Screening (1 hour):

      All potential participants will be asked to give informed consent before taking part in any
      of the research activities. Baseline measurements including anthropometric (height, weight,
      percentage body fat using a Bioelectrical Impedance Analyser), fasting blood glucose via
      finger prick and blood pressure will be taken to access eligibility.

      Successfully screened participants will proceed to complete intraoral volume capacity
      measured using simple sip-and-spit measures, as well as provide stimulated and unstimulated
      saliva sample (approximately 4 x 5 ml each) via passive drooling to assess their saliva
      flowrates and saliva alpha-amylase activity.

      Test Foods:

      Commercially available and commonly consumed foods (e.g. white rice, korean rice cake,
      carrot, biscuits, etc.) are safe for human consumption and prepared in line with safe
      hygienic food preparation

      Test session 1 and 2 (3 hours each):

      Participants will be informed to fast 10 to 12 hours prior to test session 1 and 2. They are
      required to arrive the test centre between 08:00 - 09:00 a.m.

      Participants will be asked to consume a test meal during each session, consisting of a 'fast'
      (less elastic texture and eaten more quickly) or 'slow' food (more elastic texture and eaten
      more slowly) in total. The order of test foods presented will be randomised. These test foods
      will be of the same carbohydrate load (50g carbohydrate) with different textures (i.e. white
      rice vs. rice cakes).

      A baseline finger prick blood sample will be taken. After obtaining the baseline blood
      samples, test meal will be given to the participant to consumed within 15 minutes while being
      video recorded using a laptop webcam at face level. Following consumption of the test meal,
      finger prick blood samples will be taken for the next 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120
      minutes. The amount of blood that will be collected at every time point will be about a drop
      of blood (approximately 0.5ml per time point and 5 ml in total).

      Sensory and textural ratings of the test meal will be taken using a visual analogue scale on
      a laptop. Post-meal satiety responses using a visual analogue scale will also be collected on
      a laptop every 15 minutes.

      After completion of blood collection and satiety responses, the participant will be asked to
      chew on a separate portion of test meal (5g) until ready to swallow, and will be asked to
      expectorate the food bolus to assess their bolus properties including saliva uptake and
      particle size distribution. Video-recordings of the participant chewing the test foods will
      be taken.

      A set of ad-libitum snacks will be provided to participants after all the measurements have
      been completed.

      Test sessions 1 and 2 will be interspaced by a minimum of 5 days.

      Test session 3 (1 hour):

      Participants will be asked to chew on 3 test foods (white rice, rice cake, raw carrot) using
      a fixed chew protocol (i.e. 15 chews, 30 chews and chew until point of first swallow) and
      then expectorating the bolus to assess their bolus properties including saliva uptake and
      particle size distribution. Video-recordings of the participant chewing the test foods will
      be taken.

      Sessions 2 and 3 will be interspaced by a minimum of 1 day.
    
  