
    
      Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant neurogenetic disorder, caused by
      heterozygous mutations in at least two different genes, TSC1, and TSC2. It is estimated to
      affect 1 in 6000, and demonstrates both phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity. It is
      characterized by a variety of symptoms including skin lesions, renal angiomyolipomas, cardiac
      rhabdomyomas, seizures, and cognitive delay (mental retardation, autism, and behavior
      problems). The severity of the disease varies widely among patients with TSC in general, and
      variability in phenotype is detectable within single families, where all affected individuals
      have the same TSC1 or TSC2 mutation. Neurocognitive phenotypes in TSC vary from profound
      mental retardation, intractable epilepsy, and autism, to normal cognition and only a mild
      behavioral phenotype. However, the basis of this phenotypic variability is not understood.
      There is a growing body of literature implicating genetic variation in "modifier genes" as an
      agent for phenotypic heterogeneity in Mendelian disorders, such as TSC. The role of genetic
      modifiers on disease severity has not yet studied in familial TSC and sporadic TSC. This
      study is aimed to carry out a systematic study to examine the effects of genetic variants
      other than TSC genes on phenotypic variability in familial TSC patients (affected parent,
      child and unaffected siblings) and sporadic TSC. The main objectives of the study are:

        1. To identify new gene mutations (genetic modifiers) in TSC familial pairs and sporadic
           cases that account for the phenotypic variability.

        2. Determination of quantitative differences in gene expression and allelic expression
           imbalance between mild and severe disease phenotype.

        3. Establish a specimen repository of familial and sporadic TSC cohort to validate the
           genetic modifiers.

      To identify genetic variants that differentiate disease severity using next generation
      sequencing (NGS) in DNA, and gene expression profile in RNA from blood to identify
      disease-causing heterozygous TSC(1 or 2) mutation in parent-child (P-C) pairs and sporadic
      cases with a mild and severe form of the disease. Use of next-generation sequencing (NGS)
      along with improved data analysis in this proposal will overcome many of the barriers in
      identifying genetic modifiers. The investigators will also study cultured fibroblasts cells
      and buccal swabs from P-C pairs to validate the findings. Use of next-generation sequencing
      (NGS) along with improved data analysis in this proposal will overcome many of the barriers
      in identifying genetic modifiers. This research has the potential to address a critical
      scientific gap in understanding the phenotypic variability The investigators may be able to
      develop a "molecular profile" that correlates with and predicts disease severity. The
      findings may provide a tool for early prediction of disease severity, allowing for the use of
      disease modifying treatments that may prevent the development of a severe neurocognitive
      phenotype.

      As this is not a treatment protocol, there is no primary endpoint.
    
  