
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the use of virtual reality (VR) technology during
      Physical Therapy (PT) and/or Occupational Therapy (OT) for patients with burns. Due to the
      pain that many burn patients experience during PT/OT, we are searching for non-medicinal
      methods of decreasing their pain. The question we will address is: does VR use during PT/OT
      help to increase Range of Motion (ROM) and decrease pain intensity?

      Recovery from a trauma can be hindered by the presence of acute pain. Unfortunately for burn
      victims, physical and occupational therapies remains an area of significant evoked pain.
      PT/OT is an integral part of the burn recovery and starts early in the course of treatment.
      PT/OT is necessary to maintain elasticity of healing skin and thereby promote functional
      range of motion of affected joints. If the patient is unable to participate in PT/OT due to
      pain, joint contractures can occur and surgical release of the contracture can become
      necessary.

      Although pain during PT/OT can be treated with opioids, there are several drawbacks to the
      use of analgesics alone. Side effects, the development of opioid tolerance, and the inability
      of the drugs to adequately control pain are some of the disadvantages. Supplemental use of
      nonpharmacologic techniques, along with opioid therapy, has been found to be effective in
      reducing pain and anxiety. In particular, distraction has been found to be useful to minimize
      burn pain (Miller, 1992; Patterson, 1995). Virtual reality, due to its immersive nature that
      includes sight, sound, and sometimes touch, may be an even more effective method of
      distraction than traditional methods such as video movies or interactive video games. To
      explain these non-pharmacologic analgesic effects, investigators propose that the illusion of
      going in to the virtual world draws the patient's attention. Conscious attention is required
      for the experience of pain (Chapman and Nakamura, 1999; Eccleston and Crombez, 1999). The
      interactive nature of the immersive virtual reality make VR unusually attention grabbing,
      leaving less attention available to process incoming pain signals (Hoffman, Patterson and
      Carrougher, 2000).

      In 1996, Hunter Hoffman and David Patterson co-originated new techniques using immersive
      virtual reality for pain control. Virtual reality is a familiar format to children and young
      adults, who grew up playing videogames. Like videogames, it is an environment that is
      stimulated by a computer. However, in virtual reality, visual experiences are presented
      through special stereoscopic goggles. Virtual reality simulations can include additional
      sensory information, such as sound through speakers and touch through cyber-gloves. Users
      interact with a virtual reality environment either through a keyboard, mouse, or a specially
      designed device. These systems are described as "fully immersive" as the user is surrounded
      by virtual reality stimulation. Simulated environments have been used to mimic videogames and
      real-world situations, such as pilot training, driver training, museum tours, and underwater
      expeditions. Researchers have found that immersive virtual reality distraction can reduce
      patient's pain rating during severe burn wound care by 30% to 50% (Hoffman, Patterson et al.,
      2004; Hoffman, Patterson and Carrougher, 2000). Patients receiving adjunctive VR during
      physical therapy reported large reductions in the amount of time spent thinking about pain,
      pain intensity (worst pain) and in how unpleasant they found their pain (Hoffman, Patterson,
      Carrougher and Sharar, 2001). In a recent fMRI brain scan study, participants reported large
      reductions in subjective pain when in VR compared to no VR during their scan. The controlled
      laboratory fMRI study further showed that VR analgesia was accompanied by large reductions in
      pain-related brain activity (Hoffman, Richards et al., 2004).

      The proposed study will replicate and extend the work of Hoffman, Patterson and colleagues.
      Using similar experimental techniques, patients will serve as their own controls to evaluate
      the effects of the use of VR during physical therapy/occupational therapy for burn care
      compare to no VR during therapy during several sessions. An imagery scale will be completed
      by subjects prior to the first session to determine if there is a correlation between imagery
      scores and the effects of the VR. This may help identify patients who will benefit from VR in
      the future.

      Prior research has shown that some patients respond better than others to adjunct therapy
      than others. Caregivers may be reluctant to initiate such therapies unless they are certain
      it will be beneficial. Kwekkeboom has developed and tested the Imaging Ability Questionnaire
      (IAQ) and the Kids Imaging Ability Questionnaire (KIAQ) to help determine who would benefit
      from this type of intervention (Kwekkeboom, Maddox, West, 2000). Participants will be
      completing these questionnaires prior to the first VR therapy session. The instruments for
      both groups will be the same with the exception of the "imaging ability". Each group will
      complete an "imaging ability", but one has been designed especially for children, the other
      for adults.

      The majority of the research using VR has been focused on children. Children and adolescents
      are accustom to playing video games and may have an easier transition into the VR world. We
      are interested in the adult's ability to become engaged in VR compared to children.

      Potential benefits include:

      Speedier Physical Rehabilitation a Decreased Pain Experience During Necessary Care Decreased
      Pain Med Requirements Addition of Variety to Daily Activities Altruistic Benefit Derived From
      the Possible Future Benefit to Others.
    
  