
    
      Primary open angle glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide, and is the most common
      form of glaucoma. This condition involves progressive damage to the optic nerve over time and
      ultimately vision loss that can be detected using standard automated perimetry visual field
      testing. As this population ages, patients will eventually develop cataracts and require
      cataract surgery to replace the cloudy crystalline lens with an artificial intraocular lens.
      The standard of treatment is implantation of a monofocal intraocular lens (IOL), but this
      limits depth of focus and does not allow clear vision at both distance and near without
      spectacle correction post-operatively. To provide a refractive component to cataract surgery,
      multifocal and trifocal lenses were introduced and split light into multiple distinct foci at
      near, intermediate and far distances without correction. However, splitting of incoming light
      has the potential to decrease contrast sensitivity and increase photic phenomena. In
      addition, multifocal IOLs have been shown to reduce mean deviation on automated perimetry
      compared to monofocal IOLs and are not recommended in patients where visual field reduction
      may not be tolerated, such as in patients with glaucoma. The TECNIS Symfony IOL has been
      recently been approved by Health Canada and offers extended range of vision with a single
      elongated focal point, corrects for chromatic aberration and results in contrast enhancement.
      It is unknown whether this new IOL impacts visual field testing in glaucoma patients post
      cataract surgery.

      The objective of this study is to compare visual field outcomes in patients choosing to
      undergo cataract surgery with either a TECNIS ZCB00 monofocal vs TECNIS Symfony extended
      depth of focus intraocular lens.

      It is hypothesized that patients who undergo implantation of a TECNIS Symfony extended depth
      of focus intraocular lens will have impaired visual field testing (a decrease in mean
      deviation on Humphrey 24-2 standard automated perimetry) compared to those undergoing TECNIS
      ZCB00 monofocal intraocular lens implantation.

      This will be a prospective cohort study.

      Patients undergoing either TECNIS ZCB00 monofocal or TECNIS Symfony extended depth of focus
      ZXR intraocular lens insertion during cataract surgery will be recruited.

      Patients will not be approached regarding the study until the patient decides which lens will
      be inserted during surgery. This study has no impact on a patient's choice of intraocular
      lens. This study will not be assigning a lens as part of the intervention.

      There will be no randomization of the groups, given that patients will be choosing which lens
      will be implanted during surgery pre-operatively, as any other patient undergoing cataract
      surgery would.

      There will be no blinding of study participants or of the investigators.

      As per standard pre-operative assessment, patients will have ocular Biometry performed prior
      to surgery to assess what prism diopter lens to insert intra-operatively.

      On the day of this appointment, participants will be asked to perform a 24-2 Humphrey
      standard automated perimetry visual field test with Swedish Interactive Threshold Algorithm
      (SITA) standard thresholds.

      In addition, at the 1-month post-operative appointment, participants will be asked to again
      complete a 24-2 Humphrey visual field, in addition to the standard post-operative
      examination.
    
  