
    
      Combinations of two nucleoside analogue RT inhibitors (NRTI) are by far the most commonly
      utilized backbone of combination antiretroviral regimens upon which additional third or
      fourth agents, a non-nucleoside RT inhibitor (NNRTI) or a (boosted) protease inhibitor (PI),
      confer sufficient potency for long-term efficacy. The choice of the specific two NRTI is made
      on the basis of potency and durability, short-and long-term toxicities, drug-drug
      interactions, the propensity to select for resistance mutations, and dosing convenience.
      Currently, the most frequently used NRTI combination is zidovudine plus lamivudine, often
      co-formulated as Combivir®.

      The thymidine analogues NRTI have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the lipodystrophy
      syndrome and of peripheral lipoatrophy in particular. Exposure to zidovudine is associated
      with a slower and possibly lesser degree of limb fat loss than exposure to stavudine. The
      mechanisms by which thymidine analogue NRTI contribute to lipoatrophy remain uncertain,
      although there is evidence that drug-induced mitochondrial toxicity at the level of
      subcutaneous adipose tissue is involved2 3. NRTI are known inhibitors of mitochondrial DNA
      polymerase gamma and greater degrees of mtDNA depletion in subcutaneous adipose tissue are
      associated with greater loss of limb fat as measured by DEXA. In addition, NRTI may
      detrimentally affect mitochondrial function by mechanisms other than mtDNA depletion. It has
      also been postulated that the normal regional distribution of body fat may be under
      hypothalamic autonomic neuronal control, and that effects of NRTI on the central and/or
      peripheral autonomic pathways may be underlying the selective loss of fat in subcutaneous but
      not in central regions of the body4.

      Withdrawal of thymidine analogues from the antiretroviral regimens of patients with clinical
      signs of lipodystrophy (and replacing it by abacavir or in more recent studies by tenofovir)
      has been demonstrated to be able to partially revert limb fat loss in a number of studies,
      including randomized placebo-controlled trials 5-10. Of note, most patients in these studies
      had stavudine replaced. Carr11 and Martin6 reported an increase in limb fat of 0.39 kg and
      1.26 kg 24 and 104 weeks, respectively, after replacing stavudine or zidovudine by abacavir
      in the Mitox study (the majority of patients was on a stavudine-based regimen at entry, the
      minority on a ZDV-based regimen). Moyle8 reported an increase of 1.08 kg of limb fat 48 weeks
      after withdrawal of thymidine analogues. The reported increases in limb fat have been
      greatest in patients that were pretreated with stavudine compared to patients pretreated with
      zidovudine. The rate of peripheral fat loss is slower in patients using zidovudine compared
      to patients using stavudine, suggesting that patients using stavudine may have usually lost
      more peripheral fat to begin with than patients using zidovudine. Therefore the potential
      increase in peripheral fat after withdrawal of the thymidine analogue is expected to be
      greatest in patients using stavudine. The current study, in contrast to earlier studies, will
      be limited to patients who with respect to thymidine analogue exposure have solely been
      exposed to zidovudine and never to stavudine. In order to assure that participants in our
      study have already had the opportunity to lose a reasonable amount of peripheral fat, we will
      only include patients who have been continuously treated with zidovudine and lamivudine for
      at least 2 years. Nolan12 reported that treatment-naïve patients receiving zidovudine-based
      therapy, after 3 years had lost an average of 31% of limb fat compared to baseline12.
      Patients who continue to use zidovudine appear to continue to progressively loose limb fat at
      a rate of several percentage-points per year. By limiting our sample to patients who have
      been treated with zidovudine and lamivudine for over 2 years we can be confident that the
      average loss of limb fat is large enough to allow for an objectively measurable and
      statistically significant regain in limb fat to occur after discontinuation of zidovudine and
      lamivudine.

      Continued treatment with zidovudine plus lamivudine is expected to result in a (further)
      decrease in the mass of peripheral adipose tissue. Switching to emtricitabine plus tenofovir
      disoproxil fumarate is expected to result in an increase or at least the absence of a further
      loss of peripheral adipose tissue. The combination of emtricitabine plus tenofovir disoproxil
      fumarate is an attractive backbone of antiretroviral combination therapy. This combination
      has potent antiretroviral activity, has a favorable resistance profile, ease of once-daily
      dosing, can be conveniently co-formulated in a single tablet, has no special food
      requirements, is well tolerated, and thus far has not been particularly associated with the
      occurrence of mitochondrial toxicity or lipoatrophy. With respect to the latter, the recent
      Gilead 903 trial has been very informative in the sense that no limb fat wasting (measured by
      DEXA) was observed between 96 and 144 weeks of treatment as opposed to the progressive limb
      fat loss which was seen in patients randomized to the stavudine-containing control arm13.

      In this study we therefore aim to demonstrate a small but statistically significant mean
      increase in peripheral body fat in the patients who switch to emtricitabine and tenofovir
      disoproxil fumarate as opposed to a further decrease in peripheral fat in the patients who
      continue the use of zidovudine and lamivudine. Such increases in peripheral fat are not
      expected to be observable for the treating physicians and the patients themselves. However,
      the demonstration of even a small sub-clinical effect will provide important information for
      future patient management with respect to strategies on how to best prevent progressive
      lipoatrophy. The Mitox study demonstrated that substituting abacavir for stavudine resulted
      in an increase in limb fat of 390 grams after 24 weeks11. This increase was likewise not
      noticeable to clinicians and patients, and could only be detected with the use of DEXA
      scanning. Nevertheless, the results of Mitox had a huge impact on the management of patients:
      clinicians started to pro-actively substitute other compounds for stavudine, and to exclude
      stavudine from first-line regimens in order to prevent (progression of) lipoatrophy. If our
      study would demonstrate a similar increase in peripheral fat in patients substituting
      emtricitabine plus tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for zidovudine and lamivudine, this could
      potentially likewise impact on the continued long-term use of ZDV-based regimens. Although
      the cleanest comparison would be to replace only zidovudine by tenofovir disoproxil fumarate,
      we also replace lamivudine by emtricitabine. Given that most experts agree that the
      difference between lamivudine and emtricitabine is probably not very important and
      emtricitabine has the additional advantage of allowing the possible use of the fixed dose
      once daily combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Truvada®), we have
      chosen to replace lamivudine by emtricitabine as well.

      Purpose: Antiretroviral regimens containing emtricitabine plus tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
      might be associated with a lower incidence and severity of lipoatrophy. In this study we
      compare the effect of proactively switching zidovudine and lamivudine to emtricitabine plus
      tenofovir disoproxil fumarate on peripheral fat loss with continued lamivudine and
      zidovudine-based treatment in HIV-1 infected adults also receiving a non-nucleoside reverse
      transcriptase inhibitor or (boosted) protease inhibitor. In the patients who discontinue the
      use of zidovudine and switch to emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we expect to
      demonstrate a regaining or at least a lack of further loss of peripheral adipose tissue.
    
  