
    
      Background: This study was conducted to determine whether intravenous gentamicin can suppress
      stop codons in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients and, if so, whether it has any clinical
      benefits.

      Methods: We first used a dual gene reporter system to determine the gentamicin-induced
      readthrough level of the most frequent CFTR stop mutations in the French population. We next
      investigated readthrough efficiency in response to 10 mg/kg once daily intravenous gentamicin
      perfusions in patients with stop mutations and in a control group of patients without stop
      mutations. Respiratory function, sweat chloride concentration, nasal potential difference
      (NPD) and CFTR expression in nasal epithelial cells were measured at baseline and after 15
      days of treatment.

      Results: After in vitro gentamicin incubation, the readthrough efficiency for the Y122X
      mutation was at least five times higher than that for G542X, R1162X, and W1282X. In six of
      the nine patients with the Y122X mutation, CFTR immunodetection showed protein expression at
      the membrane of the nasal ciliated cells and the CFTR-dependent chloride secretion in their
      NPD measurements increased significantly. Respiratory status also improved in these patients,
      irrespective of the gentamicin sensitivity of the germs present in the sputum. Mean sweat
      chloride concentration decreased significantly and normalized in two patients. These
      measurements did not change in the Y122X patients with no protein expression, in patients
      with the other stop mutations investigated in vitro (n=4) and those without stop mutations
      (n=5).

      Conclusion: Suppression of stop mutations in the CFTR gene with parenteral gentamicin can be
      predicted in vitro and is associated with clinical benefit and significant modification of
      the CFTR-mediated chloride transport in nasal and sweat gland epithelium.
    
  