
    
      Treatment technique:

      The patient will be in the supine position. The transversus abdominis muscle layer will be
      identified with the ultrasound. Using sterile technique, skin infiltration with 2% lidocaine
      will occur, 2 cm medial to the ultrasound probe. An 22g Nerve block needle will then be
      inserted and advanced under ultrasound guidance until it is below the fascial covering of the
      transversus abdominis muscle layer. Gentle aspiration for air, or blood will be performed and
      either 30 cc of 0.25% bupivacaine with 1/200,000 parts epinephrine or 30 mL of liposomal
      bupivacaine mixed 1:1 with normal saline will be injected under ultrasound guidance. For each
      5cc of local anesthetic injected, aspiration will be performed. Upon completion of the
      injection, the needle will then be removed. This will then be completed on the contralateral
      side. The patient will be monitored in the preoperative area until he/she is brought into the
      operating room for their procedure.

      When the operation is complete the patient will either be discharged home or brought to the
      ward where each day a member of the research team will evaluate the patient for signs of
      complications and ask the patient their minimum and maximum pain score.

      If patients have met criterion for discharge to home including pain <4/10, independence of
      intravenous analgesia, and are stable for discharge medically, but are awaiting placement,
      the time of discharge for the purposes of the study will be the day they have met such
      criterion as opposed to the day of actual discharge, as this can vary depending on patient
      placement.

      If the patient is discharged prior to 72 hours post injection, then the patient will receive
      one phone call at 24 hours post injection, 48 hours post injection , and 72 hours post
      injection +/- 5 hours. During this phone call the patient will be asked about pain score,
      narcotic use, overall satisfaction via a recorded patient questionnaire, quality of recovery
      via a quality of recovery survey, and assessed if any adverse events have occurred.

      Adequate analgesia will be defined as <3 VAS at rest, and if VAS is greater than 3
      adjustments in oral or intravenous pain medications will be given as determined by the nurse.
    
  