
    
      Smoking is the leading preventable cause of illness and death. American Indians (AIs) have
      the highest rate of smoking but very little research has addressed how to help AIs quit
      smoking. AIs also suffer health disparities related to the addictive use of commercial
      tobacco. Many AIs also use natural tobacco for ceremonial purposes in addition to using
      commercial tobacco in an addictive manner. This study will add important new knowledge about
      how best to help AI smokers quit smoking (addictive use of commercial tobacco) and this is
      expected to help reduce the prevalence of smoking and smoking-related illness in AI
      communities. The "Menominee Smoking Cessation Clinical Trial" is a community-based study
      designed to evaluate a culturally-appropriate, evidence-based smoking cessation intervention
      for AI smokers. This project joins together collaborators at the University of Wisconsin
      Center for Tobacco Research and Intervention (UW-CTRI; PI Dr. Stevens Smith; smoking
      cessation expertise), the UW Carbone Comprehensive Cancer Center (UWCCC), the University of
      Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM; Dr. Leah Arndt; qualitative analysis expertise), and the Menominee
      Tribal Clinic (MTC; Wellness Director Mr. Mark Caskey; MTC Director Mr. Jerry Waukau, an
      enrolled member of the Menominee Tribe; and Ms. Jodi Fossum, an enrolled member of the
      Menominee Tribe) that serves Menominee and other AI patients. The study will randomize 150 AI
      smokers to two treatment conditions: (1) a standard evidence-based smoking cessation
      treatment condition (FDA-approved varenicline for 12 weeks + 4 counseling sessions), and, (2)
      a culturally-tailored smoking cessation treatment condition consisting of the standard
      treatment (FDA-approved varenicline for 12 weeks + 4 counseling sessions) plus
      culturally-appropriate treatment elements. Follow-up will be conducted at 3 and 6 months
      post-quit to assess smoking status and other study outcomes. We also plan to collect and
      analyze qualitative data (this aspect of the study will be led by Dr. Arndt) to learn more
      about the process and factors associated with cessation of commercial tobacco in American
      Indians including cultural factors.
    
  