
    
      The goal of this study is to improve sedation of children undergoing laceration repair in the
      emergency department. Currently, children who require sedation for laceration repair most
      often receive short acting benzodiazepines (i.e.,midazolam) orally (by mouth). Studies on the
      effectiveness of oral midazolam for minor procedures cite a 50-75% success rate. Oral
      midazolam has variable effectiveness and onset of action, and due to first pass hepatic
      metabolism, oral midazolam has a bioavailability of only 27% in children (Blumer 1998). Given
      the low success rate of oral midazolam, administration via mucous membranes has also been
      attempted. When administered intranasally or buccally, midazolam has a much higher
      bioavailability (Walberg 1991) and more rapid onset of action. Unfortunately, when given by
      these routes in previous studies, it was dripped into the nose or placed under the tongue.
      This leads to either swallowing the liquid drug, or expelling it, leading again to suboptimal
      bioavailability. Moreover, intranasal midazolam is irritating to the nasal mucosa and has
      therefore not always been well tolerated. When given to cooperative adults, midazolam dripped
      onto mucosal surfaces can have a bioavailability of approximately 75% (Schwagmeier 1998).

      It has been hypothesized that better distribution of midazolam on mucosal surfaces would
      improve the reliability and effectiveness of this route of administration. A device called an
      atomizer has been developed for just this purpose (Wolfe Tory Medical, Inc., Salt Lake City,
      UT). The atomizer is an attachment on the end of a small syringe that causes the medication
      to be propelled over a larger surface area in a spray (see Figure below). This allows a
      greater percentage of the medication to be absorbed via the mucosal surface with a direct
      route to the blood stream leading to faster and more reliable onset of action, while avoiding
      the problem of hepatic metabolism that occurs with enterally absorbed midazolam.

      We propose a study to determine if changes in the mode of administration and dosing of
      midazolam can provide improved sedation for children undergoing anxiety-producing procedures,
      without adversely effecting safety, length of stay, or patient/family and staff satisfaction.

      To study this, we propose a randomized clinical trial to compare three methods of
      administering midazolam for sedation: oral midazolam 0.5 mg per kg, buccal midazolam 0.3 mg
      per kg and intranasal midazolam 0.3 mg per kg. The subject population will be children under
      the age of 7 who require sedation for laceration repair in the Emergency Department of
      Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center. Patients will be excluded if they have:
      closed head injury with loss of consciousness, abnormal neurologic exam relative to baseline
      status, severe developmental delay or baseline neurologic deficits, severe trauma with
      suspected internal injuries, acute or chronic respiratory conditions, or renal, cardiac or
      hepatic abnormalities.

      Variables of interest will include level of sedation prior to and during the procedure (using
      an activity scale and a modified CHEOPS scale) (McGrath 1985), time to adequate sedation,
      procedure length, length of ED stay, parental, MD, and RN satisfaction using a Likert scale,
      and complications such as respiratory depression and vomiting as well as measures needs to
      ameliorate those complications. For adequate power, we anticipate enrolling 180 patients (60
      in each treatment group) during the 24-month duration of the study.
    
  