
    
      Framed within a diathesis-stress model, the primary objective of this research is to
      determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of estradiol (E2) in the clinical anxiety and
      anhedonia seen in the menopause transition (MT). Specifically whether E2 variability or E2
      levels predict exaggerated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity and impaired
      recovery to stress and, in turn, deficits in behavioral indices of threat responsivity and
      approach motivation and symptoms of anxiety and anhedonia. The secondary objective of the
      research is to use a hormonal manipulation as a mechanistic probe to stabilize E2 variability
      in premenopausal ranges and determine if: a) HPA axis reactivity/recovery represents a
      biomarker of behavioral and symptom responses to E2 stabilization; b) whether recent severe
      life stress predicts the HPA axis response to hormone stabilization.

      A total of 170 women in the early or late MT who are eligible for the hormonal probe will be
      recruited to reflect the full continuum of anxiety and anhedonia symptoms based on
      self-report to the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale,
      respectively. However, the investigators will over-represent the clinically impairing end of
      the anxious and anhedonic phenotype (75% of the sample). Over an 8-week baseline, anxiety and
      anhedonia symptoms and serum E2 measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry
      (LC-MS/MS) will be assessed on a weekly basis. At baseline week 8, HPA axis (plasma cortisol
      and ACTH) response to the Trier Social Stress Test and behavioral measures of threat
      responsivity (via Dot-Probe task) and approach motivation (Effort Expenditure for Rewards
      Task 'EEfRT') will be determined. Using transdermal E2 as a pharmacological probe to
      stabilize variability of E2 in premenopausal ranges, women will then be randomized to
      transdermal E2 (0.10 mg) or placebo for 16 weeks. This is not a clinical efficacy trial. The
      investigators will use an randomized control trial (RCT) design with a hormonal manipulation
      in order to investigate the pathophysiologic role of E2 variability (or E2 levels) in HPA
      axis dysregulation and, in turn, threat responsivity and approach motivation. Serum E2 will
      be assessed weekly during weeks 9-16, and HPA axis reactivity to stress and behavioral
      responses to the Dot-Probe and EEfRT tasks will be assessed every four weeks during the 16
      week probe.
    
  