
    
      All participants in this study will be scheduled for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      at The University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center.

      Within two months before the transplantation, all participants will have a medical history,
      physical exam, and blood tests for ovarian function and platelet count. Participants will
      also need to have a gynecologic exam within one year before the transplantation.

      Participants who are eligible will receive the first dose of leuprolide as an injection into
      either the shoulder muscle or the thigh muscle during their first clinic visit. Participants
      who have low platelet count will be given platelet transfusion before the injection.

      Participants will then go on to have the transplantation as scheduled. Three months after the
      first dose of injection participants will have another clinic visit where blood tests for
      ovarian function will be performed. A second dose of the leuprolide will be given as an
      injection into the muscle at this visit. Again, if patients have low platelet count at that
      time, platelet transfusion will be given to patients before the injection. Participants will
      be given a checklist sheet for them to record any side effects while on the effect of
      leuprolide.

      Three months after the last dose of the injection, patients will have the option to start
      taking or to resume oral contraceptive pills. Those who choose not to take or to resume oral
      contraceptive pills will be followed and observed for the return of menstrual or monthly
      cycles. Those who choose to take or to resume oral contraceptive pills, has to stop taking
      oral contraceptive pills for a period of 3-6 months starting 1 year after transplantation for
      us to assess the ovarian function.

      During the period of follow up and observation of the return of menstruation, participants
      will be seen every two months either in the clinic or in the hospital if they are admitted.
      Participants will fill out questionnaires about their menstrual history at these visits. They
      should take about 15 minutes to complete. Blood tests for the ovarian function will also be
      done during these visits.

      This is an investigational study. The drug used in this study is commercially available and
      has been approved by FDA for use in prostate cancer patients. Its use in this study is
      investigational. About seventy-five patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  