
    
      This study will determine if a highly standardized herbal extract of the leaves of the Ginkgo
      Biloba tree, widely used in Europe for two decades, will benefit patients who have pain on
      walking due to narrowing of the arteries of the legs. A few studies done about ten years ago
      in Germany appeared to benefit such patients. It is important to confirm these findings and
      to learn how it may work. Animal studies suggest that this extract, known as EGb 761, works
      through very strong antioxidant mechanisms. A second action suggested is that it stimulates
      cells lining the inside of the arteries to produce the compound nitric oxide. These cells,
      known as endothelial cells, are susceptible to damage by blood cholesterol, smoking or high
      blood pressure and, when damaged, will allow cholesterol to deposit in arteries. Antioxidants
      can prevent the endothelial cell damage, therefore it is very important to know if EGb 761
      works through that mechanism. These cells also produce nitric oxide naturally as a defense
      against injury, so an EGb 761 effect on nitric oxide would also provide benefit. Consumption
      of Gingko Biloba products, many of uncertain purity, is increasing rapidly in the United
      States. Confirmation of its benefits, derived largely from Europe, is important to protect
      the health of the American people and to find new and inexpensive remedies for common
      problems, such as narrowed arteries in the legs. If benefit is found for this problem, then
      it will be highly likely that the atherosclerotic deposits that cause heart attacks and many
      strokes may also be preventable or treatable with this compound. Any benefit found will also
      lead to future studies to determine which constituents of the mixture now present in EGb 761
      confers the benefit. If these actions, or others, were discovered, then this herbal product
      could become used with greater confidence.

      This double-blind study will randomly assign parcicipants to receive 4 months of either EGb
      761 at 320 mg/day or placebo. Improving walking distances by 30% or greater is the major
      goal. A second goal will test the safety of EGb 761 through careful examination of liver and
      kidney function and other measures of general health. Also, a thorough search will occur for
      antioxidant actions and for changes in endothelial cell nitric oxide production. Two study
      visits will occur at baseline, and two will occur at Month 4.
    
  