
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To prospectively analyze the factors that are currently used for risk-group assignment
      (v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene neuroblastoma derived homolog [MYCN] copy number
      by fluorescent in situ hybridization [FISH], deoxyribonucleic acid [DNA] content by flow
      cytometry, and tumor histology using the International Neuroblastoma Pathologic
      Classification System) in neuroblastoma tumors at the time of diagnosis.

      II. To maintain a reference bank containing clinically and genetically characterized frozen
      tumor tissue, tumor DNA and ribonucleic acid (RNA), histology slides and paraffin blocks,
      neuroblastoma-derived cell lines, patient serum and paired normal DNA obtained at the time of
      diagnosis, at the time of second-look surgery and at the time of relapse for future research
      studies.

      III. To prospectively analyze 1p, 11q, 14q and 17q allelic status, MYCN copy number by
      quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR); and the expression pattern of
      neurotrophin-related genes in diagnostic neuroblastoma tumors, and assay for the presence of
      rare tumor cells in biological specimens by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR; these biological
      variables will be analyzed for independent clinical significance compared to MYCN
      amplification, International Neuroblastoma Staging System (INSS) stage, age, ploidy, and
      histologic variables in predicting either response to treatment or outcome.

      IV. To build a database of the known biologic prognostic factors for patients on therapeutic
      studies.

      V. To serve as a Registry for neuroblastoma patients whose tumors demonstrate clinical and
      genetic features defined as ?Low Risk? for treatment failure in the absence of adjuvant
      therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To prospectively analyze the concordance between detection of MYCN amplification in tumor
      samples and quantitative detection of MYCN DNA in serum, and to analyze the prognostic
      significance of MYCN amplification as detected in serum samples.

      II. To build a database that includes information regarding the presentation and natural
      history of neuroblastoma-associated health problems including but not limited to opsoclonus
      myoclonus ataxia (OMA) and/or spinal cord compression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo collection of blood, tissue, and bone marrow samples for analysis via
      RT-PCR, quantitative PCR, flow cytometry, and FISH.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  