
    
      Fabry disease screening study in patients diagnosed with gastrointestinal tract (GIT)
      disease, i.e. with the diagnosis of non-infectious inflammatory bowel disease, functional
      dyspepsia or irritable bowel syndrome in particular, is a project designed as a pilot study
      of Centre for Fabry disease, General University Hospital in Prague, and Clinical Centre
      ISCARE Prague, focused on improving the diagnosis and care of patients with Fabry disease in
      the Czech Republic.

      Introduction Fabry (Anderson-Fabry) disease is a progressive multiorgan X-linked lysosomal
      storage disease. The disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme alpha-galactosidase A.
      The enzymatic defect leads to accumulation of enzyme substrate in various tissue types. The
      affected tissue types include the vascular endothelium of several organs involving kidneys,
      heart, nervous system, and GIT. Glycolipids accumulation triggers function impairment of
      affected organs and their subsequent failure. The disease is X-linked and most female
      heterozygotes develop milder symptoms or the disease manifests later in life than in affected
      hemizygous man. The disease burden is milder in women due to second X-chromosome.

      A typical clinical picture can emerge in males as early as childhood. The onset of clinically
      evident symptoms manifests with attacks of neuropathic pain of the extremities, followed with
      early manifestation of hypohidrosis and development of skin lesions - angiokeratomata. In
      affected hemizygous males, sign of renal damage can be detected even in the second decade,
      representing already considerable renal damage leading to ultimate organ failure with the
      need for hemodialysis or kidney transplantation. The first gastrointestinal symptoms occur.
      From the third decade onwards, both males and females can present neurological symptoms such
      as white matter lesions as well as stroke, mostly of ischemic nature. Cardiac involvement is
      characterized by a thickening of the ventricular wall occurring in the third decade in men
      and approximately ten years later in women. The finding may remind of classical sarcomeric
      hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in its full extent, including left ventricular outflow tract
      obstruction. Patients suffer dyspnea, arrhythmias and chest pain. In some patients, other
      classical symptoms and manifestations of Fabry disease may be completely absent, and the
      patients with predominant or exclusive cardiac involvement are sometimes referred to as
      having a cardiac variant.

      Most patients with Fabry disease report GI symptoms of diarrhea, with frequent abdominal pain
      attacks and increased flatulence. Defecation frequency varies, most often 4-6 times a day,
      which patients consider normal. However, more than 8-times-a-day evacuation episodes are
      common. Unlike in inflammatory bowel diseases such as Crohn's or ulcerative colitis, no blood
      or mucus in stool is present. Some patients, on the other hand, complain of severe
      constipation. Patients with Fabry disease may then be followed-up under diagnosis of
      non-infectious inflammatory bowel disease, functional dyspepsia or irritable bowel syndrome.

      The diagnosis of Fabry disease is based on the evaluation of the defect enzyme activity level
      in plasma or leukocytes in males. In females, this test is less effective as the enzyme
      activity levels can reach near normal levels. Thus, sequencing of DNA of the GLA gene is
      necessary for a diagnosis in most females. they are diagnosed by DNA analysis for a mutation
      responsible for enzyme deficiency. In women Prior to sequencing, level of the lyso-Gb3
      biomarker can be tested and the finding of elevated lyso-Gb3 should be the ultimate
      requirement for genetic testing.

      Treatment is based on enzyme replacement therapy. Two approved treatments are available in
      Europe. Chaperones, small molecules that stabilize defective α-galactosidase A enzyme, and
      allow its residual activity to be increased, have recently been introduced.

      Aim of the Study The aim of the study is to screen patients for Fabry disease in medical
      centers concentrating patients diagnosed idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease to better
      determine the prevalence of this disease in the Czech Republic.

      Methods This is the first screening study organized by of Centre for Fabry disease in
      cooperation with departments of gastroenterology. The Clinical Centre ISCARE Prague is
      invited to participate. The aim of the Study is to obtain samples of dry blood spot along
      with a elementary medical history of the gastrointestinal tract disease from a study
      population of 500-800 patients at least that were diagnosed with idiopathic inflammatory
      bowel disease, functional dyspepsia or irritable bowel syndrome. The study has been evaluated
      and is approved by the Multicenter Ethics Committee of the General University Hospital in
      Prague (EC General University Hospital in Prague).

      Patients of both sexes older than 18 years and under 60 years of age are enrolled in the
      Study. Other inclusion criteria include previous examination and follow-up for the GIT
      symptoms, usually the above-mentioned diagnoses.

      During a routine outpatient follow-up, samples of 4 drops of blood will be drawn from the
      patient finger as per the instructions. Alternatively, the blood sample will be taken during
      another routine blood test. Enzyme activity evaluation and/or genetic tests will be carried
      out by the ARCHIMED Lie Science Laboratories GmbH (Austria). The dry blood spot kits will
      first be sent to Center for Fabry Disease at II. Internal Clinic of Cardiology and Angiology
      of the First Faculty of Medicine and General University Hospital, where they will be
      anonymized and sent for processing. At the same time, the attending physician will complete a
      brief questionnaire on the patient's basic clinical data (age, gender, GIT symptoms, other
      symptoms of Fabry disease). Patients with a positive test result will then be invited to the
      Center for Fabry Disease at the General University Hospital in Prague, where specific
      treatment will be considered in accordance with the current criteria for covering by the
      health insurance company. Patients do not receive any financial compensation for their
      participation in the study. Patients invited to the Center for Fabry Disease will be
      reimbursed for their travel expenses.

      The project is a pilot study. If patients suffering Fabry disease are identified, a
      nationwide screening will follow.
    
  