
    
      This study is an international, multicenter, single-arm, Phase 3 study. Patients aged 6
      months to 75 years, inclusive, who have congenital hemophilia A or B with inhibitors to
      Factor VIII or Factor IX and who are scheduled for an elective surgical or other invasive
      procedure will be enrolled. Both major and minor surgical or other invasive procedures are
      allowed in the study.

      Initial Treatment: Regardless of procedure, patients who meet all eligibility criteria will
      receive an initial intravenous (IV) bolus dose of LR769 within ≤2 minutes before the surgical
      incision or start of the invasive procedure. For a minor elective surgery or other minor
      invasive procedure, a dose of 75 μg/kg will be used as the initial dose; for a major elective
      surgery or other major invasive procedure, a dose of 200 μg/kg of LR769 will be used as the
      initial dose. For both minor and major procedures, administration will be repeated no more
      frequently than every 2 hours (±5 minutes) at a dose of 75 μg/kg during and after surgery or
      invasive procedure.

      Treatment for Major Surgical Procedures: The initial dose of LR769 will be followed by
      repeated administration of 75 µg/kg of LR769 every 2 hours (±5 minutes) for the first 48
      hours after completion of the procedure. The minimum duration of LR769 treatment for major
      procedures will be 5 days and dosing frequency will be followed according to the guidelines
      specified in the protocol.

      Treatment for Minor Surgical or Other Invasive Procedures: The initial dose of LR769 will be
      followed by repeated administration of 75 µg/kg of LR769 every 2 hours (±5 minutes) for the
      first 48 hours. The minimum duration of LR769 infusion for minor procedures will be 2 days,
      except for certain procedures that may not require this duration of treatment to achieve
      hemostasis as noted in the protocol. Dosing frequency will be according to the guidelines
      specified in protocol for minor surgical or other invasive procedures.
    
  