
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Oxaliplatin is designed to keep new cancer cells from growing.

      Capecitabine is designed to interfere with the growth of cancer cells.

      Bevacizumab is designed to block the growth of blood vessels that supply nutrients necessary
      for tumor growth. This may prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells. Bevacizumab is no
      longer FDA approved to treat breast cancer.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      "arm" based on the results of your screening tests. All patients will receive oxaliplatin and
      capecitabine. If your doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you will also receive
      bevacizumab.

        -  If you are in Arm 1, you will receive oxaliplatin, capecitabine, and bevacizumab.

        -  If you are in Arm 2, you will receive oxaliplatin and capecitabine.

      Arm 1:

      You will be assigned to a dose level of capecitabine based on when you joined this study. Up
      to 4 dose levels of capecitabine will be tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at
      each dose level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new
      group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects
      were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of capecitabine is found.

      All participants will receive the same dose levels of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab.

      Arm 2:

      You will be assigned to a dose level of capecitabine based on when you joined this study. Up
      to 4 dose levels of capecitabine will be tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at
      each dose level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new
      group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects
      were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of capecitabine is found.

      All participants will receive the same dose levels of oxaliplatin.

      Additionally, after the highest tolerable dose is found for each arm, if a certain tumor type
      is found to have responded well to the study drug combination, 14 participants with that
      tumor type will receive the study drugs at that dose level.

      In each arm, after the highest tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found, up to
      20 extra participants with any tumor type will receive that dose level.

      Additionally, after the highest tolerable dose is found for each arm, if a certain tumor type
      is found to have responded well to the study drug combination, 14 participants with that
      tumor type will receive the study drugs at that dose level.

      Catheter Placement for Study Drug Administration:

      You will be hospitalized to receive the study drug combination. On the day of your admission
      to the hospital, you will have a catheter (a sterile flexible tube that will be placed in the
      hepatic artery [a blood vessel in the liver] while you are under local anesthesia) through
      which you will receive the study drugs. The catheter will be placed and removed during each
      cycle. Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be
      required to sign a separate consent form.

      You must lay in bed for the entire time that the catheter is in place. The catheter will
      either be removed right after your chemotherapy or it may remain in overnight.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Arm 1:

      After completion of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab, you will receive a total of 28 doses of
      capecitabine, 1 dose twice daily. You will then receive bevacizumab by vein over 1½ hours.
      The first time you receive bevacizumab, it will be given over 90 minutes. If you tolerate it
      well, the rest of the doses will be given over 30-60 minutes.

      On Days 1-14 of each cycle, you will take capecitabine by mouth 2 times each day. You should
      take it with a cup (8 ounces) of non-carbonated water within 30 minutes after a meal.

      Arm 2:

      On Day 1 of each 21-day cycle, you will receive oxaliplatin through the catheter over 2
      hours.

      After completion of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab, you will receive a total of 28 doses of
      capecitabine, 1 dose twice daily. You should take it with a cup (8 ounces) of non-carbonated
      water within 30 minutes after a meal.

      Study Visits:

      At each study visit, you will be asked about any other drugs you may be taking and about any
      side effects you may be having.

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to test your blood's ability to clot.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a urine pregnancy test.

      At the end of every even cycle (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on):

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to test for tumor markers.

        -  You will have scans to check the status of the disease. This may include a chest x-ray,
           CT scan, MRI scan, a PET scan, and/or a PET/CT scan. If the study doctor thinks it is
           more appropriate for you, other types of scans may need to be performed.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug combination for as long as the doctor thinks it is in
      your best interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug combination if the
      disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      If the disease is only in your liver and you have responded to treatment, you may be eligible
      to receive surgery. If eligible, you will receive surgery 6 weeks after taking your last dose
      of study drugs if you are in Arm 1 or 4 weeks after taking your last dose of study drugs if
      you are in Arm 2. The study doctor will discuss this with you in more detail and you will
      sign a separate consent form if you have surgery.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the follow-up visit.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      About 6 weeks after your last dose of study drugs, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a CT scan, MRI scan, PET scan, or PET/CT scan to check the status of the
           disease. If the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, other types of scans
           may also be performed.

      This is an investigational study. Oxaliplatin is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of colorectal cancer. Bevacizumab is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of colorectal and lung cancers. Capecitabine is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of colorectal and breast cancers.

      Giving the study drugs together for advanced cancer is investigational.

      Up to 116 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  