
    
      Time processing involves different abilities - i.e. estimating the duration of an event and
      moving in past and future time - and it is a fundamental ability in everyday life. However,
      in neuropsychology, time processing is routinely neglected in the assessment of cognitive
      deficits in brain-damaged patients. The discrepancy between the importance of time processing
      and the lack of instruments for the diagnosis of time deficits in brain damaged patients can
      be mainly due to the fact that time difficulties fail to emerge in a hospital context where
      daily activities are routinely scheduled by careers. Thus, time deficits become critical only
      when patients return home and, for younger patients, when they go back to working activities.
      For these reasons the assessment and the rehabilitation of time deficits in brain damaged
      patients is extremely important.

      Interestingly, recent evidence has begun to demonstrate that our perceptions and sensations
      are influenced by motor movements and actions. Further, there is also evidence suggesting
      that movement not only biases perceived time, but can enhance it, suggesting the motor system
      directly influences temporal perception.

      The ability to estimate and reproduce time in actions is usually evaluated using computerized
      tasks and it is influenced by aging: young participants overestimate and elderly participants
      underestimate time durations.

      Virtual Reality is an ecological approach that has recently been used for the assessment of
      cognitive deficits. Here we use Virtual Reality to study the ability to estimate time
      duration of an action execution and perception in a simulated everyday activity.

      The primary aim of the project is to measure the impact of time deficits and its effects on
      everyday life: a neuropsychological battery assessing time processing (Time Estimation, Time
      Reproduction, Mental Time Travel) is tested using both computerized and virtual reality
      tasks.

      Moreover, the project aims also to investigate i) the correlation between Time Reproduction
      in a computerized task and the ability to reproduce the duration of an executed action in
      Virtual Reality; ii) the correlation between Time Estimation in a computerized task and the
      ability to estimate the duration of an executed action in Virtual Reality.
    
  