
    
      Background:

        -  Adoptive transfer studies in patients with metastatic melanoma following lymphodepletion
           have resulted in up to 50% objective response rates with a 10-15% rate of complete
           responses.

        -  A novel method involves the use of insect cell lines which do not express any native
           major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules.

        -  When stably transfected with human MHC molecules and appropriate adhesion and
           costimulatory molecules, a Drosophila cell line can potently stimulate tumor-reactivity
           in vitro from human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL).

        -  The current proposed transfer of Drosophila-cell stimulated autologous cluster of
           differentiation 8 (CD8) plus PBL administered in conjunction with a lymphodepleting
           preparative regimen, with or without low-dose aldesleukin would represent a
           significantly novel approach to adoptive immunotherapy.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine whether infusion of CD8+ autologous PBL sensitized in vitro with peptide
           pulsed HLA-A2-expressing Drosophila cells (CTL-05) and administered in combination with
           a lymphodepleting preparative regimen and supportive systemic aldesleukin can result in
           clinical tumor regression in human leukocyte antigen serotype within HLA-A A serotype
           group (HLA-A2+) patients with metastatic melanoma.

        -  To determine the safety of the above regimen.

        -  To investigate the contribution of low-dose systemic aldesleukin to cell efficacy.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are HLA-A*0201 positive and 18 years of age or older must have

        -  metastatic melanoma with measurable disease

        -  been previously treated with aldesleukin for melanoma;

        -  normal basic laboratory values.

      Patients may not have:

        -  concurrent major medical illnesses;

        -  any form of primary or secondary immunodeficiency;

        -  requirement for systemic steroid therapy

      Design:

        -  The first 20 patients enrolled (cohort 0) will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte
           depleting preparative regimen followed by administration of intravenous CTL-05 and
           low-dose subcutaneous aldesleukin (daily for 5 days).

        -  If 3 or more of the 20 patients respond, subsequent patients will be randomized between
           two cohorts. Patients in cohort 1 will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting
           preparative regimen followed by administration of CTL-05 and low-dose subcutaneous
           aldesleukin (daily for 5 days). Patients in Cohort 2 will receive a non-myeloablative
           lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen followed by administration of CTL-05 and NO
           subsequent aldesleukin.

        -  A complete evaluation will be conducted 8 weeks (plus or minus 2 weeks) after the
           initiation of chemotherapy. The trial will be conducted using a small Simon MinMax Phase
           II design in the initial phase and a Simon optimal design in the second phase. A maximum
           of 35 patients may be accrued to each of cohorts 1 and 2. If no responses are seen in
           the first 13 patients receiving no systemic aldesleukin, then accrual to that cohort
           will cease. Total enrollment may be up to 90 patients.
    
  