
    
      The effects of Parkinson Disease are progressive and cause limitations in functional mobility
      and quality of life. This is a disease that greatly impairs the motor system with key
      presentation of resting tremors, rigidity and bradykinesia. These impairments cause further
      deficiencies in gait and postural stability. Most notable is festinating gait that is
      exacerbated by direction changes and becomes a fall risk for patients. These physical
      limitations can manifest fear and avoidance behaviors in people that ultimately decrease
      quality of life. Activities that can improve balance, strength and coordination allow people
      to gain confidence in their ability to participate in their daily activities. The purpose of
      this study is to investigate the impact of a boxing training program on lower extremity
      functional strength, fall risk, gait speed, and turning speed for people with Parkinson
      Disease compared to a control group.

      Data for the intervention group has been provided retrospectively by the organizers of the
      boxing club. This initial data was collected by volunteers of the club at the initial session
      and then at 12 weeks for purposes of progress reporting to the members. Data was
      de-identified prior to receipt by the investigators. The next phase of this study will
      involve recruitment of participants for a control group from areas that do not have
      established boxing programs. Pre- and post-tests will be conducted over a span of 12 weeks.
      Outcome measures for the future control group will be the same as the original tools provided
      by the boxing club. These measures will assess lower extremity functional strength, fall
      risk, gait speed and turning speed. Baseline data will be taken using 30-second sit to stand,
      Timed Up-and-Go, 180° turning speed, and gait speed. During the 12 week period, participants
      will be instructed to avoid changing their physical activity. At the end of 12 weeks the
      post-testing will be completed. Those participants in the control group will receive a gift
      card for participation in the study.

      If pandemic concerns prevent the recruitment of new participants for a control group, an
      alternative approach will involve a cross-over design in which the original participants from
      the intervention group will serve as the control group. The boxing club will be approached to
      contact the twelve participants who provided intervention data. The boxing club has not been
      held since March, 2020 due to the pandemic restrictions. A control period for this group will
      be established over a twelve week period where they do not participate in any new changes to
      their physical activity. The same outcome measures will be collected at pre-test and twelve
      weeks later for post-testing.

      Due to the nature of the in-person testing, extra precautions regarding Covid-19 have been
      implemented including a Covid-19 and Other Communicable Disease consent form outlining
      expectations of the participants as well as precautions by the investigators. These extra
      initiatives include appropriate facial masks and face shields by everyone involved at all
      times at the study site, physical distancing between investigators and participants with
      exceptions made for safety reasons, and any other procedures established by the study site.
    
  