
    
      Multiple Organ Dysfunction Syndrome (MODS) frequently leads to death in patients with sepsis.
      Our previous work has demonstrated that endothelial injury is closely associated with MODS
      development and mortality in septic patients. The sepsis-induced damage of endothelial cell
      membrane gives rise to increased capillary permeability. Evidence suggests that increased
      capillary permeability in patients with sepsis was associated with higher incidence of MODS
      and death during the ICU stay than those with decreased permeability. Angiopoietin (Ang)
      system is the key mediator for maintaining capillary permeability. Ang-2 triggers an
      inflammatory response and inducing permeability by activating the endothelium. In contrast,
      Ang-1 is anti-inflammatory, can inhibit adhesion molecule expression and attenuate
      permeability increase in different stimuli. The disrupted angiopoietin system has been
      reported in patients with sepsis, but the association between angiotension and MODS in septic
      patients has not been well addressed.

      This study is designated to determine serum concentrations of Ang-1, Ang-2, Ang-1/Ang-2
      ratio, and Tie-2 in patients with sepsis-induced MODS and to investigate the association
      among increased permeability, inflammatory mediators,autonomic dysfunction, and these serum
      mediators in development of organ failure. In addition, the study will incubate endothelial
      cells with septic patients' serum or tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alfa, and determine the
      effects of ang-1 administration and blockade of ang-2 on disruption of endothelial cell
      structure, permeability increase, and expression of adhesion molecules. The study will also
      determine the signaling pathways and altered NF-kB dimmer composition that is responsible for
      the inhibitory effect for ang-1 administration on TNF-alfa-induced intercellular adhesion
      molecule (ICAM)-1 expression on endothelial surface.
    
  