
    
      Complex aortic pathology, comprised of aneurysmal disease and aortic dissection involving the
      visceral aortic segment, presents a technical challenge for repair due to involvement of the
      renal and/or mesenteric arteries. Traditionally, the gold standard for repair has been open
      repair. However, open repair of these diseases is associated with high perioperative
      morbidity and mortality. Therefore, for patients with significant medical comorbidities or
      complex surgical/anatomical features, the risk of open surgery may be prohibitive.

      As endovascular techniques have become increasingly advanced, options for the endovascular
      treatment of complex aortic pathology involving the visceral segment have been developed. The
      predominant approach is fenestrated or branched endovascular aortic repair (F/B-EVAR) with
      fenestrated or branched endovascular grafts. Currently, there is only one device FDA-approved
      for commercial use in the United States, the Zenith Fenestrated AAA Endovascular Graft (Cook
      Medical, Bloomington, IN). However, its use is limited by the design specifications of the
      device and the required manufacturing time in patients requiring more urgent repair.
      Therefore, many patients with complex aortic pathology are not eligible for repair with this
      device, and there are currently no other FDA-approved options for definitive repair.

      One option for definitive repair of complex aortic pathology in patients ineligible for the
      Zenith fenestrated device is endovascular repair with a physician-modified endovascular graft
      (PMEG). For this procedure, the operating surgeon modifies an FDA-approved endovascular graft
      to incorporate fenestrations or branches based on the patient's anatomy. Numerous reports
      have been published demonstrating that this procedure can be performed with high technical
      success, and acceptable perioperative and mid-term results in high-risk patients.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate safety and effectiveness of PMEGs for the
      endovascular repair of complex aortic pathology in high-risk patients. The safety outcomes
      include perioperative mortality (defined as death <30 days postoperative or during the index
      hospitalization) and major adverse events, along with mortality and adverse events during
      follow-up. Effectiveness outcomes include initial technical success, endoleak rate, target
      vessel patency, and rate of reintervention. Patients will be followed for five years.
      Patients will be evaluated preoperatively, at the time of the procedure, at the time of
      discharge from the index hospitalization, 1-month post-procedure, 6-months post-procedure,
      and 1-year post-procedure, and annually for five-years.
    
  