
    
      Organization, time management, and planning (OTMP) skills are associated with academic
      performance. A randomized controlled trial found that the Homework, Organization, and
      Planning Skills (HOPS) intervention was effective in improving student organization skills
      and homework performance, with moderate to large effect sizes. HOPS is a 16-session skills
      training program, provided individually to students in grades 6 through 8 who have OTMP
      skills deficits that contribute to academic difficulties. Two parent consultations and one
      teacher consultation promote generalization and maintenance of effects. The current study is
      a conceptual replication of the previous HOPS study, conducted by an independent evaluation
      team. The intervention will be delivered under routine practice conditions, with school staff
      serving as interventionists. The study will examine how fidelity, engagement, and working
      alliance are related to outcomes, and it will explore the extent to which school organization
      factors moderate outcomes. Across 30 schools in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, Investigators
      will recruit a total of 240 of 6th, 7th, and 8th grade students with OTMP deficits. Parents,
      teachers, and an Individualized Education Plan (IEP)/504 Plan Case Manager provide data about
      the students. School counselors and Principals provide data about the organizational context
      of the schools. A school staff member delivers the HOPS intervention and provides data.

      Using a cluster randomized design, Investigators will randomize schools to HOPS or Treatment
      as Usual - Wait List (TAU-WL), ratio of 2:1. Outcomes will be assessed at Baseline and
      Post-Treatment for all students, 5 months after Baseline assessment for all HOPS students and
      6th and 7th grade TAU-WL students, and 12 months after Baseline for students in grades 6 and
      7 who received HOPS. Participants in TAU-WL will receive HOPS following completion of study
      activities.
    
  