
    
      OBJECTIVES OF THE TRIAL

      The objectives of this study are:

        -  To investigate the efficacy of freshly pressed EVOO as a disease course modifying
           treatment for mild cognitive impairment in a phase III double-blind placebo-controlled
           study.

        -  To investigate the effects in objective measurements in patients with mild cognitive
           impairment.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a Greek, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study group of
      EVOO compared with placebo. Qualifying patients will be randomly assigned to receive 50mL of
      freshly-pressed EVOO or placebo (EVOO) or mediterranean dietary protocol on a daily basis for
      24 months. Patients undergo assessments at baseline,12 and 24 months +/- 7 days after
      beginning treatment.

      Duration The total study duration will be 30 months. Patients will receive study medication
      for 24 months.

      Number of Subjects 150 subjects total will be enrolled. ; 50 in the experimental group
      (freshly pressed EVOO); 50 in the Control Group 1(EVOO) and 50 in control Group 2(same
      dietary habits-mediterranean dietary protocol).

      Patient Eligibility Screening Form (ESF)

      An eligibility form documenting the patient's fulfillment of the entry criteria will be
      completed by the assessor. The following information will be included in the ESF:

        -  Patient identification: Initials (First initial of first name and First initial of
           surname), date of birth and Patient Identification Number.

        -  Eligibility Screening; Checklist of inclusion and exclusion criteria

        -  Eligibility Statement; for patients found to be ineligible, the reason for ineligibility
           must be stated

        -  Written informed consent will be obtained from the subject . The informed consent form
           must be co-signed by the physician. The nature of the study and the potential risks
           associated with the trial will be explained to all subject candidates and their
           responsible informants.

        -  Signature and date: the ESF may be completed by an assessor but it is required that the
           principal investigator/study clinician sign and date the ESF to verify eligibility of
           the patient for inclusion.
    
  