
    
      This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial of
      Escitalopram (10 mg) versus placebo (identical presentation) in subjects identified as having
      Bipolar II Disorder. The nine-month study will commence with a no-treatment baseline period
      of three months (Baseline Phase) to ensure that subjects meet criteria for episode frequency.
      Subjects compliant with and completing baseline period requirements will then be randomized
      to receive Escitalopram or placebo for three months (Phase 2) and will then subsequently
      cross over to receive the alternative compound for the final three-month period (Phase 3).
      Prior to that cross-over, there will be a two-day taper period to avoid potential withdrawal
      effects, followed by a seven-day wash-out period to avoid carry-over effects from drug to
      placebo. Subjects will be assessed at the start of the study, and every month thereafter for
      the entire nine-month period.

      Subjects aged 18-65 meeting diagnostic criteria for Bipolar II disorder will be recruited.
      Diagnosis will be based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders with the
      exception of the minimum four-day duration criterion for hypomanic episodes. Subjects must
      have a minimum 2-year history of depressive and hypomanic episodes, with a mood disturbance
      (either 'high' or 'low') occurring at least monthly. Subjects will be excluded if they have
      previously been treated with anti-depressants or mood-stabilisers, or have a history of
      psychotic symptoms during episodes of either hypomania or depression. Subjects who are
      actively suicidal, have a significant personality disorder, substantive illicit drug use, or
      alcohol consumption >30g/day will also be excluded. Exclusion will also apply to subjects who
      are pregnant or breastfeeding, and those with a history of heart disease, liver disease,
      epilepsy or seizures.

      Subjects will complete a number of self-report questionnaires about their mood and
      functioning on a monthly basis as well as monitoring their mood on a daily basis. A research
      psychologist or psychiatrist will complete (at monthly intervals) the Hamilton Depression
      Rating, Young Mania Rating Scale and the DSM-IV Social and Occupational Functioning
      Assessment Scale based on functioning over the previous week throughout the nine-month
      duration of the study.
    
  