
    
      Oxygen has a pivotal role in emergency medicine as a lifesaving therapy in numerous
      situations. In order to avoid hypoxia-related morbidity and mortality, oxygen is delivered in
      emergencies in a liberal way, even when hypoxia is not confirmed. Nevertheless, as every
      medication, experimental and clinical studies have highlighted potential side effects of high
      oxygen tension that could worsen outcome. Cardiac arrest is the archetypal situation given
      the urgent need of rapid oxygen delivery to organs. However, this global ischemia-reperfusion
      syndrome produces high amounts ROS that could magnify the damages of the ischemic period and
      might be significantly increased by high oxygen tension. Thus, hyperoxia in the
      post-resuscitation context of cardiac arrest is an important topic. Advances in noninvasive
      oxygen monitoring can now allow for non-invasive monitoring of hyperoxia in pre-hospital
      settings. So far, despite the recognized urgent need for advancements in the management of
      oxygen delivery during early ROSC, studies have been exclusively retrospective and
      interventional studies failed to safely titrate oxygen in the prehospital context possibly
      due to lack of technological support7. The aim of investigator's is therefore to determine
      whether technological advances can allow for a safer and more accurate delivery of oxygen in
      the early ROSC of OHCA, reducing ROS damage. Further research should then, if our hypothesis
      would be confirmed, reproduce the data in different settings and further investigate whether
      better oxygen administration during early ROSC improves patients' outcome.

      Patient showing a sustained ROSC after an OHCA will be monitored according to current
      hospital protocols during pre-hospital transport. In addition to traditional monitoring
      patients will all be monitored with a Masimo device allowing continuous non-invasive
      measurement of ORI. Patients will be randomly assigned to blinded measurement of ORI (not
      allowing the clinician to visualize collected information through additional monitoring) or
      bi-modal monitoring (allowing the clinician to gather information both form traditional
      monitoring and from additional monitoring showing ORI values). In the latter case clinicians
      participant will be encouraged to target an ORI lower than 0.5 together with a SatO2>91%. In
      case of blinded measurement of ORI clinicians will manage ventilation according to standard
      SatO2 targets (94-98%). Ventilator settings in both groups will be managed in order to target
      an end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) between 35 and 45mmHg.

      An arterial blood sample and a central body temperature will be taken at hospital admission.

      The arterial blood sample will be analysed for glucose, pH, PaCO2 and PaO2 and corrected for
      temperature in order to calculate dissolved oxygen.

      A second blood sample will be done at 48h to measure NSE. A standardised form will be filled
      by the pre-hospital physician participant gathering information about no flow time, low flow
      time, first assessed rhythm, BMI, smoking habit and patient demographics.
    
  