
    
      A. Specific Aims Aim One The major aim of the proposed study is to compare the effects of a
      TG by conference call for AAWBC with usual psychosocial care. We hypothesize that AAWBC who
      receive the TG by teleconference will have significantly greater cancer knowledge, less fear,
      less isolation, better social connection, better mood, and better QOL than a control group
      receiving usual psychosocial care.

      Aim One A: Substantiate intervention integrity (purity, dosage, specificity and
      interventionist competency) of first 14 waves of study.

      Aim One B: Establish reliability and validity of measures (Profile of Mood States and
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Cancer Version, Social Support
      Questionnaire) Aim Two To have a strong intervention, it is essential to identify the
      processes of change that lead to beneficial outcomes.29, 30 Therefore, the second aim of the
      proposed study is to identify the mediators of the intervention that predict successful
      treatment outcomes.

      Aim Three Since it is particularly important to identify AA women's characteristics and
      sociocultural factors which may affect their responses to the intervention,30, 31 the third
      aim of the study is to identify the effects of demographic, health and socio-cultural
      variables as moderators of treatment effects on social connection, and QOL.

      Aim Three A: Examine baseline moderators and concept of social connection to establish
      associations.

      C. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN & METHODS Design The proposed study will be conducted as a
      multiple-group randomized trial to compare the TG intervention with a control group receiving
      usual psychosocial care. A maximum of 10 subjects will be assigned randomly to each of two
      groups during a common time period, with one group receiving the TG intervention and the
      other receiving usual care. The randomization will be stratified by treatment type (chemo
      therapy only or radiation therapy only or chemotherapy and radiation therapy combined).
      Multiple time periods will be used to achieve the required number of subjects for the entire
      trial. Subjects will be evaluated at three time points in a repeated measures fashion: (1) at
      baseline before the intervention begins, (2) at the end of the intervention period, and (3)
      16 weeks from baseline. Mediating, moderating and outcome variable data will be collected at
      all three time periods.

      These measurement times have been chosen for several reasons. The intervention will be
      delivered during the stressful time after diagnosis when the patient is facing fears, side
      effects (especially body image changes), and negative community attitudes. During this time,
      patients are challenged to learn about the disease and its treatment and are emotionally open
      to using positive coping strategies.133-136 The T-2 measurement will provide information on
      the immediate effects of the treatment and T-3 will provide information on the sustainability
      of the intervention effects.

      Setting South Carolina is an ideal setting within which to test the proposed intervention, TG
      by teleconference. AA represent about 31 % of the population. Unlike other parts of the US,
      SC is mostly rural (and 46 % of its AA are rural) and the AA population has experienced very
      little in-migration over the past several centuries.137 Furthermore, religious affiliation is
      largely fundamentalist Christian (African Methodist Episcopal, Baptist and Pentecostal
      Churches),138 and a spiritual focus permeates the community, which is known as the "Buckle"
      of the Bible Belt.

      Major statewide initiatives to decrease health disparities are in progress and these efforts
      have resulted in multiple networks for communication with key SC community leaders and health
      providers. We will use the Cancer Research Network, SC Cancer Alliance, Women's Cancer
      Coalition and the Best Chance Network to enhance recruitment efforts.

      Palmetto Health and the University of South Carolina are exceptional bases from which to
      conduct this research. Palmetto Health is South Carolina's most comprehensive health
      resource, a locally owned, not-for-profit healthcare system with Palmetto Health Baptist
      Easley in upstate SC and two Columbia hospitals, Palmetto Health Baptist and Palmetto Health
      Richland. Palmetto Health's Comprehensive Breast Center (PHCBC) was established to improve
      treatment using national guidelines and decrease mortality. Over the past several years,
      major strides have been made in attaining these goals through detection of smaller tumors and
      use of sentinel node biopsy. Two multi-disciplinary and multi-specialty breast cancer tumor
      conferences are held weekly. Additionally, Palmetto Health has made a strong commitment to
      decrease health disparities in the communities it serves through its Cancer Community Health
      Initiative. The 6 year-old initiative has targeted AAs and is working to improve individual
      and community health by providing services to underserved and uninsured populations
      especially cancer screening.

      One of the oldest and most comprehensive public universities in the United States, USC has
      been designated a research institution of "very high research activity," the only university
      in South Carolina to have this designation, granted to 62 public and 32 private research
      institutions. University libraries in Columbia house over 7,000,000 processed items including
      2,639,171 volumes and approximately 4,075,413 units in microform. Some 17,405 current
      periodicals are received. Thomas Cooper Library. Included in the seating are more than 900
      private locked facilities for faculty and graduate students involved in research. Special
      areas in the library include the Student Computer Labs, the Science Library, Special
      Collections, and the Map Library. Access to the collection is obtained through the
      USCAN/NOTIS Online Card Catalog with terminals located throughout the building. CD ROM
      stations are available for user searching of multiple databases. The Thomas Cooper Library
      offers access to literature from international sources through the on-line computer-assisted
      reference department. The computerized reference service provides bibliographic citations,
      statistics, and international news from recent literature on a wide range of subjects. This
      service is particularly strong in the natural and social sciences. Also included are
      government activities, publications, and grant sources. Data bases in nursing include
      Medline, Nursing and Allied Health, and Health Planning and Administration. Data bases
      related to nursing include Psychological Abstracts and Mental Health Abstracts. New data
      bases are added regularly, and information on them is available in the Reference Department.

      The majority of participants in the proposed study will be recruited from the two cancer
      treatment sites within Palmetto Health, which treats about 600 breast cancer patients
      annually. Of those, more than 225 are AAWBC. Other recruitment will be statewide.
    
  