
    
      Schizophrenia is a disorder that affects both higher-level neurocognitive operations (e.g.,
      verbal memory, executive functioning) and lower-level perceptual processes (e.g., auditory
      processing). These deficits contribute to the poor community outcome and severe functional
      disability seen in patients. Effectively treating the cognitive dysfunction associated with
      this illness is important to achieve improvements in daily functioning. Recent meta-analytic
      studies report that cognitive training in schizophrenia has a moderate effect-size impact on
      cognitive functioning and a lower impact on daily functioning. However, most training
      interventions for schizophrenia have only targeted higher-order cognitive processes. A few
      recent interventions have targeted basic perceptual processing and shown that auditory and
      visual perceptual abilities can be trained and improved in patients with schizophrenia. These
      findings suggest that basic perceptual processing may be an ideal target for intervention. At
      this point, it is still unclear whether a neuroplasticity-based, bottom-up intervention is
      more effective than an intervention that targets top-down functions like attention, working
      memory, and executive functioning.

      This clinical trial will contrast a bottom-up intervention targeting basic auditory processes
      and a top-down intervention targeting higher-order cognitive functions, compared with a
      control condition, in Veterans with schizophrenia. These interventions will be assessed by
      their effects on representative measures from three outcome domains: 1) neurocognition, 2)
      electroencephalography (EEG), and 3) functional capacity. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to the bottom-up auditory training, top-down cognitive training, or control
      treatment (commercial computer games). All treatments will be administered three times a week
      (1 hour each) for 12 weeks. A comprehensive battery of cognitive, electrophysiological, and
      functional measures will be administered at baseline, 6 weeks, and at completion of
      treatment. The investigators will enroll 120 Veterans with schizophrenia or schizoaffective
      disorder across the 5 years of the study.

      This study will determine which training approach leads to the largest magnitude of
      improvement in neurocognition, functional capacity, and neural functioning measured with EEG.
      Moreover, it will shed light on the neural mechanisms underlying the response to training. By
      determining whether it is more beneficial to treat lower-level perceptual processes or
      higher-level cognitive functions, the results of this project will inform future
      recovery-based cognitive remediation interventions for Veterans with schizophrenia.
    
  