
    
      Inclusion criteria:

      All patients with clinical and radiological suspicion of colonic perforation and generalized
      Peritonitis with indication for emergency surgery were included in the study.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Covered perforation or peritonitis limited to one quadrant

        -  No colonic perforation (gastric perforation, appendicitis, ...)

        -  Malignancy as cause of perforation

        -  Age < 18 years

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Preoperative anal incontinence

        -  No patient consent

      Primary endpoint:

      Reconstructed bowel continuity at discharge and 6 months.

      Secondary endpoint:

        -  Permanent stoma rate

        -  30-day mortality rate

        -  Postoperative complications

      Randomisation was performed intraoperatively in all patients after the performing surgeon
      confirmed a colonic perforation with generalized Peritonitis. All patients preoperatively
      granted their consent to participate in the study.

      Surgical strategy:

      In the damage control surgery (DCS) group the surgeon was asked to perform rapid source
      control by stapling the perforated segment leaving blind ends or suturing the perforation
      site if possible, doing a thorough lavage of the abdominal cavity and placing an
      intra-abdominal negative pressure system avoiding the retraction of the abdominal wall with
      dynamic sutures as published. The second-look operation was scheduled for a time 24-48 hours
      after primary surgery that would be during regular working hours with a colorectal surgeon on
      hand to make the decision for either anastomosis or ostomy. In the conventional treatment
      group (Group C), the decision to reconstruct the colon or perform a Hartmann procedure was
      made by the surgeon during the emergency operation. After performing the anastomosis or the
      Hartmann procedure, patients with advanced peritonitis received an intraabdominal negative
      pressure system at the discretion of the operating surgeon.

      Data collection and statistics:

      Data were collected by our study nurse, who visited the patients, and statistical
      calculations were performed with SPSS 20. Assuming a reconstruction rate of 80% in the study
      group and 50% in the conventional treatment group, we calculated that 70 patients would be
      needed to prove our hypothesis. Statistical calculation was performed with Chi-square for
      distribution of clinical data and stoma rate and the Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare
      numeric and nonparametric data. The study was approved by our local ethics committee (EC No.:
      UN5157).
    
  