
    
      Female surgical sterilization is the second most commonly used contraceptive method in the US
      and is disproportionately used by low-income women and women of color. Whether the higher use
      of sterilization in these populations reflects inappropriate overutilization is unclear. On
      one hand, low-income and racial minority women frequently misunderstand the permanent nature
      of sterilization, are often unaware of reversible contraceptive alternatives, and commonly
      experience regret after the procedure- suggesting suboptimal decision making. On the other
      hand, there is evidence of substantial unmet demand for sterilization among low-income women,
      due to unique access barriers posed by Medicaid sterilization regulations, putting them at
      high risk for unintended pregnancy and the adverse health and social consequences associated
      with unintended pregnancy.

      Medicaid sterilization policy currently requires that all women requesting a federally-funded
      procedure complete a standardized consent form at least 30 days prior to sterilization. This
      policy was originally instituted in the 1970s to protect vulnerable women from coercive
      sterilization practices by attempting to ensure informed and voluntary consent. However,
      there is growing consensus that the policy is incapable of ensuring informed consent, and
      that the mandatory 30-waiting period impedes access to desired sterilization for many
      low-income women. The lack of a process that can ensure both informed consent and timely
      access for sterilization procedures hampers progress toward reproductive health equity for
      low-income women.

      This study seeks to test a novel, web-based decision support tool to support low-income
      women's ability to make informed and value-concordant decisions about surgical sterilization.
      A decision support tool may be particularly useful in the context of sterilization decisions
      because this is a preference-sensitive decision with permanent implications and because there
      is a high level of misunderstanding about sterilization and limited awareness of alternative
      options among women who have undergone the surgery, indicating critical gaps in the quality
      of pre-sterilization counseling. Furthermore, patient-provider interactions may be
      complicated by a broader social and historical context in which poor and minority women's
      reproductive choices have not always been valued.

      The study is a multi-site randomized controlled trial to test the effect of the decision aid
      plus usual care compared to usual care alone on decision quality among 350 racially-diverse,
      low-income pregnant women considering a post-partum sterilization procedure. Participant
      surveys will be utilized at three assessments points to evaluate outcomes.

      In addition to its potential clinical utility, this research also has important policy
      implications, as it can inform ongoing efforts to transform the current Medicaid policy by
      offering a decision aid that is able to ensure informed decision making in vulnerable
      populations, thereby allowing the investigators to ultimately replace the current Medicaid
      consent form with this scalable tool. Once there is a tool to safeguard women with an
      evidence-based process for ensuring informed consent, further progress can be made in
      potentially shortening or waiving the mandatory 30-day waiting period that has restricted
      access to desired sterilization for many low-income women.
    
  