
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate the performance of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography
      (PET)/computed tomography (CT) response criteria (modified PET Response Criteria in Solid
      Tumors [PERCIST] complete, partial and stable metabolic disease versus progressive metabolic
      disease) as a binary predictor of progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with
      bone-dominant (BD) metastatic breast cancer (MBC) treated with systemic therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the ability of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria (complete versus [vs] partial
      vs stable vs metabolic progression) to independently predict PFS in patients with BD MBC.

      II. Evaluate the ability of FDG-PET/CT modified PERCIST criteria (complete, partial, and
      stable versus progressive metabolic disease) to predict time to skeletal related events (SRE)
      and overall survival (OS) in patients with BD MBC.

      III. Evaluate the ability of FDG-PET/CT metrics (percent change in peak standardized uptake
      value corrected for lean body mass (SULpeak), maximum standardized uptake value corrected for
      body weight (SUVmax) as continuous variables in index or up to 5 lesions) to predict PFS,
      time to SRE and OS in patients with BD MBC.

      IV. Assess the utility of FDG-PET/CT to identify disease progression by identification of new
      lesions not identified by standard CT and bone scan.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Define criteria for selection of FDG-avid bone lesions for analysis based on thresholds
      for SULpeak or SUVmax.

      II. In collaboration with National Cancer Institute (NCI) Quantitative Imaging Network (QIN),
      explore alternative methods for measuring metabolic response with FDG-PET/CT (e.g., total
      lesion glycolysis, quantitative total bone imaging, MD Anderson bone criteria, and radiomics)
      to predict clinical endpoints in patients with BD MBC.

      III. Evaluate automated image analysis of FDG-PET/CT by AutoPERCIST.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive FDG intravenously (IV) and undergo PET/CT scan over 15-30 minutes at
      baseline (within 21 days before start of standard systemic treatment) and at 12 weeks after
      start of standard systemic treatment in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically for up to 3 years after
      study registration.
    
  