
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of combining two interventions already in
      use at some institutions for reducing post-operative pain following tonsillectomy or
      adenotonsillectomy. The standard of care at most institutions is to leave the tonsillectomy
      wound bed exposed to heal on its own over one to two weeks. At many institutions, surgeons
      inject or topically apply local anesthetics such as bupivacaine hydrochloride to the
      tonsillectomy wound bed to help reduce post-operative pain. At other institutions, surgeons
      apply a layer of fibrin sealant, which is derived from the proteins that help form blood
      clots in blood, to the tonsillectomy wound bed in order to cover the site and reduce
      irritation and exposure of the wound bed. Use of fibrin sealant has the additional benefit of
      potentially reducing postoperative bleeding (hemorrhage) rates. Both the post-tonsillectomy
      use of bupivacaine (injection and topical) and the use of topical fibrin sealant application
      have been studied previously in the scientific literature; some studies show a clear benefit,
      others show no significant reduction in pain when they are used. No studies have documented
      harm. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of infusing bupivacaine
      anesthetic into the fibrin sealant prior to application to the tonsillectomy wound bed. In
      this way, the combined product would function as a sort of "medicated bandaid" covering the
      painful wound bed and slowly delivering an entirely safe total dose of bupivacaine into the
      wound bed to reduce post-operative pain.

      The hypothesis of this study is that the application of the bupivacaine-infused fibrin
      sealant will 1) reduce post-operative mean pain scores in children undergoing tonsillectomy
      or adenotonsillectomy using a validated pediatric pain scoring system, 2) reduce
      post-operative hemorrhage rates, 3) reduce post-operative vomiting, 4) reduce total doses of
      post-operative pain medication and narcotic pain medication required, and 5) expedite
      recovery as determined by return to normal diet and activity level.

      The questions specific for this study include: 1) Does bupivacaine-infused fibrin sealant
      significantly reduce mean postoperative pain scores compared to fibrin sealant alone and
      compared to leaving the wound bed open to heal?, 2) Does bupivacaine-infused fibrin sealant
      significantly reduce mean postoperative tonsil hemorrhage rates compared to fibrin sealant
      alone and compared to leaving the wound bed open to heal? 3) Do children receiving
      bupivacaine-infused fibrin sealant require less pain medication compared to fibrin sealant
      alone or to leaving the wound bed open to heal?, 4) Do children receiving bupivacaine-infused
      fibrin sealant return to normal diet and normal activity sooner compared to fibrin sealant
      alone or to leaving the wound bed open to heal?, 5) Do the parents of children receiving
      bupivacaine-infused fibrin sealant make less calls to the clinic or the physician on call
      compared to fibrin sealant alone or to leaving the wound bed open to heal?

      After discussion of the risks and benefits of performing tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy
      per routine, parents will be offered (if child meets inclusion criteria elaborated below) to
      participate in this research study. This discussion will take place either during the clinic
      encounter when the patient is signed up for their surgical procedure or on the day of
      surgery. The Informed Consent Statement will be reviewed with the parent/patient and either
      the surgical staff, resident investigators, or clinic nursing personnel included in the IRB
      proposal will be the individuals performing the discussion with the parents. If parents are
      agreeable to participating in the study and all questions have been asked and no exclusion
      criteria met, then the child will be enrolled.

      The child will be randomized to one of the three treatment arms elaborated in this
      application. Randomization arms include either: 1) leave wound bed open to heal, 2)
      application of unaltered fibrin sealant, and 3) application of bupivicaine-induced fibrin
      sealant. Children will undergo tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy per routine, but at the
      conclusion of the surgical procedure will have either of the 3 treatment options performed as
      above.

      For some children who have clinical concern for sleep disordered breathing or obstructive
      sleep apnea on a sleep study, the surgical procedure may also involve a direct laryngoscopy
      and bronchoscopy performed prior to tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy. During the
      laryngoscopy and bronchoscopy, the airway from the level of the mouth to the branches of the
      windpipe into each lung are inspected with small rigid cameras (endoscopes); if
      floppiness/collapse (laryngomalacia) of the supraglottis (tissue above the vocal cords) is
      observed, the child will undergo a laser supraglottoplasty to remove the floppy tissue and
      relieve the obstruction. If a child has laryngomalacia and supraglottoplasty is performed,
      the child will then be excluded from the study. Exclusion at this time is based on the
      creation of an additional wound bed in the throat which could weaken our ability to determine
      if application of fibrin sealant or bupivacaine-infused fibrin sealant is effective. If
      during direct laryngoscopy and bronchoscopy, no laryngomalacia is observed and no
      supraglottoplasty is performed, then the child will continue into the treatment arm into
      which they were randomized.

      After inclusion, randomization, and proceeding with treatment based on the study arm to which
      the child was randomize, all parents/participants will received standardized post-operative
      discharge instructions with regard to pain medicine regimens and diet as well as an envelope
      containing pain assessment questionnaires to be completed 3 times daily for 10 days as a
      means of documenting pain scores among other data points. The parents will receive a
      pre-addressed, pre-stamped envelop to facilitate return of their data to the researchers.
      Currently our clinic nurses call the family of patients approximately 2-3 weeks after surgery
      to inquire as to how the child is doing and to ensure that if the family desires a follow up
      appointment that one will be made. Parents of children included in this study will receive a
      similar phone call during the same approximate time frame either by the clinic nurses or by
      the surgical staff or resident investigators, but additional specific questions regarding
      post-operative bleeding and pain control will be documented for research purposes.
      Additionally, during this phone call, parents will be reminded to complete and return their
      post-operative pain assessment sheets in the provided pre-addressed, pre-stamped envelopes
      they received on the day of surgery.
    
  