
    
      This is an open label, single-arm, multicenter phase 3 study to evaluate efficacy and safety
      of the BiTE (bispecific T cell engager) antibody blinatumomab in Chinese adults with
      relapsed/refractory B-precursor ALL. The study will consist of a screening period, a
      treatment period, and a follow-up period.

      Treatment will consist of up to 5 cycles of blinatumomab. Participants who achieve a bone
      marrow (BM) response (≤ 5% BM blasts) or CR/CRh*/CRi within 2 induction cycles of treatment
      may continue to receive up to 3 additional consolidation cycles of blinatumomab. Thirty days
      after end of the last dose of protocol-specified therapy, participants will have a safety
      follow-up visit.

      If subjects are suitable for allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloHSCT) after treatment
      with blinatumomab, they may undergo alloHSCT instead of receiving further consolidation
      cycles with blinatumomab.

      Participants will be followed via clinic visit or telephone contact every 3 months after
      their safety follow-up visit until death has been observed or a maximum of 2 years after
      start of treatment, whichever occurs first.

      A planned interim analysis to assess efficacy and safety of blinatumomab was to be based on
      the interim analysis set (N = 90). The efficacious benefit assessment based on an
      O'Brien-Fleming alpha spending function (O'Brien and Fleming, 1979) with the critical
      boundary 42.2% at the interim analysis and 39.2% at the primary analysis in CR/CRh* rate. If
      the interim analysis showed statistically efficacious and overall benefit-risk analysis to be
      promising per the data review team review, then the interim analysis could become the primary
      analysis of this study. In addition, the study would continue its enrollment until 120
      participants had been enrolled and continued their participation in the study to complete
      protocol-specified procedures.

      The data cutoff date of 12 April 2019 allowed for the 90th participant enrolled before 21
      February 2019 to have had the opportunity to complete 2 cycles of treatment and the safety
      follow-up visit (if the participant had discontinued treatment after 2 cycles).
    
  