
    
      Parkinson disease (PD) is one of the most disabling chronic health conditions affecting older
      adults globally. While advances in medical and surgical management of PD have increased
      lifespans, these have not effectively altered the progressive decline in physical function
      and quality of life associated with PD. Identifying effective ways to improve function, slow
      decline and prevent or reduce disability remains of utmost importance in PD. Of particular
      concern in PD is gait decline, which is considered a red flag signaling emerging disability.
      Prior work has shown that people with PD experienced a 12% decline in amount of walking over
      one year - despite relative stability of motor impairments during that year. Treatment
      targeting walking, the most rapidly changing aspect of disability in PD, may have the
      greatest influence on slowing the impact of disease progression on physical function and
      reducing disability.

      Traditionally, rehabilitation has targeted impairments and functional limitations with the
      expectation that gains would translate into greater participation in real-world activities.
      However, the evidence suggests that this does not occur. In this proposal, the investigators
      suggest a paradigm shift in which the primary target of the intervention is real-world
      walking behavior, as greater walking activity could preserve walking function and slow
      disability. The primary factors that limit engagement in walking in PD are psychological
      (e.g., low self-efficacy) rather than physical (e.g., motor impairments) in nature. As such,
      investigators will evaluate a cognitive-behavioral approach, grounded in social-cognitive
      theory and targeted at enhancing walking activity. This "connected behavioral approach" links
      physical therapists to persons with PD using a mobile health (mHealth) platform to deliver
      strategies to increase self-efficacy and provide goal-oriented, dynamic walking routines and
      walking enhancing exercises over one year. This approach will be compared to a control
      intervention which provides equivalent components and dosing of walking and a walking
      enhancing exercise program delivered by physical therapists but without a
      cognitive-behavioral mHealth approach. Investigators hypothesize that the mHealth group will
      demonstrate higher amounts of walking activity and greater walking capacity relative to the
      control group. With regard to mechanism underlying improvements in the mHealth group, it is
      hypothesized that self-efficacy will mediate changes in amount of walking and that changes in
      amount of walking will mediate changes in walking capacity over one year. The insights to be
      gained regarding mechanisms underlying changes noted will be critical to inform
      rehabilitation interventions designed to encourage sustained, long-term physical activity. If
      effective, our "connected behavioral approach" offers a unique, generalizable and scalable
      means to increase walking activity and improve walking capacity, thereby reducing disability
      in PD and perhaps in other chronic progressive conditions.
    
  