
    
      The recent pharmacological and technological advancements are making paediatric anaesthesia
      safer, minimizing thereby the risk of serious adverse events. Despite recent advancements,
      there is still a significant incidence of life-threatening complications following general
      and regional anaesthesia without complete identification of predictive factors. Several
      cohort studies reported the incidence of perioperative anaesthetic complications, but the
      results were generally limited to a single centre.

      Hence, a prospective multicentre study "APRICOT" has been recently conducted in order to
      establish the incidence of some severe critical events and to identify the risk factors for
      their occurrence [ClinicalTrials.gov identifier # NCT01878760]. This European Society of
      Anaesthesiology Clinical Trial Network project is currently in progress with over 300
      participating centres and more than 25,000 patients, from birth to 15 years of age, to be
      included. The NECTARINE is specifically focussed on the neonatal population.

      The NECTARINE aims to include all neonates and infants from birth to 60 weeks of
      postmenstrual age scheduled for an elective or urgent diagnostic or surgical procedure under
      sedation or general anaesthesia with or without regional analgesia or under regional
      anaesthesia. The primary aim of this study is to identify the occurrence of peri-anaesthesia
      (during and up to the first 120 minutes) interventions needed to treat or improve one of the
      following: (1) airway management, (2) oxygenation, (3) alveolar ventilation, (4) glycaemia
      and Na+, (5) cardiovascular instability, (6) body temperature, (7) brain oxygenation, and (8)
      anaemia. The parameter or the clinical event that has triggered the intervention will be
      specifically reported. As secondary aims the in- and out- of hospital morbidity and mortality
      will be studied at 30 and 90 days from anaesthesia.

      Following sample size estimation, the plan is to recruit between 5000 children over a period
      of twelve consecutive weeks, including weekends and after-hours across the 30 European
      countries represented at the European Society of Anaesthesiology Council or part of
      geographical Europe.

      The 12-week recruitment period will be chosen by each site commencing on 1 January 2016.The
      last possible inclusion date will be decided by the Study Steering Committee depending on the
      recruitment rate. Participating hospitals will be provided with data acquisition sheets that
      enable anonymous standardized recording of all patients' parameters, which will be used by
      the local institution to fill in the electronic case report form.

      Descriptive statistical analysis will be performed for the primary endpoint (occurrence of
      severe critical events and 95% confidence interval). Univariate and multivariate analysis
      will be performed to test factors associated with the endpoint. Results of logistic
      regression will be reported as adjusted odds ratio (OR) with 95 % confidence intervals .
    
  