
    
      METHODS:

      One hundred and four patients who meet the inclusion criteria undergoing photorefractive
      keratectomy (PRK) in one or both eyes will be randomly assigned into one of two treatment
      groups via computer. Those in group A will be treated with gabapentin and those in group B
      will be treated with pregabalin to control postoperative PRK pain. Patients in both groups
      will begin treatment two hours prior to surgery. Patients in the gabapentin group will take
      300 mg three times a day starting two hours prior to surgery and will continue for a total of
      four days. Patients in the pregabalin group will take 50 mg three times a day starting two
      hours prior to surgery and will also continue for four days.

      Only the refractive surgery coordinator and the patient will know what medication the patient
      is taking. The patient will be instructed not to share this information with any other study
      participants or their surgeon. The coordinator will keep a list of the patients ID numbers
      and the treatments they are receiving.

      Prior to surgery, each patient will be taught how to assess their pain level using the visual
      analogue scale (VAS), a well documented method of pain assessment. After surgery the patients
      will assess their pain levels at different intervals of time - one hour after surgery, the
      evening of the surgery, and three times a day for four subsequent days. Patients will also
      daily assess their level of somnolence using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and record
      the presence of dizziness daily for the same amount of time. On the fourth day they will
      return to clinic for a post operative appointment. At that time the pain assessment scales
      will be collected and analyzed. The patients will return at one month to further assess long
      term pain after PRK.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Postoperative pain levels recorded using the visual analogue scales, ESS, and self reported
      dizziness assessments will be collected on the fourth postoperative day. These will be
      compiled into data sets and analyzed. Data will be compiled into means with lower and upper
      quartiles and analyzed using a two-sided t test. The difference in pain levels will be
      described throughout the postoperative period to determine if one medication significantly
      reduces postoperative pain initially within the first 24 hours, during the interval between
      24 hours to four days, and further after surgery (one month postoperatively). Data regarding
      levels of somnolence and dizziness will also be reported.
    
  