
    
      This study was to investigate the effects of fasting therapy on blood glucose control and
      islet function in newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients.

      60 participants will be recruited from outpatients or inpatients in First Affiliated Hospital
      of Sun Yat-sen University according the eligibility criteria. All the eligible subjects will
      be randomly allocated into 2 groups, the fasting group and the intense insulin therapy group.
      The former one will receive fasting therapy for 14 days and the latter be treated with an
      intense insulin therapy including short-term continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion
      treatment or four stage intensive insulin treatment for 2 weeks.

      First of all, to determine whether fasting therapy is effective for glucose control or not,
      the investigators will observed the required time and control rate for a targeted glucose
      level, the average fasting blood glucose and postprandial blood glucose as well as the
      glucose amelioration degree in all the patients. Then, all the patients will undergo a
      follow-up period of 1 year, during which the fasting and postprandial blood glucose and
      glycosylated hemoglobin of each participant will be monitored to assess the long-term
      remission rate of diabetes. Patients are invited to review their glucose and lipid metabolic
      indices at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months of follow-up. Lifestyle guidance will be offered
      by specialist physicians throughout the follow-up period.

      Secondly, all the patients are required to take the insulin and C-peptide releasing tests
      before and after fasting as well as in the follow-up to investigate the short-term and
      long-term treatment effect of islet function through accessing the first secretion function
      of pancreatic island and calculating insulin resistance(HOMA-IR) and HOMA-B through
      homeostasis model assessment.

      In summary, this study aims to explore the short-term and long-term therapeutic effects in
      new onset type 2 diabetes, hoping to provide a novel, effective and more convenient treatment
      method for them.
    
  