
    
      Lower back pain is a common disorder that include any discomfort in the lumbar area below the
      origin of ribs and above the area of buttocks.Lower back pain with disability is 2nd most
      often reason for the wastage of time & money.Almost all people suffer from lower back pain at
      some age of their life .Both genders are effected equally by low back pain. The common
      problem of lower back pain are when you lift a heavy object prolonged unsupported sitting,
      accidents, sedentary life style. Sedentary life style could be the cause of low back pain
      usually when strenuous workout done on weekends as compared to minimal activities on week
      days. Lumbar area of the back hold and support the weight of the upper body and body do
      twisting and bending at this area. Specific or non-specific lower back pain is the
      classifications. Pain caused by any deformity, injury or any physical activity is called
      non-specific lower back pain.Non-specific lower back pain cannot be having any specific
      pathology, changes in behavior of movement pattern due to fear avoidance having bad postural
      control cause this non-specific pain.Lower back pain is one of the general health setbacks
      globally. It is the leading cause of people's absence from work and limits their
      activities.Prevalence and burden of low back pain increased with aging.Spinal decompression
      can create a opposite intradiscal pressure to promote led back of the herniated or bulging
      disc material and this oppsosity in the disc will cause influx of healing nutrients and other
      substances into the disc Core stability program improves functional status; reduce pain,
      increases quality of life and endurance of muscles in lumbar disk herniation patients.A
      strong core is important to the healthy spine. Abdominal muscle can help the back muscle
      supporting supine. If core muscle are weak, supine carry extra pressure on your back muscles.
      For this stabilizing and core exercises are important to strengthen back spine. By increasing
      endurance of these muscles core muscle should be strong. Core stability program improves
      functional status; reduce pain, increases quality of life and endurance of muscles in lumbar
      disk herniation patients.In 2008, a researcher found that stabilization exercises helpful in
      spinal rehabilitation to prevent from any sports injury. Another study by Hodges in 2003
      stated that exercises for central muscle is an developing process; additional work necessary
      to purify and authenticate move forward, mainly with reference to understand the neurobiology
      of chronic pain.A study in 2011 on comparison between stabilization plan and Pilates
      technique for treating Low back pain. Their results showed that, Pereira technique is not is
      not helpful in get better back pain and function, in comparison with control and lumbar
      stabilization exercise groups.In exercise plan Mat and gym ball exercise for strength
      training and step box were used to develop an independent habit of exercise .these exercise
      plan intend to increase strength of muscle and decrease pain. As a main exercise walking is,
      safe, suitable and easy to decrease low back pain because it does not involve forceful and
      twisting forward flexion.
    
  