
    
      The beneficial effect of lipid lowering in cardiovascular disease is well established. Statin
      potently reduce elevated cholesterol levels but also exert pleiotropic other effects such as
      improvement of inflammation-induced vascular dysfunction, upregulation of endothelial nitric
      oxide synthase, yield antiinflammatory and antioxidant properties and lower tissue factor
      (TF) expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PB-MNC) in vivo. The mechanism of
      action for these effects remains unclear, but is already seen after short term treatment and
      was independent of cholesterol reduction. Following endotoxin administration to healthy
      humans, the systemic response includes the activation of inflammation by cytokines, mainly
      IL-1, IL-6, THF-α and INF-γ, activation of the clotting system with enhanced thrombin
      generation, and vascular dysfunction, as demonstrable by an impaired response to
      vasoconstrictors. Low dose endotoxemia therefore serves as an adequate model for acute
      inflammation and the interaction of the three systems.

      The goal of this study is to determine the effect of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor pretreatment
      on inflammation and coagulation activation in human endotoxemia and to investigate if
      anti-inflammatory effects are similar between two different statins. Further, we plan to
      study genome-wide effects on the leukocyte transcriptome induced by (i) statin pretreatment,
      (ii) low-dose endotoxemia, and (iii) the anti-inflammatory effects if the statins.

      The study will be carried out as a randomized placebo controlled double-blind threeway
      crossover three period study. Subjects will receive three treatment periods (Day 1 - Day 5)
      in randomized order consisting of 5 days oral Simvastatin (80 mg/day), 5 days oral
      Rosuvastatin (40 mg/day) and 5 days adequate placebo. On Day 5 of each study period, subjects
      will receive LPS (2 ng/kg i.v.). Inflammatory protein expression and coagulation activation
      will be assessed on Day 1 and Day 5 of each period. Washout-time between treatment periods
      will be ≥6 weeks.
    
  