
    
      METHODOLOGY All subjects will be admitted fasting to the Clinical Trial Unit at Århus
      Community Hospital at 8 a.m. A Gastrointestinal tube will be placed in Duodenum distal to
      papilla Vaterii with a pH of approximately 7.0 as measured by the pH meter distal in the
      tube. An indwelling catheter for glucose infusion (20 %) in cases of hypoglycaemia will be
      placed in an antecubital vein. In the contralateral anticubital vein a catheter will be
      placed for blood sampling. All subjects will have 4 tests with duodenal infusion of the
      insulin Aspart solution. The first 4 volunteers will receive 4 doses of insulin Aspart
      solution in 1 ml (150, 300, 600 and 1000 IU) with 3-6 hours apart. Blood sampling for Insulin
      Aspart, total insulin, and glucose (Beckmann apparatus) will be done every 10 minutes the
      first two hours, and then every 20 minutes. When final the subjects will receive a meal
      before leaving the hospital.

      Based on data from the pilot a dose will be determined for the remaining 8 subjects. These
      will then based again on results from the pilot on two separate study days receive 4
      infusions with 3-6 hours split. Two infusions will be at pH 7 and two infusions will be more
      proximal at a pH of 5.5 (two different insulin concentrations but the same dose given at the
      two places in Duodenum). Frequency and interval of blood sampling in the second part will be
      determined by results from the pilot study. For comparison with the clinical situation and
      estimation of bioavailability all subjects will receive a subcutaneous and an intravenous
      (iv) bolus injection of 6 IU of insulin Aspart. The iv injection will be followed by blood
      sampling for three hours as above, but every 5 minutes the first two hours, and the sc
      injection will be followed by blood sampling for three hours as above, but again with 10
      minutes interval the first two hours.
    
  