
    
      The management and prognosis of patients with metastatic cutaneous melanoma have changed
      dramatically with the advent of immunotherapy, especially anti-PD-1 antibodies. These
      immune-checkpoint inhibitor block the programmend cell death receptor 1 (PD1). Currently, two
      anti-PD-1 antibodies, nivolumab and pembrolizumab are available. Recent data for
      pembrolizumab show that the overall survival rate at almost 3 years is 50% and the overall
      response rate is 42%. Despite these results so far never achieved, about 60% of patients do
      not respond to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy and, at present, no clinical, imaging or biological
      markers are predictive of the therapeutic response. The identification of such markers is
      essential in order to guide the clinician in the choice of optimal treatment.

      The objective of this study is to assess whether FDG (18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose
      fluorodeoxyglucose) PET-CT could be an early predictive method of therapeutic response to
      anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in metastatic melanoma.

      The anti-tumor immune response to anti-PD-1 is related to the activation of immune cells
      infiltrating the tumor, in particular CD8+ (cluster of differentiation 8) T cells whose
      phenotype is that of "exhausted T cells". This immune activation is such that it sometimes
      causes (about 10% of cases) a transient increase in the size and/or number of lesions. This
      phenomenon, has been called "pseudo-progression" and it cannot be interpreted routinely by
      RECIST1.1 criteria. The exact kinetics and timing of CD8+ T cell activation leading to
      response to treatment is still unknown. It is possible that this cellular activation has an
      early metabolic translation detectable by 18FDG PET-CT. The investigator's hypothesis is that
      early 18FDG PET-CT, ie after 2 cycles of anti-PD1 in metastatic patient melanoma, could be
      predictive of the therapeutic response. 20 patients will be enrolled and undergo three PET/CT
      scans: a baseline PET-CT (PET0) before the start of anti-PD1 treatment, an early PET-CT after
      2 cycles of anti-PD1 (PET1) and a third PET-CT after 3 months of initiation of treatment.
      Treatment response on FDG PET will be assessed according to PERCIST criteria. Changes in FDG
      uptake will be correlated with blood results.
    
  