
    
      Chronic pain and post-traumatic stress disorder frequently co-occur and are associated with a
      significant level of affective distress, physical disability, and treatment resistance.
      However, no empirical studies have been conducted investigating the efficacy of a treatment
      tailored specifically for individuals with comorbid chronic pain and PTSD.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a cognitive-behavioral
      therapy approach for comorbid chronic pain and PTSD. A secondary objective of this study is
      to examine potential mechanisms of action that might mediate treatment outcome. It is
      hypothesized that:

      1.a) Participants receiving integrated cognitive-behavioral treatment for chronic pain and
      PTSD will report significantly greater improvements on measures of pain, affective distress,
      and physical functioning from pre-treatment to post-treatment than participants in the
      Cognitive Behavioral Treatment for chronic pain, Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) for PTSD,
      or Treatment as Usual (TAU) conditions

      1.b) All active treatments will be more effective at promoting improved outcomes than
      Treatment as Usual

      2) Participants receiving integrated cognitive-behavioral treatment for chronic pain and PTSD
      will report decreased symptoms of PTSD from pre-treatment to post-treatment when compared to
      participants in the other conditions.

      3) Participants receiving integrated cognitive-behavioral treatment for chronic pain and PTSD
      will report greater maintenance of change, and greater improvements on measures of Pain,
      Affective Distress, Physical Functioning, and PTSD at 6 months following the completion of
      treatment than participants in the other three conditions

      4) As a secondary/exploratory hypothesis, the researchers will examine potential mechanisms
      of action in treatment.

      It is hypothesized that changes in these potential mechanisms will mediate treatment outcome.
      The proposed study is a four-treatment condition by three-evaluation period (pre-treatment,
      post-treatment, and 6-month follow-up) repeated measures factorial design with multiple
      dependent measures. Participants will be 136 patients with co-morbid chronic pain and PTSD
      receiving care in the VA Boston Healthcare System. Participants in the active treatment
      conditions will complete 11 weekly outpatient therapy sessions. A clinical psychologist with
      specialized training in providing both PTSD and chronic pain treatment protocols will conduct
      therapy in an individual format, 90 minutes in duration. Participants assigned to the TAU
      condition will not receive treatment beyond that provided by their primary care provider and
      other healthcare providers. The Cognitive Behavioral Therapy-PAIN condition will follow an
      adaptation of a manualized treatment protocol used by Kerns and colleagues that emphasizes
      identifying and modifying maladaptive thoughts and behaviors related to the experience of
      chronic pain. Participants in the Cognitive Processing Therapy - PTSD condition will receive
      a manualized treatment protocol that includes several empirically supported techniques
      including cognitive restructuring, exposure therapy, and skills training. Participants in the
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy - Integrated condition will receive an integrated treatment for
      comorbid pain and PTSD including components of the pain and PTSD treatments described above.

      The proposed study will address the specific objectives of the National Pain Management
      Strategy by helping to assure that clinicians practicing in the VA healthcare system are
      adequately prepared to assess and manage chronic pain effectively, especially when comorbid
      with PTSD. Knowledge gained from the proposed study could potentially be utilized by
      psychologists and other healthcare providers across the VA system nationwide who are
      currently engaged in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy treatment programs for chronic pain and
      PTSD. Given that Cognitive Behavioral Therapy has been shown to be efficacious for pain and
      PTSD, but not for comorbid pain and PTSD, it is imperative that a new integrated treatment be
      evaluated that has the potential to address the unmet needs of this large population. Thus,
      this study will have important implications for the delivery of pain management services to
      veterans and others with chronic pain and PTSD.
    
  