
    
      This study was done from May 2nd to June 5th, 2020. The investigators included 181 patients
      who were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 infection by RT PCR presented and the sample
      collected at Chokoria Upazila Health Complex, Cox's Bazar; Bangladesh. The PCR analysis of
      the collected sample was done at Cox's Bazar Medical College. Each of the participants was
      examined carefully to find out the details of the disease symptoms, history, comorbid
      condition, and associated complaints. Patients with severe comorbid conditions like severe
      Bronchial asthma, COPD exacerbation, severe ischemic heart disease, uncontrolled diabetes
      mellitus, advanced renal and hepatic disease, carcinoma, hospitalized and Immuno-compromised
      patients were not included in this study. 42 patients had comorbid conditions (some required
      hospitalization) that might affect the recovery time; 14 patients were unwilling to
      participate in the study and 9 participants did not show-up (3 from group A and 6 from group
      B) for follow up sample collection so these were excluded. Following exclusion 116 patients
      were included with mild to moderate degree of illness with normal or near-normal chest
      radiograph and Oxygen Saturation more than 95% were included in this study. All the patients
      enrolled in the study were treated as an outpatient protocol.

      For the study Perouse the participants were divided into two groups as follows:

      Group A (n=60): Ivermectin 200µgm/kg single dose + Doxycycline 100mg BID for 10days.

      Group B (n=56): Hydroxychloroquine 400mg first day then 200mg BID for 9days + Azithromycin
      500mg daily for 5Days.

      Besides the above, symptomatic treatment for fever, headache, cough, myalgia, and other
      complaints were given accordingly. Participants were advised for self-isolation, proper
      nutrition, hydration, and a sanitary environment. Treatment outcomes were evaluated on every
      2days starting from the 5th day (Asymptomatic patients) or the 2nd non-symptomatic day from
      the first day of the drug intake by PCR study of nasopharyngeal and throat swab in each
      group. Regular contacts were maintained to find out the adverse or side effects of the
      therapy. Informed consent was obtained in every case.
    
  