
    
      Cigarette smoking is the single most important preventable cause of morbidity, mortality and
      excess health care costs in the United States. The prevalence of cigarette smoking among U.S.
      adults has declined from 42% in 1965 to 20.9% in 2004. However, the overall decline is not
      occurring at a rate that will meet national health objectives by 2010. Available
      pharmacotherapies for the treatment of tobacco dependence are not efficacious for all tobacco
      users and have an overall estimated efficacy of approximately 20% for long-term tobacco
      cessation. Thus, novel pharmacotherapies for tobacco cessation need to be explored.

      Current smokers tend to be younger with less education and belong to a lower socioeconomic
      status. Tobacco cessation treatments are expensive and often not covered by Medicare,
      Medicaid, or third party-payers. Our goal is to evaluate novel, safe, acceptable, effective,
      and inexpensive therapies that will increase tobacco abstinence rates.

      The United States Public Health Service (USPHS) guideline recommends nicotine replacement
      therapy and bupropion as first-line agents for the treatment of tobacco dependence. Bupropion
      acts by central dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibition. St. John's Wort (SJW), a
      widely used herbal product to treat mild to moderate depression, shares a similar mechanism
      of action and is available as a tobacco cessation aid in a number of over-the-counter
      preparations. While currently approved pharmacotherapies for tobacco dependence cost between
      $120-$240 per month, SJW is relatively inexpensive ($15 per month) and is well-tolerated. At
      present, no randomized prospective study of St. John's Wort for tobacco cessation has been
      published.

      We plan to test the efficacy of SJW for tobacco cessation in a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, three-arm, parallel group, dose-ranging clinical trial. We will obtain
      preliminary data about the efficacy of two different oral doses of SJW for improving tobacco
      abstinence rates and decreasing symptoms of nicotine withdrawal. All subjects will receive a
      behavioral intervention during participation in the study. A total of 120 subjects will be
      recruited into the study and randomly allocated to one of the three groups (groups A, B, and
      C). Participants in group A will receive SJW 300-mg three times a day for twelve weeks while
      participants in group B will receive SJW 600-mg three times a day for twelve weeks.
      Participants in group C will receive a matching placebo for the same duration.

      We will conduct this research through the Nicotine Research Program (NRP) at the Mayo Clinic
      in Rochester, Minnesota. We are uniquely situated for completing this research as more than
      7,500 patients have been enrolled in over 75 clinical trials conducted through the NRP. We
      propose the following specific aims:

      Primary Aims:

      1. To obtain preliminary evidence of the effect of a 12-week course of SJW in two different
      oral doses of 300-mg three times a day or 600-mg three times a day compared to placebo on the
      7-day point prevalence tobacco abstinence rates at end of treatment and six months in 120
      smokers.

      Hypothesis: Cigarette smokers who receive SJW in two different oral doses of 300-mg three
      times a day or 600-mg three times a day for 12 weeks will have higher 7-day point prevalence
      tobacco abstinence rates at end of treatment and six months compared to cigarette smokers
      receiving placebo.

      Secondary Aim:

      1. To obtain preliminary estimates of the effect of a 12-week course of SJW in two different
      oral doses of 300-mg three times a day or 600-mg three times a day compared to placebo on
      prolonged tobacco abstinence rates at six months.

      Hypothesis: Cigarette smokers who receive SJW in two different oral doses of 300-mg three
      times a day or 600-mg three times a day for 12-weeks will have higher prolonged tobacco
      abstinence rates at six months compared to cigarette smokers receiving placebo.

      This study is innovative in that we are testing a novel therapeutic agent for the treatment
      of tobacco use. At the completion of this study, we expect to have obtained preliminary
      evidence regarding the effect of two different doses of SJW on symptoms of nicotine
      withdrawal and tobacco abstinence. We will also collect information on adverse effects of SJW
      in tobacco users and obtain data to plan a larger Phase III clinical trial, if the results
      from this trial suggest a potential for efficacy.
    
  