
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse is usually the result of loss of pelvic support. It is widely accepted
      that 50% of women after 50 years old will develop prolapse, evaluated through the POPQ
      Classification . Pelvic organ prolapse cause significant psychological distress and
      negatively affect quality of life. Among the surgery for prolapse, the cystocele cureis is
      the most frequent (67.7%). Native tissue cystocele repairs is the cornerstone of prolapse
      surgery especially since the learned societies (Food and Drug Administration, Haute Autorité
      de Santé, Collège National des Gynécologues-Obstétriciens Français) warned clinicians and
      patients about serious mesh related complications. In France, 41.5% of vaginal cystocele
      repair are with native tissue. The main surgeries are anterior colporraphy and vaginal patch
      plastron, used in routine in our center with re-intervention rates less than 4% at one year.
      Rate of success of native tissue cystocele repair are heterogeneous, depending on the design
      of studies and definition of outcomes. A prospective study find a success rate at 35% of the
      anterior colporraphy based on a combined definition, anatomic and functional as recommended
      recently. However the definition of anatomic was strict (POPQ<2), while it seems that the
      best definition of anatomic success is "no prolapse among the hymen", that is to say aAa and
      Ba points <0.

      We think that the vaginal patch plastron will have a better anatomic and functional success
      comparatively to the anterior colporraphy as it corrects median cystoceles by a vaginal strip
      as well as lateral cystoceles by the bilateral paravaginal suspension.

      The description of the two surgeries will be standardized between all the surgeons. We will
      compare the anterior colporraphy consisting in bladder median support by retensioning Halban
      fascia with colpectomy to the vaginal patch plastron consisting in making a vaginal strip
      attached to the bladder combined with suspension by fixation of the vaginal strip to the
      tendinous arch of the pelvic fascia.

      Patients will be blind of their surgery. They will have a follow-up visit 45 days after the
      surgery to evaluate the post- operative complications according to the Clavien-Dindo
      classification. They will have phone call at 4 and 8 months after the surgery to make sure
      they've not suffered for complications. At last, they will have a follow-up visit 1 year
      after the surgery by an independent assessor blind of the surgery to evaluate the primary
      outcome (anatomic and functional success).
    
  