
    
      Allergic diseases are the largest group of non-communicable diseases (NCD) with an increasing
      prevalence in both the developed and developing world. There are significant bodies of
      research trying to examine the use of probiotics to prevent allergic disease. Though clinical
      randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses shows benefits of using probiotic supplements
      during pregnancy and early infant life to prevent the development of atopic dermatitis ;
      however, Cochrane review found that the benefit is not significant for immunoglobulin E (IgE)
      associated atopy. The lack of effectiveness that probiotics supplement to prevent allergic
      offspring to the allergic pregnant mother might due to too late to give probiotics and not
      give the appropriate probiotics. Investigators speculate that intestinal microbiota of
      allergic pregnant mother is different from the non-allergic pregnant mother. According to the
      theory that intestinal microbiome of pregnant mother might affect the offprint's intestinal
      microbiota during labor and further induce the allergic status.

      The aim of the study is first to detect the difference of the intestinal microbiome between
      allergic pregnant mother and the non-allergic pregnant mother using the next generation
      sequence, all postnatal infants will collect the first meconium and feces from one, two, six
      months to one year old for the same test. The second stage of the study is to restore the
      allergic pregnant mother abnormal intestinal microbiome with probiotics trying to reduce the
      incidence of allergic disease of their offspring.

      Allergic pregnant women who intend to breast- feed their infant are eligible to be enrolled
      in the study if she has a history of asthma or eczema treated or allergic rhinitis treated by
      a doctor. All infants born in the study are eligible for inclusion in study outcomes. Study
      probiotics containing Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium, and the placebo capsules are made
      from glucose, both are manufactured by Taiwan Company. After inform consent, probiotics will
      give to the allergic pregnant women till delivery and infants will have probiotics for 6
      months after born. Primary outcome is the prevalence of physician diagnosis atopic eczema and
      frequency of wheezing attack at 24 month of age.

      Randomization is managed by computer at pharmacy of CMUH and concealed from all study staff
      and participants. An intention-to-treat analysis will be used to assess the effect of
      probiotics on the 24 month cumulative prevalence of eczema and SCORAD ≥10 using hazard ratios
      from a Cox's proportional hazards model, and the point prevalence of atopy at age 24 months
      using relative rates and a chi- squared test. Chi-square test will also be used to compare
      the proportion in each study group with detectable levels of immunological markers in breast
      milk. If the data is not log-normally distributed a Wilcoxon Rank-Sum test will be used.
      Reasons for withdrawal from the study will be recorded and examined for differences between
      study groups. Adjustment will be made for differences in antibiotic use between study groups.
      SAS version 9.4 will be used.
    
  