
    
      Depression, one of the most common diseases in older adults, carries significant risk for
      morbidity, and mortality. However, many older adults with depression are not identified and
      even when identified, they face protracted courses of treatment, with over 60% of elderly
      patients failing to achieve symptomatic remission. Given the burgeoning population of older
      adults, as well as the enormous burden of depression, efforts to maximize depression
      prevention are needed.

      Despite advances in understanding the behavioral pathways that contribute to depression,
      there has been little attention aimed at targeting behavioral risk factors such as sleep
      disturbance, even though such strategies have the potential to optimize efficiency (i.e.,
      decrease number needed to treat (NNT) among vulnerable older adults with a history of
      depression. In this study, we hypothesize that recognition and treatment of sleep
      disturbance, a modifiable behavioral risk factor, will prevent depression incidence in older
      adults. Whereas sleep disturbance in depressed patients often lingers and its persistence can
      represent a residual phase of a major mood disorder, emergence of disturbed sleep in
      non-depressed older adults serves as an independent risk factor depression that occurs later
      in life. In a 2-year prospective cohort study of community-dwelling older adults aged 60
      years or older (N=351), we have found that sleep disturbance is prospectively associated with
      depression incidence independent of other current depressive symptoms, as well as
      antidepressant and hypnotic medication use, and medical status. To evaluate sleep disturbance
      at the community level, sleep disturbance was defined by a self-report measure (i.e. scores >
      5 on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), which highly correlates with insomnia
      diagnosis. We have found similar prospective results between reported sleep disturbance and
      depression in adults (N=1716).

      Increasing evidence also implicates inflammation as a biological mechanism that contributes
      to depression, and we further hypothesize that increases in inflammation are associated with
      the link between sleep disturbance and depression incidence. Whereas multiple other factors
      including but not limited to, psychosocial stress, medical illness, obesity, sedentary
      lifestyle, social isolation, low socio-economic status, female sex, and smoking can drive
      inflammation and are associated with depression, our preliminary data have found that sleep
      disturbance induces activation of inflammatory signaling,and additional naturalistic and
      epidemiologic preliminary findings show that sleep disturbance is associated with increases
      in markers of inflammation especially among those with a history of depression. In turn, we
      and others have found that inflammation prospectively predicts depression recurrence in
      community dwelling adults who have a history of depression (N=1716)16 Although there is also
      evidence that this association can be reciprocal,33 our experimental preliminary data show
      that inflammatory activation induces depressed mood. In contrast, cognitive behavioral
      therapy for insomnia (CBT-I)) reduces cellular markers of inflammation in older adults who
      show a remission of clinical sleep complaints.

      The over-arching objectives of this study are to evaluate the ability of CBT-I vs. an active
      comparator control, Sleep Education Therapy (SET) to reduce sleep complaints, depression
      incidence, and cellular and genomic markers of inflammation in older adults with
      self-reported sleep disturbance with follow-up up to three years.
    
  