
    
      This pilot study will recruit up to 20 patients with newly diagnosed ER+ breast cancer who
      have recently undergone or are scheduled to undergo a clinically-indicated breast MRI
      examination and are scheduled for surgical excision of the breast cancer. All patients will
      undergo two PEM studies, one with F-18 FDG and the second with F-18 FES. As F-18 FES is not
      an FDA-approved radiopharmaceutical, this FES study will be performed under an investigator
      IND cross-referenced to the National Cancer Institute IND 79,005 for F-18 FES. A time
      interval of 6-8 hours will be required between performance of the F-18 FDG study and the F-18
      FES study. All patients will have the 2 PEM studies within 30 business days of the clinically
      indicated MRI. See Study Schema shown below. Subjects must meet the following eligibility
      criteria:

        1. Postmenopausal women, as defined by a. Lack of menstrual periods for ≥ 12 months b. For
           women with prior hysterectomy and age < 60, a serum FSH level within the postmenopausal
           range

        2. Histologic proof of invasive breast carcinoma that is ER positive per ASCO/CAP
           guidelines (staining in ≥ 1% of cells by immunohistochemistry)

        3. Extent of disease confirmed, or to be confirmed, on a clinical contrast-enhanced breast
           MRI examination

        4. Minimum size criteria for index cancer of 10 mm as measured on mammogram, ultrasound, or
           MRI.

        5. Planned surgical excision of the breast cancer at Mayo Clinic, Rochester

      Study participants will be consented prior to undergoing the PEM studies. The order in which
      the PEM and MRI studies are performed will NOT be randomized, and will be dictated by patient
      schedule. Co-registration of the PEM images from F-18 FDG and F-18 FES will be used to assess
      the heterogeneity of uptake of the F-18 FES relative to that of F-18 FDG. Heterogeneity of ER
      expression in the tumor will be determined by immunohistochemistry on the pathologic tissue
      and findings will then be correlated with the ratio of activity in the co-registered images
      of F-18 FES and F-18 FDG. An integrated interpretation of the MRI and PEM images will be
      performed to match lesions seen on the three scans and will be made available to the ordering
      physician and surgeon.
    
  