
    
      Bacterial infection with coagulase-negative staphylococci (CNS) or methicillin resistant and
      sensitive staphylococcus aureus(MRSA/MSSA) indicates poor prognosis and increased mortality
      in critically ill patients.

      With the current emergence of glycopeptide-intermediate sensitive Staphylococcus aureus
      strains, personalized dosing of teicoplanin is of utmost importance to preserve the current
      therapeutic armamentarium.

      Teicoplanin is considered equipotent to vancomycin, albeit safer with minimal nephrotoxicity.
      It is estimated that 50% of all critically ill patients treated with teicoplanin does not
      reach target exposure. This is the major driver for treatment failure and development of
      resistance and dose individualization will overcome this problem.

      Our project is aimed at developing and implementing a personalized dosing strategy for
      teicoplanin, to prevent development of glycopeptide resistance and allow safe treatment of
      glycopeptide intermediate sensitive bacteria.

      In a prospective clinical study, critically ill patients (defined as ICU and hematology
      patients) who receive teicoplanin as standard care for antimicrobial treatment will be
      eligible for inclusion. Minimally invasive blood sampling for pharmacokinetic analysis will
      be retrieved through an indwelling central venous catheter or an arterial line (9 samples per
      patient). Teicoplanin total and free drug concentrations will be measured using a validated
      analytical assay. A total of 30 patients will be included.

      We will develop a population PK model using nonlinear mixed effects modelling for total and
      unbound teicoplanin to characterize the magnitude of inter-individual variability in PK
      parameters (clearance, distribution volume), and to identify patient-derived characteristics
      that can predict such variability in a critically ill patient population.
    
  