
    
      For treatment of Barrett's Esophagus (BE), a condition considered as a complication of the
      gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), radiofrequency ablation (RFA) was introduced as a new
      method over 10 years ago. This method is already established in treating low- and high-grade
      dysplastic BE, but there is also a recommendation in therapy of non-dysplastic Barrett's
      esophagus (NDBE), if patients provide a increased cancer risk profile, such as long history
      of GERD (over 10 years), large hiatal hernia (over 3cm), esophagitis, history of BE with
      dysplasia or positive family history for gastrointestinal cancer.

      In Austria 1 - 3% of the population is estimated to develop BE. The treatment numbers in each
      specialized centers therefore is low. To guarantee a better and more potent data analysis,
      the establishment of a nationwide registry is crucial. Furthermore this is essential to raise
      quality assurance and improve outcome and patients will benefit eventually.

      The aim is the participation of about 10 departments, which are all qualified centers and
      experts, who offer RFA as a treatment for BE. Thus data can be collected and interpreted more
      exact due to the increased number of treated patients. For the purpose of data collection a
      structured electronic form will be used. This will further improve treatment documentation
      and quality.

      Documentation will be performed in participating local centers. High priority is patient
      safety and data de-personalization. Data administration and data input should be performed
      through qualified medical personal via an online documentation platform. Original patients
      charts are archived at each center and data de-personalization is guaranteed via consecutive
      numbering when submitted to the study center.

      Therefore protection of privacy of participating patients can be assured.

      The registry should contain basis data of the patient as well as specific treatment data.

        1. Patient data Personal identification number (PIN) Sex Age Place of residence - county

        2. GERD history Typical, atypical symptoms Leading symptom Since when symptomatically Since
           when proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) treatment, dose Fundoplication y/n, Type, Date

        3. Endoscopy Date of diagnosis - Date of endoscopy Endoscopic Classification (Prague)
           Histological Classification

        4. Treatment Data Catheter type: 360°, 90° Energy: 10/12 J/cm2 Ablation catheter 18, 22,
           25, 28, 31mm Ablation from … to … ab ore, length Complications

        5. Follow Up Date Endoscopic Classification (Prague) Histological Classification Complete
           remission of intestinal metaplasia (CR-IM) Proton-pump inhibitor (PPI), Dose

      Inclusion of 500 patients a study period of two years is planned. There will be a possible
      extension of the study period, if the registry is successful.
    
  