
    
      This is a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial to test the use of
      tamoxifen or lidocaine for diminishing the pain and discomfort while performing mammography,
      intending to include 450 patients distributed between the three groups.

      Inclusion criteria:Patients presenting mastalgia with a prior indication for mammography who
      is over 40 years old, undergoing their radiological examination at the university hospital of
      the Federal University of Goias. The only patients who were not included were those who did
      not wish to participate in the study.

      The patients will receive:

        -  Group 1:Five capsules containing 20mg of tamoxifen plus one sachet containing gel
           placebo;

        -  Group 2: Five capsules containing placebo and one sachet containing lidocaine gel at 4%;

        -  Group 3: Five capsules containing placebo plus one sachet containing gel placebo.

      Mammography procedures: The mammography at the university hospital was carried out using a
      high-resolution mammograph with mean compression in each plane of approximately 800 newtons.

      All the patients will undergo at least four imaging views: one craniocaudal and one
      mediolateral oblique plane for each breast. When necessary, complementary imaging will be
      used, including selective compression, magnification or other methods.

      Control variables:

        -  Patient's age in completed years at the time of the study;

        -  Time within the menstrual cycle;

        -  Menopausal status;

        -  Use of oral contraceptives;

        -  Use of hormone replacement therapy;

        -  Previous history of mastalgia;

        -  Number of cups of coffee drunk per day;

        -  Bra size;

        -  Weight and height, for body mass index (BMI): weight in kilograms and height in meters,
           according to information provided by the patient at the time of the study;

        -  Any previous mammographic examination.

      Dependent variables:

      The pain will be used to measure according to the linear visual analog pain scale. Discomfort
      will be recorded into four possible categories according to the patient's opinion: no
      discomfort, uncomfortable, very uncomfortable or intolerable.

      Ethical matters:

      This study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the university hospital of the
      Federal University of Goias and it will be conducted in accordance with the ruling principles
      of the Helsinki Convention.
    
  