
    
      Patients diagnosed with metastatic solid malignancies (SM), who have responded or whose
      disease remains stable following first line systemic therapy, and without available,
      potential curative therapeutic options, will be candidates for this Phase I/II study.
      Potentially eligible patients who agree to participate and sign a consent form will have
      their neoplastic cells and/or blood analyzed for the expression of a specific panel of Tumor
      Associated Peptide Antigens (TAPAs), including Sp17, ropporin, AKAP-4, PTTG1, Span-xb,
      Her-2/neu, HM1.24, NY-ESO-1 and MAGE-1. Patients whose tumors express one (1) or more of
      these TAPAs will receive three (3) days of subcutaneous Granulocyte Macrophage Colony
      Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) to increase bone marrow production of monocytes and dendritic
      cell (DC) precursors, and whole blood will be obtained by phlebotomy and/or leukapheresis for
      generation of autologous DCs. Patient's DCs will be generated in Kiromic's Cell Processing
      Good Manufacturing Process (GMP) facility, according to established Standard Operating
      Procedures, and activated by pulsing/loading them with the TAPA(s) relevant for each
      particular patient. Patients will receive five (5) days of low-dose cyclophosphamide prior to
      each vaccination with TAPA-pulsed DCs to decrease Treg activity. TAPA-pulsed DCs will be
      administered at a fixed dose of up to 1 X 107 DCs at least two (2) days following
      cyclophosphamide administration. DC vaccination schedule will be once every fourteen (14)
      days via subcutaneous (SC) and intradermal (ID) injections for a total of 6 vaccinations. Low
      dose GM-CSF will also be administered SC for five (5) consecutive days, starting three (3) to
      six (6) hours after each TAPA-pulsed DC treatment, to optimize immune responses. Patients
      will be followed on a weekly basis (or more frequently if required) to evaluate
      treatment-related toxicity. Immune responses and anti-tumor responses will be evaluated per
      protocol specifications. Continuation and stopping rules for the study will be defined based
      on toxicity/tolerability (Phase I) and/or immune responses (Phase II).
    
  