
    
      Pharmaceutical means for clinical pharmacy activities and pharmaceutical analysis are
      limited. Several methods can be used to increase the efficiency of resources allocated to
      clinical pharmacy activities. We hypothesize that highlighting patients at risk for
      iatrogenic drug events (ADEs) by applying a predictive score of ADE could be a way to
      increase the efficiency of clinician pharmacist interventions.

      b. Assumption (s) and objective (s) The use of a predictive score of ADE in hospitalized
      patients in orthopedic surgery would make it possible to prioritize clinical pharmacy actions
      according to the resources allocated. The objective is therefore to create a risk score for
      ADEs in an orthopedic and traumatological surgery department. The secondary objective is to
      evaluate its superiority over other predictive models such as the age or the Physical Status
      Score physical status score used by anesthetists.

      c. Methodology The study is an prospective, observational, cohort trial. A first step will
      consist of: (i) a collection of PIs carried out in an orthopedic and traumatological surgery
      department for 1 month, (ii) a score of the clinical impact of Pharmacist Interventions (NPS)
      using the Clinical, Econnomic and organisationnal scale by method of consensus and (iii) a
      statistical analysis. Statistical analysis consists of (i) logistic regression modeling, (ii)
      performance measurement by discrimination and calibration, and internal validation by
      resampling. In a second step, external validation using a new sample will be performed.

      d. Expected results and prospects The usefulness of clinical pharmacy activities is now
      demonstrated, however an improvement in their efficiency is needed. The prospects are the
      integration of the risk score in the dispensing assistance software connected to the
      computerized patient record as well as extending the score to other types of surgery.
    
  