
    
      This study was designed as a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel group in
      hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and normo- or microalbuminuria over a treatment
      period of 9 weeks.

      After a 4 week Run-in period, patients will be randomised to one of the treatment groups and
      receive either Telmisartan 40 - 80 mg or Ramipril 5 - 10 mg. The treatment regimen is a
      forced titration with the lower dose given for 3 weeks and the higher dose given for the rest
      of the treatment period summing up to 9 weeks of treatment. During the treatment period, 3
      visits to the investigator will be scheduled in order to control blood pressure, renal
      function parameters and safety. In addition, parameters of endothelial function in the renal
      vasculature, based on a nephrological clearance investigation and a provocation with L-NMMA
      will be measured at baseline and after 9 weeks of treatment.

      Study Hypothesis:

      Due to the exploratory nature of the trial, the primary objective to evaluate the effect on
      RPF in response to L-NMMA infusion at baseline and after 9 weeks of therapy with either
      telmisartan 80 mg or ramipril 10 mg was not planned to be addressed by a test of prespecified
      hypotheses.

      Comparison(s):

      The change in RPF from baseline (Visit 4) to the end of treatment (Visit 7) in response to
      L-NMMA infusion was to be calculated as the change from the pre L-NMMA infusion (S1) to the
      end of the L-NMMA infusion (S2). A comparison of treatment groups was to be made using an
      analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with pooled centre and treatment included as main effects and
      RPF (in response to L NMMA infusion) at baseline as a covariate. The treatment group
      difference, adjusted for the other factors in the model, was to be presented with a
      corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) and a test of statistical significance. The model
      was also to be used to provide analysis results for the within treatment group changes.
    
  