
    
      Recruitment:

      Novice and recreational runners will be recruited via emails, posters and social media. A
      novice runner is defined as a person who has not been running on a regular basis during the
      last year and completed ≤10km total training volume per week during the preceding year. A
      recreational runner will be defined as a person who runs a minimum of 10km per week, for at
      least six months prior to inclusion in the study.

      Study Protocol:

      Upon screening for inclusion and exclusion, participants will complete a baseline evaluation.
      This will consist of 1.) A survey, 2.) A battery of clinical tests and 3.) Motion analysis
      testing. A description of each component is detailed below.

        1. Survey:

           This survey will be self-reported by each participant. The aim of this survey is to
           detail each participants history of injuries and training habits. Questions are deigned
           based on previous survey designs relating to running injuries.

        2. Battery of clinical tests:

           The battery of physical performance tests will include: The foot posture index, the
           navicular drop, goniometry of the hip and ankle, dynamometry of the hip abductors, hip
           extensors, knee extensors, knee flexors and plantar flexors.

        3. Motion analysis testing:

      This will be broken into two components; a functional movement protocol and a treadmill run.
      During these components, motion will be tracked using wearable inertial sensors (Shimmer,
      Dublin, Ireland) and two forceplates (AMTI, Watertown, MA, USA). A 17-camera 3D motion
      analysis system (Vicon, Oxford, United Kingdom) will capture data at a sampling rate of 200
      Hz. Reflective markers will be applied to the skin using specific anatomical landmarks to map
      their location. The functional movement protocol will consist of a series of jumping and
      landing movements, including double leg and single leg counter movement jumps, unilateral
      hopping, single leg drop landings and single leg drop jumps. Following this, participants
      will complete a run to fatigue. Motion analysis data will be captured at the end and start of
      this run. Fatigue will be determined by a reported rate of perceived exertion score of 17
      (very hard) on the BORG Scale and a heart rate of 85% of the heart rate max, as determined by
      the Karvonen Formula (220-age).

      Participants will then resume their normal training regime. Participants will be tracked for
      injuries via email over the course of the study.
    
  