
    
      Introduction:

      Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a clinical condition characterized of a reduction in
      memory and/or other cognitive processes that are insufficiently severe to be diagnosed as
      dementia, but are more pronounced than the cognitive decline associated with normal aging.
      The prevalence of MCI ranges from 3% to 19% in adults older than 65 years; some of these
      individuals seem to remain stable or return to normal over time, but more than half progress
      to dementia within 5 years. Thus, MCI represents a critical window of opportunity for
      intervening and altering the trajectory of both cognitive decline and loss of functional
      independence in older adults. Cognitive function apart from memory such as executive function
      is also impaired in patients with MCI. However, no study has yet placed sufficient emphasis
      on the training of executive function.

      Objectives:

      The objective of the study is to evaluate whether memory training combined with executive
      training could lead to improved cognitive and noncognitive performance in patients with MCI.
      Furthermore, we will explore the neural correlates underlying the changed performances.

      Patients and Methods:

      The proposed study is a single blinded, randomized and controlled trial that will include 120
      elderly patients with MCI from the memory clinic. The groups will be randomized to either
      intervention or waiting-list group. The intervention is computerized combined memory and
      executive function training performed for 60 minutes x 4 times/week over 26 weeks. A
      neuropsychological assessment will be administered at baseline and week 4, 12 and 26 after
      the intervention. The structural and functional MRI, EEG and NIRS will be performed at
      baseline and week 26 after intervention for a sub-study on the effect of cognitive training
      on brain structure and function.
    
  