
    
      Youth with physical disabilities experience restrictions to participation in community-based
      activities, leading to poor health outcomes. Personalized participation-based treatment
      approaches, implemented in the individual's natural environment, are considered recommended
      practice. However, it is unclear whether enhancing participation (e.g., engaging in sledge
      hockey) can simultaneously improve both body functions (e.g., grip, trunk control) and
      activity performance - two key outcomes in pediatric rehabilitation. Specifically, the impact
      of participation in a self-chosen real-life activity, that is meaningful to the youth, on a
      range of functions (motor, cognitive and affective) has not been established. Supported by
      Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), we first proved the effectiveness of the
      Pathways and Resources for Engagement and Participation (PREP) intervention in promoting
      youth's community participation; then, through Strategy for Patient-Oriented Research (SPOR),
      we successfully pilot- tested an innovative pragmatic clinical trial to improve body
      functions through participation, informing the design of this proposed larger study. Using
      the PREP, we aim to examine the impact of youth engagement in an 8-week community-based
      activity program (e.g., drawing, swimming) on underlying body functions or impairments (e.g.,
      movement, attention, mood), as well as on performance of the selected activity. Specifically,
      change in 3 relevant body functions will be examined: motor (using the Functional Reach Test,
      Trunk Impairment Scale, and dynamometer), cognitive and affective (using the Behavior
      Assessment System for Children), and activity performance (via the Canadian Occupational
      Performance Measure). A 22-week interrupted time series design with multiple baselines
      systematically replicated across 30 youth with physical disabilities (e.g., cerebral palsy,
      spina bifida) aged 15 to 24 will be employed. Each activity, individually selected by the
      youth, will be analyzed using the task analysis approach to identify underlying body
      functions. These functions will be measured multiple times throughout the entire study,
      resulting in 90 trajectories of change in body functions (30 youth X 3 functions) and 30
      trajectories representing change in activity performance. A linear model will be fit for each
      of the 120 trajectories. Motor-related scores will be standardized to allow comparison across
      different outcomes and mixed-effects models will be used to estimate an intervention effect
      across participants. Our interdisciplinary team includes researchers in the field of
      childhood disability, including occupational therapy, physical therapy and pediatric
      medicine. Partnered with the Centre of Integrated University Health and Social Services
      (CIUSSS) West-Central Montreal and CanChild Centre for Childhood Disability, as well as key
      local and national stakeholders, the team will collaborate throughout the research process.
      This novel patient-oriented study will support a paradigm shift in clinical practice and
      build knowledge that can guide clinicians, families and policy-makers in appraising the
      benefits of participation- based therapies on improving both functional capacities and
      performance in meaningful life activities. Describing the multiple benefits generated by one
      single intervention can facilitate efficient youth-engaging therapies, contributing to the
      provision of pediatric rehabilitation services. Findings can also enhance knowledge of
      pragmatic clinical trials for testing complex individual-based interventions highly
      applicable to practice.
    
  