
    
      Context : The phobia of falling strongly contributes to the frailty of the elderly, and plays
      a key role in falls occuring and their deleterious effect. It concerns a big part of seniors
      living at home, fell before or not, and frequently leads to a restriction of their mobility.
      When the phobia of falling occurs, the fear of falling down takes an excessive scope, it is
      associated with anxious reactions when seniors dread the risk, and leads them to avoid these
      situations reducing their mobility. This reduction of activities contributes to the premature
      decline of physical capacities, worsens social life, increases the falling and
      institutionalization risk. However, there is no specific tools for the detection of seniors
      falling phobia, enabling us to turn patients towards a therapeutic and diagnostical adapted
      care. A detecting self-questionnaire was thus designed by the research geriatric team after
      an analysis of the literature and half-directive interviews with a representative sample of
      the target population.

      Objectives : The main objective of this study is to evaluate the validity of a
      self-questionnaire so as to detect falling phobic seniors living at home. The optimal
      threshold of the questionnaire score, obtained from a receiver operating characteristic curve
      (ROC curve), will let us evaluate its concordance compared to the gold standard, formed by
      DSM-IV criteria for specific phobia. The results of the questionnaire will be kept secret
      while the study occurs. The secondary objectives will be to control the feasibility of the
      self-questionnaire detecting phobia of falling, the validity of internal structure and
      external construction by the exploration of its correlation with other close psychological
      and physical health measures.

      Design : A 1 year prospective monocentric observational study is led with seniors attending
      geriatric day hospital at the Bretonneau hospital (APHP, Paris). While the same day hospital,
      all eligible patients will have a current evaluation of cares adapted to their admission
      causes. These patients will fill out the self-questionnaire detecting phobia, designed by the
      research geriatric team. The final clinical diagnostic of phobia of falling will be
      disconfirmed or affirmed from DSM-IV-TR (TR stands for text revision) criteria. At the end of
      the day hospital, an adapted care to their pathologies will be suggested to all the patients,
      according to usual practice.
    
  