
    
      The eating disorder bulimia nervosa (BN) is estimated to exist in 1 % to 2 % of women from
      the ages of 15 to 30, and bulimic behaviors occur in many more who do not develop the
      disorder. Characteristic symptoms include binge eating and self-induced vomiting. Research
      indicates that cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), paired with use of the antidepressant
      fluoxetine, is the treatment of choice for BN. However, a survey of doctoral level
      psychologists dealing with eating disorders found that 78% of clinicians had no training in
      CBT for eating disorders, with 72% also untrained in the alternative, interpersonal therapy.
      Self-help manuals based on CBT have been developed as a treatment option for those without
      access to a clinician trained in CBT for eating disorders. Studies of these manuals suggest
      that self-guided therapy is as effective as CBT for some individuals. Additionally, although
      little research has examined cost effectiveness for treatment of eating disorders, a
      self-help approach may be more cost effective than CBT. This study will test whether
      self-help therapy, in the context of a stepped treatment plan involving check-ins with a
      clinician and possible drug treatment, can be an effective alternative, medically and
      economically, to traditional CBT.

      Participants at four treatment sites will be screened for diagnosis, health, and presence of
      other conditions through assessments in standardized questionnaires, clinical interviews, and
      a blood test. Participants who pass the screening will be randomly assigned to one of two
      treatment sequences. In the first sequence, participants will be given twenty 50-minute
      sessions of individual CBT treatment over 18 weeks, focusing on altering eating behaviors. If
      participants do not have an adequate initial response to treatment by session six, they will
      be offered a trial of fluoxetine in addition to their continued CBT treatment. If they do not
      meet response criteria at the end of the 18 weeks of CBT treatment, they will again be given
      the option of taking or continuing to take fluoxetine until the termination of the study. The
      second sequence will begin with a specially designed self-help program aimed at teaching the
      same skills that will be taught in CBT sessions. Participants will have nine 30-minute
      checkup sessions with a therapist over 18 weeks. Participants who do not respond adequately
      to the treatment after 10 weeks will be given the option of taking fluoxetine. Participants
      without sufficient recovery at the end of 18 weeks will be given the option of undergoing the
      first treatment sequence.

      Assessments of costs and health will be made at five points: the beginning of the study, and
      at the study visits on Week 10, Week 18, Week 36, and Week 62. Multiple assessments will be
      used to test health, including eating disorder symptoms, presence of other psychopathology
      and personality factors, social and interpersonal functioning, and quality of life. Eating
      disorder symptoms will be evaluated through clinical interview, questionnaires, and weight
      fluctuations. Treatment variables will also be assessed, with particular interest in the
      measure of patient knowledge of CBT techniques, to determine how much information from the
      self-help manual is used and absorbed. For the cost benefit analysis, assessments will
      include cost of health care visits, medications, treatments, and time lost due to illness.
      Data on cost will be collected at study visits, except for time lost, which will be measured
      through a questionnaire completed by a family member once at baseline and once after 18 weeks
      of treatment.
    
  