
    
      Galantamine hydrobromide is a medication that is approved for the treatment of symptoms of
      Alzheimer's disease. In accordance with international guidelines, studies are conducted after
      a drug is marketed to continue to evaluate and expand the knowledge regarding its safety.
      This is a multi-center, open-label (all people involved know the identity of the
      intervention), observational study (individuals are observed or certain outcomes are measured
      - no attempt is made to affect the outcome) to collect information regarding the safety and
      effectiveness of galantamine hydrobromide in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Patients who
      have been prescribed galantamine hydrobromide as initial treatment with this type of
      medication for their Alzheimer's disease or who have failed previous treatment with similar
      medication of this type for their Alzheimer's disease will receive galantamine hydrobromide
      for 6 months. The individual physicians responsible for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease
      will administer galantamine hydrobromide at doses appropriate for each patient and will
      continue to oversee their care. No medication will be supplied by the sponsor of this study.
      Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, physical exams, vital signs and laboratory
      tests) will be performed throughout the study. Effectiveness will be determined using
      standard tests and rating scales to assess mental status, functioning, thinking, behavior,
      judgment and language (Neuropsychiatric Inventory, [NPI], Mini Mental Status Exam [MMSE] and
      Clinical Global Impression-Caregiver [CGI-Caregiver]). Assessments will be conducted monthly
      for the first 3 months and at the end of 6 months of treatment. Galantamine hydrobromide
      treatment should be discontinued if there is no further indication of effectiveness. At the
      end of the study, the treating physician may continue treatment with galantamine hydrobromide
      in responding patients as appropriate. The study hypothesis is that galantamine hydrobromide
      will be effective in treating the symptoms associated with Alzheimer's disease and is safe
      and well-tolerated. Observational study -No investigational drug administered
    
  