
    
      The goals of this study are to the following:

        1. Examine the resolution and time-course of attention within the foveola. Attentional
           control has been traditionally studied outside the foveola but the PI's recent work
           suggests that attentional shifts also play a critical role in the normal examination of
           fine spatial details. Building on our previous results, we will investigate the extent
           by which both voluntary and involuntary attention can be controlled at this scale.
           Specifically, we will (a) measure the resolution of attention, i.e., the minimum
           distance between two locations within the foveola that can elicit selective voluntary
           attentional shifts. We will (b) examine whether enhancements in fine spatial vision at
           selected foveal locations, such as those we have previously shown for voluntary
           attention, also occur with involuntary attention. Finally we will study (c) the
           time-course of attentional enhancements and inhibition of return at this scale.
           Moreover, to study how peripheral and foveal attention differ, we will compare the
           extent of exogenous attentional effects and their time-course within and outside the
           foveola.

        2. Map visual acuity and crowding across the foveola. Our research has shown that vision is
           not uniform across the foveola: discrimination of fine spatial patterns is already
           suboptimal just a few arcmins away from the center of gaze. This phenomenon could be
           caused by a decline in visual acuity outside the preferred retinal locus and/or the
           consequences of crowding, the negative influence resulting from objects adjacent to the
           target. Because of the difficulty in precisely controlling retinal stimulation at this
           scale, it is unclear whether crowding occurs in the foveola, and whether its influence
           changes with foveal eccentricity. We will measure both visual acuity (a), and crowding
           (b), and will assess their relative contribution over a range of foveal eccentricities,
           both nasally and temporally. In addition to examine visual acuity across subjects, we
           will also examine how it changes at the individual level.

        3. Link attention, fine spatial vision and oculomotor control. Microsaccades normally shift
           the retinal projection of the fixated object across the foveola. At a larger scale,
           visual resolution, attention, and eye movements are tightly coupled. But little is known
           on whether and how this interplay unfolds within the foveola. Here we will investigate
           how attention and vision interact with microsaccades preparation and execution. We will
           examine (a) whether microsaccades preparation yields attentional benefits at specific
           foveal locations; (b) the precision of microsaccades; (c) their impact in attenuating
           negative effects of reduced acuity and foveal crowding, and; (d) their impact on
           performance in natural high acuity tasks.

      To address these goals psychophysics experimental paradigms and high-precision eyetracking
      will be used.
    
  