
    
      The Institute of Medicine's (IOM) quality improvement framework includes the three pillars of
      underuse, overuse and misuse, though misuse and underuse have largely been the historical
      focus of quality improvement efforts (1). More recently, there is increasing recognition of
      the problem of overuse relating to "low-value care", defined as 'a test or treatment for
      which there is no evidence of patient benefit or where there is evidence of more harm than
      benefit'. The IOM suggests that as much as 30% of healthcare qualifies as low-value, which
      can lead to: poor patient outcomes due to adverse events of treatments or secondary
      unwarranted tests (with potential for over-treatment of incidental findings); and inefficient
      use of scarce healthcare resources threatening the sustainability of healthcare systems. In
      the context of Ontario, this would equate to over $15 billion wasted on low-value care in
      2014 representing a major threat to the sustainability of the Ontario healthcare system.
      Unfortunately, recent studies have demonstrated similar levels of low-value care in Ontario
      currently, and suggest that there are considerable opportunities to reduce this waste within
      the province. For example, the investigators found previously that approximately 30% of
      patients received unnecessary cardiac testing and/or chest x-rays prior to ambulatory surgery
      (with almost 30-fold variability in ordering between institutions) (2,3).

      Within Canada, provincial governments have made reducing low-value care a priority. Choosing
      Wisely Canada (CWC) (4,5) is a professionally led campaign to rally the medical professional
      to address this issue and make declarative statements about low-value care that physicians
      and patients should avoid or question across a broad range of specialties. To date, 37
      Canadian medical specialty societies have developed over 150 recommendations pertaining to
      unnecessary tests, treatments and procedures.

      Whilst the identification of potential areas of low-value care is an important first step in
      addressing this problem, additional efforts are required to ensure implementation of CWC
      recommendations. Before now, internationally and in Canada, the issue of implementing
      Choosing Wisely like recommendations has not received adequate attention. This project
      directly addresses this key priority for healthcare systems bringing together Ontarian
      experts from CWC, implementation science, relevant clinical content areas and knowledge users
      to develop and evaluate programs to implement CWC recommendations. The investigators will use
      state-of-the-art approaches from implementation science to develop and evaluate a major
      initiative to reduce low-value care in Ontario. Knowledge users include Health Quality
      Ontario, the Ontario Hospital Association and Choosing Wisely Canada.
    
  