
    
      Chiari malformation is characterized by at least 5 mm descent of cerebellar tonsils below the
      foramen magnum, into the vertebral canal. Historical classification of this malformation
      consists in four different types, but it is the first one, due to a congenital small
      posterior fossa, which represent our focus of interest. Chiari malformation may leads to
      direct brainstem compression and to cerebrospinal fluid circulation trouble at this level,
      being cause of classical associated phenomena such as syringomyelia formation.

      The clinical manifestation may be resumed as follow:

        -  Exertional headaches or neck pain.

        -  Brainstem compression signs and symptoms (central apneas syndrome, tetraparesis,
           paresthesia, cranial nerves disfunction...).

        -  Syringomyelia signes and symptoms (neuropathic pain, suspended hypo-anesthesia).

      The only treatment for Chiari I malformation is the surgical one. It consists in an
      osteo-dural decompression of the posterior fossa. Surgical decision is formal when at least
      one of the following criteria is satisfied:

        -  presence of syringomyelia;

        -  coexistence of central apneas syndrome;

        -  presence of the classical symptomatology. Nevertheless, the spectrum of symptoms which
           might be reported by the patient, and which has even been described in the non
           neurosurgical literature, is largely wider than the previously thought and assumed by
           the neurosurgeons. There are so several "atypical symptoms" in which neurosurgeons
           doesn't believed, and that don't constitute an indicator for surgical intervention.
           Among these "atypical symptoms" one cas find those ones who bring back to ear, nose and
           throat domain, such as nystagmus, dizziness, tinnitus, hear loss, and gait instability.

      We decided to focalise about one of these symptoms, the gait instability, trying to find the
      link between Chiari malformation and postural control. In the literature, there are only one
      study concerning this aspect, conducted on an adult population with the help of a static
      posturography.

      Our study will focus on pediatric patients, who will be evaluated by a dynamic posturography,
      the Equitest platform (NeuroCom, Clackamas, OR). This platform is able to quantify the
      contribution of each of the three sensory informations (visual, vestibular and somatosensory)
      necessary to maintain equilibrium, realising a specific test (Sensory Organisation Test).

      The Equitest can elaborate a Composite Equilibrium Score (CES), that will be our PRIMARY
      JUDGMENT CRITERIA.

      Only patients for which ENT evaluation is indicated for medical reasons (for example,
      children presented frequent falls, dizziness, nystagmus, motion sickness...) will be
      evaluated.

      This evaluation won't change habitual neurosurgical care for the patients presenting Chiari I
      malformation, so two groups of patients will be identified: children who will be operated on
      and children who won't. CES of the two groups will be calculated and compared.

      Furthermore, we will compared CES results of the operated patients group before and after
      surgery, to evaluate the impact of surgery on postural control.

      In parallel, we will evaluate others SECONDARY CRITERIA in operated patient, before and after
      surgery, such as :

        -  signe and symptomss modification;

        -  decompression result on MRI images;

        -  syringomyelia modification, if present before;

        -  central apnea syndrome modification, if present before;

        -  scoliosis modification, if present before;

        -  behavioral modification. Anamnestic and clinical data will be part of the habitual
           computerized medical folder, as well as polysomnographic, posturographic and imaging
           ones.

      Clinical elements of recruited patients will be collected by principal investigator in an
      anonymous database, secured by a password.

      Concerning primary criteria, collected qualitative data will be analysed by Chi-2 or Fischer
      test, while quantitative ones will be analysed by Student's test or Mann-Whitney one.

      Concerning secondary criteria, collected qualitative data will be analysed by Mc Nemar test
      or symmetry test, while quantitative ones will be analysed by Student's test Wilcoxon one.
    
  