
    
      "MyChoices", an app adapted from HealthMindr and developed using iterative feedback from
      youth, is being refined to to maximize acceptability among YMSM. "MyChoices" was guided by
      the Social Cognitive Theory (SCT) model and includes three major functions that are designed
      to promote self-efficacy, self-regulation, goal-setting and environmental influences in order
      to impact behavior change. (1) Tracking and Self-Monitoring HIV Risk: In order to target
      self-regulation, brief surveys within the app are used to assess behavioral patterns of YMSM,
      particularly around sexual relationships, which are then used to help customize the app for
      each user. (2) HIV and sexually transmitted infection (STI) Prevention Information: In order
      to improve self-efficacy for HIV testing and HIV prevention overall, quizzes and infographics
      that appeal to YMSM have been incorporated into the app, focusing on promotion of HIV
      prevention and regular HIV testing. The app also allows users to order OraQuick HIV home
      testing kits and STI home collection kits (for rectal and urethral gonorrhea and Chlamydia
      and syphilis). Additionally, the app includes information on testing sites and local PrEP
      clinics (e.g., telephone, address, hours of testing, etc), and external links to specific
      site webpages that are near the user (determined using GPS technology). (3) HIV Testing Plan:
      Acknowledging the central role of goal setting and environmental influences on health
      behavior, the app allows users to create a HIV testing plan by allowing them to compare and
      choose different screening options (e.g., home self-testing, antigen, rapid). Questions about
      HIV transmission behaviors and testing history are then asked to create a tailored testing
      plan. After a HIV testing plan is developed, users have the option to customize reminders for
      the timeframe selected (e.g., user is pinged every 3 months as a reminder to get tested).
      Users are able to select from a list of phrases or create their own to ensure privacy.
      Moreover, geofencing technology allows users to be notified when in the vicinity of testing
      locations, based on the Geo Positioning System (GPS) location, during the testing timeframe.

      This study is part of the iTech NIH U19, which has an overall goal to develop innovative
      technology-focused interventions addressing the HIV prevention and care continuum for youth.
    
  