
    
      Fibromyalgia can be thought of as a centralized pain state where pain is manifested and
      experienced in different body regions at different times. Individuals with centralized pain
      feel more pain than would be normally expected based on the level of nociceptive input. Music
      has previously been shown to have a positive effect on pain, anxiety, and depression in
      chronic pain patients. However, the impact of music listening on objective measures of pain
      sensitivity in patients with chronic pain have not yet been described. The goal of this pilot
      study is to begin to understand the possible analgesic effects of music listening on
      objective measures of pain sensitivity in patients with fibromyalgia. Previous studies in
      patients with FM have shown that patients have reduced self-reported pain, increased
      mobility, and activation of the descending pain modulatory system in the brain after even a
      short, 5 to10-minute music listening intervention. Our proposed study will be the first to
      investigate whether objectively measured pain sensitivity is reduced by music listening in
      these patients.

      This two-arm parallel randomized controlled pilot study will enroll 40 patients with
      fibromyalgia. Patients' pain thresholds and sensitivity will be measured using a battery of
      quantitative sensory tests (QST). All patients will have two testing sessions: one under
      testing as usual conditions with no-sound, and one while listening to either instrumental
      Classical music, selected by the researchers with careful consideration of the musical
      characteristics, or a nature sound placebo control condition. This careful experimental
      design will allow us to test whether music listening elicits greater analgesic effects over
      simple auditory distraction. To minimize potential bias the investigators will employ sound
      cancelling headphones and randomization of conditions so that the researcher collecting the
      QST measures will be blinded to whether the patient is hearing music, nature sounds, or
      nothing. The proposed study is significant as it will identify whether music listening has an
      analgesic effect during pain threshold and tolerance testing for patients with FM that
      supercedes any effect of auditory distraction. Results from the proposed study may provide
      objective evidence that music listening objectively improves analgesia and pain management
      and thus could be considered therapeutic during situations where acute pain is expected
    
  