
    
      There will be a single cohort in this study, which consists of subjects with well-controlled
      HIV replication on HAART. Within this cohort will be 3 escalating doses of T-cell infusions.
      A modified 3+3+3 dose-escalation design will be followed, in which the standard
      dose-escalation algorithm is stopped when a maximum of 9 evaluable subjects or a DLT stopping
      point has been reached, whichever comes first. At each dose level, three patients are
      treated. For dose levels 1 and 2, if 0/3 subjects have a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), then
      the dose is escalated. If 1/3 has a DLT (grade 3 or higher unexpected, related adverse event
      [AE]) at a dose level then 3 additional patients are treated at that dosage before
      escalating, and if <2/6 have DLT (i.e. no additional DLT is observed) then the dose is
      escalated to the next planned dose level and patients treated until a maximum of 9 evaluable
      subjects has been reached. The study will comprise of 5 steps:

      Step 1, all participants will undergo leukapheresis to obtain CD4 positive T-cells that will
      be genetically modified. A second leukapheresis and a rectal biopsy will provide baseline
      specimens to evaluate the size of the HIV reservoir

      Step 2, all participants will receive a single infusion of C34-CXCR4-modified CD4+ T-cells at
      one of 3 dose levels. The first 3 subjects will receive dose level 1 of 0.8-1x109 transduced
      CD4+T-cells. Provided no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is seen at the first dose level, the
      next 3 subjects will receive infusion at the 2nd dose level of 2.4-3x109 transduced CD4+
      T-cells. If no DLT occurs at that dose, the final 3 subjects will receive the 3rd dose level
      of 0.8-1x1010 transduced CD4+ T-cells. In the event of a DLT (grade 3 or higher unexpected,
      related AE) recruitment will be paused pending DSMB decision.

      Step 3 all participants will participate in a 16-week analytical treatment interruption
      beginning 4 weeks after T-cell infusion.

      At the end of step 3 all participants will undergo mini-leukapheresis and rectal biopsy

      Step 4 all participants will be advised to resume antiretroviral therapy and will be followed
      until plasma HIV RNA falls below the limit of detection.

      In Step 5 all participants will undergo leukapheresis and rectal biopsy at 52 weeks post
      infusion. At the completion of the study, participants will be asked to participate in a
      long-term follow-up study as required by regulatory authorities.
    
  