
    
      The National Institute of Mental Health's Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve
      Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) program was a collaboration between members of academia,
      industry, and the government, with the goal of furthering the development of drugs for the
      treatment of the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. The program led to the creation of the
      MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB), which measures functioning across various
      cognitive domains, such as attention, working memory (verbal and nonverbal), learning (verbal
      and visual), reasoning and problem solving, and social cognition. Its measurements are based
      on timed paper and pencil, computerized, and orally administered tests, as well as spatial
      tests using geometric cubes.

      Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) is a United Kingdom-based company that has developed another
      battery of assessments capable of measuring cognitive function in patients with
      schizophrenia. Its Computerized Cognitive Assessment System consists of performance tasks
      that measure reaction time, numeric and spatial working memory, word and picture recall and
      recognition, and episodic secondary memory. CDR is a single, unified battery that can be
      stored and administered using a laptop computer.

      Cognitive assessments are important in establishing the efficacy of medications and other
      therapeutic interventions for improving cognitive function in patients with schizophrenia.
      Furthermore, this cognitive functioning is correlated with patients' ability to operate in
      the real world. This study aims to examine the test-retest reliabilities of the CDR and
      MATRICS cognitive batteries, and thereby gauge their value for use in studies of cognitive
      functioning in people with schizophrenia. The investigators hypothesize that for patients
      with schizophrenia there will be a significant difference in the test-retest reliabilities
      between the two batteries. Additional aims are to investigate the extent to which MCCB and
      CDR measure functioning in specific cognitive domains and to investigate patient tolerability
      and overall practicality of each battery.

      Visit 1 (1.5 hours): Baseline Measures and Screening

        -  Consent

        -  Review of medical chart to confirm DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia/schizoaffective
           disorder (depressed type) and medical/psychiatric stability

        -  Demographic questionnaire

        -  Salivary drug test to exclude current use of PCP, cannabis, alcohol, cocaine,
           amphetamine, methamphetamine, and opiates

      Visit 2 (2 hours): Clinical Assessment and Training

        -  Clinical Rating Scales: Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), Brief
           Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Quality of Life Scale (QLS)

        -  CDR training

      Visits 3 and 4 (2.5 hours each): Patients are randomized into one of two groups:

      Group 1

        -  Visit 3: CDR battery followed by MATRICS battery (with short break in between);
           Tolerability Scale after each battery.

        -  Visit 4 (two weeks after Visit 3): MATRICS battery followed by CDR battery (with short
           break in between); Tolerability Scale after each battery.

      Group 2

        -  Visit 3: MATRICS battery followed by CDR battery (with short break in between);
           Tolerability Scale after each battery.

        -  Visit 4 (two weeks after Visit 3): CDR battery followed by MATRICS battery (with short
           break in between); Tolerability Scale after each battery.

      Subjects will undergo a screening visit and chart review to assure the clinical
      appropriateness and safety of their participation. Subjects are free to withdraw from the
      study at any stage without giving a reason.
    
  