
    
      The planned study will investigate the selective attention to emotional and alcohol-related
      stimuli in alcohol-dependent patients and healthy volunteers.

      background Attitudinal shifts in the implicit cognitive processing of alcohol-associated
      stimuli play a major role in the maintenance of addictive disorders, in the development of
      alcohol cravings, and ultimately in relapse. There are several experimental methods to study
      the selective attention to image stimuli. For preliminary studies as well as for the planned
      study, we opted for the so-called Dotprobe task , in which image pairs (alcohol versus
      neutral stimulus) are presented. The selective attention can be measured by means of reaction
      time differences. In addition to alcohol-related stimuli, photos of fearful and happy faces
      that act as emotional stimuli are also used.

      In a preliminary study, the investigators were able to show that not only alcoholics, but
      also healthy light social drinkers, showed an initial orientation towards alcohol stimuli.
      The presence of such a shift in attention to alcoholic stimuli, even in healthy individuals,
      could be a consequence of the processing of alcoholic stimuli as emotional stimuli of
      increased salience compared to affectively neutral stimuli. There are still no studies that
      collectively examine selective attention to both emotional and alcohol-associated stimuli.
      While some studies have shown selective attention to fear stimuli compared to neutral stimuli
      only in populations with clinically relevant increased anxiety, there are also studies who
      were able to show that there is selective attention to evolutionarily relevant anxiety even
      in healthy individuals. In these non-clinical populations, this selective attention appears
      to be particularly prevalent in subjects with increased anxiety.

      Studies using affective positive stimuli such as happy faces showed selective attention to
      these positive valent stimuli in healthy people compared to neutral stimuli, which was also
      associated with the current mood . Thus, the selective attention to cheerful faces, for
      example, in a positive mood was also increased. Emotional processing is relevant in the
      development and maintenance of addictive diseases as well as in so-called "prolonged
      withdrawal". Thus, during abstinence among alcoholics, increased anxiety, irritability and
      dysphoria, the so-called "negative emotional state of withdrawal", appear. In a functional
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) study, it was shown that when anxious faces were seen,
      acute alcohol abuse had anxiolytic effects. In a separate study with disgusting images on
      cigarette packs as an aversive fear stimuli, we found that smokers showed a shift in
      attention to these disgusting images was associated with relief craving and was also
      associated with increased anxiety, especially in heavy smokers.

      Objective:

      The study will compare the selective attention to emotional and alcohol-related stimuli
      between alcoholics and healthy people. Furthermore, their association with positive and
      negative mood as well as anxiety should be considered. The aim is to investigate whether
      alcoholic stimuli are processed the same way in healthy people, such as appetitive, emotional
      stimuli and whether patients' alcohol stimuli are processed like aversive, emotional stimuli.

      This question is interesting both methodically and clinically. On the one hand, it would be
      methodologically important to interpret whether healthy alcohol-associated stimuli are
      appetitive or similar to affectively positive stimuli for the interpretation of studies on
      selective attention to alcohol stimuli and alcohol-stimulant reactivity. Clinically
      significant would be the identification of patients with increased selective attention to
      alcohol and anxiety stimuli, for whom the risk of relapse could be increased by confronting
      these stimuli. From these findings, therapeutic options could be derived, such as the
      application of exposure therapies.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Alcohol-dependent patients as well as healthy volunteers have a selective shift of
           attention to alcohol-associated versus neutral stimuli.

        2. The selective attention to happy faces is associated with positive mood.

        3. The selective attention to anxious faces is associated with the degree of anxiety.

        4. The selective attention to anxious faces is increased in alcoholics compared to healthy
           controls.

        5. The selective attention to happy faces is lowered in alcoholics in comparison to healthy
           controls.

        6. Selective attention to alcohol-associated stimuli in healthy controls is associated with
           positive mood.

        7. Selective attention to alcohol-related stimuli is associated with negative mood in
           alcohol-dependent patients.

      Target population:

      The study will examine 40 alcohol-dependent patients and 40 healthy volunteers.
    
  