
    
      MS has been associated with fatigue, attention problems, and a number of cognitive
      difficulties. There is no treatment approved yet to treat these problems. Although certain
      immunomodulatory treatments may slow the progression of cogntiive difficulties, they are not
      therapy for the progression of or new onset of such problems. Therefore, in order to treat
      such problems, it is likely that adjunctive medications focused on fatigue and cognition are
      needed. We hypothesize that the addition of Provigil to an existing immunomodulatory agent
      (Avonex) will lead to improved fatigue, attention, and overall cognition in MS patients with
      attention problems.

      Study Period: 6 to 12-month competitive enrollment period, two groups (Avonex and Avonex
      +Provigil 200 mg QD ) undergo baseline (prior to starting Provigil), 2-month, and 4-month
      neuropsychological evaluations. Total length of study, once initiated, (including 2 month
      preparation period, 6 to 12-month competitive enrollment period through final four-month
      visit) is 12 to 18 months.

      Primary Objective: To investigate whether Provigil in combination with Avonex is safe, and
      tolerable in patients with RRMS.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine whether Provigil (modafinil) in combination with Avonex(interferon β-1a) is
           useful in treating deficits in attention, as measured by objective neuropsychological
           tests, in patients with RR-MS

        2. To determine whether combination therapy (Avonex +Provigil) favorably impacts other
           domains of cognition that are reliant on attention (e.g., memory, psychomotor
           functioning), as measured by objective neuropsychological tests, in patients with RR-MS

        3. To determine whether improvement in fatigue (related to treatment) predicts improvements
           in attention and cognitive performance in MS patients
    
  