
    
      Topiramate is approved for treating epilepsy in combination with other epilepsy drugs, but
      not approved for treating epilepsy as sole treatment or in recently diagnosed epilepsy
      characterized by partial-onset seizures. This is a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group,
      multicenter trial to investigate the effectiveness and safety of topiramate in pediatric and
      adult patients with recently diagnosed epilepsy characterized by partial-onset seizures.
      There are four phases of this trial: Retrospective Baseline, Open-Treatment, Double-Blind,
      and Long-Term Extension. During the Retrospective Baseline Phase, eligibilities of the
      potential patients are evaluated. During the Open-Treatment Phase, patients receive 25
      milligrams[mg] daily of topiramate to assess their ability to tolerate the medication. During
      the Double-Blind Phase, patients are randomized to a high or a low dose of topiramate.
      Patients continue to receive the study medication until one of the following occurs: (1)
      treatment fails; (2) 4 months have passed since the last patient was randomized; or (3) the
      patient withdraws from the study. Unless withdrawn from the study, the patient may enter the
      Long-Term Extension Phase and receive high dose topiramate (maximum of either 1,600mg daily
      for patients >= 14 years of age, or 24mg/kilogram[kg] for patients < 14 years of age) until
      the patient withdraws or the study is stopped by the sponsor. The study hypothesis is that
      topiramate will be effective and well tolerated in treating pediatric and adult patients with
      recently diagnosed epilepsy characterized by partial-onset seizures. Open-Treatment:
      topiramate 25mg daily by mouth for 7days. Double-Blind: low dose (50 mg or 25mg daily,
      depending on body weight) or high dose (500mg or 200mg daily, depending on body weight) for
      up to 4 months. Long-Term Extension: high dose (1600mg or 24mg/kg daily, maximum) for various
      duration.
    
  