
    
      Every patient who is discharged after a suicidal gesture will be proposed to enter the
      program. He will be handed a "green card" with a toll-free and unique phone number and an
      information letter which explains the program and his rights as a patient.

      Phone calls Calling team is composed of 4 psychologists and 3 psychiatric nurses especially
      trained to detect and manage suicidal crises. Monday to Friday, from 9 AM until 6 PM, there
      is two callers located in the emergencies' calling center. They will give calls to patients
      after their entry in the program and they will also receive incoming calls at the number
      available on "green cards" handed to patients.

      Calls 10 days after discharge

      Subjects who did at least two suicidal attempts before entering the VigilanS program will be
      call 10 to 20 days after their discharge from the hospital.

      After every call, a short report is sent to the patient psychiatrist or his GP. 6 months
      calls

      For every suicide attempters included in the program, a call is planned at the end of the
      sixth month after discharge from the hospital. This call aims to make a clinical review of
      patient and propose the end of the monitoring. If needed, the monitoring program can be reset
      for a 6 months period. In order to structure the call and gather data on the program
      evaluation, the six months call includes a psychological assessment by Mini International
      Neuropsychiatric Interview / MINI DSM V (Sheehan et al. 1998) and by the Columbia Suicide
      Severity rating Scale C-SSRS (Posner et al. 2011) as well as a global satisfactory survey on
      the program. If a contacted subject represents a high suicide risk, callers can trigger
      various actions like in a 10 days call.

      If patient is unreachable a unique postcard will be sent to remind him of VigilanS
      coordinates. After every call, a short report is sent to the patient psychiatrist or his GP.

      Postcards After every contact, but mostly after a 10 days call, the caller can decide to send
      4 personalized post cards to a patient. One postcard is sent by month on a period of four
      months. Cards are embodied by patient name, logo of the structure which included him and
      coordinates of including department.

      Quantitative evaluation will assess:

        -  Profiles of patients with good respond to the program or not (who had or not attempted
           suicide within 6 months)

        -  Development of partnership within the program (number of facilities sharing the system,
           number of patients in the program compared to overall number of suicide attempters
           addressed to one centre…).

        -  Program efficiency "in real life" on reduction of suicidal conducts. Using four
           comparator tools :

             -  Evolution of suicidal conducts since the implementation of VigilanS in a specific
                center (comparison "before / after").

             -  Evolution of suicidal conducts between a region implementing VigilanS and a region
                which doesn't, upon the same period of time (comparison "here/there").

             -  Comparison of subsequent suicide attempts rate between patients in VigilanS and
                patients benefiting of "treatment as usual", within a year.

             -  Comparison of mortality by suicide rate.

        -  The impact of VigilanS on a patient's care pathway based on data from CNAMTS' database
           (National health insurance system).

      Qualitative evaluation will assess the system acceptability by patients and professionals and
      also the variation of representations of suicide by different professionals which are in
      contact with suicidal patients.
    
  