
    
      Once a patient has been identified as a possible candidate for the study, he/she is first
      informed verbally and in writing about the study. After signing the consent form he/she will
      be randomized to either the Lipiflow® treatment (Lipiflow® group) or alternatively be given
      an instruction sheet and a verbal explanation for lid warming and massage (lid hygiene
      group). After 3 month a cross-over of the lid hygiene group to the Lipiflow® group is
      conducted.

      A full examination is performed before and 4 weeks and 3 months after therapy. All tests are
      performed by a physician or trained graduate students of the Department of Ophthalmology,
      Heinrich-Heine University. The examiner is blinded, i.e. he does not know which treatment the
      patient will receive or receiving.

      Treatment Lipiflow®:

      The automated thermal pulsation with Lipiflow® provides is a low risk therapy. After local
      anesthesia the applicators are inserted. These look like a kind of goggles and consist of two
      parts which embrace the eyelids from the front and from behind. Through the rear part heat is
      applied to a maximum of 42.5° C. By isolating the heat remains on the eyelid limited. Through
      the front part the gland a massage is performed. The treatment takes 12 minutes per eye and
      can be done depending on the patient's wishes simultaneously or one eye after the other. The
      therapy is approved by the FDA as a medical technical innovation and has also been approved
      by ISO and CE Mark certification for use in Europe. Irritation or minor trauma of the eyelids
      and the conjunctiva and cornea, as well as a violation of the eyelids and the conjunctiva and
      cornea are theoretically possible, but extremely unlikely. Permanent damages to the eyes have
      not been reported in the literature.

      In the unlikely event, that complications occur during treatment, requiring an additional
      treatment, this is performed in the department of ophthalmology of the Heinrich-Heine
      University Duesseldorf.

      Test parameters:

      At any time of investigation, the following parameters are evaluated:

      Lipiview®, Tear Lab®, Schirmer test, break-up time, corneal and conjunctival fluorescein
      staining, Meibomian gland evaluation (MGE), examination of the eyelids, Meibography, OSDI
      score, SPEED score

      All test parameters are established procedures and have in common a very low risk of harm to
      the patient. In detail:

      The Lipiview® is a device that quantifies the thickness of the lipid layer of the tear film
      using interferometry. For this the patient looks into a kind of camera while recordings of
      his tear film are made, which are then analyzed by a computer.

      Tear Lab® is a method for measuring tear film osmolarity. A pen-like instrument (the
      osmometer) is held on the tear meniscus and collects 100 nl tears within fractions of a
      second in the unit. There is no need for local anaesthesia. By electrical impedance
      measurement, then the tear film osmolarity is measured. The examiner can then read the values
      digitally.

      The Schirmer test consists of a strip of filter paper that is placed in the conjunctival sac
      of the patient for five minutes. The filter paper absorbs the tear fluid and the stained by
      the tear fluid line serves as a measure of tear secretion.

      Tear break-up time is the time between a blink and the tear film shows signs of breaking up.
      In this study this is measured non-invasive with the Oculus-Keratograph 5 M®. The patient
      looks into a kind of camera while recordings of his tear film are made which are then
      analyzed by a computer.

      Vital corneal and conjunctival epithelium cannot be stained by fluorescein. The dye adheres
      to nonviable cells. The degree of staining, can be judged by the investigator by slit-lamp
      examination.

      For evaluation of the secreting meibomian glands a specialized device (Meibomian gland
      evaluator) is used, that provides a defined pressure to the lid. The examiner observes the
      ducts of the Meibomian glands and assesses how many glands are yielding secretion.

      Examination of the eyelids is done using a slit lamp to assess a thickening or a significant
      vascularisation the lid margin.

      To perform meibography the lids are illuminated by infrared light. Functional acini of the
      glands become clearly visible and can be differentiated from atrophic acini. The number of
      atrophic meibomian glands can be counted by a score.

      OSDI (Ocular-Surface-Disease-Index) and SPEED (Standard Pattern Evaluation of Eye Dryness)
      are questionnaires to quantify the symptoms of dry eye.
    
  