
    
      The purpose of this protocol is to examine the effects of the sodium-glucose cotransporter 2
      (SGLT2) inhibitor empagliflozin on kidney disease progression in American Indians with type 2
      diabetes and early diabetic kidney disease (DKD) via a double-blinded placebo-controlled
      clinical trial. This trial will enroll 100 participants who will be randomly assigned to
      receive either 10 mg of empagliflozin or placebo daily for three years in addition to
      standard of care. Participants will be followed quarterly to monitor their health, identify
      any adverse effects of treatment, and to assess their adherence to therapy. The primary
      objective of this study is to determine whether empagliflozin affects structural and
      functional progression of DKD in American Indians with type 2 diabetes and early DKD to a
      greater extent than standard diabetes care alone, which may include treatment with
      renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockers. The primary outcome measure will be a change in
      cortical interstitial fractional volume [Vv(Int/cortex)] as assessed by morphometric
      examination of kidney biopsy specimens obtained at study entry and after the three years of
      study drug treatment. Secondary outcomes include an effect of empagliflozin on kidney
      function including measures of glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow, and effects
      on other kidney biopsy morphometric measurements. Biopsy tissue will also be used for gene
      expression studies and for epigenetic profiling. Magnetic resonance imaging of the kidneys
      will be performed prior to each biopsy to correlate the structural damage seen at kidney
      biopsy with the level of fibrosis detected by imaging. In addition to annual renal clearance
      studies we will conduct a series of other tests at each renal clearance visit. These will
      include tests of cognitive function and of the peripheral and autonomic nervous system to
      determine the frequency, severity, and rate of progression of diabetic neuropathy in this
      cohort and identify linkages between DKD and diabetic neuropathy, and retinal photographs to
      assess diabetic retinopathy status and its linkage with DKD. The effect of treatment with
      empagliflozin on the development and progression of neuropathy and retinopathy will also be
      assessed. To assess acute effects of empagliflozin on renal function at the commencement and
      cessation of the drug we will undertake additional renal clearance studies two weeks after
      enrollment and two months after discontinuation of the drug. A small punch skin biopsy may be
      performed for assessment of intraepidermal nerve fiber density or for fibroblast culture. The
      skin biopsy for fibroblast culture will be done only once unless the culture fails, in which
      case the patient may be invited to undergo another biopsy. We may invite participants to
      undergo skin biopsy on several occassions for assessment of changes in nerve fiber density.
      We may also perform magnetic resonance imaging of the kidneys or the brain in some
      participants. Imaging of the kidneys will be done as near to the time of each kidney biopsy
      as possible. We may invite participants to undergo the brain imaging at the beginning and end
      of the study. Participants will be followed annually after completion of the clinical trial
      until death or development of end-stage renal disease.
    
  