
    
      HIV incidence among Black men who have sex with men (BMSM) in the southeastern United States
      is one of the highest in the world. Our research team has conducted studies with BMSM in
      Atlanta that have demonstrated 35% HIV prevalence and over 5% annual HIV incidence. Although
      PrEP is highly effective for preventing HIV transmission, it is not reaching BMSM. The
      failures in our ability to engage BMSM in PrEP use are highly problematic given the alarming
      rates of HIV transmission among this group. Of particular concern is the impact of substance
      use as a barrier in PrEP linkage, uptake, adherence, and persistence. Substance use is common
      among BMSM in our study, with 43% (n=204/474) reporting recent substance use. Further
      complicating PrEP use is the potential impact of COVID-19 on health care access, health care
      infrastructure, and sex behavior. The need to better understand PrEP use in the context of
      our new health care landscape is critical to making advances in PrEP use. At this point,
      assessing how substance use impacts PrEP use is challenging because PrEP implementation is so
      low among this group. The current study aims to provide substance using BMSM with
      evidence-based PrEP engagement counseling to address barriers to accessing PrEP (not for
      intervention testing, but for facilitating PrEP use) and to assess the multiple forms and
      paths of stigma and substance use as they relate to PrEP linkage, uptake, adherence, and
      persistence. The investigators propose using the HIV Stigma Framework as a conceptual model
      for investigating the intersecting pathways of stigma drivers and stigma mechanisms as they
      relate to PrEP use among substance using BMSM. Aim 1: Enroll a prospective cohort of N=500
      BMSM who test HIV negative and test substance use positive on toxicology testing, and provide
      evidence-based PrEP engagement counseling to facilitate access to PrEP care. Aim 2: Conduct
      psychosocial and health care access assessments every 2-months for 18-months, and conduct
      HIV/STI testing and dried blood spot testing for TFV-DP every 3-months for 18-months. Aim 3:
      Using data collected from Aims 1 and 2, model stigma pathways of advancing and reverting
      along the PrEP cascade (i.e., linkage, uptake, adherence, persistence), with these pathways
      mediated by health care access and moderated by substance use. Achieving the aims will
      provide critical insight for translating and adapting interventions to enhance potency and
      durability for individuals at exceedingly elevated risk for HIV.
    
  