
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of nivolumab and ipilimumab, as single agents or in combination
      and with 5-azacitidine (azacitidine), in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the clinical activity of nivolumab and ipilimumab, as single agents or in
      combination and with 5-azacitidine, in patients with MDS.

      II. To explore the biological activity of these compounds in patients with MDS.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 6 cohorts. Patients with hypomethylating failure MDS
      are assigned to cohorts I, II, or III. Patients with previously untreated MDS are assigned to
      cohorts IV, V, or VI.

      COHORT I (COHORT COMPLETED AS OF 10/7/19): Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over
      30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression
      may receive nivolumab and azacitidine at the discretion of the treating physician.

      COHORT II (COHORT COMPLETED AS OF 10/7/19): Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with disease progression may receive ipilimumab and azacitidine at the
      discretion of the treating physician.

      COHORT III: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15 and ipilimumab IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30
      minutes every 2 weeks (or every 4 weeks if patients receive azacitidine) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression may receive
      ipilimumab, nivolumab, and azacitidine at the discretion of the treating physician.

      COHORT IV (COHORT COMPLETED AS OF 10/7/19): Patients receive azacitidine IV over 10-40
      minutes on days 1-5 and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on days 6 and 20. Cycles repeat every 4
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT V: Patients receive azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes on days 1-5 and ipilimumab IV
      over 30 minutes on day 6. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT VI (COHORT ON-HOLD AS OF 10/7/19): Patients receive azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes
      on days 1-5 and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 6.
      Treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 4 weeks for 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cycles with nivolumab and azacitidine repeat every 4
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  