
    
      For some non-malignant diseases (NMD; i.e., thalassemia, sickle cell disease, most immune
      deficiencies) a hematopoietic stem cell transplant may be curative by healthy donor stem cell
      engraftment alone. HSCT in patients with NMD differs from that in malignant disorders for two
      important reasons: 1) these patients are typically naïve to chemotherapy and
      immunosuppression. This may potentially lead to difficulties with engraftment. And 2) RIC
      with subsequent bone marrow chimerism may be beneficial even in mixed chimerism and result in
      decreased transplant-related mortality (TRM). Nevertheless, any previous organ damage, as a
      result of the underlying disease, may remain present after the HSCT.

      For other diseases (metabolic disorders, some immunodeficiencies, etc.), a transplant is not
      curative. For these diseases, the main intent of the transplant is to slow down, or stop, the
      progress of the disease. In select few cases/diseases, the presence of healthy bone marrow
      derived cells may even prevent progression and prevent neurological decline.

      In this research study, instead of using the standard myeloablative conditioning, the study
      doctor is using RIC, in which significantly lower doses of chemotherapy will be used. The
      lower doses may not eradicate every stem cell in the patient's bone marrow, however, in the
      presented combination, the intention is to eliminate already formed immune cells and provide
      maximum growth advantage to healthy donor stem cells. This paves the way to successful
      engraftment of donor stem cells. Engrafting donor stem cells can outcompete, and donor
      lymphocytes could suppress, the patients' surviving stem cells. With RIC, the side effects on
      the brain, heart, lung, liver, and other organ functions are less severe and late toxic
      effects should also be reduced.

      The purpose of this study is to collect data from the patients undergoing reduced-intensity
      conditioning before HSCT, and compare it to the standard myeloablative conditioning. It is
      expected there will be therapeutic benefits, paired with better survival rate, less organ
      toxicity and improved quality of life, following the RIC compared to the myeloablative
      regimen.
    
  