
    
      Dysregulation of several intracellular pathways have been reported by various investigators.

      [A] Dysregulated apoptosis pathway: p53 mutations have been found in both hypertrophic scar
      and keloids fibroblasts from cultured cells to various extents. p53 plays a central role in
      the DNA damage response by inducing cell cycle arrest and/or apoptotic cell death. Time
      course experiments making cell cultures at different times to investigate the phenomenon of
      apoptosis and its involvement in the process of pathological scarring in both hypertrophic
      scars and keloid indicate to dysregulation of apoptotic pathways in Keloid tissue.

      [B]Dysregulated TGF- β signaling: Transforming growth factor- β1 (TGF- β1) is well known as
      the crucial fibrogenic cytokine promoting ECM production and tissue fibrosis in keloid
      forming [9]. TGF- β1 is an essential profibrotic cytokine for collagen synthesis, and it is
      well known to increase mRNA expression of procollagen I. Administration of TGF- β1 resulted
      in a dramatic increase in intracellular collagen I levels in keloid fibroblasts. Due to the
      close relationship between TGF- β signaling and the production of collagen, blocking TGF- β
      signaling has the potential of repressing fibroblast proliferation and collagen synthesis,
      thereby preventing the formation of keloids.

      [C]Dysregulated VEGF signaling pathway: VEGF (Vascular endothelial growth factor), one of the
      most widely studied secreted factors involved in angiogenesis, has been implicated as crucial
      to normal and pathological wound healing [18]. Gira et al. [19] indicated that VEGF
      production is abundant in the underlying dermis of keloids. In vitro studies have indicated
      that VEGF is expressed at higher levels in keloid-derived Fibroblasts than in normal skin
      Fibroblasts.

      Sorafenib is an orally active multikinase inhibitor and has been reported to be an effective
      inhibitor of apoptosis, TGF-β signaling and VEGF pathway signaling, making it an ideal drug
      to test in the setting of extensive keloid disorder.
    
  