
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate and compare treatment failure-free rate at 40 weeks from randomization of
      patients with unresectable/metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) receiving one
      of the following regimens: Arm A: pazopanib hydrochloride (pazopanib) 800 mg daily plus
      intravenous (IV) ascorbic acid 1g/kg 3 times/week and Arm B: pazopanib 800 mg daily.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate and compare the overall survival (OS) in patients receiving pazopanib with or
      without IV ascorbic acid.

      II. To estimate and compare the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients receiving
      pazopanib with or without IV ascorbic acid.

      III. To estimate and compare the overall response rate (ORR) in patients receiving pazopanib
      with or without IV ascorbic acid.

      IV. To estimate and compare the duration on pazopanib treatment in patients receiving
      pazopanib with or without IV ascorbic acid.

      V. To assess the adverse events (AE) profile and safety of each treatment arm using the
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH:

      I. Correlation between 5 mC, 5 hmC and H3K27me3 expression (as determined by
      immunohistochemistry [IHC]), as well as MeDIP/hMeDIP sequencing (seq), and response to
      combination of IV ascorbic acid and pazopanib.

      II. Correlation between iron content in tumor microenvironment (as determined by Prussian
      blue staining) and response to combination of IV ascorbic acid and pazopanib combination.

      III. Correlation between HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha expression (as determined by
      immunohistochemistry [IHC]) and response to combination of IV ascorbic acid and pazopanib
      combination.

      IV. Correlation between GLUT1 expression (as determined by IHC) and response to combination
      of IV ascorbic acid and pazopanib.

      V. Correlation between PDL1 expression (as determined by IHC) and response to combination of
      IV ascorbic acid and pazopanib.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and
      ascorbic acid IV three times per week. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 10 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for up to 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8 weeks for up to 2
      years.
    
  