
    
      Participants will be sent a personal medical questionnaire and family history questionnaire
      to complete prior to their visit. Participants will meet with a genetic counselor
      face-to-face for up to 120 minutes to complete a personal and family history. Participants
      will receive genetic counseling including education about MEN1 syndrome and recommendations
      for the management of this disease. The genetic counselor will also assist participants with
      coping mentally. The genetic counselor will review the risk, benefits and limitations of
      genetic testing.

      After study eligibility is confirmed and the participant agrees to participate in the study,
      approximately 10 ml (2 teaspoons) of blood will be taken from the participant for genetic
      testing. Tumor samples from any prior surgeries will be requested from the Jersey Shore
      University Medical Center pathology department for review.

      The participant's blood sample and any tumor samples will be assigned a unique identifier.
      Participants will not be identified by name. This identifier, along with the participant's
      age, sex, ethnicity and if applicable, age of cancer diagnosis (or MEN1 syndrome diagnosis)
      will be kept at Jersey Shore University Medical Center research department. Medical records
      will be reviewed for demographics, known cancer risk factors, family history, age and stage
      at diagnosis of disease, tumor characteristics, previous and current treatments, medication
      history, test and study results, and pathology/surgery reports. Blood and tumor samples will
      be sent to the Functional Genomics Facility at The Cancer Institute of New Jersey and Rutgers
      University Cell & DNA Repository for processing and/or analysis to identify the genetic
      pattern in patients at risk for MEN1.

      The result of the genetic test for the MEN1 gene will be provided to the participant by
      either the genetic counselor or study doctor. The genetic counselor or study doctor will
      interrupt the results for the participant and provide emotional support, if necessary. The
      results of any altered genes will not be disclosed to the participant.

      Medical records will be reviewed annually to determine the status of the participant's
      disease, if any. Participants will be contacted directly by phone or in person at follow-up
      clinic visit(s) for the collection of information not recorded in the participant's medical
      record for up to 20 years.
    
  