
    
      CAD is the most common type of heart disease in the United States. It occurs when the
      arteries that supply blood to the heart become hardened and narrowed because of a build-up of
      cholesterol and plaque on the inner walls of the arteries. Over time, less blood is able to
      flow through the arteries, depriving the heart of the blood and oxygen it needs. If left
      untreated, CAD can lead to heart failure, heart attack, and arrhythmias. Someone with plaque
      build-up may undergo a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to unblock the narrowed
      arteries and increase blood flow. PCI encompasses a variety of procedures, including balloon
      angioplasty and stent placement. In balloon angioplasty, a small balloon is inserted into the
      heart artery and then inflated. This pushes the plaque against the artery walls and widens
      the artery. Stents are wire mesh tubes that are permanently implanted in the artery to keep
      it propped open. Although balloon angioplasty and stent placement procedures open up
      blockages in the large vessels of the heart, the tiny vessels of the heart may become blocked
      after these procedures, which may affect how the heart heals. This study will use MRI to
      examine heart function in people who have undergone PCI procedures. Study researchers will
      attempt to define how often blockages of the tiny vessels occur after PCI procedures, the
      factors that lead to the blockages, and how often blockages affect healing of the heart.

      This study will enroll people who are undergoing a PCI procedure. Participants will undergo
      an MRI scan of the heart before and after the PCI procedure. During the 72 hours after the
      procedure, electrocardiogram (EKG) will be used to monitor heart electrical activity. At a
      study visit 10 days after the PCI procedure and at a follow-up visit 6 to 12 months later,
      participants will undergo an MRI, EKG, and blood collection. Study staff will call
      participants every 6 months for 5 years to collect medical information.
    
  