
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by recurrent upper airway obstruction due to
      inadequate muscle tone during sleep leading to nocturnal hypercapnia, repeated oxyhemoglobin
      desaturations and arousals. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the therapeutic
      mainstay for OSA, but adherence remains poor. The loss of motor input to the tongue during
      sleep has been implicated as a cause for upper airway collapse. Activation of tongue muscles
      with implanted hypoglossal nerve stimulators is an effective therapy for some OSA patients.
      Nevertheless, approximately 1/3 of OSA patients did not respond to hypoglossal nerve
      stimulation despite rigorous selection criteria, leaving large segments of CPAP intolerant
      patients at risk for OSA-related morbidity. Thus, there is a critical knowledge gap in the
      role of lingual muscle activity in the maintenance of airway patency.

      The current study is designed to examine underlying mechanisms of action of lingual muscles
      in the maintenance of airway patency during sleep. The investigators' major hypothesis is
      that specific tongue muscles are responsible for relieving upper airway obstruction during
      sleep. To address this hypothesis, the investigators will (1) selectively stimulate specific
      lingual muscle groups (viz., protrudors and retractors) and measure effects on airway patency
      during Drug Induced Sleep Endoscopy (DISE). The investigators will also (2) correlate
      responses in patency to alterations in tongue morphology (as assessed with ultrasound
      imaging). A final goal is to (3) examine the impact of anatomic factors (e.g., the size of
      the maxillo-mandibular enclosure) on airway responses to stimulation.

      Objectives (all primary and secondary objectives)

        1. To assess effects of stimulating specific lingual muscles on upper airway patency during
           DISE and on tongue morphology.

           The investigators hypothesize that stimulation will lead to improvements in upper airway
           patency during DISE when tongue protrudors are stimulated, and that concomitant
           stimulation of retractors will augment this response.

        2. To correlate improvements in upper airway patency during sleep with stimulation to
           alterations in tongue shape and position when stimulating during DISE.

           The investigators hypothesize that the restoration of airway patency during sleep will
           be associated with anterior tongue movement and preservation of tongue shape when
           stimulated during DISE.

        3. To assess whether craniofacial morphology predicts improvements in pharyngeal patency
           during DISE with stimulation.

      The investigators hypothesize that maxillo-mandibular restriction will be associated with
      diminished responses in airway patency to stimulation during DISE.
    
  