
    
      The normal term infant at birth is able to suck-swallow in a coordinated manner sufficient
      for nutritional intake and protection of the upper airway. The integrity of this post-natal
      behavior is dependent on intrauterine growth and function of the orofacial, pharyngeal and
      laryngeal structures of the upper aerodigestive system. The integrity of these structures not
      only ensures functional postnatal ingestive skills, but also contributes to the prenatal
      development of the gastrointestinal tract, regulation of amniotic fluid and composition, and
      recirculation of solutes. This developing system thus has importance in both fetal and
      neonatal well-being. However, few biometric or biophysical data exist detailing the normal
      patterns of growth and development of the aerodigestive structures in the human fetus.
      Further, factors that contribute to abnormal fetal and neonatal deglutitive responses are not
      fully known.

      The purpose of this study is to establish the first anthropomorphic database on the
      development of aerodigestive structures in the fetus and, through sonographic biophysical
      profiles, examine the significance of fetal ingestive behaviors as predictors of postnatal
      feeding skills in at-risk infants. A detailed cross-sectional study of the development of the
      fetal upper aerodigestive tract and analysis of the progression of deglutitive skills over
      the course of gestation may lead to the early identification of factors contributing to
      neonatal swallowing dysfunction and other developmental delays. These data may provide
      insights into underlying intrauterine conditions associated with infant feeding difficulties.
      Resulting two- and three-dimensional ultrasonic data on the structural development of the
      upper aerodigestive system, coupled with biophysical data may be useful predictors of
      neonates at risk for nutritional and pulmonary sequelae. Further, sequential indices of
      normal swallowing-sucking skills may guide post-natal decisions for feeding "readiness" and
      advance the care of the premature, at-risk infant.
    
  