
    
      The mortality rate of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) approaches 50% within the 1st
      24 hours of ictus. Patients who survive can subsequently develop a progressive vasospasm of
      large cerebral arteries, which is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Vasospasm can be
      of varying severity, and only a small portion of patients with vasospasm develop clinical
      signs or symptoms. Patients with severe vasospasm are prone to develop ischemic deficits,
      which, if untreated, will progress into ischemic infarcts.

      The mechanisms of vasospasm have been subject to intense investigation. Nitric oxide
      (NO)-cGMP system has attracted particular attention. Under normal physiological conditions,
      NO synthesized by endothelia NO synthase (eNOS) stimulates vascular smooth muscle cGMP
      production, which in turn causes smooth muscle relaxation. Vasospasm impairs
      endothelium-dependent dilations, suggesting that SAH induces a state of NO deficiency within
      cerebral arteries.

      There are several potential mechanisms of such an NO deficiency. Hemoglobin is a potent
      scavenger of NO, and when applied extraluminal it binds NO and inhibits its action. Presence
      of perivascular hemoglobin may contribute to development of vasospasm by reducing the
      availability of NO. It has been shown that adventitial applied hemoglobin can inhibit basal
      NO activity and that in vivo adventitial exposure to whole blood leads to a reduction in
      basal cGMP levels in association with vasospasm of cerebral arteries. Similarly, superoxide
      also reacts with NO and acts as an NO scavenger. Superoxide production is increased after
      SAH, which may in part be responsible for inhibition of NO-dependent vasodilation. Free
      radical scavengers and manipulations to reduce free radical formation reduce vasospasm after
      SAH.

      NOS is constitutively expressed in endothelium and adventitial perivascular nerve fibers.
      SAH-induced vasospasm in monkeys has been associated with diminished constitutive NOS
      immunoreactivity in the perivascular nerves around the spastic arteries. Endothelial NOS mRNA
      has also been decreased in monkey cerebral arteries 7d after SAH. Therefore, data suggest
      that there is a relative reduction in NO synthesis after SAH, in addition to increased
      breakdown.

      In summary, the reduction in NO tonus around the cerebral arteries induced by decreased
      expression of endothelial NOS as well as increased NO scavenger substances in the
      subarachnoid space, and a relative resistance to NO-induced vasodilation in SAH appears to be
      one of the key events in the development of vasospasm. Therefore, therapeutic interventions
      that enhance endothelial NO production may compensate for these changes and reverse or reduce
      vasospasm.

      Statins are FDA approved mainly as antihyperlipidemics, and they effectively reduce the risk
      of stroke and myocardial infarction. Simvastatin is also FDA-approved for stroke prevention.
      The risk reduction, however, is not correlated with the degree of lipid reduction, and is
      seen even in individuals with normal lipid levels. Statins are also cerebroprotective in
      stroke. They enhance endothelium-dependent relaxations, augment cerebral blood flow, reduce
      cerebral infarct size, and improve neurological outcome of stroke in normocholesterolemic
      animals. Their protective effects are independent of lipid reduction. Most importantly,
      statins upregulate endothelial NOS expression. This in turn improves cerebral blood flow and
      reduces infarct size in experimental models. In addition, statin treatment enhances
      endothelial fibrinolytic action, and inhibits platelet aggregation. Therefore, statins are
      excellent candidates to test on SAH-induced vasospasm.

      This study has a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled design. The anticipated
      enrollment is 104 patients, 52 in simvastatin, and 52 in placebo group, all recruited and
      studied at MGH. Assuming a difference of 27% or more, the power of this study is 88%, and
      alpha=0.05.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria are summarized below. Once enrolled, patients are randomized
      by Research Pharmacy staff to receive either placebo, or simvastatin 80 mg once every day,
      the highest clinically used dose of simvastatin. We chose this dose to maximize the effect on
      endothelium, which has been dose dependent in experimental studies. The study investigators
      are blinded to the treatment group. Patients are followed prospectively and receive standard
      aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage care. The data collected pertains to development of
      vasospasm, and hence involves daily vital signs, neurologic examination, and routine
      neuroimaging. The development of vasospasm is determined based on daily transcranial Doppler
      studies, conventional angiography (routinely done within 7 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage
      as standard of care), and neurologic examination. Liver function tests along with total CPK
      are checked on admission and once a week for as long as the drug is continued, to screen for
      potential toxicity from the medication. Medication is discontinued if CPK or liver enzymes
      are elevated by more than 3 times the upper limit of normal range. CPK elevations due to
      surgical or percutaneous/endovascular interventions, or from cardiac sources (i.e.
      accompanied by troponin elevation with or without ECG changes), are not considered as
      indications for drug discontinuation.
    
  