
    
      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), or marrow stromal cells, are multipotential cells that reside
      within the bone marrow and can be induced to differentiate into various components of the
      marrow microenvironment, such as bone, adipose and stromal tissues under proper conditions.
      It has been reported that MSCs can suppress maturation, activation and proliferation of T, B,
      NK and DC cell in vitro and downregulate immune response in vivo. MSCs are presently being
      cotransplantated with hematopoietic stem cell, which can facilitates engraftment of
      hematopoietic stem cells and prevent GVHD. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an
      autoimmune disorder that affects many organ systems. Autoimmune diseases are illnesses that
      occur when the body's tissues are attacked by its own immune system. Patients with lupus
      produce abnormal antibodies in their blood that target tissues within their own body. Because
      the antibodies and accompanying cells of inflammation can involve tissues anywhere in the
      body, lupus has the potential to affect a variety of areas of the body. The origin of
      autoantibody production in SLE is unclear but a role has been suggested for an antigen driven
      process, spontaneous B-cell hyper-responsiveness, or impaired immune regulation.

      The BXSB mouse strain spontaneously develops a progressive and lethal autoimmune disease,
      similar to human SLE. In our previous work we found that transplantation of MSCs could
      alleviate the symptoms of BXSB mouse.

      This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of expanded autologous MSC infusions in
      patients with primary and treatment -refractory SLE. This study will last 2 years.
      Participants will be assigned to receive either the prednisone (Group 1) or MSC infusions
      alone (Group 2). Patients will undergo MSC infusions at the start of the study on Day 0. One
      year post- infusions, Patients will be clinically assessed and evaluated for MSC and disease
      response, and participants will undergo kidney biopsies at 12 Months.
    
  