
    
      Cystic lesions of the kidney, thyroid, and liver are commonly treated with ethanol injections
      into the cyst cavity. The contact with ethanol results in rapid elimination of epithelial
      cells lining cyst cavities with few complications or pain. The majority of cysts become
      smaller and some are completely eliminated Depending on the type of cyst and tissue, some
      cysts can be completely ablated with ethanol. Although malignant masses arising from the
      pancreas have been safely injected with ethanol, there are no reports of injection of
      pancreatic cystadenomas. The ability to ablate cystadenomas of the pancreas would provide the
      first non-surgical treatment for these pre-malignant lesions of the pancreas.

      Over the past two years we have conducted a pilot study of EUS-guided ethanol lavage of
      pancreatic cysts (2001-P-000358/5). 18 patients have undergone the procedure without evidence
      of pancreatitis, pain, or infection following the procedure. Initially, low concentrations of
      ethanol were used (5%) and over the course of the study, the concentration of the ethanol
      used for lavage has been increased to 60%. Although the patients have not undergone careful
      follow-up evaluations, it appears that at least 4 of the patients have had resolution of the
      cyst.

      This is a prospective, randomized, blinded, controlled trial of ethanol ablation in 50
      patients with a pancreatic cystadenoma. Patients with a pancreatic cyst (1-5cm in diameter)
      capable of safely undergoing endoscopy with conscious sedation will be candidates. Exclusion
      criteria include: coagulopathy (INR>1.5, PTT>100, platelets of< 50k), active infection of the
      cyst or unstable cardio-pulmonary disease (active angina, home O2, or pulmonary edema) will
      be excluded.

      At the time of diagnostic cyst aspiration, the patient will be randomized to either saline
      lavage or ethanol (70%) lavage. During the exam, the cyst will be imaged with ultrasound,
      measured and aspirated. The cyst contents will be evaluated with cytologic evaluation, CEA,
      and amylase. After cyst aspiration, the cyst will be lavaged with either saline or ethanol
      for 5 minutes. At completion of the lavage, the cyst contents will be evacuated. The patient
      will be provided the results of the cyst fluid analysis and may elect to undergo surgical
      resection or additional lavage treatments. At the time of resection, the cyst and surrounding
      pancreas will be resected for histologic analysis. The degree of epithelial ablation will be
      determined with histologic sectioning and the cysts lavaged with ethanol will be compared to
      those cysts lavaged with saline. If the patient chooses not to have a surgical resection, the
      patient may return for a follow-up EUS exam at two additional monthly intervals with cyst
      aspiration and additional ethanol lavage. Those patients receiving saline during the initial
      treatment session will be crossed-over to ethanol.
    
  