
    
      In Uganda, about 110,000 children 0 to 14 years are living with AIDS however enhanced access
      to ARV medications has changed the prognosis for infected children from a uniformly deadly
      disease early in childhood to one in which survival well into adolescence is not uncommon.
      However, these prognostic changes have made psychosocial, educational, and quality-of-life
      considerations for the HIV child all the more critical. Studies on Ugandan HIV infected
      children show that they have cognitive, motor and emotional problems. These findings support
      the need for caregiving interventions with HIV children that extend beyond provision for
      basic medical and nutritional care only. These findings support the urgent need for programs
      that minister to the emotional and psychosocial needs of HIV-affected children.

      The MISC is one such intervention that has proven effective in improving the cognitive,
      psychosocial and emotional needs of disadvantaged children. The MISC intervention is based on
      the use of naturally occurring situations and objects in the home environment. The process of
      training the caregivers in MISC theory and strategies is structured, whereas the process of
      implementing MISC with the children in the household is individualized and unstructured. The
      training of the caregiver is focused on the acquisition of knowledge and skills necessary for
      effective intervention to enrich the child's home-based learning environment.

      Specific Objectives.

        1. To establish the feasibility of MISC for caregivers of HIV infected children in Kayunga.

        2. To investigate whether cognition and psychosocial functioning of HIV infected children
           are improved by MISC.

        3. To determine whether cognitive and psychosocial gains for children of MISC-trained
           caregivers is moderated by disease severity of the child.

      3. METHODS Phase 1: Adaptation of the MISC Study design. Adaptation of the MISC will be done
      using a cross sectional descriptive study. Prior to recruitment of participants, Prof. Klein
      will hold a series of focus group discussions (FDGs) in Kayunga to critique the MISC
      intervention.

      Study population. Community leaders, health workers and parents/caregivers in Kayunga
      district, three FGDs will be held for each of these groups. They will partner with Dr. Klein
      in revising and adapting the MISC curriculum for training the local MISC staff who will
      accompany the CAI teams as they visit the HIV children and caregivers for the home health
      care visitation (HHCV). These CAI nursing staff will then train the caregivers each month as
      part of these HHCV visits.

      Phase 2: MISC intervention Study design. This will be a randomized control study where HIV
      infected children younger than 6 yrs of age will be recruited and randomly assigned to either
      MISC intervention or non- intervention. All children will be recruited from the Child Health
      Advocacy International (CAI) project in Kayunga district during their routine home visits.
      Consecutive sampling will be used till the sample size is reached.
    
  