
    
      The infection by hepatitis C virus (HCV) is the leading cause of chronic liver disease in
      renal transplant recipients.

      The prevalence of pretransplantation anti-HCV is 11% to 49%. The impact of HCV infection on
      patient survival after renal transplant remains controversial. Some studies also showed that
      patients undergoing renal transplantation anti-HCV positive are associated with a reduction
      in graft and patient survival.Chronic infection of HCV is associated with an increased number
      of infections.

      In HCV positive renal transplant patients have been shown that there is an increase from four
      to seven times in HCV viremia after transplantation compared to pretransplant.

      To prevent viral replication, immunosuppression must be adapted, involving a balance between
      control of viral replication and rejection.

      Biochemically, the NS5A protein has been linked to increased replication of the hepatitis C
      virus through p70S6K phosphopeptides. Sirolimus as inhibitor of pathway mTOR/p70S6K reduced
      in vivo phosphorylation of NS5A phosphopeptides and thus viral replication. Moreover, the
      mTOR protein has been proven in vitron to have a protective role against apoptosis in HCV
      infected cells (WAGNER et al., 2010).

      Wagner et al. (2010) showed a beneficial effect of sirolimus on viral recurrence monitored by
      transaminases and viral load as well as by histological data. They also reported the improved
      survival after liver transplantation due to hepatitis C for patients receiving sirolimus
      rather than calcineurin inhibitor-based regimens.

      In the literature there have already been reported good virological control of HCV among
      liver transplant recipients after conversion to SRL and the reduction of hepatitis C virus
      recurrence (GALLEGO et al., 2009; BENEDETTOET al., 2010).

      Everolimus has shown a potent inhibitor of mTOR and has been widely used as an
      immunosuppressive agent in kidney transplant, but no reported effects on HCV progression was
      found in the literature.
    
  