
    
      The study is designed with a screening period, a baseline period and a treatment period. The
      purpose of screening is to identify eligible subjects and to exclude ineligible subjects. A
      careful history and physical examination will be conducted to ensure that the subject meets
      all the inclusion criteria and does not meet any of the exclusion criteria. The screening
      period lasts from 2 days to 2 months in duration.

      The baseline period is from 2 - 3 months in duration. During the first baseline visit, there
      is withdrawal of previously used angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin
      receptor antagonists (if any) and the initiation of quinapril 20 mg daily therapy (or
      irbesartan --150 - 300 mg daily). The subject will then be seen as frequently as determined
      by the investigator for subject's safety. The purpose of the second baseline visit is to
      determine safety after the initiation of therapy quinapril 20 mg po per day (or irbesartan
      150 - 300 mg per day). The purpose of third baseline visit is to insure that the subject
      meets all the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria prior to randomization. In
      addition, it will be assured that the subject's blood pressure is at a safe level to proceed
      with randomization and the laboratory and urinary collections will be made.

      Only those subjects who fulfill all inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will proceed
      to randomization. Also, in order to proceed to the randomization phase of the study, the
      subject must have a blood pressure of less than or equal to 135/85mmHg.

      The treatment phase will consist of 18 weeks. During the treatment phase, the subject will be
      followed for safety and efficacy. The subjects will be randomly assigned to COX-2 inhibitor
      for 6 weeks (1st 6 week cycle), washout 3 weeks, placebo 6 weeks (2nd 6 week cycle), washout
      3 weeks or to placebo 6 weeks (1st 6 week cycle), washout 3 weeks, COX-2 inhibitor 6 weeks
      (2nd 6 week cycle), washout 3 weeks.

      During baseline and treatment periods, interim visits will be held in order to address blood
      pressure control or other problems that the patient or the PI deems necessary for protocol
      adherence.
    
  