
    
      The TEACH patient cohort study is multi-site and will be conducted at Boston Medical Center
      and Grady Memorial Hospital. It will involve recruiting and consenting HIV-infected patients
      on chronic opioid therapy (COT) to be participants in an observational study. The patient
      cohort will characterize a clinic sample of HIV-infected patients on COT by describing basic
      demographics and health status, including characteristics of pain (severity and
      interference), aberrant behaviors/misuse of COT, substance use and trust/satisfaction with
      providers. Participation in the study will involve completing one baseline and one follow-up
      assessment. The follow-up assessment will take place approximately 12 months after the
      baseline assessment. Both the baseline and follow-up assessments will be conducted at the
      clinical site, and a single signed consent form will be obtained for both visits. A similar
      assessment instrument will be used at baseline and follow-up. Additional health information
      will be collected from the medical record.

      There are two distinct components to the TEACH study. The patient cohort component, which is
      outlined in this Clinical Trials PRS summary, will involve recruiting and consenting patients
      in the HIV clinic on COT to be participants in an observational study. The intervention,
      outlined in a separate Clinical Trials PRS summary, will involve consenting physicians as
      participants in a randomized controlled trial of an intervention and, via a waiver of
      informed consent, extracting patient level data on the physicians' patients from the
      electronic medical record. Data on a subset of observational cohort participants will be used
      to supplement analysis of secondary outcomes for the intervention (i.e. those patients whose
      providers were enrolled).

      The TEACH patient cohort component seeks to inform physicians and other providers about
      patients who use chronic opioid therapy, including valuable information on the effect of the
      COT prescriber-directed intervention on patients. This knowledge will guide both prescribers
      and patients in improving care and reducing risks associated with chronic opioid therapy.
    
  