
    
      Hemodialysis (HD) patients have worse health related quality of life (HrQOL) than patients
      with any other chronic illness. In this population, poor quality of life and depressive
      symptoms (a major component of HrQOL) are associated with medication non-compliance, dietary
      indiscretion, interdialytic weight gain, and missed dialysis. These associations likely
      explain the link between low HrQOL scores and adverse medical outcomes. Even small decrements
      in HrQOL score are associated with an increased risk of hospitalizations and mortality.
      Moreover, depressive symptoms occur in one-third of HD patients and are themselves associated
      with increased hospitalizations and with a 1.5 times higher mortality risk.

      To address poor HrQOL in HD patients, the Centers for Medicare Services (CMS) mandated its
      screening on a regular basis in all HD patients. However, CMS has not mandated how to present
      HrQOL results to key HD providers, or how to treat those with poor HrQOL. Nor are there
      widely applied methods of doing so. Although prior interventions in HD patients have improved
      quality of life and self-management, these interventions were limited by poor patient and
      physician adoption, a lack of reproducible methods, selective inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and a lack of translatability. To date there are no widely adopted interventions to
      improve quality of life in this population. Thus, it is not surprising that, HrQOL scores
      remain unchanged in 8 years since the CMS mandate. In sum, HrQOL survey results have not been
      applied in a manner that makes a difference for patients.

      Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a structured psychotherapy intervention designed to
      address and treat dysfunctional cognitions, negative emotions and maladaptive behaviors. In
      patients with chronic illness, CBT has been adapted to successfully improve adherence to
      self-management behaviors. In patients with ESRD, several studies have used cognitive
      behavioral strategies to improve self-management, quality of life, and depressive symptoms.
      These studies however were limited by high drop-out rates and a lack of translatability. To
      date, cognitive behavioral (CB) strategies are not routinely used in the care of ESRD
      patients.

      The investigators have developed a simple, translatable 3-step intervention to improve poor
      HrQOL in hemodialysis patients. The first step is a one-page dashboard that presents
      actionable HrQOL data to key stakeholders (social workers, nutritionists, primary nurses,
      nurse-practioners, physicians, patients and family members) during monthly case conference.
      The second step is a treatment approach that combines self-management education with CB
      strategies through 8-12 simple sessions delivered chair-side over 12 weeks. These sessions
      are designed to be delivered by unit social workers and are highly translatable to other US
      hemodialysis units. The final step is monthly re-evaluation at clinical case conference where
      patient progress will be assessed and the dashboard and behavioral-education sessions
      refined. Each step of the intervention was designed to be highly translatable to current
      hemodialysis care. The dashboard utilizes data that is currently checked, the treatment
      sessions are delivered by social workers that are already employed at hemodialysis centers
      and re-evaluation occurs during monthly case conference sessions that are already being held.

      The investigators hypothesize that implementing their multi-faceted intervention will improve
      HrQOL, depressive symptoms and self-management, and will be immediately translatable to other
      US hemodialysis units. Therefore, the investigators propose to conduct a 16-week randomized
      controlled trial in 40 subjects on hemodialysis with poor HrQOL to test the impact of the
      intervention on these outcomes. The primary outcome, Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short
      Form 36 (KDQOL-36™) survey scores, will be measured at 0, 8, and 16 weeks. Through
      end-of-study focus groups, the investigators will refine the intervention and help translate
      our intervention into practice. Additionally, the investigators will develop a translatable
      toolbox that will give step-by-step instructions on how to implement our intervention at
      other US hemodialysis units. Finally, the investigators will explore the effect of our
      intervention on hospitalizations.
    
  