
    
      The investigators will study acupuncture in a pilot, randomized controlled trial (RCT) in the
      emergency department (ED) of a large, tertiary care hospital, Abbott Northwestern Hospital
      (ANW). The investigators suggest that the proposed intervention - provision of acupuncture in
      the ED as an alternative to usual ED care - will reduce pain and interrupt the trajectory
      (and potential cycle) of medication misuse by providing an alternative at a critical point of
      contact within the healthcare system, potentially disrupting the pathway from ED visit to
      opioid usage after discharge. In this study, the investigators will assess the feasibility of
      implementation, practicality, and expansion of an acupuncture RCT in the ED environment. The
      study will prospectively measure and analyze change in pain intensity after treatment with
      acupuncture or usual care, use of opioids during ED visit, prescriptions written for opioids
      at ED discharge, and use of opioids at 30-day follow-up.

      Study data will be collected using electronic health record (EHR) data and patient-reported
      outcomes. Patient-reported outcomes will be collected via an electronic database and solely
      for research purposes. The acupuncture intervention provided in the ED will be provided at no
      cost to the patient and will be paid for by the study sponsor. The practice of providing
      acupuncture in ANW's ED at no charge to the patient has been in place since November 2013. In
      conducting this pilot study, it will assess the ability to implement and carry out a RCT of
      acupuncture in the ED. By comparing pain change and opioid utilization among patients who
      receive acupuncture versus those who receive usual emergency department care, and by
      conducting follow-up data collection, the investigators will be able to better understand the
      potential role of a common non-pharmacological pain management strategy for mitigating pain
      and reducing opioid use in the emergency medicine setting.
    
  