
    
      Simultaneous PET/MR imaging [1]-[7] offers exciting opportunities to visualize and quantify
      soft-tissue tumors [2]. MRI offers superb soft-tissue contrast for anatomical information as
      well as a flexible suite of other techniques providing functional and physiological
      information. PET offers sensitive molecular imaging via radioactive tracers and is widely
      used for assessment of tumor glucose metabolism. Together, the two modalities provide
      complementary, synergistic information. Because of MRI's superior soft-tissue contrast, it is
      considered a much better anatomical guide for PET quantitative analyses for tumors in soft
      tissue regions as compared to standard-of-care PET-CT. Simultaneous PET-MR also provides
      inherently-aligned PET and MR, efficient simultaneous acquisition, and the opportunity for
      new approaches to PET quantitative analysis guided by detailed MR images.

      Nonmetastatic clear cell renal cell carcinomas are generally treated with nephrectomy,
      although research has subclassified them into two [8] or as many as four [9] subtypes based
      on gene expression; the subtypes have been shown to have differing prognoses and progression
      [8]-[11]. The investigators focus primarily on the two subtypes ccA and ccB [8] and ask
      whether these two exhibit distinct PET-MRI imaging characteristics that can be used to
      subtype them noninvasively. An eight-subject pilot study conducted on PET-MRI at UNC
      demonstrated that quantitative PET-MRI imaging, using nonstandard measures incorporating the
      entire tumor, was strongly correlated with presence or absence of ccB patterns in the tumors
      [12]. Transcriptome analysis results from the study justified the import of PET in noting
      that many of the upregulated genes associated with ccB were involved in glucose transport and
      metabolism, the mediators of 18-FDG uptake. Thus, there is a strong biologic rationale as to
      why PET-MRI could predict ccB burden, but the small number of subjects in that study limits
      confidence.

      Also, the fact that these tumors are highly heterogeneous suggests that imaging alone
      provides an opportunity for early characterization of ccB burden across the entire tumor
      where gene expression profiling would be invasive and costly. Also, with the excellent
      soft-tissue contrast of MRI, the system has the potential for greater anatomical detail to
      guide interpretation of FDG activity. UNC has one of the few PET-MR scanners in the country,
      making it one of few centers in the US capable of conducting this study.

      This is a prospective study of the use of combined PET-MR [1-7] for prediction of tumor
      subtype composition in ccRCC. Additional data analysis using the prior study from UNC
      suggests a strong correlation between the fraction of the tumor exhibiting moderate to high
      FDG uptake and the number of cores found to be ccB type. These results guide the hypothesis
      of this study: the metabolically-active tumor volume fraction derived from simultaneous
      PET-MRI imaging of clear-cell renal cell carcinomas is correlated with the fraction of tumor
      cores classified as ccB subtype from transcriptome analysis. If so, in the future,
      application of PET-MRI may offer prognostic information and opportunities for risk
      stratification.
    
  