
    
      1) Purpose Inhalation of air pollutants leads to both airway inflammation, with increased
      cytokine expression and inflammatory cell recruitment to the airways, and to airway
      hyperresponsiveness, which together contribute to airway resistance and breathing
      difficulties. Correlational data indicate that exposure to air pollution increases inhaled
      corticosteroids (ICS) use in asthmatics, suggesting that steroidal anti-inflammatory
      medications are suboptimally effective under these conditions. However, a major issue is that
      no study has yet been performed specifically to determine the effects of controlled diesel
      exhaust (DE) exposure on responses to ICS. Furthermore, investigators need better insight
      into mechanisms, including the effects of epigenetic modifications and polymorphisms in
      oxidative stress response genes, which remain under explored. Investigators anticipate that
      an improved understanding of air pollution-induced ICS hyporesponsiveness (reduced
      effectiveness) could underpin preventative guidelines, guide ICS usage in response to
      environmental exposures, and inform rational pharmaceutical development. Ultimately this
      could lead to fewer exacerbations in asthmatic and other susceptible populations.

      Hypothesis:

      Acute exposure to DE reduces ICS-inducible gene expression in vivo in asthmatics, in part
      through effects on epigenetic processes.

      Justification:

      Air pollution exposure correlates with increased use of ICS inhalers in asthmatics,
      suggesting that ICS offer less control during periods of higher air pollution. As genes
      induced by ICS are critical in reducing inflammatory messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and
      protein expression, the investigators have chosen to focus on the effects of DE on
      ICS-inducible gene expression as our primary endpoint.

      Research Method:

      To test this the effects of air pollution exposure on a corticosteroid, volunteers will
      inhale either a placebo (inhaler containing no medication) or budesonide (1.6mg), before
      sitting in our exposure booth for 2 hours breathing either filtered air (as a control) or
      diluted diesel exhaust (standardized to 300µg/m³ of particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5
      micrometers or less).

      Volunteers will visit our lab four different times to be exposed to: 1) placebo & filtered
      air, 2) placebo & diesel exhaust, 3) corticosteroid and filtered air, and 4) corticosteroid
      and diesel exhaust. Investigators can then compare responses to each of these combinations of
      exposures.

      Investigators will take blood samples before and after volunteers complete each of these
      exposures to track how they affect the body. Six hours after placebo or budesonide inhalation
      a research bronchoscopy will be performed during which a very thin flexible tube will be
      inserted through the mouth and down into lungs to collect samples from each volunteer.

      Bronchoalveolar lavage, bronchial washes, bronchial brushes and tissue biopsies will be
      obtained for analysis of gene expression and epigenetic endpoints. Nasal lavage samples will
      also be collected to examine responses in the upper airways and blood and urine will be
      studied to examine systemic responses. Spirometry will be used to assess effects on airway
      function.
    
  