
    
      A RELIRE PAR PASCAL POIGNARD

        1. CURRENT KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THE PATHOLOGY

           Coronaviruses are a large family whose members share a tropism for epitheliums. They are
           usually responsible of ordinary and frequent infections in humans, with acute and
           limited inflammation of the respiratory tract. The fact that they are RNA viruses (which
           confers them an important plasticity), and that some types infect animals and others
           infect human, explain that they may be a source of new human diseases arising from
           animal strains. This is how two Coronavirus outbreaks spreading in several countries
           emerged in the past years: The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), in 2003; and
           the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in 2012. In January 2020, another
           coronavirus outbreak has been described: the COVID-19 outbreak, related to the
           SARS-CoV-2.

           The disease mentioned as coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has been detected for the
           first time in China in December 2019; a first case cluster was strongly related to a
           live-animal market, suggesting an animal origin; the following descriptions did clearly
           established a human-to-human transmission, with a reproduction number (R0) between 2.5
           and 3.5. Some scientific publications described potential contaminations by asymptomatic
           subjects. While China finally managed to record a great decrease in the number of daily
           cases (82,241 total cases with 3,309 deaths on the 31st March 2020), the epidemic
           rapidly reached many other countries. In France, several sites of active virus
           circulation (l'Oise, Mulhouse, la Haute-Savoie) finally led to an important development
           of the epidemic in France (44,450 cases with 3,024 deaths on March 31st 2020).

           The disease consists in a pneumonia reminding of the Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome
           (ARDS) in several aspects; after a 5 days median incubation time, symptoms develops with
           cough which can be febrile/feverish, and which can evolve/develop towards dyspnea, and
           in some instance towards ARDS after 7 to 10 days of evolution. If the first
           epidemiological descriptions stated a high proportion of severe cases (more than 33%), a
           study including more than 70,000 cases then suggested that 15% cases were severe/marked,
           and 5% critical; however, it is likely that asymptomatic or little symptomatic cases can
           be numerous, according to new studies. To date, no curative antiviral treatment
           demonstrated clinical efficacy but many clinical trials are ongoing. This disease is a
           problem for the healthcare system for two reasons: its contagiousness (which require
           major social distancing measures) and its morbidity (which paralyze the healthcare
           system by requiring too much ICU hospitalization).

        2. IMMUNE RESPONSES IN COVID-19 STATE OF ART:

           The main aim of this study is therefore to explore the antibody responses in SARS-CoV-2
           infection and in fine identify and then produce neutralizing monoclonal antibodies for
           therapeutic and vaccine use.

           In SARS infected patients, antibody responses appears usually early, in the two weeks
           following the first symptoms and last for at least 16 months after the disease
           beginning. Neutralizing responses appear early too, but tend to wane quickly after 16
           months. Interestingly, it has been shown that antibodies targeting SARS-CoV are able to
           neutralize SARS-CoV-2, suggesting the existence of neutralizing antibodies (3). This
           could be explained by the relatively high conservation between the two viruses envelop
           glycoproteins (about 77% of sequence homology, a very similar structure and the use of
           the same cellular receptor ACE2), which are the targets of neutralizing antibodies.
           During MERS-CoV infection, it has also been showed that antibody responses appear in the
           second week of infection and last during at least 18 months. A neutralizing response
           anti-MERS-CoV has been described: the viral load of patients being inversely
           proportional to the neutralizing Ab levels. Those neutralizing antibodies alone are not
           sufficient for infection clearance (4). Interestingly, the protective antibody response
           against other coronaviruses as OC43 and 229E seems much more of limited in time (5).

           A characterization of the antibody response during COVID-19, especially the neutralizing
           activity, is important for the progress it will allow:

             -  To understand the nature and duration of the potentially protective humoral
                response during and following the infection by SARS-CoV-2

             -  To study the evolution of IgM and IgG antibody responses against SARS-CoV-2 surface
                glycoproteins, especially the spike protein (SARS2-S)

             -  To study neutralizing antibody responses evolution. Indeed, it is essential to
                better understand in what extend a strong humoral immunity is generated in all
                infected patients, if this response varies accordingly to the infection severity
                and duration.

             -  To screen patients' sera looking for individuals showing high neutralization titers
                and perhaps for neutralizing antibodies against different coronaviruses. It is
                essential to understand if some patients can produce neutralizing antibodies, able
                to neutralize different coronaviruses.

             -  To study the existence of a potential viral infection facilitation by antibodies.
                Indeed, the increase of infectivity mediated by antibodies has been described for
                other coronaviruses and could the vaccine development more challenging (6).

           Following this characterization, the investigators will be able to isolate human
           monoclonal antibodies from selected patients. Antibody isolation could notably enable
           therapeutic and vaccine approaches in the future, to treat and prevent not only the
           COVID-19, but also other already existing coronavirus infections or in case of a new
           coronavirus outbreak.

           Thus, the most promising monoclonal antibodies (high affinity, high neutralizing
           capacity) will be selected and optimized for a future development as therapeutic agent
           (lead compounds).

           In fine, the investigators will be able to use isolated monoclonal antibodies as tools
           in structural approaches for the neutralization epitopes determination and the
           development of vaccine approaches (reverse vaccinology).

           In order to isolate human monoclonal antibodies in individuals selected for their
           humoral response of interest, the specific IgG positive memory B cells bearing
           antibodies against the selected targets at their surface, are sorted by flow cytometry.
           As part of this project, B cells producing antibodies recognizing SARS-2-S biotinylated
           recombinant proteins conjugated to fluorochrome-labelled streptavidin will be sorted.
           These proteins are produced by transfection of 293F cells and are then purified. An
           alternative strategy consists in activating B cells and screening supernatants for the
           presence of specific neutralizing antibodies in micro-neutralization assays involving
           for example the use of viruses pseudotyped with SARS-2-S. After identifying the specific
           B cells, the immunoglobulin genes of interest will be amplified by PCR from clonal cell
           in order to identify the heavy and light (lambda or kappa) chains, accordingly to
           methods previously used for the isolation of antibodies against HIV (7-10).

           Amplified heavy and light chains are subsequently cloned in expression vector by
           homologous recombination. The corresponding antibodies are produced by 293F cell
           transfection with the appropriate combination of heavy and light chains. After
           purification and reactivity testing against SARS-2-S protein, we'll evaluate
           neutralizing function to identify and prioritize the candidates for a deeper
           characterization in order to identify lead compounds.

        3. BIOMARKERS:

           In addition, the investigators aim to explore the other immunity players, immune cells,
           complement and cytokines, with the aim of identifying predictive biomarkers of a poor
           prognosis. These lab analyses could be able to predict poor prognosis ad could
           contribute to adapt medical care.

           The investigations will include:

             -  T, B and NK lymphocytes subpopulation and monocyte HLA-DR subpopulation studied by
                flow cytometry.

             -  the study of complement system (C3, C4, CH50 & CH50a).

             -  the study of cytokines ant notably the measurement of IL-6 and IL-10 at Days 1, 3
                and 7 of patient hospitalization.

        4. RESEARCH HYPOTHESIS AND EXPECTED RESULTS The investigators will be able to monitor
           antibody responses targeting the envelop glycoproteins of SARS-CoV-2 and identify
           subjects showing an immune response with high titers of neutralizing antibodies
           targeting SARS-CoV-2. This will allow the isolation of monoclonal antibodies from
           patients' memory B lymphocytes for therapeutic and vaccine purposes.

           Moreover, the immunity investigation in COVID-19 patients will enable the identification
           of severity and worsening biomarkers.

        5. RESEARCH CONDUCT

      The selection is achieved based on the medical record for every patient:

        -  who had a positive diagnostic result of COVID-19 RT-PCR

        -  hospitalized for less than 48h at the CHUGA and who have symptoms resulting from the
           infection.

      It is followed by an inclusion visit during which an investigating doctor clinically examines
      the patient.

      This doctor checks the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria, exposes the trial to the patient
      and collects the patient non-opposition and sampling consent (Appendix 2). It is followed by
      the biological tests related to care, to research and to data collection (see ยง7.3)

      The follow-up visits (visits 2 to 8 from day 3 to day 30) happen as established in the study
      calendar over the month following inclusion. An investigating doctor clinically examines the
      patient, a nurse then does blood sampling related to care and research (biomarkers at day 1,
      3 and 7 and biological collection on day 1, 3, 7, 13, last hospitalization day) and a
      clinical research assistant does data collection. The blood sample (serum and peripheral
      mononuclear blood cells from day 1, 13, last hospitalization day) are the samples necessary
      for the primary criteria of this study.

      The visits subsequent to day 7 (visits 5 to 8) only occur if the patient is still
      hospitalized. In other words, the end of the hospitalization stay establishes the end of the
      study for group A.

      An optional visit can take place for group b patients. It happens 2 to 6 months after
      inclusion when the patient is regularly followed up at the CHUGA and when a visit with blood
      sampling is scheduled which would enable the collection of useful samples for the research.
    
  