
    
      The aim of this single-arm study is to show that high-precision radiotherapy (RT) with
      18x2.33 Gy in 3.5 weeks results in significantly better local progression free survival
      (LPFS) of metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC) when compared to conventional RT with
      10x3 Gy in 2 weeks. If such superiority could be shown, 18x2.33 Gy could be recommended, at
      least for those patients with favourable survival prognoses, since an in-field recurrence of
      MSCC in the irradiated part of the spine is generally very difficult to treat.

      For this investigation the newly prospectively collected data will be compared with a
      historical cohort collected up to the time of data analysis.

      The recruitment of all 65 patients (62 patients + 5% for potential drop-outs) is planned to
      be completed within 21 months. The follow-up period will be 12 months. This equals a total
      running time for the study of 33 months.

      In accordance with a previous study assessing local control of MSCC, the following patient
      characteristics will be recorded to allow adequate comparison with the historical control
      group:

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Type of primary tumor (breast cancer vs. prostate cancer vs. myeloma/ lymphoma vs. lung
           cancer vs. other tumors)

        -  Interval from tumor diagnosis to MSCC (≤15 months vs. >15 months)

        -  Number of involved vertebrae (1-2 vs. ≥3)

        -  Other bone metastases at the time of RT (no vs. yes)

        -  Visceral metastases at the time of RT (no vs. yes)

        -  Time developing motor deficits prior to RT (1-7 days vs. 8-14 days vs. >14 days)

        -  Ambulatory status prior to RT (no vs. yes)

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance score (0-2 vs- 3-4)

        -  Indication for decompressive surgery of affected spinal areas

      The patients of this study who received high-precision RT with 18x2.33 Gy for MSCC will be
      compared to a historical control group of patients with a favorable survival prognosis who
      were treated with 10x3 Gy of conventional RT. The historical control group will include data
      from 235 patients qualifying for the comparison with the prospectively collected data.

      Data for the historical control group will be collected from an already existing anonymized
      database with previous study data documented in the European Union.

      To be eligible for control group, patients fulfilling the same inclusion criteria and
      exclusion criteria as defined in the prospective study are considered. Furthermore, to be
      consistent with efficacy analysis of the study, patients of the historical control group must
      have received at least 80% of the planned RT dose.

      Propensity score techniques will be applied to reduce confounding due to differences between
      the historical control group and the prospective trial data.
    
  