
    
      Advanced congestive heart failure (CHF) accounts for over 1 million hospital admissions
      yearly in the U.S. and is also associated with a high rate of readmission to the hospital
      within a short turn-around time period following discharge. CHF is associated with a
      relatively high death rate, up to 40 or 50% in 2 years. The risk of sudden cardiac death in
      patients with CHF is 6 to 9 times greater than that of the general population. Despite
      medical advances, some patients are unresponsive to the oral medications used to treat CHF
      and require added therapy. Such patients are typically New York Heart Association (NYHA)
      Class III and IV, and require intravenous (IV) therapy with inotropic agents. Inotropic
      agents are drugs that influence muscular contractility. IV administration with inotropic
      drugs requires careful patient selection and close monitoring to ensure safe and effective
      therapy.

      There are many medical conditions that lead to worsening CHF and these underlying conditions
      contribute to a significant and potentially life-threatening loss of cardiac function. Some
      of these are conditions that lead to abnormal cardiac contraction and/or relaxation (e.g.,
      coronary arterial disease, hypertension, diabetes, drug or alcohol toxicity); conditions that
      lead to volume or pressure overload (mitral or tricuspid valve regurgitation,
      hyperthyroidism); and conditions that limit ventricle filling (e.g., mitral or tricuspid
      valve stenosis). However, many patients have a condition of dilated cardiomyopathy, an
      abnormality of the heart muscle wall in which the walls of the heart become stretched and
      weakened, with no easily identifiable cause. Any risk factor may cause CHF, but combinations
      dramatically increase the risk of developing CHF.

      Natriuretic peptides ANP and BNP are small molecules and are the group of naturally-occuring
      substances that act in the body to oppose the activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
      (RAA) system. They serve as counter-regulatory hormones and are secreted in response to the
      increased atrial and ventricular stretching that occurs in secondary increased blood volume.
      Natrecor (nesiritide) is the proprietary name for the IV formulation of human B-type
      natriuretic peptide (hBNP).

      In-patient treatment for acutely decompensated CHF with intravenous vasodilator therapy (such
      as nitroglycerin or nitroprusside) is useful for a number of reasons. Vasodilators reduce
      ventricular filling pressure and volume, decreasing pulmonary congestion and the resulting
      symptoms of breathlessness. Intravenous vasodilators may also achieve afterload reduction
      leading to decreased mitral regurgitation and increased forward stroke volume. IV
      administration of externally produced hBNP leads to vasodilation, antagonism of the
      renin-aldosterone system and an increase in diuresis. hBNP may be a potent agent for the
      treatment of CHF, with a unique combination of desirable blood flow throughout the body,
      hormones secreted by the sympathetic nervous system, and renal effects not possessed by
      currently available therapies. In a 6-hour placebo-controlled comparison in patients with
      acutely decompensated CHF, Natrecor® was associated with significant improvements in the
      symptoms of CHF (including dyspnea and fatigue), a decrease in aldosterone, and an increase
      in urine output. (According to LeJemtel et al 1998) The VMAC trial (Vasodilation in the
      Management of Acute CHF) is a double-blinded, randomized, active-controlled and
      placebo-controlled study in which the study drug would be added to standard care therapies
      such as diuretics, dobutamine, or dopamine. This study compares the effects of the addition
      of Natrecor®, nitroglycerin, or placebo to standard care (diuretics, dobutamine, dopamine, or
      other long-term cardiac therapies) in patients requiring hospitalization for the treatment of
      dyspnea at rest due to acutely decompensated CHF. Based on the cumulative experience with
      Natrecor, the dose of Natrecor was modified for the VMAC trial to a 2-µg/kg bolus followed by
      a 0.01-µg/kg/min infusion.

      The primary objective of the VMAC study is to compare the blood flow and observe treatment
      and safety effects of the new dose of Natrecor to placebo, when added to standard care, in
      the treatment of acutely worsening CHF. The primary overall outcome that the study plan is
      based upon are the changes from the beginning of a study to 3 hours after the start of study
      drug, in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) (in subjects who have right heart
      catheters only) and the subject's self-evaluation of their breathing difficulties. The
      secondary objective is to compare the hemodynamic, (blood flow throughout the body) and
      clinical effects of Natrecor® with IV nitroglycerin and placebo. Additional objectives
      include a comparison of the use of other IV vasoactive agents and/or IV diuretics and the
      effects on other hemodynamic variables. The hypothesis of this study is that using the
      modified dose of Natrecor, (a 2-µg/kg bolus followed by a 0.01-µg/kg/min infusion) will
      achieve peak effects sooner than with previously studied doses, to sustain effects for at
      least 48 hours, and minimize excessive effects on blood pressure. Natrecor or placebo,
      administered as an intravenous 2-µg/kg bolus, followed by a fixed-dose infusion of
      0.01-µg/kg/min.
    
  