
    
      Non-Surgical Periodontal Therapy

      Seven days prior to the non-surgical periodontal therapy, periapical radiographs will be
      taken from the whole mouth of all patients. They will be set in an oral hygiene program (OHP)
      according to their specific needs. In this program, patients will be instructed about an
      effective self-performed plaque control, including information about the Bass Technique
      (Bass, 1954) and interproximal cleaning with dental floss and interdental brushes. They will
      be also motivated to brush the dorsal surface of the tongue once a day and will receive a
      dentifrice that shall be used throughout the experimental period (Colgate Total®, Anakol Ind.
      Com Ltda - Brazil's Kolynos - Colgate Palmolive Co., Sao Bernardo do Campo, SP, Brazil).
      After the OHP, subjects will undergo the assessment of clinical periodontal parameters
      previously described and the collection of subgingival plaque and GCF in selected sites
      (baseline) will be performed. Shortly, patients will receive supragingival scaling and
      coronal polishing with prophy cup on all the teeth present in the oral cavity. The
      non-surgical periodontal therapy will initiate 7 days after the OHP and initial supragingival
      scaling. Within 24 hours, a specialist in Periodontics will perform supra and subgingival
      scaling and root planing of all teeth with periodontal involvement, using hand (Gracey
      Curettes, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA) and ultrasonic instruments. The instrumentation will
      be performed on each quadrant until achievement of an adequate cleaning and root planing,
      which will be verified with a dental explorer. Individuals will receive professional
      prophylaxis biweekly during three months after the end of the nonsurgical periodontal
      therapy. On biweekly follow-up visits, patient's cooperation will be monitored by verifying
      the status of oral hygiene.

      Antimicrobial photodynamic Therapy

      After a full-mouth scaling and root planning (SRP), the periodontal pockets of teeth selected
      to receive antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT) will be irrigated with distilled water.
      Shortly thereafter, the dye will be applied (phenothiazine hydrochloride- 10mg/mL) from the
      bottom of the pocket. After 1 minute, irrigation will be performed with distilled water to
      remove the excess of dye. The stained area will be irradiated with a diode laser (660 nm and
      a 60 mW/cm²). Six sites per tooth under treatment will be irradiated (10 seconds/ site). The
      applications of aPDT will be repeated in the same way until the second week (days: 2, 7,14).
      Before the application, the supragingival plaque will be removed.

      Each patient will be impressed with alginate in order to obtain models of the dental arches
      and elaborate a guide plate made of acetate. This plate will present grooves that will be
      used as references to standardize the insertion and tilt of the automated periodontal probe
      (Florida Probe System, Florida Probe Corporation, Gainesville, FL, USA). The visible plaque
      index for each patient, rated dichotomously (O'Leary et al. 1972), will be determined by the
      percentage of tooth surfaces with deposits of plaque stained with disclosing solution.

      Clinical monitoring

      The following clinical periodontal parameters will be assessed at 6 sites of each tooth
      (mesio-buccal, buccal, disto-buccal, mesio-lingual, lingual and disto-lingual): (i) probing
      pocket depth (PPD): it will be measured from the gingival margin to the bottom of the pocket;
      (ii) gingival recession (GR): it will be measured from the enamelcement junction to the
      bottom of the pocket; (iii) clinical attachment level (CAL): it will be measured as PPD + GR
      (GR will be equal to 0 whenever the cementenamel junction is covered); (iv) bleeding on
      probing (BOP): it will be evaluated dichotomously: the presence of the bleeding will be
      considered positive when occurring within 30 seconds from the insertion of the probe for
      probing depth; (v) Plaque index (PI): it will be evaluated dichotomously. BOP, PPD, CAL and
      GR will be measured at six sites per tooth (mesio-buccal, buccal, disto-buccal,
      disto-lingual, lingual and mesio-lingual). All probing measurements will be performed using
      an automated periodontal probe.

      The clinical periodontal parameters and the plaque index of each patient will be recorded at
      baseline (pre-intervention), as well as +30 and +90 days after the non-surgical periodontal
      therapy. The Kappa index will be used to evaluate the examiner calibration on clinical
      periodontal parameters collection in order to calculate the intra-examiner agreement.
      According to the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria for diagnosis, the acceptable Kappa
      index of agreement must be greater than or equal to 0.85 (WHO, 1997). This level of agreement
      will be used for calibration of the examiner in this project. Ten patients, each one showing
      at least two pairs of contralateral single-rooted teeth with PD ≥ 5 mm on interproximal
      sites, will be selected to calibrate the examiner. Each patient will be evaluated on two
      separate occasions 48 hours apart in order to obtain the intra-examiner reliability through
      the Kappa index.

      Immunological monitoring

      At baseline and +14 and +30 and +90 days after the non-surgical periodontal therapy, GCF
      samples will be obtained from eight interproximal sites of each patient. The supragingival
      plaque from selected teeth will be removed and the sites will be carefully dried with air
      jets, and subsequently isolated with sterile cotton rolls. Samples of GCF will be obtained
      with papers strips (Periopaper® -Oralflow Inc., Amityville, NY, USA). The papers strips will
      be gently inserted into the orifice of the periodontal pocket, remaining 30 seconds
      subgingivally. The amount of GCF absorbed will be determined by an electronic measurer of
      humid mass (Periotron® -Oralflow Inc., Amityville, NY, USA). Samples will be placed in
      sterile Eppendorf tubes stored at - 80°C for cytokines (IL-1β, IL-10 and TNF-a)
      quantification (pg/μl) at Genese Laboratory (Genese Produtos Diagnosticos LTDA, Sao Paulo,
      SP, Brazil). Cytokines levels will be determined using a three-plex Millipore kit (Millipore
      Corporation, Billerica, MA, USA) and the Luminex 100TM system (Luminex, MiraiBio, Alameda,
      CA, USA).

      Microbiological monitoring

      At baseline and +30 and +90 days after the non-surgical periodontal therapy, samples of
      subgingival plaque will be obtained from eight interproximal sites of each patient. Samples
      will be individually analyzed for their content of 40 subgingival bacterial species using the
      checkerboard DNA-DNA hybridization technique (Socransky et al., 2004a; Socransky et al.,
      2004b). The selected teeth will be isolated with sterile cotton rolls and dried with air
      jets. Then, the supragingival plaque will be carefully removed using a sterile curette.
      Another sterile curette will be used to collect the subgingival plaque, starting from the
      bottom of the periodontal pocket to its coronal portion. The samples will be stored in
      sterilized Eppendorf tubes and will be processed at the Microbiology Laboratory of the
      Guarulhos University (UNG, Guarulhos, SP, Brazil).

      Statistical analysis

      The normality and homoscedasticity of the data obtained will be checked. Comparisons within
      groups and among groups at different time intervals will be performed through parametric or
      non-parametric appropriate tests. The significance level will be set at 5% in all tests. All
      calculations will be performed by SPSS software (SPSS, Chicago IL, USA).
    
  