
    
      The educational intervention will consist of a 2-3 minute video demonstrating video images of
      adequate and inadequate bowel preps, and reviewing instructions for split dose prep
      administration. This video will be posted on YouTube. Group 1 will consist of 30 subjects who
      will be instructed to view this video prior to beginning their colonoscopy preparation.
      Information to access the YouTube video will be provided to the patients by endoscopy nurse
      assessment staff when contacting the patients as per standard practice to review appointment
      scheduling and procedure-day logistics. Group 2 will consist of 30 subjects who will not
      receive instructions to view the video.

      Nursing staff will be asked to grade bowel preps according to the Boston Bowel Preparation
      Scale (BBPS), a validated and reliable instrument for assessing quality of bowel preparation
      [6]. Using the BBPS, a four point scoring system is applied to each of the three broad
      regions of the colon: the right side of the colon (including the cecum and ascending colon),
      the transverse section of the colon (including the hepatic and splenic flexures), and the
      left side of the colon (including the descending colon, sigmoid colon, and rectum). The
      points are assigned as follows: (0), unprepared colon segment, (1), portion of the mucosa of
      the colon segment seen, (2), minor amount of residual staining, (3), entire mucosa of colon
      segment seen well. The three segment scores are then summed for a total BBPS score, which
      ranges from 0 to 9. The maximum BBPS score for a perfectly clean colon without any residual
      liquid is 9, and the minimum BBPS score for an unprepared colon is 0. The endoscopy nurse who
      is in the procedure room will be scoring the bowel preparation. This protocol has been
      employed previously in the VUMC Endoscopy Lab and the endoscopy nurses at Vanderbilt have
      completed a detailed in-service training session on using the BBPS scoring system. Prior to
      initiation of this current study protocol, the endoscopy nurses will have a BBPS scoring
      system review session to ensure continued reliable and valid BBPS scores. The endoscopy
      nurses will be blinded to whether the patient viewed the video or not.
    
  