
    
      The present study has been approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the Second Xiangya
      Hospital of Central South University . Informed and written consent will be obtained from
      patients who are undergoing oral and maxillofacial surgery requiring general anesthesia with
      nasotracheal intubation. Preoperative clinical assessment of the patients will include
      routine airway evaluation of dentition, mouth opening, tongue size, Mallampati score, and
      neck mobility.

      For the patients without anticipated difficult intubations. Patients will be induced by the
      routine anesthesia fashion including 0.1mg/kg midazolam, 3-8mcg/kg fentanyl, 0.08-.015mg/kg
      vecuronium and 0.3mg/kg etomidate with standard preoxygen. The patients will be ventilated
      with 100% oxygen via bag and mask for 3 minutes.

      For the patients with anticipated difficult airways. Patients will be inhaled with
      sevoflurane in 100% oxygen. Some protocols will be performed as the following: 1)If the
      patient can be ventilated with bag and mask after losing consciousness, 0.3mg/kg etomidate
      and 1-2mg/kg succinylcholine will be administered for muscle paralysis. If not, sevoflurane
      will be stopped and the patient will be awakened. Fiberoptic bronchoscope will be performed
      for the intubation; 2)If two attempts of intubation with SOS are failed, then the direct
      laryngoscope will be used for the intubation; If the intubation with direct laryngoscope is
      also failed, the patients will be awakened and intubated in the awake status.

      After confirmation of the successful intubation, the routine anesthesia fashion will be
      followed and the surgery will be performed as the usual fashion.

      Intubation time will be defined as the time from when Shikani stylet passes the nose of the
      patient until the time the endotracheal tube is positioned in the trachea. If the intubation
      sequence is longer than 120 seconds, it will be deemed a failure and recorded as such.
    
  