
    
      Lymphedema can be defined as the abnormal accumulation of protein-rich interstitial fluid
      that occurs primarily as a consequence of malformation, dysplasia, or acquired disruption of
      lymphatic circulation. Lymph stasis, which results in peripheral lymphedema, is characterized
      by edema and adipose tissue proliferation. As a vicious cycle of lymphedema progression,
      lymph stasis stimulates chronic inflammation because of uncontrolled responses of macrophages
      and CD4+ (cluster of differentiation 4) cells; fat accumulation also causes chronic
      inflammation by infiltration and activation of macrophages that produce inflammatory
      cytokines, which further promote lymph stasis directly or indirectly by decreasing lymphatic
      pumping and increasing capillary filtration. Lymphedema secondary to breast cancer is caused
      by the disruption of the lymphatic system, which in the initial stages leads to the
      accumulation of fluid in the interstitial tissue space and eventually is clinically presented
      as swelling of the arm, shoulder, neck, or torso. Complex decongestive physical therapy is a
      widely used nonoperative treatment of breast cancer-related lymphedema. The extremity volume
      has been one of the major parameters representing the treatment results of complex
      decongestive physical therapy. However, the increase in extremity volume in lymphedema can be
      caused both by tissue fluid accumulation and by pathologic tissue proliferation, which cannot
      be assessed separately at present. Accordingly, the volume or circumference measurement alone
      may not clarify how these phenomena are modified by complex decongestive physical therapy.
      Suehiro et al. developed subcutaneous echogenicity grade (SEG) and subcutaneous echo-free
      space (SEFS) grade via B-mode ultrasonography, allowing semiquantitation of nonspecific
      subcutaneous tissue inflammation and fluid accumulation. Increase in SEG is attributed to
      increased cell density and increased collagen content in the tissue and it is considered to
      indicate the presence of ongoing or previous inflammation in the area. SEFS represents the
      fluid accumulated in the spaces between superficial fasciae, which is freely mobile in the
      spaces. Recently, Suehiro et al. have investigated the impact of aggressive decongestion in
      limbs with lymphedema without SEFS in subcutaneous tissue ultrasonography. According to their
      results, the impact of aggressive decongestion seemed limited in patients with lymphedema
      without SEFS. But it was a retrospective study which may be a limitation to draw a firm
      conclusion. Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate tissue changes via ultrasound
      after complex decongestive therapy.
    
  