
    
      The prevalence of chronic diseases in Ireland is increasing and places significant burden
      both on the individual and family unit, but also on an already overstretched healthcare
      system. Many chronic diseases are preventable and frequently share common risk factor and
      unhealthy lifestyle profiles; which offers a unique opportunity to intervene, address and
      modify these common disease drivers, and potentially prevent disease complications.

      The MyAction program and previous similar programs have successfully been run by Croí/NIPC
      (based in Galway, www.nipc.ie) in an effort to combat common cardiovascular risk factors.
      These programs have demonstrated that addressing and modifying risk factors is both effective
      and sustainable. Expanding programs like these to a broader group of chronic disease patients
      with overlapping modifiable risks could lead to multi-factorial benefits: prevention is
      better than cure. While cardiac and pulmonary rehab are well established programs, patients
      with other chronic diseases do not currently have access to such focused interventions in
      Galway. Chronic kidney disease and rheumatoid arthritis are two such chronic diseases that
      have a particularly high cardiovascular risk burden, and so may benefit from a focused
      intervention program.

      Chronic kidney disease is a worldwide public health problem with an estimated prevalence of
      11.8% in Ireland. With chronic kidney disease comes a myriad of other co-morbidities and
      increased rate of all-cause mortality. Significantly, cardiovascular disease is the primary
      contributor to increased morbidity and mortality in this patient cohort. In fact, in patients
      with Stage 3 CKD, the incidence of cardiovascular mortality is higher than the incidence of
      kidney failure. This makes prevention of drivers of cardiovascular disease a key component in
      managing these patients.

      Lifestyle and exercise programs may have an even broader range of benefit in this patient
      group. Through inflammation, uremic toxins, and dysregulation of key proteins and hormones a
      second major consequence of CKD is sarcopenia and skeletal muscle dysfunction. This is
      compounded by the fact that physical activity in all stages of CKD are low, which leads to
      decreased quality of life, increased falls risk and associated morbidity. Previous programs
      have demonstrated the benefits of exercise in this group. The MySláinte program aims to build
      on this by tackling a broader range of modifiable risk factors.

      Similarly, patients with rheumatoid arthritis have an increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease due to a complex interplay between systemic inflammation and a higher prevalence of
      traditional CVD risk factors. Despite recommendations by European League against Rheumatism
      (EULAR) of the importance of emphasising positive lifestyle choices, a recently published
      article by Malm concluded that discussions regarding lifestyle improvements (including
      exercise, smoking, drinking and diet) are suboptimal in these patients. Exercise programs
      have also been shown to be of benefit in these patient groups in decreasing falls rates, as
      well as improving health related quality of life measures.

      It has previously been described that a concordance of behavioural risk factors exists
      between patients with coronary artery disease and their spouses. Similarly, spouses of
      patients with hypertension have increased odds of hypertension themselves. The same is seen
      in patients with type 2 diabetes, with spouses of patients with type 2 diabetes having a
      higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. In keeping with that, it has been demonstrated
      that including both patients and their partners in lifestyle intervention programs improves
      not only the patients risk factor profile, but also that of the partners. It has also been
      suggested that couples who complete programs together may in fact do better than those who
      enter as individuals. Interestingly, even when lifestyle interventions are aimed only at a
      patient, spouses have shown to benefit indirectly from such programs in a knock on effect
      termed the "ripple effect". These concepts highlight the importance of considering a
      patient's support network when undergoing a lifestyle intervention. They also highlight a
      potentially unique opportunity to improve the lifestyles, and hence risk factor profiles, of
      entire households. Previously, the MyAction program had invited participants to bring their
      partners to the program. Unfortunately, due to funding issues, this part of the program was
      gradually phased out. However, the impact of removing partners form the program was never
      evaluated. The investigators of this study aim to evaluate this.

      Therefore, for the MYSLAINTE study, the investigators aim to include patients with stable
      rheumatoid arthritis and stable 3 or 4 CKD with 2 or more defined uncontrolled cardiovascular
      risk factors. In order to enter the study, each patient must also have a partner who is
      willing to take part. Each partner/patient pair will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio into one of
      two groups: with partner or without partner.

        -  With partner: the patient and their partner will undergo an initial assessment (week 1),
           a 10 week intervention program (weeks 2-11) and then an end of program assessment (week
           12)

        -  Without partner: Both the patient and their partner will undergo an initial assessment
           (week 1) and end of program assessment (week 12) However, only the patient will undergo
           the 10 week intervention program. The patients partner will receive usual care from
           their GP.

      The intervention phase is part of the MySláinte program and involves, a weekly 1 hour group
      supervised exercise session, a weekly 1 hour group health promotion workshop, weekly
      individualised goal setting, weekly individualised exercise prescription and optimisation of
      cardioprotective medications. This is all run over a 10 week period and delivered in a
      community setting by a multidisciplinary team including: a physiotherapist, a dietitian, a
      nurse specialist and physician.

      The primary aim of the study is to assess if the 10 week intervention can improve modifiable
      cardiovascular risk factors in these patients and their partners. A secondary aim of the
      study is to assess the impact of simultaneously including a partner in this lifestyle
      intervention program.
    
  