
    
      Bromocriptine mesylate, an ergot derivative, is a sympatholytic dopamine D2 receptor agonist
      that can exert inhibitory effects on serotonin turnover in the central nervous system. It has
      been proposed that bromocriptine can reverse many of the metabolic alterations associated
      with insulin resistance and obesity by resetting central (hypothalamic) circadian
      organization of monoamine neuronal activities.

      While Cycloset has demonstrated efficacy by reducing HbA1c, fasting and post-prandial glucose
      and fasting and post-prandial triglycerides, the relatively small numbers of individuals
      treated for type 2 diabetes during the controlled Phase III clinical trials of Cycloset did
      not allow for a full evaluation of the safety profile. Since persons with diabetes are
      already at higher risk for cardiovascular disease, it is important to examine more fully the
      spectrum of potential adverse or positive effects from Cycloset in a large sample of persons
      with diabetes. Accordingly, the present study is designed to investigate the clinical safety
      of treatment with Cycloset in a broad population of persons with type 2 diabetes.

      To determine in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving Usual Diabetes Therapy (UDT)
      consisting of either diet, oral hypoglycemic agents (OHA) (no more than 2), or insulin (with
      or without no more than 1 OHA) plus either Placebo or Cycloset:

        1. Whether add-on therapy with Cycloset results in all-cause rate of serious adverse
           events, which are not higher than add-on therapy with Placebo.

        2. Whether add-on therapy with Cycloset results in disease-specific rate of serious
           cardiovascular adverse events, which are not higher than add-on therapy with Placebo.

           While the primary purpose of this study is to establish the safety profile of Cycloset
           in type 2 diabetes, any potential positive cardiovascular benefits will be evaluated as
           well.

           Other clinical measures:

        3. The impact (either positive or negative) of Cycloset on HbA1c, fasting plasma glucose,
           weight, triglycerides lipids, blood pressure and patient tolerability after 12 months of
           therapy.

      Furthermore, Hba1c changes from baseline to 24 weeks between Cycloset and Placebo among
      subjects with a baseline Hba1c of >= 7.5% among the following subgroups:

      A. Treated at baseline with any Oral hypoglycemic agent (OHA) including injectable insulin
      secretagogues B. Metformin plus or minus one OHA or injectable insulin secretagogue C.
      Sulphonylurea plus or minus one OHA or injectable insulin secretagogue D. Treated at baseline
      with Metformin and one sulphonylurea
    
  