
    
      A major disadvantage of the MSIS criteria-based definition of PJI is that two of the
      essential criteria, tissue culture and histological analysis, are only available after
      surgery. In cases where the surgical samples are critical for the diagnosis of infection, the
      physician may need to adjust his or her treatment post operatively for the patient based on
      the treatment provided. The availability of a preoperative test that correlates well with the
      MSIS criteria could improve patient care. Currently, when a clinician is suspicious of PJI
      due to pain or failure of an arthroplasty, it is considered the standard-of-care to request
      blood and synovial fluid tests to begin the process of diagnosing infection. A synovial fluid
      test for PJI that correlates with the final MSIS definition could be requested at this early
      preoperative stage of the diagnostic process.

      Synovasure® PJI ELISA Test is a qualitative in vitro diagnostic device intended as an adjunct
      for the detection of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) in synovial fluid from patients
      being evaluated for revision surgery. Synovasure® PJI ELISA Test utilizes a test that
      measures biomarkers, alpha-defensins 1-3, in the synovial fluid of joints that are infected.
      Synovasure® PJI ELISA Test results are intended to be used in conjunction with other clinical
      and diagnostic findings to aid in a patient's diagnosis of infection.

      Synovasure® PJI Lateral Flow Test is a qualitative in vitro diagnostic device intended as an
      adjunct for the detection of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) in synovial fluid from
      patients being evaluated for revision surgery. Synovasure® PJI Lateral Flow Test utilizes a
      test that measures biomarkers, alpha-defensins 1-3, in the synovial fluid of joints that are
      infected. Synovasure® PJI Lateral Flow Test results are intended to be used in conjunction
      with other clinical and diagnostic findings to aid in a patient's diagnosis of infection.
    
  