
    
      Gastrointestinal - origin cancer is one of the most frequent causes of cancer worldwide ; the
      primary surgical management is the standard treatment, however, the postoperative
      complications rate could be up to 35% . Patients with gastrointestinal - origin cancer often
      experience physical deconditioning; this could lead to an increased risk of complications,
      especially when they require major abdominal procedures.

      It has been suggested that physical training in the preoperative period could improve their
      condition, reducing the risk of complications. Although this topic has been investigated, it
      has not been established yet the best short preoperative aerobic exercise program to enhance
      the aerobic capacity in patients with gastrointestinal cancer who are going to be to surgical
      primary management, and consequently, to help patients dealing with the physiological stress
      involved in a surgical intervention.

      Main objective:

      To determine the efficacy and safety of a 4 weeks preoperative exercise program in patients
      with gastrointestinal cancer scheduled for primary surgery.

      Materials and methods:

      This is a Phase II single arm clinical trial that will include patients between 45 and 70
      years, with confirmed gastrointestinal cancer (gastric, liver, colon or rectal cancer),
      scheduled for surgery in 4 weeks or more since recruitment and without electrocardiographic
      abnormalities.

      The patients will be selected from the gastrointestinal unit surgical schedule. The eligible
      patients will be invited to participate and after their agreement to participate and to do
      the informed consent process, they will be scheduled to the basal assessment. This aerobic
      capacity assessment will be done with the 6-minute walk test.

      After the basal measurement, two physical therapists will prescribe an individualized aerobic
      training program in 3 sessions per week during 4 weeks. Each session will last 50 minutes and
      will be programmed as follows:

        -  Week 1: heart rate target: 50% of maximum heart rate

        -  Week 2: heart rate target: 60% of maximum heart rate

        -  Week 3: heart rate target: 70% of maximum heart rate

        -  Week 4: heart rate target: 60% of maximum heart rate

      The aerobic exercise will be carried on a treadmill or in a stationary bicycle, according to
      the patient's preferences and will be supervised by a physical therapist.

      The post intervention aerobic capacity will be measured at week 3 and 4 with the 6-minute
      walk test. The main efficacy outcome will be peak oxygen consumption (VO2 peak) and the
      safety outcomes will be exercise-related adverse events and the program adherence.

      This protocol was approved by the Instituto Nacional de Cancerología's Ethical Board.
    
  