
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the antitumor activity of cediranib maleate (cediranib)/olaparib versus
      reference bevacizumab monotherapy, as measured by progression-free survival at 6 months
      (PF6), in patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS), progression free survival (PFS) and objective response
      (ORR) in patients with recurrent GBM treated with cediranib/olaparib versus bevacizumab.

      II. To assess the safety of the combination of olaparib and cediranib in patients with
      recurrent GBM.

      III. To evaluate the association of blood based biomarkers involved with angiogenesis using
      the Biomarker Review Committee-approved Plasma Angiome Panel (bFGF, Ang-1, Ang-2, Tie-2,
      SDF1-alpha, Collagen IV, PlGF, sVEGFR1, sVEGFR2, VEGF, Il-1beta, Il-6, Il-8, TNF-alpha, CAIX)
      with the clinical activity of cediranib/olaparib.

      IV. To evaluate the association of tissue biomarkers involved with deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) repair using the Biomarker Review Committee-approved BROCA panel with the clinical
      activity of cediranib/olaparib.

      V. To identify genomic alteration by whole exome sequencing in GBM tumor specimens that
      correlate with the clinical activity of cediranib/olaparib.

      VI. To evaluate the association of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) imaging parameters (tumor
      perfusion and oxygenation, brain tumor cellularity) with the biological response of
      cediranib/olaparib.

      VII. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      VIII. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and cediranib maleate PO once
      daily (QD) on days 1-28.

      ARM B: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes every 2 weeks.

      In both arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then
      periodically for 3 years.
    
  