
    
      Patients will be identified by the Medicine for Older People clinician and asked if they
      would like to speak to a member of the research team. A member of the research team will
      approach suitable patients and ask them if they wish to participate. Patients will have the
      opportunity to read and take away a Patient Information Sheet, and also ask questions about
      the study and what participating in it would involve. Participants in the study will be
      telephoned to arrange an appointment for a home visit at a convenient time, or an appointment
      will be made at this first meeting if this is possible. Written informed consent will be
      taken at the home visit.

      Patients who have used the same Medicine for Older People Services in Southampton within the
      previous year will be known to the medical team. The medical team will write to the patient
      with a letter of invitation to participate in the study and the Patient Information Sheet.
      The letter will contain a reply slip and a stamped addressed envelope. It will also contain
      contact details should the patient wish to talk to someone about the study and what it would
      mean for them to participate. Patients who send back their reply slip saying that they would
      like to participate in the study will be contacted to arrange a home visit at a convenient
      time. If no reply slip is received after two weeks then a member of the research team will
      telephone the patient once to find out whether they have received the letter and to offer
      them the opportunity to participate. This will be done sensitively and carefully and the
      patients' wishes will be respected at all times. Written informed consent will be taken at
      the time of the home visit.

      All participants will be visited at home by a member of the research team who will interview
      the participant to obtain background sociodemographic information and a series of short
      questionnaires will be administered. Each participant will have an assessment of diet
      quality, appetite and physical function. In addition, weight, grip strength and physical
      performance will be measured. Participants will be free to decline any part of the
      questionnaire or assessment.

      Two and a half years after this interview the investigators will check on the hospital
      administration system if the participant's contact details have changed or if they have died
      since the initial visit. The investigators will then contact the participant by phone (having
      gained permission to do this at the original assessment visit) to arrange a home visit when
      diet quality, appetite and physical function will be reassessed. The investigators'
      experience from the Southampton Mealtime Assistance Study of contacting older study
      participants by telephone has shown this to be an effective way of ascertaining if the
      participant is interested in continuing with the study or would prefer not to. The
      participant will be given the opportunity to refuse a visit with no pressure applied. At the
      visit the investigators will also ask about the participants' use of the key community
      services over the past year. The investigators will also ask permission to access the
      patient's medical records to obtain details of hospital admissions or outpatient appointments
      in the intervening year.
    
  