
    
      Neonatal herpes simplex virus (HSV) disease complicates approximately 1 in every 3,000
      deliveries in the United States, resulting in an estimated 1, 500 cases annually in this
      country. HSV-1 and HSV-2 infections in the neonate can manifest as: disseminated disease;
      central nervous system (CNS) disease; or disease limited to the skin, eyes, and mouth (SEM
      disease). This study will evaluate the efficacy of long term suppressive therapy with oral
      acyclovir in infants with CNS disease, with or without evidence of dissemination to other
      organs (including the skin). It will determine if suppressive oral acyclovir therapy improves
      neurologic outcome in infants following HSV disease with CNS involvement and address the
      significance of a positive cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) result
      when all other CSF parameters either remain normal or show improvement. Comparisons will be
      made between groups with respect to post-randomization time to first positive CSF PCR result
      during the initial 12 months of life, and results will be correlated with clinical
      neurological assessments. It will determine if continuous administration of oral acyclovir
      suspension suppresses recurrent skin lesions in infants following HSV disease with CNS
      involvement, and it will confirm the safety of long-term administration of oral acyclovir
      therapy in a cohort of infants with HSV disease with CNS involvement. Finally, the effects of
      suppressive acyclovir therapy on issues of pharmacoeconomics and family infrastructure will
      be assessed and quantitated. Infants with CNS disease (with or without evidence of viral
      dissemination to other organs, such as the skin, liver, and lungs) will qualify for this
      study. Following a 21 day course of treatment with intravenous (IV) acyclovir, infants with
      CNS disease, with or without cutaneous involvement, will be randomized to either continuous
      oral acyclovir or placebo (CNS Sub-Study). Similarly, infants with disseminated disease with
      CNS involvement will be randomized to either continuous oral acyclovir or placebo
      (Disseminated with CNS Involvement Sub-Study). The subset of infants with CNS disease (with
      or without dissemination) who do not clear their acute infection in 21 days of IV acyclovir
      therapy will be eligible for enrollment in a Pilot Sub-Study. This group is expected to be of
      insufficient number to be able to obtain statistical significance for establishing efficacy.
      Per protocol amendment dated 19-Nov-1998, 66 subjects will be recruited into each sub-study.
      Subjects will begin oral drug therapy 8 hours after the final IV acyclovir dose and oral drug
      therapy will be administered for 6 months. Whole blood (1.0 cubic centimeter) will be
      obtained at study enrollment and at completion of IV antiviral therapy for HSV PCR analysis,
      per protocol amendment dated 4-May-1998. This amendment replaces the obtaining of serum for
      HSV PCR analysis. In the event that whole blood is not available, serum will be provided
      instead. All children will be followed at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months of age. Physical
      examination, hearing assessment, and retinal examination will be performed at each follow-up
      visit. Standardized neurological evaluations will be performed at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60
      months. The primary study endpoint will evaluate neurological impairment at 12 months of
      life. The secondary endpoints will evaluate post-randomization detection of HSV DNA in CSF by
      PCR at any time during the initial 12 months of life and 2 or fewer episodes
      post-randomization of cutaneous recurrence of HSV disease during the initial 12 months of
      life.
    
  