
    
      Coeliac disease (CD) is an autoimmune condition by the exposure to gluten in patients who are
      genetically susceptible. The global prevalence is thought to be 1%, and incidence rate of CD
      in the UK is approximately 13.8 per 100,000 person-years with greater than fourfold increase
      in incidence over the past two decades [1]. CD has variable clinical presentations including
      iron deficiency anaemia, diarrhoea, bloating, weight loss, osteoporosis, rash and rarely
      lymphoma. The ingestion of gluten triggers an immune response with the production of
      antibodies and an inflammatory destruction of small bowel (duodenal) mucosa (villous
      atrophy). The degree of villous atrophy is categorised based on duodenal biopsy analysis
      according to the Marsh classification [2]. Serological testing for antibody formation has
      varying sensitivity and specificity for CD with extent of villous damage [3]. At present the
      diagnosis of CD required confirmation on histopathological analysis of duodenal biopsy [4].
      The British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG) requires the investigation of CD in all
      patients with iron deficiency anaemia as well as other symptoms above suggestive of CD [5].
      Gastroscopy and duodenal biopsies are the current gold standard for exclusion or confirmation
      of CD [6]. Examination with standard white light endoscopy (WLE) can reveal patchy redness
      (erythema) of the small bowel mucosa and possibly appearance of flattening of the duodenal
      villi however due to limited sensitivity especially in milder cases of villous distortion and
      atrophy, biopsy is warranted [7]. Owing to this patchy nature of villous atrophy, orientation
      of biopsy is also imperative for accurate diagnosis of CD including biopsies from the
      duodenal bulb as well as the second part of the duodenum [8,9]. Although biopsy is the gold
      standard for diagnosis of CD, it is limited by inadequate quality and orientation of sampling
      contributing to false negative [10]. Various endoscopic imaging techniques have been studied
      for the diagnosis of CD by assessment of villous architecture. The water immersion technique
      involves filling the lumen of the duodenum with water has shown promising sensitivity and
      specificity for the diagnosis of CD. Further study to assess reproducibility are warranted
      [11,12]. Magnification endoscopy has demonstrated reasonable positive and negative predictive
      value with a fair degree of reproducibility within the remit of preliminary data [13]. The
      addition of agents to enhance villous architecture during endoscopic examination such a water
      soluble blue dye spray (chromendoscopy) or ascetic acid have been assessed. Chromendoscopy
      has shown promising sensitivity and specificity for CD, however it has not been consistently
      demonstrated to be superior to WLE alone and no further benefit achieved when combining
      chromendoscopy to magnification endoscopy [14,15]. Furthermore, chromendoscopy is limited by
      operator technical ability in achieving a uniform coating of dye, interpretation and prolongs
      time and cost [16]. The addition of ascetic acid increased sensitivity for detecting villous
      atrophy and demonstrating the patchy nature of this to aid target biopsy but there is
      insufficient evidence to support the use of this for endoscopic diagnosis of CD alone [17].
      Preliminary data for digital imaging technology; virtual chromendoscopy provided by Fujinon
      Intelligent Chromo Endoscopy (FICE) and i-scan developed by Pentax Medical, Japan have been
      conducted for the diagnoses of CD. FICE with magnification has shown 100% accuracy for
      evaluating villous patterns and i-scan for the diagnosis of total villous atrophy using
      I-scan but studies demonstrating reproduction of this have not been conducted [18,19]. Narrow
      Band Imaging (NBI) provides an IEE technique unique to Olympus Medical Systems. NBI provides
      unique images based on penetrative properties of light in tissue which is directly
      proportional to wavelength with a use of a filter integral to the endoscope which is switched
      on using a button on the hand control at the time of examination. This filter produces two
      narrow bands at specific wavelengths; 415nm blue light and 540nm green light which is
      absorbed by superficial and deep mucosal vessels respectively. NBI provides a distinct
      contrast between vascular architecture and mucosa as NBI wavelength is reflected by mucosa
      but absorbed by blood vessels and has been shown to add diagnostic value in a variety of
      diagnostic settings most notably in the distinction between neoplastic and non-neoplastic
      lesions of the gastrointestinal tract [20]. It is the distortion of the villous vascular
      pattern as seen with varying degrees of villous atrophy that has the potential of making an
      optical diagnosis of coeliac disease even in its early stages, obviating the need for routine
      biopsy [9]. Clear endoscopic images of villous atrophy in comparison to healthy villi have
      been published using high resolution narrow band imaging in known CD [21]. Preliminary study
      of magnification in combination with NBI has shown feasibility for the detection of both
      total villous and partial villous atrophy, superiority to WLE with observer agreement
      [22,23]. A prospective observational study assessing the use of narrow band imaging in
      assessing duodenal villous atrophy in a variety of clinical scenarios has been performed
      however patients with a known diagnosis of coeliac disease were excluded [24,25]. These
      studies are limited by small sample size with only preliminary data for inter-observer
      variation. Dual focus NBI is a unique imaging system to Olympus endoscopic technology
      involving two-stage optical system operated by a single push of a button on the controller.
      The 'near' mode provides higher resolution power compared to previous NBI generations and
      holds enhanced brightness and contrast ability. This study will assess the ability of dual
      focus NBI for the endoscopic diagnosis of coeliac disease. To date there are no large
      prospective observational cohort studies evaluating conventional endoscopy and dual focus
      narrow band imaging for the endoscopic diagnosis and assessment of coeliac disease.
      Additionally there is limited data on inter-observer variation using NBI across degrees of
      endoscopic expertise; an important consideration when translating research findings to wide
      clinical practice. Additionally, NBI is readily available in most UK endoscopy centres making
      its implementation in practice relatively straightforward and of limited financial
      implication.
    
  