
    
      It is a multicentric national randomized controlled, parallel-group in a 1:1 ratio, open
      labelled trial of superiority.

      The main objective is to compare the efficacy of Anakinra (Interleukin 1 receptor type 1 -
      receptor antagonist) with 2nd IVIG infusion, in second line, on fever in patients with KD,
      who failed to respond to one infusion of IVIG(standard treatment).

      The main criterion-evaluating efficacy in both groups is: the patient must reach a body
      (axillary (+0.5°C), tympanic, oral) temperature <38˚C within 2 days after initiation of
      treatment (i.e. a binary outcome: success/failure).

      The secondary objectives are to compare Anakinra with IVIG retreatment in terms of:

        -  Efficacy on fever at 72h

        -  Efficacy on disease activity

        -  Efficacy on KD symptoms

        -  Efficacy on coronary lesions (e.g.: dilatation and aneurysm)

        -  Efficacy on inflammation

        -  Safety and tolerability Secondary End Points (linked with the secondary objectives)

      To compare Anakinra with IVIG retreatment in terms of:

        -  Temperature <38˚C within 3 days (72h) after initiation of treatment

        -  Decrease of the CRP values from baseline to day 30(CRP<6 mg/L at day 30)

        -  Reduction in physician assessment of disease activity, on a 10 points scale, of at least
           to 50% between baseline and day 14.

        -  Reduction in patient's parent's assessment of disease activity, on a 10 points scale, of
           to at least 50% between baseline and day 14.

        -  Resolution of coronary abnormalities; i.e worst Z score <2.5, by echocardiogram if
           present at day 45.

        -  Adverse events: pain/redness at injection site, bacterial infection hepatitis,
           macrophage activation syndrome, severe neutropenia,

        -  Monitoring of adverse events

             -  Physical examination: Complete clinical exam will be performed at each visit to
                detect symptoms of KD (rash, cervical nodes, mucous lesions, extremities, GI,
                pulmonary, cardio vascular, neurologic and muscular/joint evaluation) and possible
                associated morbidity: e.g. concomitant infection

             -  Local tolerability of injections: will be evaluated by physician from V2 to V8:
                pain, redness, swelling, induration, itching, haemorrhage, (and quoted from none,
                mild, moderate, severe)

             -  Vital signs and body measurements: at each visit: V1 to V9. The body temperature
                will be measured daily until d30. Parents will receive a follow-up booklet..

             -  Laboratory evaluations: hematologic, hepatic and renal assessment will be followed

      Group 1: KINERET:

      KINERET® in the form of prefilled syringe with 100 mg of anakinra per 0.67 ml (150 mg/mL) and
      adapted to paediatric population, in pack sizes of 7. Patients in group I, will receive a
      starting dose of anakinra is 4 mg/kg at visit D1 (or day 0, if possible). During visits D1
      and D2, if patients are still febrile with 12 hours (H12) of treatment, they will receive a
      supplementary dose of 2 mg/Kg; otherwise, they will remain at a starting dose of 4mg/kg. If
      they are still febrile at H24, they will receive a dose of 8mg/kg; otherwise, they will
      maintain their dose of 6 mg/kg. Patients with temperature <38°C at any point between
      initiation and day 14, but who develop secondary fever due to KD could have further
      escalation dose of anakinra until a maximum dose of 8mg/Kg.

      Group 2: IVIG Immunoglobulins concentrates used for the ANACOMP study should be preferably
      the specialty PRIVIGEN® 100mg/mL (=10g of human immunoglobulins) solute for intravenous
      infusion, manufactured by CSL Behring (Commonwealth Serum Laboratories). Other presentations
      in mL (25, 50, 200, 400 exist corresponding to respectively 2.5g, 5g, 20, and 40g of
      immunoglobulins). Patients in group II, will receive one infusion of 2g/kg of intravenous
      Immunoglobulins at visit D1 (or day 0, if possible)
    
  