
    
      The study aim is to investigate the differences between sex and gender in the immune-related
      adverse events (irAEs) development associated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI)
      treatment.

      In common feeling, sex and gender represent the same concept, that is the traditional
      division of individuals into females (F) and males (M) defined by differential organization
      of chromosomes, reproductive organs, and sex steroid levels. However, if going beyond these
      aspects, which characterize "sex", it can be observed how the differences between people are
      also characterized by behaviors and relationships that are the product of the culture and
      sociality typical of human beings. This is what is called "gender", i.e. the process of
      social and cultural construction that determines the behaviors that give life to the status
      of an individual. Gender is therefore learned and not innate. Sex and gender do not
      constitute two opposing but interdependent dimensions: the process of determining gender
      identity is triggered on biological characters. The relationship between sex and gender
      varies according to geographical areas, historical periods and cultures.

      Sex influences the adaptive immunity, and may influence irAEs types, frequency and severity.
      Together with genetic and biological differences, the roots of irAEs inequalities between F
      and M could be linked to psycho-social and behavioral determinants. IrAEs usually develop
      within the first few weeks to 6 months after treatment initiation; however, they can also
      present after cessation of ICI therapy. Most studies indicate that prolonged treatment does
      not result in an increased cumulative incidence of irAEs. Accumulating evidences support the
      existence of sex-driven differences in immune responses as potential factors contributing to
      disease outcome and response to therapy. Increasing use of ICI is associated with
      immune-related adverse events caused by non-specific activation of the immune system.

      The investigators will conduct a multicenter prospective observational study investigating
      sex differences in irAEs in relation to clinical factors and genetic, immunological and
      hormonal profiles. By focusing on biological F/M differences possibly affecting discrepant
      irAEs incidence, sex inequality will be explicitly addressed and complemented by the
      exploration of association between gender dimension and irAEs development. Exploring the
      irAEs occurrence in a "real world" (outside RCT) context will be more easily translated in a
      ready-to-use personalized approach to irAEs timely diagnosis and treatment.
    
  