
    
      The proposed study is a prospective, randomized, double-blinded clinical trial intended to
      further define the appropriate duration of antibiotic (cefazolin) administration for surgical
      prophylaxis in the internal fixation of closed fractures. Our hypothesis is that there will
      be no difference in the incidence of infection between single-dose versus 24 hours of
      antibiotic prophylaxis. The null hypothesis is that multiple-dose antibiotic prophylaxis will
      have a decreased incidence of infection.

      Research Design:

      A prospective, randomized, double-blinded clinical trial will be conducted to evaluate the
      duration of antibiotic prophylaxis. After investigators obtain Institutional Review Board
      approval, recruited patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. Both groups will
      receive 1 gram (g) of IV cefazolin prior to incision, per standard protocol at our
      institution. If a tourniquet is used, the cefazolin will be administered at least 10 minutes
      prior to inflation. A 2-g dose of cefazolin will be administered IV for patients weighing
      more than 80 kg. A second 1-g dose of cefazolin will be given three hours later if the
      patient is still in the operating room. Upon completion of the surgical procedure, Group I
      will receive 1-g doses of cefazolin every eight hours for the next 24 hours. Group II will
      receive no additional antibiotic. Instead, they will receive normal saline injection every
      eight hours as a placebo. Group assignments will not be disclosed to the evaluators
      responsible for clinical examination or to the patients until the end of the study.

      Either an orthopaedic surgeon or nurse practitioner will evaluate the patients for the
      development of a wound infection. Follow-up will occur at 10-14 days, six weeks, 12 weeks,
      and every six to eight weeks thereafter until bony union occurs. Wound infection will be
      defined as one or more of the classic signs and symptoms of inflammation (rubor, calor,
      tumor, dolor) together with purulent drainage at the operative site. Wound infections will be
      classified either as superficial (infection of the skin or subcutaneous tissue, not
      communicating with the bone) or deep (infection that reached bone or material implanted for
      osteosynthesis). Bacteriological cultures will be obtained in the event of infectious
      complications, but wound infections will be diagnosed clinically.

      Several studies have demonstrated that there are numerous patient-related and
      treatment-related factors that predispose to infectious complications. We will use several of
      these factors to assign a risk score to each of the enrolled patients. Each factor will be
      worth one point for a total score ranging from 0 (lowest risk) to 7 (highest risk). The risk
      factors are: 1) smoking; 2) age >65; 3) diabetes mellitus; 4) obesity (BMI >35); 5) duration
      of surgery >3 hours; 6) urinary catheterization (0=no catheter, 1=catheter <48 hours,
      2=catheter >48 hours).

      Statistical evaluation will be conducted by Student's t-test for patient characteristics and
      chi square analysis for infection rates. The relation between wound infection and the various
      possible risk factors will be assessed by forward stepwise logistic regression analysis.
      Significance will be defined at the P < 0.05 level.
    
  