
    
      If you agree to be in this study you will be admitted in to the General Clinical Research
      Center (GCRC) for approximately 24 hours on two different days (Part 1 and Part2). We will
      need you take a portion of your lamotrigine medication in a special form through a needle in
      your arm (intravenously). The special form of the drug is the same drug as you normally take
      except that it has a stable label (a NON-radioactive, naturally occurring atom) on the
      compound so that we can trace a small amount of the drug through your body. No commercial
      product of lamotrigine for intravenous use is available because of its poor solubility in
      water. The intravenous formulation used for this study has a chemical,
      hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin, that improves the solubility of lamotrigine in water. This
      formulation is similar to an intravenous formulation approved for another drug, Sporanox®
      (itraconazole) that is approved by the FDA. We have obtained approval form the FDA for this
      intravenous lamotrigine product to be used for research purposes and it has been shown to be
      safe in more than twenty younger individuals. We will collect fourteen (14) blood samples
      through a small tube placed into a vein in your arm and collect all of your urine over a
      period of 24 hours. One blood sample will then be drawn each day for 3 days for a total blood
      collection of seventeen (17 tubes (totaling approximately 170 mL or 11.5 tablespoons). The
      samples taken from you will be measured for blood chemistries and concentrations of
      lmaotrigine and its metabolites resulting from the medication that you take to control your
      disease (epilepsy or depression)

      For the second part of the study, you will be switched from your regular lamotrigine
      (Lamictal®) to once daily morning dosing of an extended-release formulation of Lamictal-XR®
      (at the same total daily dose). You will remain on the extended-release lamotrigine
      (Lamictal-XR) for two weeks, after which you will be re-admitted to the GCRC for 24 hours for
      Part 2 of the study. Study drug administration and blood and urine sampling will be identical
      to Part I. The extended-release formulation and your regular lamotrigine have been determined
      by the manufacturer in preliminary studies to be absorbed the same (bioequivalent0. You will
      not need to change your total daily dose and will only have to take your lamotrigine once
      daily with the extended-release product. Your blood levels of lamotrigine will be checked to
      insure that your are achieving the appropriate concentration with new extended-release
      product. For this study, you will be given a one-month supply free of charge of the
      extended-release formulation. After the study is completed, you would return to taking your
      regular lamotrigine dosing. If the FDA has approved the XR formulation at the end of the
      study, you and your doctor may decide to keep you on the extended-release form of the drug.

      With your consent, a genetics sample, consisting of three (3) additional blood tubes
      (totaling approximately six teaspoonfuls) will also be collected for a genetic analysis. The
      genetics sample will be identified with a subject number that corresponds to your other
      samples. We will use this sample to determine the genetic sequence of DNA that you have that
      is responsible for encoding proteins that are responsible for breaking down or transporting
      medications like lamotrigine so that they can be eliminated from your body. You can choose to
      participate in the main study without taking part in the genetics portion of the study. If
      you withdraw from the main study, the genetics sample will be discarded with the rest of the
      samples. if you choose to participate in the genetics portion of the study, we will store the
      genetics sample indefinitely, however, no testing other than for specific DNA sequences will
      be done unless we have contact you and received permission to do so.
    
  