
    
      Residual limb pain and phantom limb pain (PLP) have been shown to be associated with decrease
      in prosthetic function and poor quality of life. It is estimated that the prevalence of PLP
      is as high as 85% and residual limb pain 10-76%. The treatment of amputee-related pain
      continues to rely largely on pharmacologic therapy, and typically opioids. Targeted Muscle
      Innervation (TMR) first performed by Dr. Dumanian, is a peripheral nerve transfer procedure
      that reroutes amputated axons to motor endplates and sensory organelles in nearby muscles,
      giving amputated nerves "somewhere to go and something to do" which may play a role in
      preventing development of neuromas and phantom limb pain.

      A multicenter retrospective study found that upper-extremity amputees who subsequently
      underwent TMR ("secondary TMR") experienced relief in neuroma pain post-operatively. Other
      studies have shown that amputees who have undergone TMR have decreased narcotic use and
      improvement in prosthetic tolerance. A randomized controlled trial demonstrated that major
      limb amputees who underwent TMR had decreased phantom limb pain and residual limb pain
      compared with those who underwent traditional treatment of neuroma excision and burying into
      muscle. A subsequent study found that patients undergoing major limb amputation with
      immediate TMR ("primary TMR") had less PLP and residual limb pain than untreated amputee
      controls. A recent prospective study of patients undergoing TMR at time of major limb
      amputation secondary to trauma had overall low pain scores, and neuromodulator medication use
      and overall high rate of daily prosthetic use. Oncologic patients who underwent amputation
      with concurrent TMR demonstrated decreased neuroma symptoms, PLP and residual limb pain
      compared to oncologic amputees who did not undergo TMR. However, 32% of patients who
      underwent TMR for upper extremity amputation did not finish prosthetic rehabilitation,
      despite showing overall improved functional outcome scores.

      Thus, there is increasing evidence that TMR, both primary and secondary, can prevent or
      improve pain from neuroma, phantom and residual limb pain. There is also evidence that TMR
      may promote early use of prosthetics and reduce reliance on narcotic medications. Prior
      studies have largely relied on outcome measures such as Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for pain
      and pain-related instruments from the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information
      System (PROMIS) toolbox. More comprehensive data is limited on patient's functional status
      and quality of life, and thus far there is a lack of studies using patient-reported outcome
      instruments specific to patients with upper or lower extremity conditions. There is also
      limited data on patient desires and expectations for pursuing TMR, and subsequent
      satisfaction after having undergone the procedure.

      Retrospective Cross-sectional study: Medical record review, electronic survey, optional
      interview This is a mixed methods, cross-sectional study assessing major limb amputee
      patients who have undergone TMR. It includes a medical record review to collect demographic
      information listed below, and an electronic survey (quantitative study), as well as
      interviews with a subset of subjects (qualitative study). Patients who have had at least 6
      months follow up will be invited to participate in the electronic survey, which will include
      questions from validated patient-reported outcome instruments to measure function and quality
      of life. Patients will also be invited to be interviewed by phone using a set of open-ended
      questions. Thematic content analysis will be used to evaluate the participants' responses,
      and with the objective to examine the patient's motivations for undergoing TMR and their
      postoperative course, including pain, daily function, quality of life.

      Prospective Cohort study: Medical record review, electronic survey, optional interview This
      is a mixed methods cohort study of patients with history of major limb amputation who will be
      undergoing secondary TMR, and patients who will be undergoing a major limb amputation with
      primary TMR. It includes a medical record review to collect demographic information listed
      below. The pre-survey will be administered between time of pre-operative evaluation to just
      prior to the operation, and the post-survey will be administered between 6-18 months after
      surgery. Each subject will also be invited to be interviewed by phone (or in person if at
      University of Wisconsin for follow up appointment), with set of open-ended questions focused
      on motivations for undergoing TMR, and their postoperative course including pain, daily
      function, quality of life.

      General amputee population: Electronic survey ONLY To define normative data for general
      amputee population, the electronic survey with patient reported outcomes measures will be
      administered to amputees recruited from prosthetic, orthotic, orthopedic, vascular, oncologic
      or other amputee clinics and support groups.

      For all above, the electronic survey, which will be administered via REDCap, will take
      approximately 7-8 minutes to complete. The interview will take 15-20 minutes to complete.

      Study Aims:

        -  Aim 1: Evaluate functional status and quality of life of patients who have undergone
           primary or secondary TMR using patient reported outcome instruments

        -  Aim 2: Compare functional status and quality of life of primary TMR patients to those of
           general amputee population

        -  Aim 3: Compare pre-operative and post-operative functional status and quality of life of
           secondary TMR patients

        -  Aim 4: Compare post-operative functional status and quality of life of secondary TMR
           patients to those of general amputee population

        -  Aim 5: Evaluate patient desire, expectations and satisfaction with undergoing TMR (via
           survey and structured interview)
    
  