
    
      Cross sectional and population-based studies indicate that at least one third of all patients
      with congestive heart failure (CHF) have a normal or near normal ejection fraction, which is
      thought to be secondary to diastolic dysfunction or failure. The mortality rates among the
      patients with diastolic failure ranges from 5-8% annually, as compared with 10-15% among
      patients with systolic heart failure. The morbidity associated with diastolic heart failure
      is similar to that of systolic heart failure. Several studies have shown that even simple
      Doppler evidence of diastolic dysfunction is an independent risk factor for the development
      of CHF and cardiac death and increased all cause mortality. Several studies indicate that
      left ventricular diastolic dysfunction (LVDD) represent the earliest preclinical
      manifestation of diabetic cardiomyopathy that can progress to symptomatic heart failure.
      Recent studies have demonstrated up to 60% of asymptomatic, normotensive patients with type 2
      diabetes have LVDD when assessed by conventional echocardiography including the response to
      the Valsalva maneuver. A recent study using conventional Doppler, valsalva maneuver, color
      M-mode echocardiography and tissue doppler imaging assessed the diastolic dysfunction in
      asymptomatic normotensive patients with diabetes mellitus and found diastolic dysfunction in
      about 75% of these patients. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients
      with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Although diabetic patients have a large number of
      cardiovascular risk factors, like hyperlipidemia and hypertension, the diabetic
      cardiomyopathy occurs independent of these risk factors. Recently animal models have shown
      that LVDD may be prevented by chronic treatment with peroxisome-proliferator-activated
      receptors gamma (PPAR) agonists, like thiazolidinediones, in type 2 diabetic rats.
      Thiazolidinediones act through PPAR, but the exact mechanism by which they improve LVDD is
      not known. With this background knowledge, we wanted to study the effect of Pioglitazone,
      which is PPAR agonist and partial PPAR agonist, on the left ventricular diastolic dysfunction
      in type 2 diabetic human subjects, which has not been studied so far. If this therapy proves
      to have beneficial effect on the LVDD it will help in preventing the deleterious consequences
      of diastolic dysfunction in diabetic patients.
    
  