
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful, degenerative disease of the affected joints. According to
      surveys by the World Health Organization (WHO) knee and hip joint OA is one of the diseases
      that make up the largest proportion of all disability diseases.

      On the individual patient level, there is a pronounced limitation of the quality of life,
      which can also lead to the development of secondary diseases. There are numerous methods
      available for the treatment of OA, the spectrum of which ranges from conservative measures
      such as physical therapy or medical procedures up to surgical procedures, especially joint
      replacement. In recent years, the number of prostheses implanted in knee and hip joints has
      increased significantly.

      International guidelines such as those of the American College of Rheumatologists recommend
      conservative treatment of OA of the knee and hip joint with physical therapy.
      Multidisciplinary approaches include aerobic and anaerobic exercise training, in particular
      with the aim of weight loss in overweight participants, participant education for
      self-management of the disease and the consideration of psychosocial factors. This
      comprehensive, structured, conservative program for the treatment of OA achieves
      significantly better results than the standard treatment. However, comparable programs, which
      offer comprehensive management of OA are not widely available.

      Digital therapies represent a novel approach to help patients manage themselves and their
      diseases in a home setting and even show better results than current standard therapies. An
      analysis of a smartphone intervention providing a multidisciplinary approach for
      self-management of lower back pain, the Kaia Back Pain Relief app, shows promising results in
      180 users with a significant and clinically relevant reduction of pain levels.

      Based on these promising results, this study will evaluate the effectiveness of the Kaia Knee
      and Hip pain app intervention in comparison to usual medical care in reducing pain and
      disease-related symptoms in participants with OA over 3 months.
    
  