
    
      Data from 2015 show that American Indians/Alaska Natives (AI/ANs) have the highest rates of
      diagnosis for opioid use disorders (OUD) and deaths from drug overdose. Misuse of
      prescription opioids, defined here as taking opioid medications in a manner or dose other
      than prescribed or for hedonic effects, and the use of heroin, have emerged as major public
      health concerns in the United States. Of particular concern is the prevalence of opioid use
      among emerging adults (ages 18-25) as this is a developmental period of heightened
      vulnerability and critical social, neurological, and psychological development.

      Unique risk factors may predispose urban AI/AN young adults to use opioids, alcohol or other
      drugs. For example, experiences of acculturative stress directly and indirectly associated
      with historical trauma experienced by AI/ANs throughout U.S. history result in poor health
      outcomes. One U.S. law that has been postulated to contribute to various health disparities
      among urban AI/ANs is the Relocation Act of 1956. This Act financed the relocation of
      individual AIs and AI families to job training centers in designated U.S. cities. Rather than
      establishing economic stability, large numbers of AIs who moved to urban areas became
      unemployed, homeless, and disconnected from their community-based support networks. This
      relocation appears to have contributed to an inter-generational effect whereby successive
      generations of urban AIs and ANs continue to experience various health-related disparities.
      Our work with urban AI/AN adolescents highlighted that many experience stress related to
      identity in the form of both subtle (e.g., being asked whether one is a "real" Indian) and
      overt (e.g., being called a racist name like Squaw or Red Skin) discrimination. Programming
      that incorporates traditional practices, promotes community involvement, and encourages
      healthy notions of AI/AN identity may increase well-being and healthy behaviors by addressing
      sources of stress linked to cultural identity, stigma, and community connections. However,
      few evidence-based programs that integrate these cultural elements have been developed,
      implemented, and evaluated with urban AI/AN using a strong research design. The current study
      substantially extends work with AI/AN emerging adults by adapting and testing an integrated
      culturally appropriate MI and social network intervention to address opioid and other AOD
      (alcohol and other drug) misuse at both the individual and community level.
    
  