
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Syncope is a common medical problem with up to 30 percent of normal individuals reporting one
      or more syncopal episodes. Thus, physicians of all specialties are frequently confronted by
      patients with syncope. The spectrum of diseases which may cause syncope is broad, ranging
      from common benign problems to severe life-threatening disorders. Because of the complexity
      of the clinical situation when an obvious cause for syncope is not found, patients may be
      subjected to a significant period of hospitalization and a large number of diagnostic tests.
      Retrospective and prospective studies have shown that many diagnostic tests are frequently
      employed but are infrequently diagnostic of a cause of syncope. Thus, studies have shown that
      when a cause is established or suggested, the majority of diagnoses are assigned based on
      initial history and physical examination. An initial electrocardiogram is helpful in
      assigning a cause of syncope in only approximately five percent of additional patients. In a
      prior study prolonged electrocardiographic monitoring was helpful in assigning a cause of
      syncope in approximately fifteen percent of patients. Other studies of prolonged
      electrocardiographic monitoring in patients with syncope reveal that arrhythmias as a
      potential cause of syncope are found in eleven to sixty-four percent of patients. Diagnostic
      procedures such as EEG, head CT scan, brain scan, cerebral angiography, echocardiography, and
      cardiac catheterization rarely establish a cause of syncope but are useful when employed
      selectively for diagnosis of specific etiologies of syncope.

      These studies of diagnostic evaluation of syncope, therefore, clearly indicate that there is
      a subgroup of patients with syncope who have arrhythmias as a cause of their syncope which
      were not apparent from initial history, physical examination, and EKG. Therefore, prolonged
      electrocardiographic monitoring has assumed a central role in the diagnostic evaluation of
      this group of patients for detection of arrhythmias. Because of the prognostic and
      therapeutic importance of arrhythmias causing syncope, it is important to identify patients
      who are likely to have arrhythmias from the data available at presentation. There were no
      studies prior to 1987 attempting to identify such patients at presentation. The predictors of
      diagnostic arrhythmias at presentation may be helpful for four reasons. First, the variables
      suggesting high likelihood of arrhythmias may provide a basis for decisions regarding the
      need for hospital admission. Secondly, predictors of diagnostic arrhythmias may identify
      patients who may need to be monitored immediately as opposed to electively. Thirdly, patients
      who have predictors of diagnostic arrhythmias may be more appropriate candidates for invasive
      diagnostic testing such as intracardiac electrophysiologic studies. Fourthly, since patients
      with arrhythmias are at high risk of sudden death, these predictors may identify an
      appropriate subset of patients for further studies involving therapeutic interventions. Since
      many patients with syncope have multiple risk factors for sudden death, the development of a
      multifactorial model to more effectively and expeditiously predict the degree of risk of
      sudden death may be important in the management of patients with syncope after initial
      presentation.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Two models were validated in this longitudinal study including one which predicted sudden
      death and one which predicted diagnostic arrhythmias on monitoring. The model for prediction
      of sudden death was developed in patients in whom a cause of syncope was not established by
      initial history and physical examination. The predictors in this model included a history of
      diabetes mellitus, renal insufficiency, left ventricular hypertrophy, left bundle branch
      block, and left axis deviation. The model of predictors of diagnostic arrhythmias was
      developed in patients in whom a cause of syncope was not established from initial history,
      physical examination, or EKG and included a history of ventricular tachycardia and an
      abnormal EKG by specific criteria.

      Patients with syncope were accrued from the emergency room, the inpatient services and the
      ambulatory clinics of the Presbyterian University Hospital of Pittsburgh. All patients
      underwent a basic standardized evaluation consisting of a history, physical examination,
      baseline laboratory tests, electrocardiogram, prolonged electrocardiographic monitoring, and
      special diagnostic tests as necessary. Diagnosis of a cause of syncope was assigned by
      standardized criteria. Follow-up information regarding sudden death and mortality was
      obtained at three-month intervals until the end of the study. Causes of death were assigned
      in a standardized manner.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  