
    
      Quality of clinical study procedures will be checked by on-site audit.

      Patient self-reported past medical history will be checked by reviewing medical records.

      Paper case report forms will be used.

      For the baseline extensive study of sleep habits, the following data are recorded:

        -  Self-reported sleep diary (7 days)

        -  Actimetric device (7 days)

        -  Munich Chronotype Questionnaire

        -  24h-dietary recall

        -  Salivary collections every 30 minutes between 7:30 pm and 22:00 pm on one night to
           address the dim light melatonin onset.

        -  Other questionnaires: Job strain questionnaire, EPICES (precarity questionnaire) and
           DQOL (diabetes related quality of life)

        -  Nocturnal oxymetry

      Blood measurements: HbA1c, lipidic profile, microalbuminuria, creatinin

      After baseline assessment, patients having an abnormal nocturnal oximetry will be explored by
      polysomnography in order to detect a sleep apnea syndrome.

      Investigators anticipate, based on a previous pilot study of our group ("Borel" Diab Med
      2010), that 30% of screened patients will present with sleep apnea.

      If patients present with severe sleep apnea (IAH > 30 events/hour) and HbA1c > 7.5%, they
      will be randomized for the intervention.

      Sample size: based on a previous study by "Pallayova" et al. in patients having type 2
      diabetes, investigators anticipate a difference between groups of 1.3 (SD 2.07) for the mean
      nocturnal glycemia. For a alpha threshold of 5% and a study power of 80%, the study should
      include 32 patients in each group. Taking in account a possible 25% of dropout the study will
      need to include 40 patients by randomized arm to demonstrate an effect.

      Statistical analysis: An intention-to-treat analysis will be performed. Missing data for the
      continuous positive airway pressure group will be replaced by the median value at three-month
      of the sham-continuous positive airway pressure group and reciprocally.

      In a second analysis, a per-protocol analysis will be performed limited to patients having
      completed their treatment in allocated group and having an adherence to continuous positive
      airway pressure or sham-continuous positive airway pressure treatment for more than 4-hours a
      night.

      Normality of data will be checked by Kurtosis and Skewness tests. The significance level will
      be set at 5%.
    
  