
    
      STUDY DESIGN: This is a phase 1/2A, non randomized, multi-center, ascending dose, study to
      assess the effectiveness and safety of AGLE-102 on lesions in subjects with EB.

      Eligible subjects will undergo a one-month observation period to confirm that the targeted
      wound is chronic (only single wounds with evidence of less than 20% closure over that period
      will be eligible for treatment). Once this has been established, up to 6 administrations of
      BM-MSC EVs will occur, at each to be given over a period of no more than 3 months. A maximum
      of 50 cm2 in total wound surface will be treated, and each administration will occur 14 days
      (+/- 7 days) but no less than 7 days apart. If the wound closes prior to 6 administrations,
      no additional doses will be given. Wound closure will be determined by complete
      re-epithelialization that is not subject to re-injury during dressing changes or as a result
      of normal daily activities (e.g. wearing clothing, eating, sleeping). After the 6 doses of
      BM-MSC EVs are given, the wound will be followed monthly for a period of 4 months to the
      termination of the study at 8 months or, in the event the wound closes before receiving all 6
      doses, for 4 month after the wound closes. The ARANZ SilhouetteStarTM will be used to measure
      the target lesion at all visits.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective: The primary objective is to determine the safety of applying single
      administrations of 2 ascending dose levels of EVs derived from allogeneic MSCs to DEB wounds
      between 10 and 50 cm2 that have persisted for more than one month

      Secondary Objectives: The secondary objectives are to determine the safety of applying
      multiple administrations of 2 ascending dose levels of EVs derived from allogeneic MSCs to
      DEB wounds between 10 and 50 cm2 that have persisted for more than one month and to determine
      if there is clinical benefit (>50% closure) of applying BM-MSC EVs to DEB wounds

      PLANNED SAMPLE SIZE: 10 subjects will be treated on the protocol with AGLE-102.
    
  