
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of morbidity and disability among the aged population around the
      world, and its incidence is still rising recently. The cerebrovascular diseases can be
      approximately divided as two types, namely ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. Their
      pathophysiological processes and therapeutical strategies are totally different. For
      hemorrhagic stroke, which takes up about 20% patients with cerebrovascular diseases, there is
      a lack of valid medical management in the very early stage except surgical hematoma removal.
      Whereas it's the key management for ischemic stroke to recanalize the occluded artery and
      restore blood flow before the irreversible brain damage. According the Guidelines for the
      Prevention of Stroke in Patients with Stroke and Transient Ischemic Attack, intravenous
      thrombolysis within 3-4.5 hours is highly recommended for acute ischemic stroke patients. The
      time window of thrombolysis after ischemic stroke is extremely narrow and greatly affected
      the patients' outcomes.

      Despite the efficacious therapy exists, the rate of successful early thrombolysis is still
      awfully low, especially in the developing countries. Only 3-5% stroke patients can take
      advantage of the early thrombolysis. There are two major reasons response for such a low
      successful thrombolysis rate, including the civilian and some first-aid personnel hasn't
      mastered the timing of thrombolysis therapy for ischemic stroke. That would be improved by
      propaganda and education of the stroke knowledge. But what's more critical is the difficulty
      to diagnose the ischemic stroke with the hemorrhagic stroke from the early symptoms and
      signs. It's with high risk of enlarging the hematoma if the patients with hemorrhagic stroke
      received the thrombolytic drugs. For this reason, it's hard for the doctors to provide the
      correct treatment at the first time before imaging examination finished. And the time cost by
      CT or MRI examination is likely to responsible for missing the narrow time window and poor
      prognosis of stroke patients. Consequently, seeking for a noninvasive, rapid, portable and
      inexpensive diagnosis method which can sensitively distinguish the stroke type before CT or
      MRI examination would be very helpful in treating the ischemic stroke patients. The new
      method would enable the first-aid personnel to judge the stroke type in the ambulance and
      decide to apply intravenous thrombolysis or not.

      Because of the blockage in the cerebral supply artery, especially the cerebral middle artery
      which can't be compensated, the blood flow in the corresponding hemisphere would drop sharply
      among the ischemic stroke patients. Along with decreasing heat from circulatory system, the
      infracted hemisphere's temperature should drop. The reduced brain temperature influenced the
      temperature on the ipsilateral forehead according to the data of our animal and preliminary
      clinical trial. In contrast, the temperature of the ipsilateral hemisphere showed a mild
      increase among the ischemic stroke patients in our preliminary experiment. That's possibly
      because the early mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammatory reaction induced by the
      hematoma. The difference of the temperature tendency on the ipsilateral forehead has a great
      chance to be an early physical mark. Temperature test could be rapid and noninvasive, making
      this mark a promising method to help the doctors to distinguish the stroke type in very early
      stage. Earlier diagnosis of ischemic stroke means earlier thrombolysis and much better
      prognosis.

      In our study, 30 ischemic stroke patients and 30 hemorrhagic stroke patients will be
      recruited. In the process of recruitment, the patients with acute stroke attack in no more
      than 4.5 hours will be collected the temperature at the five point without head coverage,
      including ipsilateral tempora, ipsilateral forehead, galbella, contralateral forehead, and
      contralateral tempora. Then the stroke would be recruited into the ischemic and hemorrhagic
      group according to the later CT or MRI results in the hospital. The accuracy and sensibility
      of early brain temperature in distinguishing stroke type would be tested in comparison with
      the diagnosis of imaging examination. It should be emphasized that the diagnosis and
      following treatment should depend on the imaging examination and our brain temperature test
      is rapid and noninvasive. The therapy of the recruited stroke patients wouldn't be influenced
      by the trial and should be as usual as the standard therapy.
    
  