
    
      Since 2005, there has been greater priority to improving teen sexual health outcomes because
      of increasing teen pregnancy rates and high rates of teens reporting having sexual
      intercourse (approximately 50% of all high school teens). In 2006, approximately 7% of U.S.
      women under the age of 20 became pregnant-152.8 pregnancies per 1,000 women aged 15 to
      193-which is the highest pregnancy rate among all industrialized nations. Adolescents who
      have sex are at greater risk for sexually transmitted infections, including HIV. Practicing
      unsafe sex and having children as a teen come with a great cost to society in terms of lost
      productivity and increased health care spending because young parents and their children
      experience a range of poor health and educational outcomes. Middle school, ages 11-14, is a
      key time to focus on sexual health and pregnancy prevention as it is immediately prior to the
      time when many youth become sexually active. Evidence-based programs (EBPs) for middle school
      youth have been shown to improve teen sexual health outcomes, including increased use of
      contraception, decreased numbers of sexual partners and pregnancies, and delays in first
      sexual intercourse. However, community-based organizations face difficulty implementing EBPs
      with fidelity because resources are limited, EBPs are complex to implement, and program staff
      often lack the capacity-or the knowledge, attitudes, and skills-needed to adopt and implement
      EBPs effectively. As a result, community-based organizations are unable to achieve the
      outcomes demonstrated by researchers. Although the research evidence base is growing
      quickly-with over 50 EBPs shown to improve teen sex outcomes16-the science needed to promote
      successful implementation of these programs in community-based settings is poorly developed.
      Previous efforts to help improve the adoption and implementation of EBPs to prevent teen
      pregnancy either did not improve implementation of EBPs, or did not document how the support
      provided to program implementers translated to improvements in teen sexual health outcomes.
      Large community trials focused on the adoption and implementation of EBPs targeting teen
      sexual health outcomes are needed to assess the type and amount of support that helps
      community-based organizations to implement these EBPs with fidelity and achieve outcomes
      similar to those achieved in research. Therefore, the goal for this 5-year study will be to
      conduct a multi-state, communitybased trial to assess how a capacity-building intervention
      called Getting To Outcomes affects three variables of interest: 32 Boys and Girls Clubs'
      capacity to adopt and implement an EBP (Making Proud Choices or MPC), the fidelity of their
      MPC implementation, and the sex outcomes of the middle school youth they serve.

      The capacity building intervention for program staff called Getting To Outcomes (GTO)
      provides techincal assistance, training, and a manual to improve community-based
      practitioners' capacity to complete tasks associated with implementing an EBP, which in turn
      leads to improved implementation fidelity. Improved implementation fidelity of EBPs like
      Making Proud Choices leads to improved teen sexual health outcomes. In quasi-experimental and
      case studies, GTO has been shown effective in helping community-based organizations implement
      substance abuse prevention EBPs with fidelity and document outcomes. GTO was later adapted by
      CDC in its 5-year Promoting Science Based Approaches to Teen Pregnancy Prevention Project
      (PSBA-GTO). However, CDC did not evaluate GTO's impact on program fidelity or teen sexual
      health outcomes. The proposed randomized, controlled trial would build on the tools developed
      in PSBA-GTO and other GTO projects to compare staff capacity, program fidelity, and teen
      sexual health outcomes across 16 Boys and Girls Clubs implementing MPC in the fashion typical
      of community settings (8 in Atlanta, 8 in Alabama) with 16 Boys and Girls Clubs implementing
      MPC augmented with GTO (also 8 in Atlanta, 8 in Alabama). The specific aims of this
      investigator-initiated R01 are to:

        1. Assess the (a) utilization of and (b) subsequent effects of GTO on program staff
           capacity to implement EBPs

        2. Assess the degree to which Boys and Girls Clubs using GTO show greater improvements in
           MPC fidelity than Boys and Girls Clubs that are not using GTO

        3. Assess the degree to which middle-school-aged youth enrolled in the Boys and Girls Clubs
           using GTO show greater improvements in sexual health outcomes than Boys and Girls Clubs
           that are not using GTO

      This study has the potential to document, for the first time, how a capacity-building
      intervention (GTO) can help community-based organizations implement EBPs and improve teen
      sexual health outcomes. This information is critical as states and particularly the federal
      government are allocating substantial funds to implement EBPs to prevent teen pregnancy in
      community-based settings (e.g., in FY 2010 the Administration for Children and Families
      Office of Adolescent Health dedicated $110 million). As such, the proposed study will inform
      the ongoing debate about how to best improve the implementation of EBPs to achieve better
      teen sexual health outcomes and educate policymakers' about the resources needed for
      successful implementation of EBPs on a large scale.
    
  