
    
      This will be an open-label, randomized, controlled feasibility pilot study to evaluate
      whether using nasal fentanyl (PecFent: 100, 200, 400 or 800 mcg) alone or in combination with
      buccal midazolam (Epistatus: 2.5, 5 or 10 mg) has the possibility to give better breakthrough
      symptom control to dying patients when compared with standard subcutaneous medication (Figure
      1 A and B).

      Each subject and their carers/family members will receive verbal and written information
      followed by signing of the Informed Consent Forms (ICFs). The study is divided into two arms.
      In both arms patients will receive standard regular oral or subcutaneous medication for
      relieving non-breakthrough symptoms. In the standard care arm, patients will receive standard
      as needed medication (SANM) administered orally, sublingually or subcutaneously for
      breakthrough symptoms. The experimental arm will consist of two stages: in Stage 1 of the
      study, PecFent will be given to patients in order to treat breakthrough pain instead of
      subcutaneous opioids. PecFent will be titrated in order to establish an effective treatment
      dose to manage pain. SANM administered orally, sublingually or subcutaneously will be used to
      treat agitation and other symptoms.

      After the effective treatment dose of PecFent has been established patients will enter stage
      2. Patients will not move to stage 2 if the treatment dose of PecFent is not deemed
      effective. Stage 2 will test a range of doses of Epistatus in terms of efficacy in treating
      agitation alone instead of subcutaneous midazolam (or in combination with the effective
      treatment dose of PecFent for pain and agitation).

      SANM will be used to treat other symptoms. Assessment of effectiveness of any as needed
      medication will be conducted at 30 minutes from administration. If PecFent, Epistatus or a
      combination of both is ineffective, administration of SANM will be considered. Further opioid
      cannot be given within one hour but benzodiazepine can be given within 30 minutes as is
      standard practice in this setting. Thus, patients in the experimental arm will receive
      symptom relief regardless the efficacy of test drugs.
    
  