
    
      The proposed clustered randomized trial of four children's hospitals: CHOC Children's (CHOC),
      Children's Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA), Lucile Packard Children's Hospital at Stanford, The
      Children's Hospital, Denver. At each hospital approximately 20 anesthesia and nursing health
      care providers (HCP) will examine the effectiveness of a Provider Tailored Intervention for
      Perioperative Stress (P-TIPS) aimed at preventing high anxiety and improving the recovery
      process in children undergoing surgery via modifying adults' behavior. Each hospital and all
      HCP in it will be randomized to either a P-TIPS Group, who will receive the newly developed
      intervention, or a Control Group who will receive a 2-hour seminar on the management of
      preoperative anxiety and postoperative pain and otherwise will provide standard care.
      Objective measures of children's preoperative anxiety and postoperative recovery, as well as
      adherence measures of HCP will be collected prior and during the experimental period.

      HCP in the Intervention group will learn that the use of behaviors as such distraction and
      medical reinterpretation directs the child's attention towards more enjoyable topics or
      reframes the procedure into something less threatening, which in turn diverts the child's
      attention away from their own distress or fear. Conversely, although HCPs often use
      reassurance and empathy to help soothe children, the education that HCPs receive from P-TIPS
      will explain that these emotion-focused comments seem to direct children's attention to their
      own distress and frightening aspects of the medical procedure. HCPs will also learn the
      intricacies of implementing these strategies and ways to adjust their behavior to effectively
      keep children engaged in coping related behaviors.

      Child's anxiety m-YPAS during induction is assessed at two points, a) entering the operating
      room and b) introduction of the anesthesia mask to the child. Once in the OR, the child's
      blood pressure and heart rate is also assessed. A total of 10 child-parent dyad interactions
      per HCP are collected for the baseline assessment phase. HCP behavior during induction is
      also videotaped by research assistants and coded later using the P-CAMPIS measure. Also,
      parents and children answer baseline questionnaires aimed at capturing demographics, anxiety,
      health beliefs. Postoperative analgesic consumption, behavioral and recovery measures are
      also collected.
    
  