
    
      Interventional procedures at the bile or pancreatic duct require selective cannulation of the
      desired duct and sometimes endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES). If it is not possible to achieve
      selective access to the desired duct, which occurs in about 10-33 % of the cases (1-4), the
      next step to ensure selective cannulation is a so-called pre-cut procedure (5-8). For this
      approach a needle knife or an Erlangen-type sphincterotome are used to perform pre-cut
      sphincterotomy (PCS). This pre-cut technique has been shown to be effective especially to
      obtain selective bile duct access in the majority of the cases whenever standard cannulation
      techniques fail. However, the reported complication rate for PCS is substantially higher than
      for conventional ES (9), but may be outweighed by the clinical benefits. A limitation of the
      PCS-procedure is the need to use a dedicated instrument (either the needle knife or the
      Erlangen-type sphincterotome) for this indication. After completion of the pre-cut procedure
      routinely the attempt access to the desired duct has to be performed with other accessories
      since most pre-cut-sphincterotomes did do not allow contrast injection or guide-wire
      insertion. A change of instruments before and after PCS prolongs procedure time and increases
      cost. Therefore a "universal" instrument designed for both bile duct cannulation and
      precutting would substantially simplify the procedure.

      In 1999 the investigators described a newly developed "baby"-sphincterotome that combines the
      features of a cannulating catheter and Erlangen-type precut-papillotome. In a first series of
      patients this device was found to be useful for direct cannulation as well as for precut
      procedures (10).

      The aim of this trial was to investigate the safety and efficacy of this newly developed
      baby-sphincterotome in cases of failed selective wire-guided bile duct cannulation in a large
      cohort of patients.

      Inclusion criteria were: evidence for bile duct obstruction with a visible stone or tumor,
      dilated common bile duct > 7 mm (or > 9 mm in cholecystectomised patients) by ultrasonography
      and CT-scan or MRCP/EUS, an elevated serum bilirubin level > 1.4 mg/dl, and serum alkaline
      phosphatase > 200 U/l with clinical suspicion of obstruction without evidence for cholestatic
      liver disease.

      Patients with severe coagulation disorders or distorted anatomy of the major papilla
      (malignant infiltration of the papilla, papillary porus not identifiable, impacted stone) and
      patients with former gastro-duodenal resection (e.g. BII-anatomy) were excluded.
    
  