
    
      The considerable prevalence of sexual dysfunction (SD) after prostate cancer treatment,
      coupled with the severity/breadth of impact and lack of successful intervention makes SD
      post-treatment one of the most substantial health-related quality of life burdens in all of
      cancer survivorship. In 2014, it is estimated that 24,000 Canadians will be diagnosed with
      prostate cancer (PC) and 4,100 men will die of the disease. Accordingly, 19,900 men will be
      added to the pool of Canadian prostate cancer survivors in just one year. Today, there are
      approximately 250,000 prostate cancer survivors across Canada. Research with men in
      post-radiation therapy indicates that 24-59% suffer SD, while 40%-75% of men in post-radical
      prostatectomy suffer SD. Sixty percent of men experience significant distress in response to
      SD. Distress is especially elevated in younger men and evidence suggests that partners may
      experience even greater distress than patients. Research examining the nature of the distress
      reveals that the significance of SD reaches far beyond the ability to have an erection, and
      resides in its complex psychosocial implications, including intimacy loss, low self-esteem,
      guilt, depression, anxiety, and anger. Additional evidence suggests that patients' SD-related
      distress can lead to long-term maladjustment in their overall relationships with their
      partners. The burden of SD following treatment for prostate cancer is responsible for the
      single greatest impact on patient/partner/couple health-related quality of life;
      substantially more so than concern for cancer recurrence. Unfortunately, there are no
      reported interventions to date that have been successful in reducing the impact of SD
      following treatment, on long-term couple health-related quality of life. Accordingly, given
      the extensive impact of SD on patient/partner health-related quality of life (HRQOL) there is
      an existent need for restorative/rehabilitative intervention.

      The current study proposes the application of an online bio-psychosocial intervention to
      address sexual dysfunction following treatment for prostate cancer. The bio-medical approach
      will apply a broader definition of penile rehabilitation which will focus on applying a
      systematic pro-erectile aid regimen to assist patients in achieving long-term return of
      erectile functioning, firm enough for penetration, with or without the use of pro-erectile
      agents/devices. The investigators have termed this bio-medical rehabilitation approach,
      Erectile Rehabilitation. As such, the rehabilitation algorithm includes but is not limited to
      the goal of return of natural functioning. Overall, the investigators endeavour to help
      patients find and adapt to the least invasive pro-erectile agent /device that is successful
      in achieving desired erections. The investigators justify this approach through extensive
      research that demonstrates that, following prostate cancer treatment, patients who use
      pro-erectile agents report better erectile functioning versus those who do not use
      pro-erectile agents. In addition to addressing Erectile Rehabilitation, this intervention
      will offer psychosocial support, with the goal of helping couples maintain or restore
      intimacy after treatment for prostate cancer. Health coach interventions aim at improving
      sexual satisfaction following prostate cancer treatment have been shown to improve distress
      and sexual function, and provide patients with the information on pro-erectile aids and
      couples' experiences.
    
  