
    
      Randomization: patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the transfusion
      strategies, stratified according to age ≤65 years or > 65 years.

      Monitoring and follow-up: Study investigators will collect all of the necessary data with the
      use of specific forms during patient study follow up. In case of transfusional reactions
      related to the RBC transfusions the ICU team should contact the study investigators to notify
      the reaction. In cases where the termination of participation in the study occurs before
      completion of 90 days since randomization, a study investigator will contact the patient for
      collection of information of the final follow-up form. An independent data and safety
      monitoring committee (DMSC) will review study data every 6 months to check for the need for
      suspending or terminating the study.

      Blinding: It will not be feasible to mask the assigned transfusion strategy from health care
      providers. Information regarding frequency of outcome measures will not be available to the
      study investigators or health care providers, to minimize comparison of outcomes between
      study groups. Trial statistician will be blinded for the allocation during analysis. The
      members of the DMSC will remain blinded unless they request otherwise after the interim
      analysis provides strong indications of one intervention being beneficial or harmful.

      Interim analysis: an interim analysis will be performed when a total of 420 patients (half of
      the expected target sample) has completed 90 days of follow-up. The independent DMSC will
      recommend interruption of the trial if the difference in the primary outcome measure between
      groups has a P <0.001 (Haybittle-Peto criterion).

      The trial protocol may be temporarily suspended for an individual patient in case of arterial
      ischemic events (includes stroke, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, mesenteric
      ischemia, peripheral ischemia) or life-threatening bleeding, at the discretion of the
      attending physician. The patient may re-enter the trial protocol after stabilization, at the
      discretion of the attending doctor.
    
  