
    
      AMP Up aims to define the impact of HIV infection and antiretroviral therapy (ART) on young
      adults with perinatal HIV infection as they transition into adulthood. A group of perinatally
      HIV-exposed, -uninfected (PHEU) young adults from a similar sociodemographic background and
      age distribution will be enrolled for comparison.

      The primary objectives of this study are:

        -  To identify infectious and non-infectious complications of HIV disease and toxicities
           resulting from long-term ART, including disease progression, immune dysfunction, viral
           resistance, end-organ disease, and mortality.

        -  To define the impact of HIV infection and ART on the long-term clinical outcomes of
           young adults, including:

             -  Metabolic abnormalities and risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including
                glucose and lipid metabolism, blood pressure, and body composition.

             -  Sexually transmitted infections (Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae,
                Trichomonas vaginalis, syphilis, human papillomavirus, genital warts and HSV) among
                males and females, and cervical HPV-associated pre-cancers and cancers and
                Mycoplasma genitalium and other vaginal microbiota among females.

             -  Reproductive health, fertility, and pregnancy outcomes including mother-to-child
                transmission of HIV.

        -  To define the impact of perinatal HIV infection and ART on long-term neurocognitive and
           behavioral health outcomes, including:

             -  Mental health and neurocognitive functioning.

             -  Health care behaviors, including adherence to ART, participation in health care
                services, and transition to adult clinical care.

             -  Risk behaviors, including sexual behavior and substance use.

             -  Independent living skills, and vocational and education achievement necessary for
                successful transition to adult functioning and quality of life.
    
  