
    
      This is a 5-year longitudinal study of the long-term lung health impact of e-cigarette
      smoking. Participants with a history of e-cigarette smoking age ≥ 16 years will be recruited
      from within 2 hours of London, ON through local family and tertiary care physicians,
      emergency departments and community and social media advertisements. Asymptomatic age and
      sex-matched participants who have never smoked e- or c-cigarettes will be recruited through
      community advertisement, media and social media. Participants must satisfy all inclusion and
      exclusion criteria in order to participate in the study. We will compare lung health of
      participants at baseline, 12 weeks, 24 weeks and 48 weeks, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years with
      an asymptomatic control group with no history of e-cigarette or c-cigarette use. The study
      will involve 6 in-person visits and 1 telephone call for a health update. All measurements
      will be made with at least 4 hours after the last cigarette and/or vape to provide a way to
      practically focus on chronic and not acute effects. Pulmonary function and imaging
      measurements will be made before and after bronchodilator administration.

      At Visit 1, informed consent will be obtained before any study related assessments or
      procedures are performed. Eligibility criteria will be reviewed. Safety assessments including
      vital signs, pulmonary function testing, hematology, sputum sampling, exercise testing, and
      respiratory questionnaires will be completed.

      Visit 2 will take place 12 weeks after visit 1 and will include vital signs, pre and post
      bronchodilator pulmonary function testing, pre and post bronchodilator MRI imaging, chest CT
      scan, exercise testing, and questionnaires.

      Visit 3 will take place at 24 weeks and will involve a telephone call to update health
      information as well as questionnaires.

      Visit 4 will take place at 48 weeks and will involve vital signs, pre and post bronchodilator
      pulmonary function testing, pre and post bronchodilator MRI imaging, hematology, blood
      chemistry, sputum analysis, exercise testing, and questionnaires.

      Visit 5 will take place at year 3 and will involve vital signs, pre and post bronchodilator
      pulmonary function testing, pre and post bronchodilator MRI imaging, blood draw, sputum
      induction and analysis, exercise testing and questionnaires.

      Visit 6 will take place at year 4 and will involve vital signs, pre and post bronchodilator
      pulmonary function testing, pre and post bronchodilator MRI imaging, blood draw, sputum
      induction and analysis, exercise testing and questionnaires.

      Visit 7 will take place at year 5 and will involve vital signs, pre and post bronchodilator
      pulmonary function testing, pre and post bronchodilator MRI imaging, blood draw, sputum
      induction and analysis, exercise testing and questionnaires.
    
  