
    
      Design: The study will involve a trial (open randomised parallel group control trial) with
      patients allocated to receive either usual care or the bariatric rehabilitation service (BRS)
      pre and post bariatric (obesity) surgery. Follow up measures will be recorded at 3, 6 and 12
      months post-surgery at routine follow-up clinics. In addition, qualitative interviews will be
      carried out with 20 participants from both arms of the trial (BRS n=10; usual care n=10).

      Piloting: The contents of the bariatric service and the follow up measures are based on pilot
      work. This pilot work has already been completed exploring what bariatric patients want and
      why bariatric surgery either fails or succeeds from the patients' perspective. Furthermore,
      pilot research has explored the impact of bariatric surgery on changes in mood, cognitions
      and eating behaviours. The quantitative measures and qualitative responses derived from these
      studies will form the basis of the intervention and the measures for the present study.

      Sample: St Richard's Hospital in Chichester, West Sussex offers a NHS based bariatric service
      for obese patients with a BMI over 40 (or 35 with serious co morbidities). This is the
      largest centre in the UK, with 600 patients per year receiving a bariatric operation at this
      clinic (70% being a primary bypass and 20% bands (the remaining 10% are revisions)). Patients
      will be recruited if they have been approved for surgery and had their date set for their
      operation. The consultant surgeon, Mr Chris Pring is a collaborator on this proposal.

      Procedure: Ethical approval will be in place before the start of the project. In the week
      before their operation patients attend the bariatric clinic for routine tests. When patients
      are sent their appointment letters they will be sent the information sheet along with it to
      give them approximately 2 weeks to think about whether they would like to take part. At the
      appointment patients will see the researcher who will explain the trial, obtain consent and
      randomly allocate the patient to either the usual care condition or the bariatric
      rehabilitation service (BRS) condition.

      Randomisation: All patients who fulfil the inclusion criteria will be approached by the
      researcher, asked to read an information sheet and if interested offered a written consent
      form. Once a patient is consented the researcher will contact the clinical trial unit at
      Surrey University who will provide third party blinded randomization to either the BRS or
      usual care.

      Timeline: The study will take 34 months. New patients will be recruited over a 12 month
      period and followed up for 12 months postoperatively. The first 6 months will involve
      preparation, setting up procedures for data collection and training the health psychologist.
      The next 25 months will involve rolling out the intervention, recruitment, randomly
      allocating patients to the 2 conditions, providing the BRS and collecting data on the
      evaluation of service. At 18 months the 20 interviews will take place and be transcribed. The
      final 3 months will be spent analyzing the data, assessing cost-effectiveness, disseminating
      the results to patients and health professionals and writing up findings for publication.
    
  