
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic exposes our front-line staff to unnecessary risks in interacting with
      COVID-19 affected patients. Current care of pregnant women who have uncontrolled/unmonitored
      hypertension involves multiple visits to obstetric units for blood pressure checks. These
      visits put the women at risk of contracting or transmitting SARS-CoV-2 by bringing them into
      hospitals for checks which could otherwise be done remotely. Up to 20% of pregnant women will
      experience a hypertensive episode during pregnancy or the postpartum period. Uncontrolled or
      unmonitored hypertension in pregnancy may be associated with significant maternal and fetal
      morbidity and mortality including pre-eclampsia, stroke and stillbirth. The current
      management of suspected hypertension in pregnancy involves prolonged admission to hospital
      for BP monitoring or multiple visits to day assessment units or primary care physicians. All
      of these increase the risk of contracting or transmitting SARS-CoV-2. In addition, pregnant
      women with COVID-19 who are receiving inpatient care also require regular BP monitoring
      increasing the exposure risk for staff of contracting SARS-CoV-2. Pregnant women not
      attending GPs or hospitals for BP monitoring out of fear of contracting COVID-19 drastically
      increase their risk of suffering adverse effects from undiagnosed or uncontrolled
      hypertension. The ideal solution would be to facilitate inpatient or outpatient monitoring
      with reduced face to face contact between staff and infected patients. This would ensure a
      safer experience for all by reducing the risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2 while safely offering
      remote BP monitoring. LEANBH offers this safe alternative to direct hospital contact for
      pregnant women and staff by providing ambulatory automated self BP monitoring using the
      LEANBH integrated platform. This proposal will deliver immediate ambulatory BP
      self-monitoring performed remotely without need for direct physical contact, minimising risk
      of exposure to SARS-CoV-2 for staff and pregnant women.
    
  