
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the clinical efficacy of nilotinib and combination chemotherapy, in terms
           of hematologic and molecular complete remission (CR) rates, in patients with newly
           diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia or acute mixed
           lineage leukemia.

      Secondary

        -  To establish the prognostic factors for patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the duration of CR in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the duration of progression-free and overall survival of these patients.

        -  To determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (15 to 64
      years vs ≥ 65 years).

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 24
           hours on days 1-3, vincristine sulfate IV on days 1 and 8, and oral prednisolone on days
           1-14. Patients undergo bone marrow examination on day 14. Patients in hematologic
           remission proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients with residual leukemic cells > 5%
           receive an additional dose of daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 24 hours
           on day 15 before proceeding to consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: For course 1, patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV
           continuously over 24 hours on days 1 and 2, vincristine sulfate IV on days 1 and 8, and
           oral prednisolone on days 1-14. For courses 2 and 4, patients receive cytarabine IV over
           2 hours and etoposide IV over 3 hours on days 1-4. For courses 3 and 5, patients receive
           methotrexate IV continuously over 36 hours on days 1, 2, 15, and 16 and leucovorin
           calcium IV every 6 hours for 3 doses and then orally until blood methotrexate levels are
           in a safe range.

      Patients also receive oral nilotinib twice daily beginning on day 8 of induction therapy and
      continuing until the completion of consolidation therapy.

      After completion of consolidation therapy, patients with a hematopoietic stem cell donor
      proceed to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Patients who do not
      undergo HSCT continue to receive oral nilotinib twice daily for up to 2 years after
      completion of consolidation therapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 1 year.
    
  