
    
      Urinary retention is a common and frustrating complication in women during the immediate
      postpartum period. Physiologic changes in the bladder that occur during pregnancy predispose
      patients to develop symptomatic retention of urine during the first hours to days after
      delivery.

      Postpartum urinary retention has a reported incidence ranging from 1.7 to 17.9 percent. Up to
      5% of these women may have significant and longer lasting dysfunction, which if not
      recognised in the early peripartum period, may lead to bladder distension and overflow
      incontinence with significant long-term bladder dysfunction. Factors associated with
      postpartum urinary retention include: (1)Nulliparous women. (2) Prolonged labour, especially
      a prolonged second stage. (3)Assisted/instrumental delivery. (4)Perineal injury. (5)Caesarean
      section. (6)Regional analgesia.

      Treatment begins with supportive measures to enhance the likelihood of micturition, such as
      ambulation, privacy, and a warm bath. If these measures are not successful, catheterization
      is usually performed.

      There are no set national guidelines for the management of postpartum bladder care as yet.
      There is little evidence on the management of postpartum urinary retention and many hospitals
      have implemented their own postpartum bladder care protocols.

      Acupuncture has been implemented as an alternative course of treatment for urinary retention
      in several chinese medical centers over the years with reports of spontaneous restoring of
      micturition in all of the patients.

      A prospective study including all patients with postpartum urinary retention meeting the
      study criteria will be recruited. All patients will be required to give their informed
      consent. All patients will undergo a pre-treatment and post-treatment ultrasound recording
      the residual urine volume.

      After the pre-treatment ultrasound acupuncture will be performed according to the following:
      1) The points Sanyinjiao (SP 6) and Zusanli (ST 36) on the right side will be punctured 1/5-2
      cm deep and moderate stimulation will be applied. 2) The needles will be retained for 30
      minutes after achieving Qi and will be manipulated once every 3-5 minutes. After 30 minutes
      of acupuncture treatment, the patient will have an opportunity to void. If the patient is
      successful in voiding a post-treatment ultrasound recording the residual urine volume will be
      performed. If the post-void residual (PVR) urine volume is less than 100 ml acupuncture
      treatment will be considered a success. If the patient is not successful at voiding during
      the hour after acupuncture treatment, a post-treatment ultrasound recording the residual
      urine volume will be performed. If the post-void residual (PVR) urine volume is greater than
      100 ml, acupuncture treatment will be considered a failure and the patient will be
      catheterized.
    
  