
    
      The study will be a parallel two-arm, double-blind design. The 80% power calculation was
      based upon preliminary data showing a greater than 30% reduction of total serum IgE in PPC
      recipients. This power calculation concluded that each arm will need a population of 18
      subjects. These subjects will be recruited from a clinical practice of 4 academic
      allergists/immunologists. Seasonal allergy information will be recorded but the data will be
      analyzed for each group without any correction for seasonal effects.

      Recruited subjects will sign the consent form, undergo a complete physical exam, and have
      skin testing repeated if historical skin tests data within three years is unavailable. The
      historical skin tests must have been performed using the same techniques as those used in the
      study. A prick skin test method using commercially available extracts will be used and the
      results graded according to standard criteria with measurements of the wheal and flare
      compared to the results of a positive control with histamine and a negative control of
      saline. A positive skin test will be defined as a wheal diameter 3 mm larger than the
      negative control with a flare of greater than or equal to 10 mm.

      A nasal mucosal sample will also be obtained from the inferior turbinate with a plastic
      device (rhinoprobe). This sample will be frozen at the time of collection for future
      analysis. This procedure will be optional for subjects; if they consent it will be performed
      at each visit After screening, patients will be randomized to either of the two arms
      (placebo, or 32mg PPC/d). Patients will be instructed to take one capsule via oral route
      daily for 8 weeks. Subjects will be treated for two months with measurements of total serum
      IgE at the initial screening/randomization visit and following two months of treatment.
      Physical examination will be repeated at each visit. A variance of 5 days will be permitted
      for follow-up visits.

      Rescue treatment with oral, non-sedating antihistamine will be permitted and number of doses
      will be recorded at each follow up visit. No nasal sprays will be allowed during the study.
      If symptoms are extreme, the study subject will be discontinued from the trial.
    
  