
    
      Defecation disorders in children are extremely common especially constipation and fecal
      incontinence. International studies show that constipation make up approximately 3% of
      Pediatric Outpatient Clinic11 (192) and 25% of Pediatric gastroenterology consultations.
      Between 1,5-3% of all 4-12 year olds experience fecal incontinence.

      Constipation and fecal incontinence can be extremely physical unpleasant and can have
      significant ramifications for a child's emotional and social functioning eg. low self esteem.

      Though most agree that constipation and faecal incontinence are a considerable problem
      worldwide there is disagreement when it comes to a definition and diagnostic tools. Several
      definitions have been used. This has led to great difficulties when trying to estimate
      prevalence, understand and compare in order to improve different treatments.

      Hypothesis:

        -  It is possible to diagnose constipation accurately by using a combination of anamnesis,
           stool diary, physical examination and transabdominal ultrasonography

        -  Transabdominal ultrasonography is a safe and sensitive diagnostic tool and can be used
           as an alternative or substitute to rectal examination.

      Purpose To compare different kinds of diagnostic (tools) investigations in order to identify
      the most sensitive and least invasive when diagnosing constipation.

      Material and methods 60 children referred to the paediatric outpatient clinic with fecal
      incontinence or suspicion of constipation. The investigations include anamnesis and physical
      examination with rectal examination and transabdominal ultrasonography. Home registration of
      a stool diary based on the Bristol Scale for 3 weeks thereafter a Colonic transit time is
      performed.

      Data is compared to data from 30 healthy children that have gone through the same
      investigations except the CTT that is based on x-rays.
    
  