
    
      The investigators are currently recruiting children with hemiplegia between the ages of 2.5
      to 12 years of age to participate in a study examining the effects of extensive practice on
      affected hand/arm use and lower- limb use. This is a research study that will teach
      caregivers how to administer either hand-arm bimanual intensive training (HABIT) or
      lower-limb intensive training in their own home. HABIT aims to improve the use and
      coordination of both arms in daily function, particularly during the performance of bimanual
      activities (i.e. buttoning a shirt, cutting with scissors). Lower-limb intensive training
      aims to improve the quality of lower-limb functioning with a particular focus on functional
      activities (i.e. getting up from a chair, walking, climbing stairs).

      What does participation entail?

        -  Being randomized to learn to provide either intensive lower- or upper-limb activities in
           your own home (training will be provided over a a weekend session at our center)

        -  Getting trained to administer some basic upper- and lower-limb assessments in your own
           home

        -  Completing 90 hours of activities over a period of 9 weeks (2 hrs/day, 5 days/week; does
           not have to be 2 consecutive hours for daily activities)

        -  Videoconferencing online with a project supervisor at least 1 hour per week during
           activities

        -  Learning how to assess your child's motor function for posttesting.

      Can I choose to receive upper or lower extremity training if my child qualifies?

      • Unfortunately not, it must be randomly assigned as each group will be compared to the
      other. However, the investigators can provide training tips after completion of the study.

      What if my child does not qualify?

        -  There may be opportunities at a later date or for another study.

        -  Please contact us at (212)-678-3332 or cpresearch@tc.columbia.edu if you have any
           questions.
    
  