
    
      Amblyopia is the most common cause of monocular visual impairment in both children and young
      and middle-aged adults. Both patching and atropine are accepted treatment modalities for the
      management of moderate amblyopia in children. Despite best efforts with conventional
      treatment, some patients fail to achieve normal visual acuity in the amblyopic eye. In a
      randomized trial conducted by PEDIG comparing atropine versus patching in 3 to 6 year olds
      with moderate amblyopia (ATS1), 261 of 402 patients (65%) had amblyopic eye visual acuity of
      20/32 or worse after 6 months of treatment with patching or atropine. Beyond 6 months,
      treatment was at investigator discretion, and two years after randomization, 181 of 363
      children (50%) still had amblyopic eye visual acuity of 20/32 or worse. In a randomized trial
      conducted by PEDIG comparing patching regimens, 129 of 181 patients with moderate amblyopia
      (71%) and 145 of 157 patients with severe amblyopia (92%) had amblyopic eye visual acuity of
      20/32 or worse after 4 months of occlusion therapy. Many patients receive treatment beyond 6
      months but still fail to achieve normal visual acuity in the amblyopic eye. It is unknown
      whether an intensive "final push" of combined treatment with daily patching and atropine will
      improve visual acuity in these patients. Although some clinicians prescribe simultaneous
      patching and atropine for selected patients, there are no published reports of its
      effectiveness. Also, we are not aware of reports of response to treatment of residual
      amblyopia.

      The study has been designed as a simple trial that, other than the type of amblyopia therapy
      being determined through the randomization process, approximates standard clinical practice.
      Patients will be randomized to one of two treatment regimens:

        -  Intensive treatment: 42 hours per week of patching combined with daily atropine (1%)

        -  Control group: Weaning of the current treatment (two hours of daily patching for
           patients currently using patching and once weekly atropine for patients currently using
           atropine) for 4 weeks, then no treatment other than spectacles (if needed).
    
  