functional craniology: an aid ininterpreting roentgenogramsof the skullanalysis of the form of the skull isfacilitated by considering it to be composedof a number of functional components.  forthe roentgenologist's purposes, division intothe facial or somatic skeleton and the neu-ral skeleton is valuable, as is the recognitionof three functionally separate portionswithin each calvarial bone: the inner table,the diploe and the outer table.the base of the skull is the only por-tion that is preformed in cartilage.  this ac-counts for the unusual appearance of theskull in achondroplasia.  in addition, thebase apparently is more closely related tofacial and general somatic growth than toneural growth.calvarial bone forms directly frommembrane within the cerebral capsule.consequently, the size and shape of the cal-varia directly reflect the form of the grow-ing neural mass.the inner table of the calvaria at allages is intimately related to the dura materand directly reflects the form of the duramater.  consequently, the inner table re-flects the form of the arachnoid mater and,usually, of the brain as well.the outer table of the calvaria servesnot only to protect the brain but also toanchor many of the intrinsic and extrinsicmuscles of the skull.  its form, particularlyin thick-skulled mammals such as the pig,is determined more by the demands of thesemuscles and of the scalp than by the formof the brain.the principal function of the diploeis to form a lightweight yet rigid separationof the two osseous tables.  in addition, itserves as a site of hematopoiesis; for thisreason it may tend to a specific volume at agiven age.the calvarial sutures oppose separa-tion of the bones of the calvaria while al-lowing relative motion between them.when the calvarial bones are passively car-ried apart with the expanding cerebral cap-sule by the growth of the neural mass, theirareas are increased by the deposition ofbone in the suture margins.  the sutures,however, do not function as epiphyses andhave no innate growth potential: removalof a suture does not disturb final skull form.because the calvaria represents ossi-fication of the cerebral capsule, it is smallwhen the neural mass is small.  the de-formity of the skull and the secondarychanges that occur in the air sinuses andthe diploe can be explained in terms ofthe functional cranial components.  the op-posite changes occur when the neural massis abnormally large.the correlation between skull size andintelligence is only fair.  the presence of abrain of distinctly abnormal size, however,may be inferred from plain roentgeno-grams of the skull.premature closure of the cranial su-tures may be due to an abnormal form ofthe cranial base and possibly of the primi-tive chondrocranium that precedes it.  theabnormality is mediated through the duralfiber tracts that underlie the major cal-varial sutures.