
    
      The proposed study is a proof-of-concept, Phase II, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, crossover trial to assess the anti-dyskinetic properties of topiramate in
      patients with PD and bothersome levodopa-induced dyskinesias.

      Patients will be randomized to receive tablets of either placebo or topiramate in a
      double-blind, crossover design using randomization tables. Following the completion of the
      first arm of the study and the tapering and washout phases, patients will receive topiramate
      or placebo in a crossover design for the same treatment duration. The dose of topiramate will
      be slowly escalated twice each week as tolerated. If a patient cannot tolerate a higher dose,
      the dose will be reduced to the previously tolerated dose.

      Clinical assessments during each arm of the study will include the following:

        1. Investigator-rated dyskinesia severity (Levodopa challenge): Anti-parkinsonian
           medications will be held for 12 hours prior to testing. At the time of the assessment,
           patients will receive the morning dose of either topiramate or placebo and their usual
           morning levodopa dose. Patients will be videotaped prior to and following medication
           administration, and dyskinesia severity will subsequently be rated by a blinded
           investigator. Levodopa challenges will be conducted before each treatment arm (baseline)
           and at the completion of each treatment arm.

        2. Subject-rated dyskinesia severity: Dyskinesia severity will be rated by the patient
           using several validated methods (Lang-Fahn Activities of Daily Living Dyskinesia scale,
           Clinical Global Impression, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, and home
           dyskinesia diaries). Rating scales will be completed at the time of each levodopa
           challenge and at 2-week intervals. Dyskinesia diaries will be completed for 3 days prior
           to each levodopa challenge.

        3. Assessment of parkinsonism: Parkinsonian disability will be assessed using the UPDRS at
           the baseline evaluation and at the completion of each treatment arm as well as at each
           bi-weekly visit.

        4. Safety and tolerability assessment: During the course of each titration phase, patients
           will be assessed in the clinic at 2-week intervals, or sooner if indicated. A general
           physical examination including blood pressure, pulse, and weight as well as detailed
           questioning regarding possible adverse events and tolerability will be completed. The
           Epworth Sleepiness Scale will be completed at each visit. Telephone contact will be made
           on alternate weeks to assess for the occurrence of adverse events and to discuss
           titration schedules. Patients will be able to reach a physician at all times via pager
           in the event of difficulties encountered between scheduled contact times.

      In addition, for safety monitoring, laboratory tests including urinalysis, clinical
      chemistries (sodium, potassium, chloride, bicarbonate, BUN, creatinine), CBC with
      differential, and liver function tests will be followed. These studies will be evaluated at
      the beginning and end of each treatment arm and mid-way through each dose escalation phase. A
      baseline EKG will be obtained, and repeat EKGs will be obtained at the completion of each
      treatment arm.

      Results from this study will aid in the development of a larger Phase III clinical trial.

      From the proposed trial, information regarding the anti-dyskinetic efficacy of topiramate
      will be obtained, and tolerability in the PD patient population will be determined.
    
  