
    
      There are wide ranging influences on the perception of human pain. The perception of pain is
      shaped by physiology, genetic factors, prior experiences, and external ameliorating factors.
      Extensive research has been performed in the pediatric population utilizing distraction as a
      means of reducing pain, particularly during venipuncture. These methods include medications
      (i.e. creams, anxiolytics), behavioral distraction (i.e. music, games), cold anesthesia, and
      thermomechanical stimulation via a cooling/vibrating device; however, fear and anxiety
      associated with needle procedures does not always resolve with time or age and can result in
      avoidance of treatment and delays in care. Few studies have focused on the impact of
      non-pharmacologic anxiolytics using thermomechanical stimulation and social anesthesia (i.e.
      music as a form of distraction) in the adult population. Utilizing non-pharmacologic measures
      is one of the first steps in procedural pain management. A thermomechanical device used in
      the pediatric population called Buzzy (MMJ Labs, Atlanta GA) employs a battery operated,
      handheld plastic device with a vibrating motor and a mechanism to attach an ice pack. This is
      used either independently or in combination. Most reports of the device demonstrate
      significant pain relief, but the majority of these completed studies focused on children
      undergoing venous cannulation. There have been a few cited uses in adult podiatry,
      dermatology, and pain management. In addition, passive music based intervention have been
      used in cancer patients undergoing biopsy and surgery, revealing a significant pain reduction
      effect. The study will prospectively analyze the analgesic and anxiolytic effects of
      thermomechanical stimulation (cold and vibration effects) with or without patient selected
      music preference during non-sedating interventional radiology procedures.
    
  