
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that affects 1 million
      people in the United States. PD causes a variety of disabling symptoms, which impact movement
      as well as cognition. Historically, we have relied on medications that increase dopamine
      levels to treat PD, although we are recognizing more and more that other chemicals in the
      brain are involved in PD as well.

      Droxidopa (Northera) is an approved drug for the treatment of low blood pressure in PD. It is
      a norepinephrine precursor, which is converted in the body to the neurotransmitter
      norepinephrine. This is a chemical that the body normally makes that has a variety of
      important activities in the brain and peripheral nervous system. In PD, the cells that make
      norepinephrine die off as part of the disease process. Therefore, people with PD often have
      low levels of norepinephrine in their blood and in their spinal fluid. Norepinephrine is
      important for maintaining blood pressure, which may be one reason that some people with PD
      have problems with their blood pressure falling too low when they stand up. This can lead to
      symptoms such as dizziness, lightheadedness, feeling faint, or sometimes passing out.

      Droxidopa has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of low blood pressure in Parkinson's
      disease. However, as norepinephrine is also important for a lot of processes that happen in
      the brain as well, we believe that this medication may be also helpful for some of the other
      symptoms of PD. In particular, norepinephrine plays a key role in brain networks that are
      important for attention, decision making, and controlling movements and actions. In order for
      norepinephrine to reach the brain, it must cross the blood-brain barrier. Therefore, in this
      study we will be giving droxidopa along with carbidopa, which stops your body from breaking
      down norepinephrine in the blood stream and allows it to get into the brain. This is a
      medication that is often given in Parkinson's disease along with levodopa in the form of
      carbidopa-levodopa, or Sinemet. This medication works the same way with levodopa in helping
      it get into the brain and improve the symptoms of PD. The only difference is that levodopa
      works like the chemical dopamine, whereas droxidopa works like norepinephrine. Up to this
      point, we have not had a way to correct the low norepinephrine levels in Parkinson's disease.
      Therefore, this study gives us the chance to investigate the effectiveness of a potential new
      treatment for PD patients.
    
  