
    
      The colorectal cancer is the secondary most common cancer among the population. Every
      year,it's estimated that there was over 1,200,000 new cases,and in China the data is about
      440,000. The local recurrence (LR) and the lung or liver metastasis are the most critical
      problems that confusing the doctor,which the local recurrence rate is about 3%-50%,with a
      median rate of 18.8%。 Now, multidisciplinary treatment become a choice treatment for the
      rectal cancer, and the preoperative neoadjuvant (chemo)radiotherapy is a critical part of the
      treatment, as various trials have confirmed that the preoperative chemoradiotherapy can
      reduce the postoperative local recurrence rate. Although the preoperative radiotherapy can
      decrease the local recurrence, most of the studies show that it can't increase the overall
      survival. Also the large MRC study shows, the quality of operation is also critical for the
      local recurrence. and the main reasons of the local recurrence was thought to be the positive
      circumferential resection margin(CRM) and the remnant of the mesorectum. On the other hand,
      with the improvement of the TME surgery, the local recurrence of the advanced rectal cancer
      is lower than 20%, and the preoperative radiation may benefit half of these patients,and
      reduce the local recurrence rate to 7-10%.over 80% patients may be over treated and
      simultaneously suffer from the adverse effect of the radiation.The aim of this study was to
      explore that if the lower risk portion of the advanced rectal cancer patients is not
      necessary to have preoperative radiation,and the radiation will benefit the higher risk
      group.

      In the trial,the operator will divide the resectable advanced rectal cancer patients (cT3/N+)
      into two subgroups according to the preoperative CT, MRI and EUS.firstly, the criteria of the
      lower risk group are: the tumor invade into the mesorectum<=5mm in lateral and posterior of
      the mesorectum, in the anterior wall the tumor had not invaded into the mesorectal fat
      tissue, there is no enlarged lymph node that larger than 8mm; and the higher risk group are:
      the tumor invade into the mesorectum >5mm in the lateral or posterior part, or invade into
      the mesorectum only in the anterior as the anterior mesorectum is relatively thin, or with
      lymph node larger than 8mm. then these patients were randomized to radiation with surgery or
      surgery only respectively. In the lower risk group we presume that the local recurrence rate
      is relatively low and the radiation can not improve LR, and in the higher risk group the
      radiation is significantly beneficial.

      Of the preoperative radiation,there are two regimen,the long-term chemoradiotherapy and the
      short-course radiotherapy. mostly, the long-term regimen is more popular,with a total dose of
      50.4 Gy in 25-28 fraction,compare to the short-term one with a dose of 25 Gy in 5 fraction,
      as the long-term regimen has a better effect of reduce the tumor invasion. For the resectable
      patients with negative CRM before the surgery,there is no conclusion which is better. so that
      the short-term radiation was choose as the regimen of this study.

      Local recurrence after 3 years follow up has been chosen as primary endpoint. Proving a
      two-sided hypothesis of differences between the arms in higher risk group, the calculation of
      the sample size was based on expected local recurrence rates of 6% in the radiation group
      compared with 16% in the surgery group, resulting in altogether 210 patients (Log-Rank-test,
      with error of the 1st kind: α = 5% two-sided, power = 80%). As the lower risk group may have
      a very low LR rate, the totally 200 lower risk patients are planning to recruiting to
      randomization, which was similar to the higher risk group.

      Patient baseline characteristics and disease factors were summarized using descriptive
      statistics. The categorical parameters were compared using two-sided Pearson's χ2 test or
      Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. All summary statistics on time-to-event variables were
      calculated according to the Kaplan-Meier method and were compared by means of the log-rank
      test. SPSS software(version 22.0; IBM, Chicago, IL) was used for statistical analyses. A P
      value<0.05 was considered significant.
    
  