
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the dose limiting toxicities and maximum tolerated dose of olaparib given in
      combination with chest wall hyperthermia in patients with locally advanced or metastatic
      breast cancer with chest wall recurrences who have wild-type BRCA status (patients with
      germline BRCA mutations are excluded from this study).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the local progression free survival (in months) for patients with chest wall
      recurrences defined as time to progression of disease on chest wall with olaparib with
      hyperthermia.

      II. To determine the 1-year progression free survival (in months) for patients with chest
      wall recurrences treated with olaparib with hyperthermia.

      III. To determine the best local overall response rate of chest wall after the combination of
      hyperthermia and olaparib.

      IV. To determine the quality of life and pain scores before, during and after treatment as
      measured by the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System which includes a pain score and 8 other
      subjective measures of wellness for cancer patients (0 to 10).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate BRCA1/2 levels by immunohistochemistry and explore if hyperthermia induced
      BRCA1/2 expression.

      II. To evaluate HR (homologous recombination) competency by RAD51 foci and explore if
      hyperthermia induces homologous recombination in breast tissue.

      III. To explore deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage as measured by gammaH2AX and comet assay
      in cells dissociated from biopsy tissues.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of olaparib.

      Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Treatment continues for 4 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity. Beginning week 2, patients also
      undergo hyperthermia treatment over 1 hour twice weekly for 3 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression and unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months.
    
  