
    
      STUDY DESIGN This is a single-blinded Randomized Control Trial study, in which every patient
      receives active gel on one side and placebo on the other (L or R to be randomly selected).
      Sixty patients will be included in this study. These are patients undergoing balloon
      sinuplasty for Chronic sinusitis with and without polyps.

      As the patients will enter the study- they will be divided into Chronic sinusitis with Polyps
      (CRSwNP) and Chronic rhinosinusitis without polyps (CRSsNP). Each patient will be assigned in
      chronological order as they will join the study.

      For each group, all even numbered patients will receive the active gel application on right
      side and all odd number patients will receive the active gel on left side.

      Then patient selection for CRSwNP and CRSsNP will be as such Each group will have 3
      subgroups. Subgroup 1- gel will be loaded with steroids only Subgroup 2- gel will be loaded
      with antibiotic (Levaquin) only Subgroup 3- gel will be loaded with both steroids and
      antibiotic CRSwNP group with right side gel application Subgroup 1- patient number-
      1,7,13,19,25 Subgroup 2- patient number- 3,9,15,21,27 Subgroup 3- patient number-
      5,11,17,23,29 CRSwNP group with left side gel application Subgroup 1- patient number-
      2,8,14,20,26 Subgroup 2- patient number- 4,10,16,22,28 Subgroup 3- patient number-
      6,12,18,24,30

      A similar patient randomization will be done with the CRSsNP group

      Surgery will consist of plain balloon sinuplasty or hybrid balloon sinuplasty with removal of
      ethmoids polypss using a Blakesley forceps. During surgery, and immediately after removal of
      diseased mucosa, 5 ccs of an active poloxamer gel containing the antibiotic or
      corticosteroids or both will be instilled inside the ethmoid/ maxillary sinus/frontal
      cavities on one side using either the balloon catheter or as a curved suction tip. The same
      procedure is performed in the other side, this time with instillation of plain gel without
      antibiotic or corticosteroids (placebo).

      The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy of intra-sinus installation of a poloxamer
      gel that releases antibiotics and corticosteroids topically after balloon sinuplasty in
      chronic sinusitis patients with or without polyps. The assessment of the healing process will
      be done at the end of one month then at two, three and six months. Total number of visits
      would be 8 including the operation day.
    
  