
    
      Background: Early and rapid termination of status epilepticus with intravenous administration
      of benzodiazepines only or its association with other antiepileptic drug improves outcomes.
      Our out-of-hospital study aims to demonstrate on one hand the superiority of lorazepam
      compared with clonazepam and on the other hand the efficacy at least equivalent of lorazepam
      in comparison with the association clonazepam + fosphenytoin. If these hypotheses are
      demonstrated, the out-of-hospital treatment of the status epilepticus by lorazepam in
      monotherapy would then be strongly recommended, considering its efficacy and the simplicity
      of administration in the context of the pre-hospital emergency.Objective: To compare the
      efficacy of Lorazepam with that of Clonazepam and its association with Fosphenytoin for the
      treatment of out-of-hospital status epilepticus.

      Participating centers: 41 prehospital emergency services employing mobile intensive care
      units and located in urban areas in France participated in this study. In France, the
      management of out-of-hospital medical emergencies is under the responsibility of the Service
      d'Aide Medicale Urgente (SAMU). Mobile intensive care units are staffed by an attending
      emergency physician or anesthesiologist, a nurse, and an ambulance driver. The study is
      coordinated by the prehospital emergency service of Lariboisiere Hospital, University Paris 7
      (Paris, France)

      Number of patients: 522 patients; 174 patients by group.

      Duration of the study: The total duration planned is of 48 months Intermediate analysis: An
      intermediate analysis is planned while 261 patients will be included (50 % of the
      inclusions).Duration of participation of every patient: 24 hours Data collection: prehospital
      data recording during the 60 min period of the study, and intrahospital data recording by the
      medical report of hospitalization.

      Methodology: Multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial with 3 arms.

      Main criteria of evaluation: the cessation of the status epilepticus and the absence of
      recurrence from T20 minutes until T60 minutes after the beginning of the treatment.

      The cessation of the status epilepticus is defined by the stop of any motor activity and any
      seizures or convulsive movements. The absence of recurrence is defined by the not occurrence
      of a new seizures after a period of cessation.
    
  