
    
      Uncorrected refractive errors cause significant economic implications in both high and low
      income countries in terms of the loss of potential productivity (Williams et al. (2015)). The
      prevalence of uncorrected refractive errors is, despite of the available clinical services,
      still huge; visual impairment is in 42 percent of the cases the result of an uncorrected
      refractive error worldwide (Williams et al. (2015)). Even in high income countries, this
      issue remains prevalent. Therefore, the access to the available clinical services has to be
      simplified. The development of an online refraction method will make a refraction more
      accessible for patients and can be cost-saving. Clinicians can easily take an online method
      to places where it's needed for example in low income countries.

      There are several methods to measure a refractive error. The 'golden standard' to prescribe
      spectacles is a manifest refraction (Thibos, Hong, Bradley & Applegate (2004)). This method
      was already described by F.C. Donders in 1864 and is performed with trial lenses and a visual
      acuity chart to measure the refraction error (Donders (1864)). An automated refraction is a
      quick routine machine based assessment, mainly used as a starting point for a manifest
      refraction and is based on retinoscopy (Nissman et al., (2004)).

      At the moment, several online refraction methods are available. However, these methods are
      not scientifically validated, unavailable outside the United States of America (USA) or not
      designed for customers. One of these online refraction methods is Opternative (Opternative
      (2017)). Opternative is currently used in the USA and is still developing (Opternative
      (2017)). It's a self-directed online refraction method using a computer-based response to
      presented stimuli with the use of a smartphone and a computer. Another method is EyeNetra
      (EyeNetra (2017) & Ohlendorf, Leube & Wahl (2016)). The use of this method is limited due to
      the need of special equipment such as a portable autorefractor, an autolensometer and a
      phoropter. Therefore, EyeNetra is mainly designed for optometrists and ophthalmologists for
      low-income populations. The same applies to SVOne; this method uses a Hartmann-Shack
      wavefront aberrometer which the user can attach to a smartphone (Ohlendorf, Leube & Wahl
      (2016)). Other online refraction methods are 6over6, but this method has not been released
      yet (6over6, (2017)), and Warby Parker (Warby Parker, (2017)).

      There are also online visual acuity tests to measure the visual acuity only. The mobile
      devices to test the visual acuity are PeekVision, 6over6, Opternative, Eyenetra and DigiSight
      (Ludwig et al., (2016)).

      Currently, digitalization is affecting our way of life. Technology can be used to design
      products to easily determine if someone has a refractive error. This can, in the future,
      solve a big part of the problem of uncorrected refractive errors and the leading cause of
      blindness worldwide. The aim of this study is to validate a recently created online
      refraction method by comparing the outcomes of the online refraction method with the 'golden
      standard' manifest refraction.
    
  