
    
      Patients with acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) are at risk of multiorgan failure and
      high mortality. Recent data suggest that patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis have
      higher ADMA (asymmetrical dimethylarginine) levels compared to compensated cirrhosis and
      plasma ADMA levels correlate with severity of liver dysfunction and inflammation. There is
      also an increase in symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA), a stereo-isomer of ADMA, which is
      largely excreted by the kidney. Plasma SDMA levels have been shown to be associated with
      patients

      progressing to renal failure. In a pilot study by our group involving 52 patients with acute
      decompensation of chronic liver disease, we showed an increase in the summed product of ADMA
      and SDMA, which we termed dimethylarginine score ('DAS'): This was shown to have a good
      predictive utility for outcome in this small group of patients (AUROC=0.89).

      Furthermore, we and others have shown that albumin of patients with advanced liver disease
      has widespread abnormalities. The amount of albumin that is found to have reduced metal
      binding capacity as a consequence of oxidative damage is termed Ischemia Modified Albumin
      (IMA).

      Our data shows that patients with ACLF who die have a significantly increased IMA/serum
      albumin ratio (IMAR). The summation of these two pathologically relevant biomarkers
      (DAS+IMAR) we termed DASIMAR and found this score to have a better predictive utility than
      DAS alone (AUROC:0.91).

      Primary objective : To identify the patients early on that progress to ACLF which would
      facilitate a goal directed therapeutic approach.

      Secondary objective : Generation of this dataset will further define and enable
      prognostication of ACLF. If this study reveals a role for these biomarkers in patients with
      ACLF, commercial development of simple kits may be possible.
    
  