
    
      At the completion of the phone screen, eligible participants will be scheduled to come to the
      Healthy Eating and Activity Laboratory for the start of their baseline assessment.

      The first session will occur the week prior to the test days. At this appointment, informed
      consent will be obtained, a demographic questionnaire completed, a beverage questionnaire
      (BEVQ-15) completed, and an appropriate time and preferred mode of contact (text message or
      e-mail) will be collected. Participant's height and weight will be collected through an
      electronic scale for weight and a stadiometer for height using standard procedures (Lohman,
      et al., 1988). Next, participants will be given the SenseWear armband. Participants will be
      instructed to start wearing the armband upon awakening on Monday morning and to wear the arm
      band on their upper right arm until going to sleep Monday night (wear time should be at least
      10 hours per day). Participants will be instructed to continue wearing the armband, in an
      identical manner as on Monday, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. Participants will be
      instructed to not alter their physical activity from their normal routine from Monday to
      Thursday.

      Participants will be randomized to one of the three groups, Coke (NS), Diet Coke (NNS), or
      carbonated water (control) using a random numbers table. For this investigation, Coke and
      Diet Coke will be used due to Coke and Diet Coke ranked number one and two as the most
      popular beverages in the U.S. from 2010 to 2018 ("Sweet! America's top 10 brands of soda,"
      2011; "Top 10 Best Selling Soft Drink Brands in The World," 2016). Next, participants will
      receive twelve, 12-ounce cans of a beverage that represents their assigned condition.
      Participants will be instructed to drink their assigned beverages Tuesday through Thursday,
      and to consume one beverage at 12pm, the second at 3pm, and the third at 6pm. Participants
      will be instructed that the beverages need to be consumed within +/- 30 minutes of the
      instructed time. Participants will be instructed that any other beverage consumed on Tuesday
      through Thursday should be water. Next, instructions will be provided to participants on how
      to complete the 24-hour dietary recalls and a two-dimensional visual aid will be provided to
      help participants in estimating portion sizes. Participants will also be given a detailed
      schedule about their study participation.

      Participants will be called on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday to complete 24-hour dietary
      recalls. Participants will be sent daily reminders regarding their recalls and wearing the
      armband via text or e-mail (participant preferred mode of contact).

      A final appointment will be completed on Friday in the HEAL lab. The armband will be returned
      and downloaded, the final recall will be completed, and participants will be debriefed about
      the purpose of the study. Participants will not be responsible for paying for the SenseWear
      Armband if they lose it or damage it. Once all data are collected, participants will be given
      a $25 gift card for their participation. If a participant cannot come to the lab on the
      Friday of their final appointment, then the last recall will be collected via phone and the
      appointment will be rescheduled in order to collect the armband.
    
  