
    
      There has been a substantial increase in cancer survival rates in the the past decades,
      however many cancer survivors are now impacted by the multitude of toxicities associated with
      treatment. It is only when temporary toxicities subside that the long-term toxicities
      progress and become important. Chemotherapy, although highly effective, is known to cause
      ototoxicity, presenting as hearing loss and tinnitus. Hearing loss and tinnitus are
      associated with a higher risk of depression, dementia, social isolation and anxiety. There is
      little information and support offered to patients who suffer from ototoxicity, which can
      potentially lead to many being undiagnosed and untreated. Ototoxicity can be permanent and
      progressive, therefore it is essential that a deeper understanding and increased awareness of
      how hearing loss and tinnitus affects the quality of life (QoL) of cancer survivors can
      improve long-term symptoms Management and support offered.

      This project aims to identify the prevalence and severity of long-term ototoxicity in cancer
      survivors following platinum-based treatment. Prevalence of ototoxicity can be unreliable and
      varies in the medical literature, with studies reporting rates between 24% and 79%.
      Information on prevalence will be achieved by recruiting patients from oncology clinics and
      performing a high frequency audiogram. The results from the audiogram will be compared to an
      normative dataset in addition to detecting self-reported hearing loss from the Hearing
      Handicap Inventory for Adults (HHIA) and the Hearing Handicap Inventory for Elderly (HHIE)
      questionnaires. Furthermore, the severity and prevalence of tinnitus will also be detected by
      using the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI) questionnaire. A validated questionnaire
      assessing QoL (SF-36) after cancer will also be completed by the patients. The questionnaires
      will be statistically analysed and compared against a dataset from the general population in
      the hope to identify the concerns surrounding long-term ototoxicity in cancer survivors.
    
  