
    
      Assessment of the coronary artery anatomy is commonly performed by coronary angiography (CA),
      which is the gold standard for evaluation of obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD).
      Coronary revascularization, opening of obstructed vessels, is most commonly performed by
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with obstructive CAD. Traditionally, PCI
      is performed with implantation of one or more permanent metallic stents which act as a
      scaffold for arterial recoil and, in the case of drug eluting stents (DES), provide a
      platform for delivery of anti-proliferative agents. The transradial access (TRA) has rapidly
      emerged as the preferred vascular access site for CA and PCI with more than 50% of all
      coronary angiograms being performed via this approach.

      There are several advantages to TRA for angiography including rapid hemostasis, early
      ambulation after the procedure thereby improving patient comfort and experience, and a
      decrease in the length of hospital stay. There is also a reported reduction in all-cause
      mortality, major adverse cardiovascular events, major bleeding, and vascular complications
      with TRA as compared to transfemoral access. However, radial artery occlusion (RAO) remains
      an important complication of this procedure as it precludes the reuse of this artery for
      future transradial approaches as well as the use of the vessel as a conduit for coronary
      artery bypass grafting.

      Reports of RAO post-TRA has varied in the literature from ~4-10% in observational and
      randomized trials. In the largest systematic review published to date, the overall rate of
      RAO was 5.2% amongst the 46,631 subjects across 92 studies between 1989 and 2016. This
      systematic review also noted that the rate of early (i.e. <7 days) vs. late (i.e. >7 days)
      RAO was significantly higher which is suggestive of late recanalization in some patients. The
      factors which affect recanalization are not clear however standard of care involves
      administration of heparin during the procedure and patent hemostasis following the procedure.
      Patent hemostasis is performed by applying a delicate balance of pressure to prevent bleeding
      but not to the point of completely occlude the blood vessel and cessation of blood flow
      distally.

      Numerous trials have explored the role of anticoagulation during angiography to reduce RAO
      and a recently published systematic review and meta-analysis demonstrated more intensive
      anticoagulation is protective. Indeed, this remains an active area of research with numerous
      ongoing trials evaluating the effect of intensive or higher dose anticoagulation during the
      procedure for prevention of RAO. Additionally, there were higher rates of RAO with diagnostic
      angiography as opposed to PCI purportedly as the latter involves higher doses of
      anticoagulation.

      Direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) therapy has provided a safer alternative with an improved
      bleeding profile over vitamin K antagonist anticoagulation therapy. The use of DOACs in
      cardiovascular medicine ranges from various conditions including stroke prevention in atrial
      fibrillation7-12 to venous thromboembolism13-16 to stable cardiovascular disease.

      While intraprocedural anticoagulation has been studied extensively, a course of
      anticoagulation therapy post-TRA has not been studied. Given the safety profile, ease of use,
      and feasibility of DOAC therapy, our study will endeavor to evaluate the use of rivaroxaban
      15mg orally once daily for 7 days after transradial access and the impact this has on the
      rate of RAO. Should this study prove to be positive, this could impact our routine standard
      of care with respect to having a strategy which could reduce the rate of this complication
      thereby preserving the radial artery for future access and/or as a conduit for coronary
      artery bypass grafting.
    
  