
    
      This study aims at prospectively collecting data on the current morbidity and mortality of
      ETI-related adverse events and current airway management practice in adult critically ill
      patients. Investigators designed a large international study calling for participation all
      institutions caring critically ill patients worldwide.

      Inclusion criteria

      Investigators will include all adult (≥ 18 years old) critically ill patients undergoing
      intubation during the period of observation. Investigators will consider all in-hospital
      intubations. Critically ill will be defined those patients with a life-threatening condition
      requiring intubation for either cardiorespiratory failure or airway protection.

      Exclusion Criteria

        -  Intubation performed in the out-of-hospital setting

        -  Intubation during cardiac arrest

        -  Intubation performed for anaesthesia

      Primary Outcome

      Major ETI-related adverse events - composite outcome (severe hypoxemia, cardiac arrest and
      cardiovascular collapse - see further for definitions)

      Secondary Outcomes

      Minor ETI-related adverse events and ICU mortality (see further for definitions).

      Sample size

      Investigators' aim is to collect data from 1000 intubation- related major complications. From
      a previously published report (Jaber 2006) the expected incidence of at least one major
      complication is 28%. Therefore investigators plan to recruit data from 3600 endotracheal
      intubations. Intubation rate may vary from 0.5 to 2 ETIs/day according to different centres
      (e.g. total hospital beds, number of ICUs and ICU beds) and local policies. Each centre will
      be asked to collect data from 20 ETIs. A maximum time window of 8 weeks will be allowed for
      each centre (i.e. for centres with a slower recruitment rate, data collection will stop after
      8 weeks irrespective of total number of ETIs collected data). Investigators plan to recruit
      at least 180 centres worldwide.
    
  