
    
      Background

      Airway management in critically ill patients is usually performed by endotracheal intubation
      with direct laryngoscopy. [1, 2] However, it has been shown that videolaryngoscopy may be
      superior to the conventional approach in intensive care, i. e. the number of attempts to
      successful intubation and the rate of accidental esophageal intubation are lower and the
      visualization of the vocal chords is improved. [3, 4]

      Recently, an endotracheal tube with an integrated camera at its tip has been introduced that
      permits a continuous visualization of the tube's insertion into the trachea on a monitor
      connected to the camera (VivaSightTM-SL, ETView Ltd., Misgav, Israel) [5]. This tube has been
      CE and FDA certified (http://www.etview.com/products/vivasight-sl).

      It is possible to observe the passage of the tube through the vocal chords during intubation
      and to verify the correct placement by visualization of the tracheal cartilage. This is an
      advantage over videolaryngoscopy, in which the camera is mounted on the laryngoscope blade.
      For the VivaSightTM-SL tube, a decrease for time to intubation and an increase of first
      attempt success has been shown over conventional intubation in a simulator trial. [6]

      In this study, the VivaSightTM-SL tube is tested against the conventional approach during
      elective and urgent intubations in critically ill patients.

      Methods

      Study design: randomized, prospective trial

      Sample size: n = 54

      With a sample size of 54 (randomized 1:1 as 2x 27) a difference of 35% for first attempt
      success over conventional intubation may be detected with an α-error of 0,05 and a β-error of
      1-0,8.

      Duration of study: until sample size reached or 18 months after begin of study

      Procedures:

        -  screening of patients for study inclusion according to inclusion and exclusion criteria

        -  conventional endotracheal intubation by direct laryngoscopy

        -  endotracheal intubation with the VivaSightTM-SL tube

      study inclusion:

      All patients being treated in the Dept. of Intensive Care Medicine receiving percutaneous
      tracheotomy due to long term ventilation are screened according to inclusion and exclusion
      criteria.

      Details of study related procedures:

      Intubation:

      The Intubation with the VivaSightTM-SL endotracheal tube does not differ from an intubation
      with a conventional tube that is done with respect to the standard operating procedure (SOP)
      of the Dept. of Intensive Care Medicine. Additionally, the intubation is guided by the camera
      mounted on the tip of the tube. During the intubation, vital parameters are monitored with
      respect to the underlying disease and patients' therapy is continuously adjusted. According
      to the SOP, two physicians are present of which at least one is a fellow or an attending
      physician with experience in intensive care medicine. In this trial, intubation is done
      exclusively by a fellow or attending physician.

      Consent: all patients or their legal surrogate give written informed consent.

      Data protection: Data are anonymized.
    
  