
    
      The primary hypothesis in this study is:

      Nurse navigation, as a specific, defined concept of coherent help through cancer
      trajectories, will prove superior to current care coordination with regard to patients'
      self-evaluated self-efficacy for cancer from inclusion to one week after receipt of
      information about treatment end or not later than one year after inclusion.

      Allocation The randomization will be stratified by age and gender. The rational is that age
      and gender is differently associated with benefit by a given care.

      Data collection Participants fill in questionnaires at four measurements, and supplements to
      sociodemographic information as well as information for an economic evaluation is collected
      from provider side.

      The questionnaires for participants are available in paper and electronically, and
      participants are allowed to discuss the individual questions with a person whom they trust
      before filling in their answers. If a participant is blind or dyslexic and has no one to help
      them fill in the questionnaires, a trained study nurse will read out loud the questions and
      fill in the participant's answers, and eventually in this process, listen to the
      participant's pros and cons, acknowledge that they are heard, ask for an answer and read out
      loud the question again. All data are stored in Research Electronic Data Capture (RedCap).

      Blinding The trial is not blinded but all participants are told, there is no favorite group.
      The statistician is blinded to randomization group and this blinding will be unveiled after
      the data is analyzed.

      Statistics Data are analyzed following the modified intention-to-treat principle, which is
      carried out by a senior statistician in close collaboration with the research group. Usual
      descriptive statistics will be used to summarize baseline and subject characteristics. The
      analyses of the primary endpoint, i.e. change in self-evaluated self-efficacy for cancer from
      inclusion (measurement 1) to end of treatment (measurement 3), and the secondary outcomes are
      done using analysis of covariance of the measure at measurement 3 with randomization group as
      a factor and measure at measurement 1 as covariate. In secondary analyses for all endpoints
      (measurement 1-4), the change over time will be investigated by mixed effects repeated
      measures analysis with randomization group as factor and random effects for subjects. These
      analyses are repeated within the subgroup of all cancer patients and the subgroup of cancer
      patients treated with curative aim. In the subgroup analyses, the influence of relevant
      subject-level confounders such as age, disease-stage, treatment, etc. will be explored, and
      appropriate adjustment will be performed. An economic evaluation will be performed for each
      randomized group and compared.
    
  