
    
      Our current standard nutrition care is based upon existing recommendations and involves
      nutrition counselling for optimal dietary intake from food and beverages, food fortification,
      administration of oral nutrition supplementation (ONS) and/or IDPN in malnourished MHD
      patients.

      Among 712 MHD patients, 138 who were diagnosed as severely malnourished (subjective global
      assessment (SGA) scores are B/C and serum albumin concentration <3.5 g/dL and/or a loss of
      ≥5% dry weight (DW) over the past 3 months ) were followed up between January 2016 - December
      2016.

      The patients whose at least 6 months interrupted data could be obtained under the recomemded
      nutritional support were included. Exclusion criteria were as follows; active infectious
      disease, chronic inﬂammatory systemic diseases (CIDs) like rheumatoid arthritis, systemic
      lupus erythematosus and multiple sclerosis, malabsorption syndrome, those treated with
      steroids or antiandrogens, inadequate dialysis (single pool Kt/V < 1.4), recent surgery
      within 3 months or during follow-up; hospitalization at time of randomization; nephrotic
      syndrome; active malignancy or history of malignancy.

      eigthy-two patients were excluded according to above criteria thus 56 severely malnourished
      patients data was included to the study and are recommended to receive ONS and/or IDPN. The
      given supplementation is continued until the nutritional parameters are ameliorated. The
      patients choice was the determinator of the received nutritional support.

      Patients were distributed into 4 groups according to patients requests for nutritional
      support modalities. We offered the combination of ONS and IDPN to all patients however some
      of the patients refused this combination thus we had 4 groups as; Group 1 (patients received
      only ONS and refused parenteral nutrition; n: 14), group 2 (patients received only parenteral
      NS and refused ONS; n: 14), group 3 (patients received both oral and parenteral NS; n: 10)
      and group 4 (dietetic support group; patients who refused all types of nutritional support
      and only followed by counselling, n: 18) (Figure 1: Study Flowchart).

      All patients gave informed consent for this study, which was approved by the ethics committee
      of Baskent University School of Medicine.

      Nutritional supplementation Each patient was consulted monthly by a dietitian to achieve the
      target calorie intake of 35 kcal/kg/day. A snack providing approximately 300 kcal, 14 g
      protein, 55 g carbohydrate, and 10 g fat was served to all patients during the sessions.

      - Oral Nutrition Support (ONS): Patients in group 1 and 3 take ONS 200 ml/day twice a day at
      home. Each serving (200 mL) of ONS preparation (Nutrena;Abbott Nutrition, Zwolle, Holland)
      contained 400 kcal, 14 g protein, 41.3 g carbohydrate, and 19.2 g fat and had lower
      concentrations of sodium, potassium, and phosphorus than standard ONS. ONS consumption was
      recorded at each dialysis session.

      - Intradialytic Parenteral Nutrition (IDPN) Patients in group 2 and 3 received IDPN
      administrations [(Kabiven central; a sterile, hypertonic emulsion, for central venous
      administration, in a Three Chamber Bag; the solution contains dextrose solution for fluid
      replenishment and caloric supply amino acid solution with electrolytes, which comprises
      essential and nonessential amino acids provided with electrolytes and Intralipid® 20% (a 20%
      Lipid Injectable Emulsion), prepared for intravenous administration as a source of calories
      and essential fatty acids]. Its infusion was started 30 minutes after initiation of HD via
      the venous port of the bubble trap on the HD tubing and continued throughout the entire HD
      procedure at a rate of 150 ml/h for 30 min and consisted of 300 ml for 3 hour.
    
  