
    
      Background: Newborn infants have blood work procedures for newborn screening and bilirubin
      testing in their first days of life that cause pain, distress and physiological changes.
      Breastfeeding (BF), skin to skin care (SSC), or giving small amounts of sweet solutions
      (sucrose or glucose) with or without a pacifier, effectively and safely reduce pain and
      distress in newborn infants during painful procedures. However, studies of neonatal pain
      management practices in Ontario and throughout Canada demonstrate inconsistent use of these
      strategies. There is a clear need for developing and testing acceptable parent-targeted
      interventions, alongside health care provider-targeted knowledge translation (KT)
      interventions, to support parents' involvement in comforting their infants during painful
      procedures. To address this knowledge to action (KTA) gap, Denise Harrison's Be Sweet to
      Babies team developed the BSweet2Babies video, which demonstrates the effectiveness of BF,
      SSC, and sucrose during infant bloodwork and how parents can use and advocate for these pain
      management strategies.

      Objectives: To conduct a process evaluation to understand during the 6-month intervention
      period; (1) to what extent did HCPs implement the BSweet2Babies video in their setting; (2)
      What were the barriers and facilitators encountered in implementing the BSweet2Babies video;
      (3) What were the barriers and facilitators encountered in implementing the evidence shown in
      the BSweet2babies video (i.e. breastfeeding, skin-to-skin care, sucrose).

      Study design and methods: Sequential exploratory mixed methods study. The mixed methods
      implementation study includes process evaluation, exploration of facilitators and barriers to
      implementation of the video and uptake of the demonstrated recommended pain management of BF,
      SSC or sucrose during initial blood sampling by heel prick.

      Data Analysis: Directed content analysis will be used to analyse the qualitative data (i.e.
      monthly phone calls and bi-monthly community of practice teleconferences). Interview data
      will be transcribed verbatim with consent. A deductive and inductive approach will be used to
      code the qualitative data with codes developed apriori based on the Theoretical Domains
      Framework. Any concepts that do not fit within the framework will be assigned a new code.

      Process evaluation will be described and summarized according to the process evaluation of
      complex intervention guide.

      BORN Ontario data analysts in consultation with CoI Taljaard will conduct analysis using
      descriptive statistics to compare characteristics of participating sites and births including
      unit type (Level 1 compared to Level 2), birth volume, infant sex, and parity. In addition,
      BIS pain data will be reported as baseline and following the 6- month implementation period.
    
  