
    
      Surgical repair of Achilles tendon ruptures is known to significantly reduce the risk of
      re-rupture and to accelerate the time to return to activity compared with non-surgical
      treatments (1, 2). Although sutured, Achilles tendon rupture requires an extended
      rehabilitation period following surgery to function normally again. However, the currently
      available information on this post-operative treatment suggest that the currently available
      rehabilitation guidelines, which includes early weight bearing, does not accomplish optimal
      recovery of muscle-tendon function. It has been demonstrated that reduced capacity to perform
      heel-rises, diminished range of motion of the ankle joint, and reduced calf muscle mass is
      correlated with a delay in return to activity, and all of these factors could be related to
      elongation of the healing tendon (3). Importantly, it appears that preventing tendon
      elongation during rehabilitation improves the clinical outcome, but the actual mechanism for
      the elongation and thus how to prevent it remains unknown (4). With newly developed
      techniques in our laboratory we will determine the mechanical properties of human whole
      Achilles tendon, in vivo, which makes it possible to explore how tendons respond to the
      regimes following a suture repair and rehabilitation regime.

      In contrast to the current rehabilitation regime after tendon surgery, which includes early
      high loading (weight bearing) already in the first weeks after surgery, we hypothesize that
      avoiding early weight bearing but allowing for early passive ankle joint range of motion
      (tissue strain with minimal loading) will prevent chronic tendon elongation, increase tendon
      stiffness, increase calf strength and muscle volume/thickness, and thus improve the long-term
      clinical outcome after tendon rupture in humans.

      Patients with acute Achilles tendon ruptures will undergo a standardized suture repair (a.m.
      Kessler) using resorbable suture (Vicryl size 1) at Bispebjerg Hospital and be placed in a
      brace that inhibits ankle joint movement. During surgery, patients will get four tantalum
      beads with a diameter of 1.0 mm implanted with a venflon needle in the proximal and the
      distal stub of the tendon. Thereafter they will be randomized to three post-operative
      treatment regimes:

      Control, range of motion or immobilized

      From the currently available data (4, 5, 6) it is suggested that the brace is worn for 6
      weeks after surgery in all three groups of the present experiment. The control group will be
      allowed partial weight-bearing from day 0 and full weight-bearing from week 4, toe rises
      after 16 weeks, jogging after 24 weeks and return to sports 34 weeks after. The two delayed
      weight-bearing groups (range motion group and immobilized group) will be restricted
      completely from weight-bearing initially (6 weeks), allowed partial weight-bearing after 6
      weeks and full weight-bearing after 8 weeks.
    
  