
    
      Investigators will conduct a 2x2 factorial, randomized clinical trial. All participants will
      receive usual care. Prior to randomization, participants will be stratified by recruitment
      siteParticipants will be randomized to 1 of 4 groups, Usual Care (UC), Social Cognitive
      Theory-based Group Counseling (SCT), Mobile self-monitoring with tailored feedback and
      counseling (MONITORING), or a combination of SCT plus MONITORING conditions (COMBINED).
      Investigators will evaluate the intervention arms primarily in terms of weight reduction,
      urinary sodium excretion, and serum phosphorus and, secondarily in terms of physical
      activity, blood pressure, fasting lipids, medication requirements, and pulse wave velocity.
      Measurements will occur at baseline, 6, and 12 months. The statistical modeling of the
      baseline, 6 mos and 12 mos outcome variables will be based on logistic generalized linear
      mixed models (for binary outcomes) linear mixed models (for continuous outcomes), and random
      effects multinomial models (for outcomes with more than 2 levels, such as changes in
      medication management). In separate analyses of the intervention arm only, investigators will
      model self-monitoring adherence and examine possible associations between self-monitoring
      adherence and outcomes. The mediating effect of self-efficacy on the primary outcomes will be
      evaluated using structural equation models

      II. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE RESEARCH POPULATION

      1. Number of subjects. Investigators will recruit 300 participants to the study.
      Investigators will focus our study on those with diabetic CKD as this form of the disease
      progresses more rapidly than other forms of CKD. Focusing on diabetic CKD also allows us to
      expand logically upon Look AHEAD, and build upon our work in T2DM patients with the ENHANCE
      study. Investigators will recruit participants from 3 clinical sites in New York City:
      Nephrology Family Group Practice at NYU Langone Medical Center (NYULMC), the Bellevue
      Hospital Diabetes Clinic, and New York Harbor VA. Preliminary data from these 3 practice
      settings indicate that investigators will have access to 4,292 potentially eligible patients
      from which investigators must recruit only 7.0% to enroll 300. Our prior studies suggest that
      investigators will retain 80% resulting in a final sample of 240. Investigators are
      projecting 64 participant measurement visits in Year 1; 248 in Year 2; 288 in Year 3; 244 in
      Year 4; and 56 in Year 5.

      Unless otherwise noted, measurements occur at baseline, 6, and 12 mos. Data are collected
      with visits to NYU Clinical and Translational Resource Center (CTRC). Information to be
      obtained from participants at each visit includes height and weight, serum and urine samples;
      blood pressure; investigator administered instruments (sociodemographics, comorbid
      conditions, Mini Mental Status Exam, and self-efficacy instruments), medication inventories,
      and Pulse Wave Velocity. Eight blood tests will be performed: cystatin-C, lipids, phosphorus,
      calcium, PTH or parathyroid hormone, vitamin D, pre-albumin and albumin. These tests are
      estimated to require, in total, approximately 45 mls (of blood.

      One week before their scheduled measurement visit, a 24-hour urine specimen container and
      instructions for collection are mailed to the participant. Participants are contacted 2 days
      prior to their appointment to remind them of their measurement visit, collect their urine,
      fast, and abstain from caffeine for 12 hours prior to their appointment. Laboratory tests are
      collected, spun, refrigerated, batched and sent for processing in the CLIA-certified NYU CTSI
      Translational Research Laboratories by personnel blinded to group assignment. The PWV of the
      brachial-ankle (baPWV) and carotid-femoral (cfPWV) will be collected by trained research
      associates at the CTRC.
    
  