
    
      For the intervention, a research assistant (RA) at each hospital, with permission of the
      healthcare professional, will ask potential participants if they are interested in
      participating in this study. If they are interested, the RAs will seek verbal consent for
      this study at this time. The RA will inform patients that when a healthcare provider comes
      into their room about the BioTrust, they will have the study information for them.

      Then the RAs at the labor and deliver units of the hospitals will give an iPad to the
      healthcare providers seeking consent for the BioTrust. The healthcare providers will be blind
      to the study group assignment until they enter the patient's room. When a healthcare
      professional enters a patients' room, she will touch the iPad to see the study group
      assignment. Participants will be randomized to one of three study groups and this will be
      programmed automatically on the iPad. If they are in Group A or B, the healthcare providers
      will give the iPad to the patients to watch or read the consent information. If they are in
      Group C (control group) the standard brochure will be given about the BioTrust. Immediately
      following their decision, all participants will complete a brief knowledge survey on the
      iPad.

      This recruitment approach mirrors the current clinical encounter for the BioTrust. This
      current approach is as follows. After newborn screening is completed, a healthcare
      professional approaches the mother in the hospital and provides them with the Michigan
      BioTrust brochure (see appendix) and then asks for the mother to consent to allow or not
      allow their infants' residual DBS to be stored in the Michigan BioTrust. This consent form is
      a simply check for yes and no with their signature and is attached to the back of the newborn
      screening card. For this study, after they receive the information in any of the study
      groups, all participants will still be required to sign this same consent form because it is
      attached to the physical sample of the newborn screening blood specimens.

      All participating women will complete a survey 1) immediately following the
      intervention/control on the electronic table (Time 1) and 2) also will be surveyed by
      telephone 2-4 weeks follow up (Time 2).

      Drs. Rothwell, Johnson and Tarini will provide guidance for the coordination of the clinical
      sites, due to their extensive experience. To ensure success there will be at least weekly
      communication between the sites and the Project Director, Dr. Johnson and monthly among the
      site personnel. Drs. Botkin, Rothwell and Johnson will visit each site prior to
      implementation of data collection to introduce the project and discuss issues sites may have.
      Once the RAs have been hired at each site they will provide weekly reports of activities and
      recruitment to the Research team in Utah. Monthly a teleconference will be held and the Site
      PI's will report on activities and recruitment to the Utah research team and the other site
      PI. Consistency among the sites will be monitored with these reports and communication
      strategies. Research team coordination with communication and meetings is based on the
      successful accomplishment of previous research project (R01 HD058854).
    
  