
    
      This phase II study is aimed to prove the efficacy of adjuvant therapy with pembrolizumab for
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma patients with detectable plasma EBV DNA after curative
      chemoradiation.

      Nasopharyngeal cancer was a malignancy related to Epstein-Barr virus infection. It was a
      malignancy endemic in Southeast Asia, Taiwan, and China. The primary treatment was
      chemoradiation. The three-year disease free survival was around 50-60% for locally-advanced
      (stage IVA, IVB) NPC. Adjuvant chemotherapy after curative chemoradiation is a strategy to
      improve disease control rate for advanced NPC. However, two phase III trials in Taiwan (TCOG
      1394) and China failed to prove its efficacy on improving disease control and overall
      survival. How to identify patients who are truly at risk is an important question for the
      therapy of advanced NPC.

      Plasma EBV DNA copy number is a biomarker predicting the recurrent risk of nasopharyngeal
      cancer. A higher level of plasma EBV DNA before chemoradiation is related to a poorer
      prognosis. A detectable EBV DNA after chemoradiation, which is a hint for occult residual or
      metastatic disease, is a strong predictor for early recurrence. The relapse free survival at
      two years for patients with detectable plasma EBV DNA (> 0 copies/mL) was around 20%. The
      results of other similar trials are summarized on table 1.

      Cancer cells escaped from the immune surveillance by several mechanisms. One of them is
      activating immune inhibitory pathway by "immune checkpoints" . Programmed Death 1 (PD-1) and
      Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) is one immune checkpoint axis to regulate immune response
      against cancer. Pembrolizumab (MK-3475), an anti-PD-1 antibody, had a good activity against
      melanoma and other types of cancers. The toxicity profiles were tolerable. In the Keynote-028
      phase Ib trial, pembrolizumab showed good clinical activity against recurrent or metastatic
      NPC. The overall response rate is 22%, and the disease control rate is 77.8%. This data is
      encouraging for further clinical trials of pembrolizumab for NPC.

      PD-1/PD-L1 axis has an important role for the resistance of chemoradiation[18]. In patients
      refractory to chemoradiation, the expression of PD-1 and PD-L1 increased in the tumor. In
      animal model, sequential administration of anti-PD-1 after radiation significantly improved
      the progression free survival in mice with tumors [19]. This concept supports the
      investigator's sequential design for high-risk NPC patients.
    
  