
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of capsaicin-induced pain on homeostatic
      plasticity.

      A randomised crossover design will be used to evaluate the effect of capsaicin-induced pain
      on homeostatic plasticity using cathodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). Each
      participant will take part in four experimental sessions during which homeostatic plasticity
      and corticomotor excitability will be induced and measured in the left primary motor cortex.
      Participants will receive - in randomised order - capsaicin or placebo patch placed on the
      dorsal part of the right hand.

      Each participant will attend four sessions, being two consecutive sessions separated by two
      weeks (i.e. wash-out period). During the experiment, participants will be seated comfortably
      with hands and arms at rest. First, the electromyography electrodes will be placed at the
      right first dorsal interosseous muscle to be used for assessing the corticomotor excitability
      by recordings of motor evoked potentials by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on the
      left primary motor cortex. Then, the cap for tDCS on the left primary motor cortex will be
      mounted. The optimal scalp position (hot spot) for TMS stimulation will be identified and
      marked with a pen on the cap for standardisation. A 5 x 7 cm capsaicin/placebo patch will be
      placed on participants' right hand. After 30 minutes of patch application, baseline measures
      of pain and motor-evoked potentials will be taken. Then, the homeostatic plasticity induction
      process will take place followed by motor-evoked potentials recordings every 15 minutes up to
      45 minutes post protocol. Participants will be divided in 2 groups, one group will receive
      ice over the patch as to reduce pain intensity to minimum of 1 in a numeric rating scale; the
      other group will proceed without ice. Homeostatic plasticity will be induced and measured as
      previously described. The patch will be left in place for 24 hours, at which point
      participants will return to the laboratory and homeostatic plasticity will once again be
      induced and measured. After a wash-out period of two weeks, participants will go through an
      identical process but at this time with a different patch.

      Homeostatic plasticity will be induced in the left primary motor cortex using tDCS applied
      for 7 minutes followed by an interval of 3 minutes and another block of 5 minutes of
      stimulation. A constant current of 2mA will be transmitted through the tDCS system, using two
      25 cm2 electrodes placed into holes of a cap over the hot spot and right supraorbital area.

      A sample size calculation was conducted using α of 0.05, β of 0.80 and effect size of 0.29
      based on motor evoked potential (MEP) analysis of previous studies resulting in a target of
      22 participants. To account for differences in designs 24 participants will be included,
      being 12 in each group.

      Data distribution will be assessed using the Shapiro-Wilk test. A mixed analysis of variance
      (ANOVA) will be conducted on mean MEPs: within factors Intervention (Capsaicin and Placebo),
      Time (baseline, 0 min, 15 min, min, 30 min, 45 min), Time with pain (immediate, post pain
      relief post prolonged pain); and between factor (ice , no ice). A Greenhouse-Geisser
      correction will be used if Mauchly's test shows that sphericity cannot be assumed.
      Adjustments will be made for multiple post-hoc comparisons using the Bonferroni correction.
      Results will be interpreted according to the level of statistical significance p≤0.05.
    
  