
    
      An increasingly common cause of Multiple Organ Dysfunction Syndrome (MODS) is mechanical
      injury/ischemia caused by elevated pressures within the abdominal cavity. This phenomenon has
      been termed intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH) with the final pathway of multiple organ
      dysfunction and failure termed abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS). In the neonate, IAH is
      known to accompany omphalocele, gastroschisis and diaphragmatic hernia repair. IAH has also
      been found to cause a need for neonatal extra corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and/or a
      subsequent failure of ECMO treatment.

      While abdominal compartment syndrome is the final physiologic and clinically apparent
      expression of severe elevations of intra-abdominal pressure, earlier in the course of this
      process, significant organ dysfunction occurs at a sub-clinical level. If mild to moderately
      elevated abdominal pressure can be detected early, it may allow clinicians to intervene early
      and reverse the process, preventing progression to ACS and possibly reducing morbidity and
      mortality.

      To date no study has investigated the correlation between bladder pressure (a surrogate
      measure of IAP) in neonates who may or may not have ACS. Thus, the ranges of normal and
      elevated IAP are not determined. There is suggestion from pediatric ICU patients that the
      threshold for IAH in children is less than that in adults. Likewise, the threshold for IAH in
      neonates may be expected to be even lower, but this remains to be determined.

      In this study, IAP (via bladder pressure measurements) will be measured with a commercially
      available and FDA approved system which utilizes an electronic pressure transducer, tubing,
      and any bedside patient monitor with pressure measurement inputs. These types of monitors are
      standard in the NICU. The pressure transducer is attached to the bladder catheter via a
      two-way valve, allowing urine drainage in-between taking bladder pressure measurements. A
      small amount of sterile saline is infused into the bladder in order to make the IAP
      measurement. While there is an indwelling urinary catheter, bladder pressure measurements
      will be taken every 2-4 hours.
    
  