
    
      Overview

      The study will be designed and conducted as a double blind placebo controlled randomised
      controlled trial - Clinical Trial of an Investigational Medicinal Product.

      This study will be performed on patients referred to King's Liver Unit for further assessment
      and management of chronic overt hepatic encephalopathy (≥ Grade 1) or with ≥2 episodes of
      overt hepatic encephalopathy in the previous 6 months.

      The study will be performed on 50 patients with cirrhosis and chronic hepatic encephalopathy
      [25 Rifaximin and 25 placebo] aged between 18 and 75 years managed within the Liver Unit at
      King's College Hospital which is the largest tertiary Liver Transplant Centre within the UK.
      For the purposes of this study a patient will be considered to have cirrhosis if they fulfil
      2 out of 3 diagnostic criteria of confirmatory liver histology, biochemistry and/or
      radiologic findings consistent with cirrhosis/portal hypertension, and are presenting with
      chronic persistent overt hepatic encephalopathy (≥ grade 1) or with ≥2 episodes of overt
      hepatic encephalopathy in the previous 6 months.

      Patient demographics, clinical details (including Westhaven hepatic encephalopathy grade) and
      blood haematology, biochemistry (including venous ammonia), microbiology data and neutrophil
      function will be assessed and collated at baseline and following 30 and 90 days of Rifaximin
      therapy or placebo. Intestinal permeability will be assessed using the intestinal
      disaccharide test. Faecal microbiota analysis will be performed by deep pyrosequencing
      techniques and plasma endotoxemia will be measured (lipopolysaccharide levels) with bacterial
      DNA quantification as a marker of bacterial translocation. These will all be measured at 3
      time points: baseline and at 30 and 90 days after initiation of Rifaximin therapy or matching
      placebo.

      Investigations

      Patients will undergo intestinal functional tests within 7 days of recruitment, whereby they
      will be administered a test solution of not more than a cupful (150mls) of different types of
      non-absorbable sugars, which are drunk in liquid form by the participants. Prior to
      ingestion, baseline samples will be obtained as follows:

      i) blood samples - for analysis of intestinal & immune (dys)function, and metabonomic
      analysis ii) urine sample - for intestinal (dys)function & metabonomic analysis iii) stool
      sample - for faecal biomarker and microbiota analysis

      1v) ascitic sample (if clinically indicated) - surplus fluid will be analysed for bacterial
      translocation and immune (dys)function

      Once the test solution has been ingested, blood samples will be obtained via a cannula which
      is placed in a vein, usually in the arm, prior to the start of the test, to allow further
      sampling without causing discomfort to the patient. A total of 15 samples will be obtained
      over a 5 hour period, with intervals ranging between 20-30mins, of not more than 6mls per
      sample. At the end of the test, at a 5 hour interval, a further urine sample will be
      collected to allow for intestinal functional testing. This is exactly the same procedure as
      that specified in the approved 'The Gut-Liver Axis in Liver Disease & Liver Transplantation'
      study (REC ref: 12/LO/1417).

      Where participants are undergoing sampling of ascitic fluid for clinical reasons any fluid in
      excess of pathology's requirements will be analysed along with peripheral blood samples.
      Ascitic samples will only be taken from patients in whom a decision has been made to take
      these samples for clinical reasons (this decision will not be that of the investigator). No
      increased volume of such sample would be required.

      Clinical outcomes (development of recurrent overt hepatic encephalopathy, organ failure and
      infection) will be recorded for a total of 90 days.

      Analysis of samples - sites

      Blood, urine and ascitic samples will be analysed in the Institute of Liver Studies and
      King's College Hospital laboratories where various tests to determine intestinal and immune
      function will be undertaken. Stool samples will be analysed both at laboratories at King's
      College Hospital and at the Franklin-Wilkins Building, King's College London, where faecal
      biomarkers and faecal microbiota analyses will be performed, respectively. Metabolic analyses
      for metabonomic profiling will be carried out at Imperial College London (both at St Mary's
      Hospital and at the South Kensington Campus).

      Protocol

      A more detailed list of the tests and analyses to be performed is to be found in the
      protocol. Study-specific flow charts have also been provided for a step-by-step
      representation of the study, visually representing the study process including participant
      recruitment, randomisation, sampling protocols and analyses at the three time points and
      follow-up visits.
    
  