
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Pediatric oncology patients who have been treated with anthracycline therapy as a part of
      their chemotherapeutic regimen often subsequently develop left ventricular failure. The
      optimal medical management is not known. This trial will be the first to provide
      comprehensive data on a well characterized population regarding the role of afterload
      reduction using enalapril to treat ventricular dysfunction after anthracycline chemotherapy

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Randomized, double-blind. Randomization was stratified by total anthracycline dose, follow-up
      time from treatment, and age at time of treatment. All patients received the following
      baseline tests: Maximal Cardiac Index (MCI) on cycle ergometry; echocardiogram/Doppler
      determined left ventricular end systolic wall stress (ESWS); gated nuclear angiography (GNA)
      to determine left ventricular ejection fraction; Holter monitoring for 24 hour ECG
      monitoring. Patients were randomized to either enalapril or placebo. Follow-up visits were
      conducted to ensure compliance and screen for side effects. MCI and ESWS were measured twice
      yearly, while all four tests were repeated at the conclusion of the trial, after four to five
      years of treatment. The primary outcome variables were the rate of decline in MCI and the
      rate of increase in ESWS. Secondary outcomes were the change in left ventricular ejection
      fraction and the incidence of arrhythmias. A second aim of the study was to develop an
      algorithm to determine indications for enalapril use if the study succeeded in showing a
      treatment effect. This required modeling the probability of cardiac dysfunction given patient
      characteristics at treatment, treatment type, cardiac status during treatment and at
      follow-up, and the development of cost effectiveness and medical decision making models
      testing the proposed algorithm.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered in the Query View Report System (QVR).
    
  