
    
      Current Preimplantation Genetic Testing for Aneuploidy (PGT-A) techniques analyze the full
      chromosome content of a single or few cells with high sensitivity and specificity using
      Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS). Although shown to be efficient, the technique suffers from
      some limitations. It requires an embryo biopsy, specific technical skills and it still
      remains expensive. Therefore, non-invasive techniques for assessing embryo ploidy status are
      sought as an alternative. Such non-invasive approaches would have various advantages over
      current strategies, including the elimination of a costly micromanipulation biopsy procedure
      and the avoidance of risks associated with cell removal. Furthermore, it would be more
      advantageous, especially for those patients who undergo in vitro fertilization (IVF)
      treatment but do not have PGT-A indication or they are not willing to have their embryos
      tested with invasive techniques.

      One of the recent advances in the field is the identification of embryonic cell-free DNA
      (cfDNA) during embryo culture in the lab. It is released to the culture drop (SBM) and
      represents the chromosome content of the embryo. In a recent pilot study, we analyzed the
      concordance rates between trophectoderm (TE) biopsy and SBM. In SBM collected on day 6/7 of
      development, the results were concordant with TE biopsies in 84% of samples, with a
      false-positive rate of 8.6% and a false-negative rate of 2.5%. These findings are encouraging
      and were the base for the design of the current RCT study.

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the potential clinical benefits of a new
      non-invasive method for PGT-A, based on the analysis of the embryonic cfDNA released into
      SBM.

      Considering a dropout rate of around 30% (treatment or monitoring failures and no day 6/7
      blastocysts to transfer), a total of 872 participants will be randomized before the ovum
      pick-up. They will be allocated on a balanced way (1:1 ratio) in one of the two arms: 1)
      Single Embryo Transfer (SET) on day 6/7 with deferred blastocyst transfer based on the
      chromosomal status according to the analysis of the SBM; 2) SET on day 6/7 with deferred
      blastocyst transfer based on embryo morphology. Reproductive outcomes (defined following The
      International Glossary on Infertility and Fertility Care, 2017) will be compared between the
      two groups.

      Data exported from the clinical histories and source documents will be duly codified to
      protect the clinical and personal information of patients in accordance with the current
      legislation. This information will be exported to an electronic Case Report Form (eCRF). An
      interim analysis of this data is planned once 30% of the recruitment has been reached.
      Besides, the study will be overseen by an independent Data Monitoring Committee after 30% of
      patients´ recruitment.
    
  