
    
      The trial will enroll 662 children ages 1-3 years who receive well-child care at one of 10
      partner clinic sites (belonging to 4 partner clinic systems). The research study team will
      conduct developmental screening on all children using the Parental Evaluation of
      Developmental Status (PEDS) Online system, and randomize children 1:1 into intervention
      (connection to 211LA for developmental care coordination + usual care) or control (usual care
      alone, with developmental care coordination conducted by clinic staff).

      Primary outcomes will include referrals to early intervention evaluations, eligibility for
      intervention services, and receipt of services. The investigators will measure these outcomes
      through parent report, medical record review, and 211LA data, at 6 months after enrollment.
      For children with elevated developmental risk based on the PEDS Online results, the study
      will assess development using the PEDS:DM-AL (Parents' Evaluation of Developmental Status:
      Developmental Milestones - Assessment Level), conducted at baseline as well as 12 and 24
      months after enrollment. For all children, research study team personnel will administer the
      language subscale of the PEDS:DM-AL at baseline, 12 months and 24 months, to evaluate
      development over time in the two groups. The investigators will measure behavioral outcomes
      for all children using the externalizing behavior subscale of the Child Behavior Checklist.

      Expected findings include higher rates of referrals, eligibility, and receipt of intervention
      services among intervention group participants, and greater developmental gains among
      children in the intervention group. The study will also examine the costs of the program in
      relation to these outcomes, to estimate the costs and potential long-term benefits of this
      model. If effective, the model has the potential to disseminate rapidly throughout the 2-1-1
      network and transform developmental care coordination in the US.
    
  