
    
      This study will be carried out in private centers for IVF. The aim of this study is to
      determine the prognostic value of sperm DNA fragmentation levels before and after semen
      processing and sperm morphology in predicting the outcome of assisted reproduction.

      60 couples will undergo ICSI cycles in private centers for IVF. All patients will go through
      an ICSI cycle. Monitoring: COH will be monitored by transvaginal sonography, and then the
      dose of gonadotropin will be adjusted according to the follicle size and number.

      Triggering ovulation: when three or more follicles reach >18mm, endometrium triple line more
      than 8mm, both the gonadotropin and agonist injections will be stopped and 10,000 IU of hCG
      will be given.

      Egg collection : 34-36 hour after hCG injection, embryo transfer :48-72 hour after oocyte
      retrieval. Luteal phase support: with 100 mg progesterone injection intramuscularly daily
      until the day of the pregnancy test.

      pregnancy test: 15 days after the embryo transfer. Semen collection and preparation. Semen
      samples will be collected by masturbation in clean containers, usually after 2-3 days of
      abstinence. Each sample will be allowed to liquefy for at least 20 min at 37 °C.

      Semen analysis:

      Basic sperm parameters including sperm count, concentration, motility and morphology will be
      evaluated according to World Health Organization guidelines . After the initial assessment,
      ejaculates will be divided into three aliquots. An aliquot of each sample will be used to
      assess sperm DNA damage, the second aliquot will be processed by direct swim-up technique (n
      30) or zeta test technique (n 30) this will be followed by assessment of DNA damage again in
      each sample to measure the difference in DNA damage after processing in each technique then
      spermatozoa from the third aliquot will be morphologically analyzed manually using Spermic
      stain and a light microscope and will be scored according to WHO.

      DNA fragmentation assay:

      The assessment of DNA damage will be measured before and after processing for each sample
      using an improved version of the sperm chromatin dispersion test. Samples will be prepared
      for analysis. staining step will be required to evaluate the prepared slides. The samples
      will be stained with Diff-Quik solution, immersing each slide in Diff-Quik solution I
      (eosinophilic) and Diff-Quik solution II (basophilic) for 6 min each, allowed to dry at room
      temperature .then the slide will be examined under bright field microscope.
    
  