
    
      Most patients present with symptoms of hydrocephalus due to obstruction by tumor at the level
      of the fourth ventricle or cerebral aqueduct, and ataxia (Martin et al., 2014). If the tumor
      is large enough, the lesion itself can also cause mass effect and increased intracranial
      pressure. Furthermore, direct structural damage from the children can thus present with
      nausea, vomiting, ataxia,diplopia.

      Ataxia in children is a common clinical sign of various origins consisting of impaired
      coordination of movement and balance with a lack of muscle control during voluntary activity.
      Ataxia is most frequently caused by dysfunction of the complex circuitry connecting the basal
      ganglia, cerebellum and cerebral cortex, and this type of involvement is recorded as
      "cerebellar ataxia.

      Recently, the evidence for procedural memory training has advanced sophistication to suggest
      and ultimately prove that automaticity of a primary (motor task can be developed through
      exposure to massive repetitions practice) and the forced subconscious processing using dual
      task interference (Bermúdez, 2017).

      The Objectives of the Study:

      1- Aim of the Study: Determining the efficacy of "Dual Task Training in children with ataxia
      after Medulloblastoma Resection regarding "Static Balance" and "Dynamic Balance" as
      indicators of Postural Control

      2-Specific Objectives:

        1. Assess static balance by measuring center of pressure using force plate mode in the
           humac balance system.

        2. Assess dynamic balance by using tilt mode in the humac balance system .

        3. Evaluate the improvement on functional status and independence in ADL activities by
           functional independence measurement.

        4. Determine the more effective program for rehabilitation of children with ataxia

      3-Secondary Objectives:

        1. Assess the degree of ataxia in children after medulloblastoma resection by SARA scale.

        2. Detect the effect of cognitive interference on postural stability and balance.

        3. Detect if there is improvement in cognitve function after dual task training.
    
  