
    
      Delirium is an acute confusional state characterized by fluctuating mental status,
      inattention, and either disorganized thinking or altered level of consciousness. It has long
      been recognized as a complication of cardiac surgery, a condition more likely to be
      experienced among elderly patients and those with greater comorbid disease burden. In recent
      years, increasing attention has been paid to the negative effect of delirium on
      post-operative outcomes, including long-term survival, freedom from hospital readmission and
      reduced cognitive and functional recovery. Despite this, little is still known about the true
      incidence of delirium following cardiac surgery, with published rates of delirium
      post-cardiac surgery ranging widely from 3% - 78%.

      From September 1, 2014 to November 30, 2014, ALL patients undergoing cardiac surgery at each
      of the participating centers will be screened for post-operative delirium. Patients will NOT
      be excluded on the basis of urgency or procedure type. Delirium screening will be conducted
      for either up to 7 days following their date of surgery or up until their date of initial
      discharge from the intensive care unit, whichever comes first. Each center will be allowed to
      employ the delirium-screening tool currently in use at their institution provided that the
      tool is either the Intensive Care Delirium Screening Checklist (ICDSC) or Confusion
      Assessment Method for the Intensive Care Unit (CAM-ICU). It is intended that either ICDSC or
      CAM-ICU, paired with a Richmond Agitation and Sedation Scale (RASS) or the Riker Sedation and
      Agitation Scale (SAS) be administered once per shift (i.e. with first assessment in the
      morning and a second assessment with the beginning of the evening shift). In addition, data
      regarding baseline demographic and clinical characteristics will be collected as well as data
      regarding the procedure performed (see Case Report Form (CRF). Patients will be considered as
      having had post-operative delirium if the results of at least one of the screening tests
      administered yielded a positive finding of delirium. In addition to reporting an overall rate
      of delirium, unadjusted and adjusted incidence rates of delirium will be reported by
      institution and for the entire cohort. Risk-adjustment will be performed using multivariate
      regression modeling techniques.

      This study will be the first to report on incidence rates of delirium following cardiac
      surgery across multiple centers employing standardized screening methodologies. The results
      of this study will provide valuable insight into the true burden of delirium among patients
      having undergone a cardiac surgical procedure in the current era. This is the first step in
      creating a multifaceted delirium prevention/treatment clinical pathway for the cardiac
      surgery patient.
    
  