
    
      History and current status of related studies

      The cervical pedicle is a tiny structure adjacent to important tissues including the spinal
      cord and vertebral artery. Cervical pedicle screw internal fixation is the conventional
      treatment for cervical spine fracture, and the technique provides acceptable internal
      fixation; however, current manipulation methods result in high pedicle screw penetration
      rates, a high risk of damage to peripheral vessels and nerves, and high rates of
      postoperative deformity. Improved techniques and minimally invasive methods such as
      transcutaneous pedicle screw implantation have been designed to effectively reduce
      surgery-related injury while maintaining the accuracy and safety of pedicle screw
      implantation. Unfortunately, there is no unified standard regarding implantation of cervical
      pedicle screws, and many pedicle screw implantation methods are used including partial
      cervical lamina excision and pipeline-dredge discharge. However, both of these techniques are
      clinically limited because of poor maneuverability. Digital navigation is an emerging
      technique based on the discrete-accumulation principle. The technique integrates computer
      methods, numerical control, laser and new materials, and provides a new digital technique for
      confirming the location and orientation of cervical pedicle screws, ensuring safe surgical
      operation.

      Features different from other related studies

      Previous studies focused primarily on investigating the curative effects of pedicle screw
      implantation in cervical spine fracture. To the best of the investigators knowledge, there
      are no studies of cervical spine fracture treatment by digital navigation-assisted cervical
      pedicle screw placement before June 2006 in Web of Science. The investigators located two
      similar articles (Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy Surgical Trial (identifier: NCT02076113)
      and Slotted Hole Versus Fixed Hole C-Tek (identifier: NCT00585923)) in a search of
      ClinicalTrials.gov up to June 2006. The outcome measures in these two studies included bony
      fusion Short Form 36 and the physical component score. In contrast to these two studies
      regarding inclusion criteria and grouping, the investigators study was designed to
      investigate the accuracy and safety of digital navigation-assisted cervical pedicle screw
      placement, hoping to provide valuable quantitative evidence for the clinical application of
      this technique.

      Adverse events

      Possible adverse events included any expected or unexpected symptoms. If severe adverse
      events occurred, their details including the date of occurrence and measures taken to treat
      the adverse events were reported to the principal investigator and the institutional review
      board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open access

      Data collection: Case report forms with demographic data, disease diagnosis, accompanying
      diseases, drug allergy history, and adverse events were collected, processed using Epidata
      software (Epidata Association, Odense, Denmark), collated, and then recorded electronically
      by data managers using a double-data entry strategy.

      Data management: The locked electronic database was accessible and locked only by the project
      manager, and was not altered. Paper and electronic data regarding screening, informed
      consent, and clinical outcomes have been preserved at the Affiliated Hospital of Nantong
      University, China.

      Data analysis: The electronic database was statistically analyzed by a professional
      statistician who created an outcome analysis report that was submitted to the lead
      researchers. An independent data monitoring committee supervised and managed the trial data,
      ensuring a scientific and stringent trial to yield accurate and complete data.

      Data open access: Anonymized trial data was published at http://www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis

      Statistical analysis was performed by a statistician using SPSS 19.0 software (SPSS Inc.) and
      followed the intention-to-treat principle. Normally distributed measurement data was
      expressed as mean, standard deviation, and minimums and maximums. Non-normally distributed
      measurement data were expressed as lower quartile (q1), and median and upper quartile (q3).
      The Kruskal-Wallis H-test was used to compare the visual analogue scale spine scores among
      the three groups, and Fisher's exact test was used to compare the degree of bony fusion of
      the atlantoaxial joint and the incidence of adverse reactions. P < 0.05 was considered
      statistically significant.
    
  