
    
      Study Design and Overview:

      In this project, the investigators will examine the association between participation in the
      WiseGuyz program and ADV outcomes. The investigators will use a mixed-methods,
      quasi-experimental design with pre-test, post-test and one-year follow-up surveys, engaging
      participants from two Western Canadian school divisions. Through focus groups with youth
      participants, the investigators will contextualize quantitative survey data, to deepen
      understanding of how WiseGuyz may promote the prevention of ADV.

      Participants:

      The investigators plan to recruit approximately 700-800 grade nine male-identified youth in 7
      participating schools.

      Procedures:

      The investigators will make presentations on the research project to all grade 9 youth at
      participating schools. Any male-identified youth in grade 9 is welcome to participate,
      regardless of their involvement with WiseGuyz. Interested participants will need to provide
      signed parent/guardian consent (paper or electronic) and themselves complete an assent form
      to participate in the research. Quantitative data will be collected in two cohorts (Cohort
      One - pre-test: October 2019; post-test: May 2020; one-year follow-up: May 2021; Cohort Two -
      pre-test: October 2020; post-test: May 2021; one-year follow-up: May 2022).

      The investigators will gather qualitative focus group data from approximately 60 WiseGuyz
      participants immediately post-intervention. Cohort One focus groups will occur in May 2020,
      Cohort Two focus groups will occur in May 2021. The investigators will also interview school
      leadership in Spring 2021.

      To understand program implementation, implementation tracking data will be collected at the
      start of the program year, immediately following each WiseGuyz session, at the end of each
      WiseGuyz module, and at the end of the program year. The investigators will collect these
      data from October 2019-May 2021.
    
  