
    
      Serum eye drops (SEDs) are used to treat patients with dry eyes and other diseases, like
      corneal defects. SEDs are used in ophthalmic cases where conventional eye drops have
      insufficient effect. The use of SEDs in dry eye patients usually has a rapid effect. Most
      patients claim the effect to be instantaneous and all symptoms improve by 48 hours [1].

      There is evidence suggesting that serum may enhance corneal epithelial healing [2]. Some
      biologically active substances are thought to contribute to the positive effects, like
      epidermal growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, fibronectin, and vitamin A.

      Autologous SEDs are used internationally on a regular basis, and allogeneic SEDs are becoming
      increasingly popular. In the Netherlands, only autologous SEDs are in use.

      Obtaining autologous SED is an organizational burden. Patient-related problems are old age,
      travelling, or travelling with low vision and sometimes immobility due to other diseases.
      Sometimes venipuncture is impossible due to poor access. Medical conditions such as inability
      to donate large amounts of whole blood due to previous cerebrovascular accidents or
      cardiovascular disease, anemia, or use of certain medication may prevent collection of blood
      for SEDs. Patients affected with hematological diseases, bacterial, viral or fungal
      infections are also unsuitable for production of autologous SEDs. In 2.3% of donors for
      preparing autologous SEDs, a systemic infection can be detected [3]. In the UK, use of
      autologous SED is restricted largely due to cost [4]. Logistically, it is a problem that it
      takes time as well as joint effort of several departments in the hospital to prepare the
      SEDs, causing considerable waiting time for the patient. Further, the use of allogeneic drops
      allows immediate access to SEDs in case time is limited to prevent corneal scars, ulcers,
      infiltrates or even transplants, epithelial defects or low vision due to epithelial surface
      disease.

      Allogeneic SEDs are derived from healthy donors and are produced by a blood bank facility.
      Blood banks are experienced and equipped to produce blood products in a good manufacturing
      practice (GMP) environment. They can perform quality control, and are able to produce larger
      quantities that are quickly available. For our study, donors with blood group AB will be
      selected to ensure ABO compatibility. Donors are further selected to be males that never had
      a blood transfusion to minimize anti-HLA titers.

      No prospective double blind randomized cross-over trials are known to exist to detect a
      difference in result between the effect of allogeneic SED or autologous SED for ocular
      surface disease. This pilot study is intended to obtain insight in the ability of autologous
      and allogeneic SEDs to improve patient dry eye sensation. Our hypothesis is that autologous
      SEDs (in a 1:1 dilution with saline) result in an improvement of the patient dry eye
      sensation, while allogeneic SEDs (in a 1:1 dilution with saline) do not.
    
  