
    
      The EnSeal Device is approved for laparoscopic surgery in ligating and dividing vascular
      tissue during abdominal surgery. Electrical energy is converted into heat energy and
      resultant simultaneous division of tissues. This allows surgery to be bloodless and
      sutureless. This device is being used in the current study in the treatment of hemorrhoidal
      disease where vascular tissue is excised in bloodless and sutureless fashion. The device is
      FDA-approved for laparoscopic surgery. This is currently being used in institutions
      throughout the United States and Europe.

      This study is looking at the EnSeal device and comparing it to a gold standard hemorrhoidal
      procedure to see if the OR procedure can be simplified and the postoperative course improved.

      The trial is a randomized, controlled, prospective study. Patients will be informed of the
      two techniques being studied and will be randomized in the operating room by opening up an
      envelope with the procedure to be employed inside. The envelopes will be numbered 1 through
      100, with 50 envelopes containing a slip of paper stating that the surgery will be done using
      the Ferguson technique and 50 envelopes containing a slip of paper stating the that the
      surgery will be done using the EnSeal device. These slips of paper will be placed in the
      envelopes and sealed. The envelopes will be mixed up by someone not involved in the study and
      then numbered 1 through 100. No one will know which surgical technique will be used on the
      patient until the surgeon opens the envelope on the day of surgery.

      Patients will be followed postoperatively in the office during week 1, week 4, and week 12.
      At this time, they will be assessed for postoperative complications including but not limited
      to: bleeding, urinary retention, infection, fecal impaction, hospital re-admission and pain.
      Delayed complications will also be followed including urinary retention, impaired healing,
      constipation, abscess, fistula formation, fissure, stenosis, fecal incontinence, and flatus
      incontinence. The patient's pain score will be assessed using the Universal Pain Assessment
      Tool, allowing the patient to describe their pain level on a scale between 1 and 10.
    
  