
    
      Cardiovascular disease has become a worldwide burden. In the Netherlands over 40.000 persons
      die annually due to coronary artery disease, either acute myocardial infarction or heart
      failure.1 Through plaque formation and negative vascular remodelling, significant stenotic
      lesions develop in the coronary arteries that subsequently limit coronary blood flow and
      ultimately can cause ischemic events. Reperfusion therapy (either pharmacologic, endovascular
      or surgical) is mandatory for salvage of ischemic tissue. However, during reperfusion several
      deleterious events take place causing further damage. Murry found that ischemia and
      reperfusion injury (IR-injury) could be reduced by a phenomenon called ischemic
      preconditioning.2 Short lasting repetitive episodes of ischemia prior to an ischemic event
      can induce tissue tolerance against IR-injury.

      After discovery of this phenomenon, ample research has been devoted to elucidation of the
      underling protective mechanism, but also factors that improve or impair the ability of this
      phenomenon to protect arteries against ischaemia reperfusion injury. Several studies
      performed in animals and humans have demonstrated that the protective effects of IP are
      attenuated with aging. Much of this work has been performed in animal models or in human in
      vitro studies. Interestingly, no previous study directly examined the underlying mechanisms
      of this observation in humans using in vivo techniques. One potential explanation for an
      age-related reduction of the protective effect of IP relates to a direct effect on the
      endothelium.

      Much scientific effort has been devoted to develop a human in vivo model to study ischemia
      and reperfusion injury. Recently, publications emerged using the flow mediated dilation (FMD)
      of the brachial or radial artery before and after a sustained ischaemic stimulus (20 minutes)
      to establish the presence of a blunted endothelial function after ischaemia reperfusion
      injury.3, 4 This effect of reperfusion injury on the endothelial function can be abrogated by
      ischemic preconditioning.3 Endothelial dysfunction is acknowledged to be the first
      (subclinical) manifestation of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.5, 6 It is
      significantly correlated to occurrence of myocardial infarction and stroke.6 Assessment of
      the flow mediated dilation of the brachial artery as measure of endothelial (dys)function, is
      a validated model to research effects of possible protective strategies3, 4 and perform
      mechanistic experiments4, 7, 8 on IR-injury in humans in vivo.

      Several previous studies failed to demonstrate the ability of pharmacological stimuli to
      mimic the beneficial effects of IP in aging vessels.9 Restoration of the age-related
      reduction in effectiveness of IP may be possible through exercise training. Indirect evidence
      indicates that physical activity, independent of other cardiovascular risk factors, protects
      against an occurrence as well as the severity of a myocardial infarction in humans.10
      Although this suggests that physical activity may beneficially influence the age-related
      reduction in IP, no previous study provided direct evidence for this hypothesis in humans.

      In this cross-sectional observational experiment we will study the impact of aging (young
      versus older subjects) and physical fitness (sedentary versus trained older subjects) on the
      protective effects of ischaemic preconditioning on brachial artery endothelial function after
      ischaemia-reperfusion injury in healthy humans in vivo.

      We hypothesize that aging is associated with an attenuated ability of ischaemic
      preconditioning to prevent the decrease in brachial artery endothelial function observed
      after ischaemia reperfusion injury. Moreover, we expect that the age-related reduction in
      effectiveness of ischaemic preconditioning to prevent endothelial dysfunction after
      reperfusion injury is (at least partly) preserved in trained older subjects.
    
  