
    
      Objectives: The Veterans Administration (VA) has embraced the use of implementation research
      as a critical way to improve care by facilitating the adoption of proven medical practices.
      Yet implementation science still remains rudimentary. Challenges exist in judging the success
      of an implementation project. Rather than relying solely on hard outcomes, an investigator
      must also assess how effectively an intervention is put into place at a site. This assessment
      comes via a formative evaluation (FE) plan. The FE plan can contain such diverse data
      elements as the number of fliers distributed about the intervention, how often an
      intervention advocate speaks to participants, the content derived from team meeting notes,
      and themes extracted from focus groups. The diversity of such data elements can appear
      foreign to investigators trained in traditional health services research. The FE plan can
      also lead to confusion about what to measure, when, and how to integrate the various measures
      into a unified whole. Complicating matters is the fact that FE is often qualitative-- such as
      interviews, focus groups, and meeting notes which can make data difficult for investigators
      to interpret. Thus, there is a pressing need to provide clarity on how FE is to be used in
      implementation studies. This Short Term Project proposal offers a three-part approach toward
      specifying the best FE practices: first, a systematic review of the literature; second,
      qualitative interviews with VA implementation investigators; and third, a panel discussion of
      national experts, funded through a VA Implementation Collaborative Award. The panel
      discussion will outline FE guidelines based on the researchers expertise, the systematic
      review, and the qualitative interviews. The specific aims for this proposal include the
      following: Specific Aim 1: Conduct a systematic review of VA funded implementation projects
      to classify the specific types of FE procedures employed. Specific Aim 2: Conduct in-depth
      telephone interviews with investigators of VA-funded implementation projects to establish
      which FE methods were used and which were considered most/least successful.

      Specific Aim 3: Using the national experts gathered together under the umbrella of the Center
      for Health Equity Research and Promotions (CHERP) Implementation Research Collaborative,
      develop a set of guidelines outlining best FE practices in VA implementation research.
      Relevance to the VA, Anticipated Results, and Future Directions: This Short Term Project is
      designed to provide rapid results for developing the best approach toward the use of FE in VA
      implementation science. As such this proposal is responsive to the VA Health Services
      Research & Development (HSR&D) priority topics for both implementation and management and
      research methodology. The systematic review, the qualitative report, and the FE guidelines
      that will emerge from the project will have wide-spread applications within the VA
      implementation community, thereby supporting the HSR&D research mission. The study will also
      serve as needed pilot data for a future Merit Review award application designed to provide
      the theoretical and practical approaches toward FE use within the VA.
    
  