
    
      Autosomal recessive hypomorphic loss-of-function mutations in phosphoglucomutase 3 (PGM3)
      have been shown to result in a novel congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG) presenting
      with a hyper-IgE clinical phenotype. PGM3 is required for the biosynthesis of uridine
      diphosphate N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc), a critical building block for N- and O-linked
      glycans, which are essential for many immune pathways in humans. PGM3 deficient patients
      exhibit reduced UDP-GlcNAc levels, as well as both cell specific and global defects in N- and
      O-linked glycosylation, respectively. Understanding how glycosylation defects result in
      atopic diatheses and immune dysregulation will provide novel insight into their
      immunopathogenesis. Developing successful therapies in these patients may further provide
      novel targets or approaches to the treatment of allergic diseases in the general population.

      Patients with other CDGs have shown dramatic clinical improvement when given oral
      supplementation with mannose and fucose. Among our patients with PGM3 deficiency, in vitro
      supplementation with the non-diabetogenic amino-sugar N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) normalized
      intracellular UDP-GlcNAc and surface CTLA-4 expression. We therefore propose an exploratory
      study to provide up to 50 patients with exogenous GlcNAc and triacetyluridine with the
      objectives of assessing the effects on immune function and changes in cellular glycosylation
      patterns. We will begin with PGM3 patients who will self-administer sequential, escalating
      doses of oral GlcNAc and uridine ( UMP or TAU). Given our preliminary in vitro data, we
      hypothesize that supplementation will provide sufficient substrate to promote increased
      UDP-GlcNAc, restore N- and O-linked glycans, and improve immune function in PGM3 deficient
      patients.

      Patients will self-administer oral GlcNAc 3 times per day beginning with 12.5 mg/kg/day and
      increasing the dose every 2 weeks. Once a maximum tolerated dose is found (less than or equal
      to 100 mg/kg/day), GlcNAc supplementation will continue for 6 weeks, at which point we will
      add oral uridine. We will titrate uridine to find its maximum tolerated dose

      (less than or equal to 200 mg/kg/day) and continue dual dosing for an additional 12 weeks. If
      at the end this time period there has been no change in absolute lymphocyte count,
      supplementation will be stopped. The dietary supplements to be used in this study have very
      low toxicity and have been well-tolerated in studies of patients with colitis, galactosemia,
      Alzheimer s, multiple sclerosis, and in treatment of 5-fluorouracil overdose.
    
  