
    
      Endurance exercise elicits skeletal muscle and systemic inflammation. Inflammation in
      response to endurance exercise is normally attenuated with adequate rest and recovery as
      skeletal muscle adapts with training. However, performing repeated bouts of prolonged and
      unaccustomed, muscle damaging (i.e., eccentric loading) endurance exercise may be detrimental
      to performance and limit the adaptive responses to exercise by diminishing the absorption of
      key nutrients. Warfighters are commonly exposed to such exercise bouts during sustained
      training and combat operations, the effects of which may be exacerbated by negative energy
      balance. Therefore, to define the putative role of energy balance on systemic inflammation,
      we will conduct a controlled laboratory study that simulates the physiological stressors
      imposed during sustained military training and combat operations to determine if systemic
      inflammation is exacerbated by underfeeding.

      Twenty-six male, non-obese (body mass index 19.9-29.9 kg/m2), physically active adults will
      be recruited to participate in a 32 d, longitudinal study. The study is comprised of four
      sequential phases: 1) a 96 h testing period, 2) a 7 day recovery period (Recovery 1), 3) a
      second, 96 h testing period, and 4) a 14 d recovery period (Recovery 2). During testing,
      subjects will be randomized to consume either sufficient food (combat rations) to maintain
      energy balance or will be provided a restricted amount of food to elicit severe negative
      energy balance. Mineral absorption studies and will be conducted during each testing
      condition, energy balance and energy negative balance. This design will test the hypothesis
      that maintaining energy balance will attenuate systemic inflammation and its potential
      negative effects on whole-body metabolic homeostasis in response to physiological stressors.
    
  