
    
      Design: This Phase II efficacy trial is a multi-centre, open label, single arm,
      non-comparative design, administering a single dose of CTX cells 2 to 3 months post-ischaemic
      stroke with follow-up over 12 months. The trial will be overseen by an independent DSMB. The
      DSMB will adjudicate at predetermined intervals whether a patient has satisfied the primary
      response criterion and whether the ongoing safety profile justifies continuation or
      modification of the study.

      At least 21 patients will be enrolled to receive CTX DP (20 million cells) by stereotaxic
      intra-striatal injection ipsilateral to the location of the MCA ischaemic stroke.

      Pre-treatment selection of patients: Men and women, aged 40 or more, supratentorial ischaemic
      stroke or a stroke with elements of both in an area perfused by the MCA (i.e. stroke due to
      ischaemia resulting in infarct located in the basal ganglia, internal capsule, or corona
      radiata or a stroke due to ischaemia resulting in infarction of part of the cerebral cortex).

      Patients with a first stroke within the past 4 weeks (at time of consent) satisfying the
      following criteria: Modified NIHSS Motor Arm Score of 2 (some effort against gravity), 3 (no
      movement against gravity) or 4 (no movement) for the paretic arm post ischaemic stroke;
      Clinical diagnosis of stroke confirmed by physician using neuro-imaging (computerised
      tomography or magnetic resonance imaging). A Score of 0 or 1 for test 2 of the ARAT at visit
      1 and 2 using the affected arm.

      Treatment: One patient will be treated at one time. A single dose (20 million) of CTX DP
      cells will be administered intracranially via stereotaxic neurosurgery.

      Post-treatment follow-up: Patients will be followed for 12 months post-implantation.

      End-points: The primary endpoint of the trial is efficacy, using ARAT. Secondary endpoints
      are efficacy and safety. Outcome measures for efficacy include Fugl-Meyer, NIHSS, BI and RFA.
      Safety will be assessed by incidence of relevant adverse events monitoring patient's general
      physical condition and clinical measures (temperature, pulse rate and rhythm, ECG, blood
      pressure, full blood count, liver function tests, serum urea and electrolytes), immunological
      response and concomitant medications at the 7 follow-up visits to the clinic in the first
      year after treatment.

      Post-trial follow-up: Annual correspondence with family practitioners; Life-long follow-up
      for new diagnosis of cancer, site of primary tumour, and survival via National Cancer
      Registry.
    
  