
    
      Asthma is a chronic respiratory disease that affects over 22 million people in the United
      States. Asthma produces 500,000 hospital admissions and accounts for 10.1 million days of
      lost work in adults annually. Asthma has been designated a priority condition of the
      Effective Health Care Program.

      Blacks bear a disproportionate burden of asthma morbidity and mortality. In its 2005 report
      on ethnic disparities in health care, AHRQ identified hospital admissions for asthma as the
      second largest disparity in quality of health care for Blacks vs. Caucasians.

      Long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) produce extended increases in airway caliber among patients
      with asthma via action at the beta2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2). Adding a LABA to an inhaled
      corticosteroid controller medication (ICS), can decrease asthma symptoms for many individuals
      and appears to decrease asthma exacerbations. LABA/ICS has become the most commonly
      prescribed ICS containing medication.

      Drugs acting at ADRB2, including LABAs, have been associated with rare loss of long-term
      asthma control and increased serious adverse outcomes including death and respiratory
      failure, even when used with ICS. The risk appears four to five-fold greater in Blacks than
      non-Black patients with asthma.

      Consensus guidelines recommend LABAs be added to ICS in those not completely controlled on
      ICS alone. These recommendations are based on weighing data on the benefit demonstrated in
      the general population vs. the rare risk of serious adverse outcomes and balancing the
      apparent benefits vs. the risks of LABAs (Kramer 2009). However, it appears that LABA/ICS may
      be significantly less effective in Blacks than Caucasians. Comparison of studies with
      LABA/ICS in Blacks vs. studies where Blacks were a small minority suggests that Blacks may
      have much less benefit than other racial groups. Additionally, recent data (Wechsler 2009)
      suggest that a polymorphism at the 16th position of the ADRB2 gene identifies a group of
      Blacks (those homozygous for arginine (Arg16Arg)) in whom the response of adding a LABA to an
      ICS is further diminished. This polymorphism is present in ~20% of US Blacks.
    
  