
    
      Pemetrexed is a chemotherapy drug that is used to treat cancer. It is given intravenously (by
      IV--through a vein in your arm). It interferes with cell reproduction.

      Gemcitabine is a cancer-fighting (chemotherapy) drug that is given by IV. It interferes with
      the growth of cells and is used to treat cancer.

      Dexamethasone has many different medical uses. It is used to treat cancer, nausea, vomiting,
      inflammation, allergic reactions, and many other conditions. In this study, it is being given
      to prevent rashes.

      Folic acid and Vitamin B12 are vitamins given to prevent serious side effects which can occur
      with chemotherapy. These side effects include diarrhea and a decrease in you red blood cells,
      white blood cells, and your blood platelets.

      You will be required to take folic acid and vitamin B12. You will take folic acid, by mouth,
      daily beginning about 1 week before the first dose of Pemetrexed. You will continue to take
      it daily until 3 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy. Vitamin B12 will be given as an
      injection into your muscle about 1 to 2 weeks before your first dose of Pemetrexed. You will
      have injections of vitamin B12 about every 9 weeks until 3 weeks after your last dose of
      chemotherapy.

      During treatment, you will be given Pemetrexed by IV for 10 minutes, followed by Gemcitabine
      by IV for 30 minutes on Day 1 of each 2-week study "cycle."

      You will take Dexamethasone tablets by mouth, 2 times a day on the day before, the day of,
      and the day after each dose of Pemetrexed. Dexamethasone is taken to prevent rashes. If you
      could not or did not take Dexamethasone the day before and/or the day of Pemetrexed, you may
      be given Dexamethasone by IV over 20 minutes, 30 minutes before the infusion of Pemetrexed.

      You will have blood samples (about 4 teaspoons) drawn every week to test your bone marrow.
      You will have blood samples (about 1 teaspoon) drawn every 2 weeks to make sure that your
      kidneys and liver are working well. You will have a physical exam every 2 weeks before you
      receive chemotherapy. You will also be asked about any medications you have been taking since
      your last visit.

      Once every 8 weeks or after 4 cycles of treatment, you will have the tumor(s) measured using
      standard of care imaging which may include a CT scan, MRI, or a bone scan.

      You will be treated for as long as you are benefiting from the therapy. You will continue to
      receive treatment unless your tumor grows, intolerable side effects occur, or you develop
      another illness that prevents you from continuing with the therapy. You may also be taken off
      study if you fail to comply with the study requirements. If you are taken off study for any
      reason, you and your doctor will discuss other treatment options at that time.

      If you are taken off study, you will be asked to have the same scans as before, a physical
      exam, and routine blood (about 4 teaspoons). You will be contacted every 3 months after being
      off study, to get an update on your health status.

      This is an investigational study. Pemetrexed and Gemcitabine are FDA approved and
      commercially available. About 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  