
    
      Since 1989, numerous epidemiological studies have reported a significant association between
      lack of male circumcision (MC) and risk for HIV infection through heterosexual intercourse.
      These results have led to calls for male circumcision to be considered as an additional HIV
      prevention strategy. However, there is a consensus among the international health community
      that a randomized controlled trial of MC is needed to control for possible confounding
      factors. Additionally, known risks associated with MC need further investigation. This study
      will assess the effectiveness of male circumcision in reducing HIV incidence and will
      evaluate complications of the MC procedure, changes in sexual behavior following
      circumcision, and the biological mechanisms by which the foreskin may increase HIV
      susceptibility. The study will be conducted in Kisumu, Kenya, where the Luo tribe is the main
      ethnic group and less than 10% of adult men are circumcised.

      Uncircumcised men aged 18 to 24 years old will be offered voluntary HIV counseling and
      testing. HIV negative men will be asked to enroll in the study. All study participants will
      be interviewed to obtain socio-demographic information and assess behavioral risk factors.
      Participants will be examined for significant medical conditions. All men will be counseled
      in strategies to reduce their risk for HIV infection. Consenting men will be randomly
      assigned to either the treatment (circumcised) arm or the control (uncircumcised) arm of the
      study. After circumcision, men will be monitored for complications. They will be counseled to
      abstain from sex until healing is complete. Follow-up visits will occur every 6 months for 2
      years. Uncircumcised men will be offered circumcision at the end of follow-up.

      The primary study endpoints will be HIV incidence and surgical complications. Additional
      outcomes will be the incidence of other sexually transmitted diseases and behavioral risks.
      Additional laboratory studies of foreskin tissue will evaluate the number and density of
      specialized cells rich in HIV receptors in order to illuminate the biological mechanisms by
      which presence of foreskin may increase HIV susceptibility.
    
  