
    
      There is a major need for a large RCT to demonstrate the effect of lifestyle modification
      (diet and exercise) on cardiovascular disease (CVD) outcomes. The pilot study will
      demonstrate the feasibility as a prerequisite for continuing on to the large RCT. Large RCT:
      This trial will test the effect of a high impact dietary approach combining foods with
      functional effects, including LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) and blood pressure (BP) reduction,
      together with an exercise program which has been associated with reduction in carotid
      atheroma assessed by MRI. The combined approach will have a more significant effect on CVD
      risk factors than previous trials and will be compared with a high cereal fibre diet and
      exercise advice, consistent with good clinical practice, in a randomized parallel trial of 9
      years duration. ~6,000 high risk participants will be recruited comprising individuals with
      1) type 2 diabetes, 2) post myocardial infarction (MI), and 3) Statin intolerant individuals.
      The primary outcome will be CVD event (MI, and stroke, fatal and non-fatal) (1). We believe
      we will achieve a 20% reduction in CVD events with ~10% related to diet reflected in
      reduction in traditional risk factors (LDL-C, BP) and 10% to exercise and increased
      cardiovascular fitness at year 9.

      Pilot Study: We therefore propose to undertake a 1 year pilot study with 200 participants to
      demonstrate feasibility: 1) Successful recruitment (200 participants/year) and 2) retention
      (>90%)

      Background: We have demonstrated the specific CVD reducing potential of the proposed
      components of our dietary intervention in a series of CIHR funded studies. The core dietary
      components (dietary portfolio of FDA approved cholesterol-lowering foods) in our recent
      CIHR-funded trial reduced LDL-C by 13-14% (JAMA 2011) with reductions also in diastolic blood
      pressure over 6 months. The CVD risk score was reduced by ~10% on the treatment. This
      approach will be combined with increased levels of monounsaturated fat (MUFA) which in a
      further CIHR-funded portfolio study raised HDL-C and reduced the total:HDL-C ratio (CMAJ
      2010) resulting in an ~11% CVD risk score reduction on the high MUFA compared to the low MUFA
      portfolio. Low glycemic index foods will be selected which in our CIHR-funded trial in type 2
      diabetes increased HDL-C and reduced HbA1c, the total:HDL-C ratio (JAMA 2008) and, with the
      added emphasis on legumes (dried peas, beans, lentils), significantly reduced BP leading to a
      CVD risk score reduction of ~5% (Arch Intern Med 2012). We consider this dietary package to
      have major potential in CVD risk reduction with a possible reduction in relative risk of 24%
      in the absence of negative or positive interactions.

      The physical activity/exercise intervention is the end-product of a 25 year cumulative
      experience of investigators of the Quebec Heart and Lung Institute regarding physical
      activity/exercise prescriptions to various types of individuals/patients. Our program has
      also been recently tested in high risk patients with documented coronary artery disease
      managed by coronary artery bypass graft procedure (with/without type 2 diabetes). Unpublished
      preliminary results from this latter intervention in high risk patients indicate that our
      program not only induces substantial improvements in the CVD risk factor profile beyond
      clinical guidelines-aligned with optimal pharmacotherapy but that such an intervention
      appears to induce a significant reduction in carotid artery atherosclerosis assessed by
      magnetic resonance imaging. The latest meta-analysis estimated that only 150 min/week of
      moderate exercise reduced CHD risk by 14%. Our Laval program with a 420 min/wk of moderate
      exercise plus additional structured exercise would therefore also reduce CVD risk by at least
      14% (or as much as 39% if the relationship between exercise time and CVD risk reduction were
      linear). The program aims to reduce sedentary behavior. It is safe and affordable in clinical
      practice. At a cost of about $900 per patient in the first year where the major training
      takes place, it is considerably less expensive than the DPP, DPS and Look AHEAD trials.

      The research questions are therefore:

        1. What is the feasibility in terms of recruitment and retention of implementing a high
           impact diet and physical activity/exercise program for CVD prevention in high risk or
           statin-intolerant individuals?

        2. Based on the observed retention in the pilot study, the required recruitment for the
           large trial can be refined, if necessary.
    
  