
    
      1. Background and rationale

      Increasing demand for the apheresis service makes efficient harvesting of peripheral blood
      stem cells (PBCS) essential. To reduce hospital stays for autologous peripheral blood stem
      cell collection we have recently started an out-patient regimen with highly emetogenic,
      intermediate doses of cyclophosphamide (3 g/m2) 1. Despite prophylaxis with
      5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists and dexamethasone, chemotherapy-induced
      nausea and vomiting (CINV) remain a major problem.

      Aprepitant (EMEND) is the first commercially available drug from a new class of agents, the
      substance P/neurokinin NK-1 receptor antagonists. Oral aprepitant, in combination with the
      5-hydroxytriptamine-3 (5-HT3) serotonin receptor antagonist and dexamethasone, is recommended
      before highly emetogenic chemotherapy 2-5.

      Since aprepitant moderately inhibits CYP3A4, concomitant administration of aprepitant and
      cyclophosphamide might decrease cyclophosphamide clearance and, consequently, reduce exposure
      to its active metabolite 6, thus impairing efficacy of autologous stem cell mobilization.

      This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study is designed to demonstrate that,
      without impacting upon toxicity and stem cell harvesting, the
      aprepitant-palonosetron-dexamethasone regimen is better than palonosetron-dexamethasone
      therapy in the prevention of CINV 2,7.

      2.1 Objectives

      2.1 Primary objective

      The objective of this single centre, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled phase III
      trial is to confirm and extend our preliminary data on the efficacy and safety of combined
      aprepitant, palonosetron and dexamethasone in preventing CINV after high emetic therapy with
      cyclophosphamide 3 g/m2 compared with the palonosetron and dexamethasone regimen.

      2.2 Secondary objective

      Peripheral blood stem cell harvest.

      3. Eligibility

      3.1 Inclusion Criteria

        -  Male or female patients ≥ 18 years of age

        -  Patient is able to understand study procedure and agrees to participate in the study by
           giving written informed consent.

        -  Patient is scheduled to receive a highly emetogenic cyclophosphamide IV chemotherapy (3
           g/m2) for autologous PBSC harvesting

        -  Patient has Karnofsky score ≥60

        -  Normal laboratory values

        -  Normal ECG

        -  HBV-, HCV- and HIV-negative

        -  Negative urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing age

      3.2 Exclusion criteria

        -  Serious accompanying disorders or impaired organ function (in particular impaired left
           ventricular function or severe cardiac arrhythmias)

        -  Platelets < 100 000/mm3 , leukocytes < 2 500/mm3

        -  Known hypersensitivity to the medications to be used

        -  Known HIV-positivity

        -  Active hepatitis infection

        -  Pregnancy and lactation period

        -  Not application of inclusion criteria

           4. Trial design

      Eligible patients will be randomized to receive oral doses of Aprepitant (125 mg day 1, 80 mg
      days 2 and 3), dexamethasone (8 mg on day 1 to 3) and a single intravenous dose of
      palonosetron (0.25 mg on day 1) versus placebo plus dexamethasone (8 mg on day 1 to 3) and a
      single intravenous dose of palonosetron (0.25 mg on day 1).

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical principles of the Helsinki
      Declaration, GCP and its applicable regulatory requirement(s).

      5. Therapeutic regimens

      Regimen Study medication First day Second day Third day

      Dose Dose Dose Aprepitant Aprepitant 125-mg capsule 80-mg capsule 80-mg capsule Palonosetron
      0.25 mg i.v. Dexamethasone 8 mg i.v. 8 mg os 8 mg os Control Aprepitant 125-mg placebo
      capsule 80-mg placebo capsule 80-mg placebo capsule Palonosetron 0.25 mg i.v. Dexamethasone 8
      mg i.v. 8 mg os 8 mg os

      6. Assessments tools

      6.1 Efficacy

      Efficacy data will be obtained using the patient's daily diary (days 1 through 5) reporting
      episodes of retching and vomiting, severity of nausea (using a categorical scale of none,
      mild, moderate or severe), and overall quality of life. The FLIE8 questionnaire will be
      completed on days 1 (before starting chemotherapy) and 6 (after chemotherapy).

      6.2 Safety data

      Safety parameters: medical history, physical examination and weight, vital signs, laboratory
      tests (hematology, chemistry, urine analysis and urine pregnancy test for women of
      childbearing age).

      All side effects attributed to combination therapy will be recorded using the patient's daily
      diary.

      7. Criteria of evaluation

      - Complete response (CR): no emetic episodes and no rescue medication in the first 120 hours
      post-chemotherapy

      - Complete control (CC): no emetic episode, no use of rescue medication and no more than mild
      nausea

      8. Statistical consideration

      8.1 Sample size

      Sample size was defined assuming the cumulative incidence rate of the primary endpoint to be
      68% in the treatment group and 41% in the control group (see references 2 and 7). With
      balanced allocation in the two groups, considering a two sided test with α=0.05 and ß=0.20 a
      total of 110 patients is needed. As few withdrawals and drop-outs are expected a total of 120
      patients will be enrolled.

      8.2 Statistical analysis plan

      Intention to treat approach will be used for all efficacy analysis. The primary endpoint will
      be analysed by binomial logistic models. The dependent variable will be vomiting yes/no
      during the first 120 hours after chemotherapy. Anti-emetic treatment, gender and age will
      enter as explicative variables.

      Dichotomous secondary endpoints will also be analysed by binomial logistic models.
      Multinomial logistic models will analyze the severity of nausea, stratified in 4 classes.

      Generalized Linear Models will investigate quantitative variables such as number of retching
      or vomiting episodes and peripheral blood stem cell harvest.

      In all tests, p value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant. No interim analyses
      are planned.

      8.3 Endpoints

      Primary endpoint: complete response (CR) rate defined as the number of patients with no
      emetic episodes and no rescue medication in the first 120 hours post-chemotherapy.

      Secondary endpoints:

      - CR rates for acute (0-24 h) and delayed (24-120 h) phases;

        -  complete control rate (CC) defined as no emetic episode, no use of rescue medication and
           no more than mild nausea;

        -  number of emetic episodes;

        -  severity of nausea;

        -  impact of CINV on daily life as measured by the Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE)
           (total score > 108 = no impact);

        -  peripheral blood stem cell harvest;

        -  tolerability (adverse events, drug-related adverse events, serious adverse events;
           discontinuation of treatment due to an adverse event). Adverse events will be classified
           using NCI Common Toxicity Criteria.

           9. Adverse events (Definitions)

      AE: An Adverse Event is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical
      trial subject to whom a medicinal product is administered and which not necessarily have a
      causal relationship with this treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable
      and unintended signs (such as rash or enlarged liver), symptoms (such as nausea or chest
      pain), an abnormal laboratory finding (including blood tests, x-rays or scans) or a disease
      that is temporarily associated with use of the protocol treatment, whether or not it is
      considered to be related to the investigational medicinal product.

      AR: An Adverse reaction of an investigational medicinal product is any untoward and
      unintended responses to an investigational medicinal product at any dose.

      All adverse events wich either the reporting investigator or the sponsor judge as having a
      reasonable causal relationship to a medicinal product qualify as adverse reactions. The
      expression reasonable causal relationship means to convey in general that there is evidence
      or argument to suggest a causal relationship.

      UAR: An Unexpected Adverse Reaction is any adverse reaction, the nature, or severity of which
      is not consistent with applicable product information (e.g. investigator's brochure for an
      unapproved investigational product or summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for an
      authorised product).

      When the outcome of the adverse reaction is not consistent with the applicable product
      information this adverse reaction should be considered as unexpected.

      Severity: The term "severe" is often used to describe the intensity (severity) of a specific
      event. This is not the same as "serious," which is based on patient/event outcome or action
      criteria.

      SAE: A Serious Adverse Event is defined as any undesirable experience occurring to a patient,
      whether or not considered related to the protocol treatment.

      SAR: A Serious Adverse Event (SAE) which is considered related to the protocol treatment is
      defined as a Serious Adverse Reaction

      An Adverse Event or Adverse Reaction which is considered as serious:

        -  results in death,

        -  is life-threatening (i.e. an event in which the subject was at risk of death at the time
           of event; it does not refer to an event which hypothetically might have caused death if
           it were more severe)

        -  requires hospitalisation or prolongation of existing inpatients' hospitalisation,

        -  results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity,

        -  results in a congenital anomaly or birth defect.

        -  results in any other major medical condition (i.e. important adverse reactions that are
           not immediately life threatening or do not result in death or hospitalization but may
           jeopardize the patient or may require intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes
           listed above).

      SUSAR: Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reactions.

      10. Informed consent

      All patients will be informed about

        -  the aims of the study

        -  the possible adverse events

        -  the procedures and possible hazards to which the patient will be exposed

        -  the mechanism of treatment allocation

        -  strict confidentiality of any patient data

        -  medical records possibly being reviewed for trial purposes by authorized individuals
           other than their treating physician.

      The template of the patient's informed consent statement is given as an appendix to this
      protocol.

      The informed consent documents are to be submitted to the Ethics Committees for approval. The
      competent Ethics Committee for each institution must approve the informed consent documents
      before the center can join the study. It is emphasized in the patient information sheet that
      participation is voluntary and that the patient is free to refuse further participation in
      the protocol whenever he/she wants to. This will not have any impact on the patient's
      subsequent care. Documented informed consent must be obtained for all patients included in
      the study before they are registered and/or randomized. The written informed consent form
      must be signed and personally dated by the patient or by the patient's legally acceptable
      representative.
    
  