
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The proportion of subjects with an adenoma recurrence at the 1-year follow-up colonoscopy
      exam. This adenoma recurrence rate for difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) (eflornithine) +
      aspirin will be compared to double placebo to see if there is improvement in the adenoma
      recurrence rate in this patient population.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the relative tolerability and safety of the treatment regimens administered
      for 12 months.

      II. To determine the effect of the study drugs (aspirin [acetylsalicylic acid] + DFMO) and
      placebo with respect to proliferation (Ki67 labeling index), apoptosis (caspase-3 expression
      assay), and drug effect markers (COX-1, -2, polyamines, PGE2) from adenomas, aberrant crypt
      focus (ACF) and normal-appearing mucosa using pre- and 12-month post-intervention tissue
      biopsy samples.

      III. To estimate the percentage change in rectal ACF number, as determined by magnifying
      colonoscopy in subjects treated for 12 months with placebo or study drugs (aspirin +DFMO) by
      comparing % change in drug versus placebo arms.

      IV. To characterize ACF based on three criteria (ACF size [crypt number < 50 or >= 50], crypt
      morphology characteristics, and histology) of ACF and to correlate such characteristics with
      the intervention (vs placebo). Also, to evaluate the natural history of ACF over 1-year on
      placebo.

      V. To correlate the 12-month measurements of ACF size (# crypts/ACF), number, morphology, and
      histopathology with the adenoma recurrence data at 12 and 36 months; correlate the 12-month %
      (and actual) change in ACF size and number with the 12- and 36-month adenoma recurrence rate;
      and correlate the adenoma recurrence data at 1 year with the adenoma recurrence data at 3
      years.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the effects of the study agents on a focused panel of tissue biomarkers in pre-
      and post-intervention biopsy samples from recurrent adenomas, rectal ACF, and adjacent
      normal-appearing mucosa among subjects enrolled in the phase II clinical trial.

      II. To determine if cleaved capase-3 expression can improve the detection of apoptotic cells
      by recognizing cellular commitment to apoptosis prior to late nuclear morphologic features
      and correlate with apoptotic regulatory proteins, histology, and treatment response.

      III. To determine the effects of aspirin on its biochemical targets COX-1, -2, and
      prostaglandin E2, and polyamine levels in subjects receiving DFMO.

      IV. To examine COX-2-dependent genes (i.e., Bcl-2 and DR5) in adenomas and ACF that have been
      shown to regulate the intrinsic mitochondrial and extrinsic death receptor-mediated apoptotic
      pathways in vitro and in vivo.

      V. To perform expression profiling of adenomas or ACF and to relate such date to ACF
      histology, size/morphology, modulation by chemopreventive agents, and subsequent adenoma
      recurrence rates.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive acetylsalicylic acid orally (PO) once daily and eflornithine PO twice
      daily on days 1-28.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO three times daily on days 1-28.

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6, 12, and 36 months.
    
  