
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine a safety profile of temsirolimus in combination with cisplatin and
           gemcitabine hydrochloride, including dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and
           maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) in patients with locally advanced and/or metastatic
           transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium. (phase I)

        -  To determine the recommended dose for the Phase II stage of the trial and subsequent
           studies. (phase I)

        -  To assess progression-free survival (PFS) at six months from date of enrollment. (phase
           II)

      Secondary

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of temsirolimus in combination with cisplatin
           and gemcitabine hydrochloride. (phase I)

        -  To determine tolerability (side-effects) and feasibility (number of participants
           requiring dose delays or reduction and/or treatment withdrawal). (phase II)

        -  To determine objective response rate as assessed by RECIST. (phase II)

        -  To assess PFS of these patients. (phase II)

        -  To assess overall survival of these patients. (phase II)

        -  To determine toxicity during and after treatment in these patients. (phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of temsirolimus followed by a
      phase II study.

      Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, cisplatin IV
      over 3-4 hours on day 1, and temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1 or 2, 8 or 9, and 15.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood specimens may be collected periodically for pharmacokinetic studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 months and 1 year.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  