
    
      In the fifty years since the emergence of thermal imaging technology, Thales in Glasgow has
      built up a world leading capability in the design, manufacture and supply of Thermal Imaging
      cameras. In addition to the cameras, Thales in Glasgow has a particular expertise in
      developing image processing algorithms (conventional and artificial intelligence based) to
      allow the cameras to perform critical user tasks beyond mere imaging.

      COVID-19 [SARS-COV-2] has placed a huge challenge on the world. In response to the crisis,
      Thales is engaged in a number of initiatives, including one aimed at the possible application
      of thermal imaging cameras to detect people with a fever and hence those who may be suffering
      from COVID-19.Fever is a key symptom of covid-19. One of the major limitations of existing
      systems is thermographic accuracy. Most current thermographic camera systems offer an
      accuracy of ± 0.5°C. This can be reduced to ±0.3°C with the inclusion of a "Black Body"
      calibration source, although this limits the portability of the system. Using their unique
      knowledge and expertise in high resolution and precision thermal imaging and thermal image
      processing, Thales aims to develop a fever screening system with an accuracy of ± 0.1°C to
      enable more effective identification and triage of people with fever.

      What Thales lacks is real world thermal images of patients suffering fever and access to
      clinicians who can advise on the medical aspects of the work. This research would fill these
      two voids.

      In a pilot study conducted in the Emergency Department, Queen Elizabeth University Hospital
      (20/NS/0064), the Thales High Temperature Detection (HTD) system was found to be more
      accurate than a tympanic thermometer which captures Infrared radiation emitted by the
      tympanic membrane in the ear or forehead thermometer. Tympanic temperature measurements are
      typically used in the hospital setting in Scotland whereas forehead IR measurement is common
      in transportation and workplace settings.

      The HTD has been redesigned in response to three key findings from the pilot study:

        -  The relative temperature of some facial features correlated more strongly with tympanic
           temperature than others.

        -  Having an external Black Body (BB) calibration source in the scene at all times was
           impractical in a clinical environment

        -  Camera systems require to be compact and portable to be useful to clinical staff.

      As a result, the HTD is now significantly reduced in size, including peripheral devices. A
      novel calibration solution has been designed (and patented) that not only removes the need
      for the black body source but allows for a more accurate temperature evaluation. In addition,
      facial feature detection has been integrated into the software to allow it to automatically
      locate the patient's head and in the near future, automatically determine the temperatures of
      individual facial features. This development will capture facial feature detection - not
      facial recognition.
    
  