
    
      This is a multi-center, prospective, non-randomized, double-blinded, trial to evaluate the
      performance of the CADence in detecting the existence of at least one major coronary artery
      with clinically significant stenosis in a subject is defined as the presence of at least one
      lesion with ≥ 70% diameter stenosis anywhere in the proximal Left anterior Descending, mid
      Left anterior Descending, proximal Left Circumflex, mid Left Circumflex , proximal Right
      Coronary Artery, mid Right Coronary Artery, distal Right Coronary Artery and Obtuse Margin 1,
      Obtuse Margin 2, and Ramus Intermedius if segment diameter >2.5 mm or ≥50% diameter stenosis
      in the Left Main coronary arteries.

      Consented subjects will be evaluated with the CADence device and then undergo nuclear stress
      testing followed by either computed tomography or standard coronary angiography. The maximum
      expected timeframe between CADence and computed tomography Angiography or standard
      angiography is 6 weeks.

      This is a double-blinded study. All physicians and subjects will be masked to the diagnostic
      results of the CADence until completion of CADence, nuclear stress, computed tomography or
      standard coronary angiogram testing for the subjects. Patient care will not be based on the
      CADence results.

      Study participation will conclude after the computed tomography angiography or standard
      coronary angiography procedure.

      computed tomograph or standard coronary angiography are considered acceptable clinical
      reference standards in this study and are gold standards for detection of coronary artery
      disease. The experimental unit of this study is the subject. Existence of clinically
      significant coronary artery disease in a subject is defined as the presence of at least one
      lesion with ≥ 70% diameter stenosis anywhere in the proximal Left anterior Descending, mid
      Left anterior Descending, proximal Left Circumflex, mid Left Circumflex, proximal Right
      Coronary Artery, mid Right Coronary Artery, distal Right Coronary Artery and Obtuse Margin 1,
      Obtuse Margin 2, and Ramus Intermedius if segment diameter >2.5 mm or ≥50% diameter stenosis
      in the Left Main coronary arteries.

      The study required sample size is 826 but may enroll up to 1,300 subjects. The sensitivity
      and specificity of the CADence are expected to be 80% and 73% respectively. Observed
      sensitivity and specificity will be compared to nuclear stress literature-based performance
      standards of 83% and 80% respectively using one sample non-inferiority binomial tests with a
      non-inferiority margin of 15 percentage points. Sample size requirements are 109 subjects
      with the presence of at least one lesion with ≥ ≥ 70% diameter stenosis anywhere in the
      proximal Left anterior Descending, mid Left anterior Descending, proximal Left Circumflex,
      mid Left Circumflex, proximal Right Coronary Artery, mid Right Coronary Artery, distal Right
      Coronary Artery and Obtuse Margin 1, Obtuse Margin 2, and Ramus Intermedius if segment
      diameter >2.5 mm or ≥50% diameter stenosis in the Left MAIN coronary arteries. to test the
      sensitivity hypothesis and 268 subjects without the presence of at least one lesion with ≥
      70% diameter stenosis anywhere in the proximal Left anterior Descending, mid Left anterior
      Descending, proximal Left Circumflex, mid Left Circumflex, proximal Right Coronary Artery,
      mid Right Coronary Artery, distal Right Coronary Artery and Obtuse Margin 1, Obtuse Margin 2,
      and Ramus Intermedius if segment diameter >2.5 mm or ≥50% diameter stenosis in the Left MAIN
      coronary arteries. to test the specificity hypothesis. It was assumed that 15 percent of
      enrolled subjects would be found to have the presence of at least one lesion with ≥ 70%
      diameter stenosis anywhere in the proximal Left anterior Descending, mid Left anterior
      Descending, proximal Left Circumflex, mid Left Circumflex, proximal Right Coronary Artery,
      mid Right Coronary Artery, distal Right Coronary Artery and Obtuse Margin 1, Obtuse Margin 2,
      and Ramus Intermedius if segment diameter >2.5 mm or ≥50% diameter stenosis in the Left Main
      coronary arteries. In order to accrue 109 subjects with significant Coronary Artery Disease
      as defined in the protocol, 826 subjects must be enrolled. Sample sizes provide 85% power
      with alpha of 0.05 for each statistical test.
    
  