
    
      Background:

        -  Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) can mediate the regression of bulky metastatic
           melanoma when administered to the autologous patient along with high-dose aldesleukin
           (IL-2) following a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting chemotherapy preparative regimen.

        -  In our analysis of factors that relate to the ability of this treatment to mediate
           objective responses, we have found a highly significant inverse correlation between
           reconstitution of cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4)+ forkhead box P3 (Foxp3) + T
           regulatory cells and the likelihood of achieving an objective response.

        -  Interleukin 2 (IL-2) administration has been shown to increase the number of T
           regulatory cells and in our trials we have found a direct relationship between the
           number of IL-2 doses and the reconstitution of patients at one week with CD4+ Foxp3 + T
           regulatory cells.

        -  Interleukin 15 (IL-15) is a strong T cell growth factor, but unlike IL-2, IL-15 is not
           involved in the generation and maintenance of CD4+ Foxp3 + T regulatory cells that can
           inhibit immune reactions.

        -  In pre-clinical adoptive cell transfer studies utilizing a murine melanoma model, the
           administration of IL-15 following adoptive cell transfer improved anti-tumor effects.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective of this trial is to determine the safety, toxicity, and maximum
           tolerated dose of intravenous recombinant IL-15 administered as a daily intravenous
           bolus for 10 consecutive days in patients with metastatic melanoma who have received a
           lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen and adoptive transfer of tumor infiltrating
           lymphocytes.

        -  An additional primary objective is to determine whether this combination is able to
           produce a modest number of clinical responses.

        -  The secondary objective involves the determination of the level of reconstitution of T
           regulatory cells in patients who receive cell transfer followed by IL-15 and to
           determine the pharmacokinetics of IL-15 levels in the serum following intravenous
           administration.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years old with pathologically confirmed diagnosis
           of metastatic melanoma.

        -  Patients with measurable disease, absolute neutrophil count greater than 1000/mm^3 and
           platelet count greater than 100,000/mm^3.

        -  No serious comorbid conditions such as active systemic infections, coagulation
           disorders, or other active major medical illnesses of the cardiovascular, respiratory or
           immune systems.

      Design:

        -  Patients with metastatic melanoma will undergo resection to obtain tumor for generation
           of autologous TIL cultures.

        -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting preparative regimen consisting
           of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by the administration of autologous Young
           TIL. In the phase 1 portion of this study, patients will receive recombinant human IL-15
           at doses of 0.25, 0.5, 1 or 2 micrograms per kilogram give intravenously daily for 10
           days starting on the day of cell transfer. One patient will be treated at the first dose
           level, if this patient experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), additional patients
           will be treated at the dose to confirm that no greater than 1/6 patients have DLT prior
           to proceeding to the next higher level. If 2 DLTs are encountered in this cohort, the
           study will be terminated. In all other cohorts, groups of three to six patients will
           receive recombinant human IL-15. Should a single patient experience a dose limiting
           toxicity due to the cell transfer at a particular dose level, additional patients will
           be treated at the dose to confirm that no greater than 1/6 patients have a DLT prior to
           proceeding to the next higher level. If a level 2 or more DLTs in 3-6 patients has been
           identified, three additional patients will be accrued at the next-lowest dose, for a
           total of 6, in order to further characterize the safety of the maximum tolerated dose
           prior to starting the phase 2 portion. In the phase 2 portion of this study, patients
           will receive a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting preparative regimen consisting of
           cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by the administration of autologous Young TIL
           and IL-15 at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) established in the phase 1 portion.

        -  Studies will be performed to determine the reconstitution of patients with T regulatory
           cells and to determine the pharmacokinetics of IL-15 concentration in serum.
    
  