
    
      This is a research study looking at the effects of dietary MP supplementation in glaucoma
      patients. Glaucoma can cause irreversible visual impairment. Current treatment modalities
      only halt disease progression and do not improve visual function. It is important to
      understand that poor visual function can have major consequences to an individual's
      day-to-day tasks such as increased risk of falls and automobile accidents.

      Disability glare is commonly experienced by eye disease patients, including those with
      glaucoma, and has been shown to be present even in those who are mildly affected by the
      disease. MP is a blue-light filter that plays an important role in visual performance
      including glare sensitivity. Moreover, MP is a potent antioxidant, and it is widely known
      that oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of glaucoma, both at the level of
      retinal ganglion cells and trabecular meshwork.

      Glaucoma and cognitive decline are both neurodegenerative processes that share several
      antecedents. The clustering of degenerative disorders towards the end of life is thought to
      be the result of cumulative and lifelong oxidative injury, and is consistent with the free
      radical theory of aging. Observational studies have revealed links between the two
      conditions. The commonalities between glaucoma and cognitive decline, including their shared
      risk factor profile and pathophysiological pathways, suggest a role for exploring common
      mechanisms and perhaps even a shared therapeutic approach.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of dietary MP supplementation on MP
      levels, serum biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress, vision, retinal structure and
      cognition in glaucoma patients.

      Study design 64 glaucoma participants Treatment arm: 10 mg Lutein, 2 mg zeaxanthin, 10 mg
      meso-zeaxanthin - 2/3 Placebo arm: Identical capsule containing no active ingredients - 1/3
      Duration of intervention: 18 months

      At baseline, all glaucoma participants undergo detailed vision assessments including visual
      acuity, microperimetry, measurement of macular pigment optical density (MPOD) with
      dual-wavelength fundus autofluorescence technique, optical coherence tomography scans,
      contrast sensitivity testing with and without glare, photostress recovery time, pupil
      reaction assessment, lens fluorescence measurement and fill out vision-related and dietary
      questionnaires. Patients also undergo detailed cognitive assessment including the flanker
      task, sound-induced flash illusions task, verbal fluency (FAS and animal fluency tests), SKT
      (short cognitive assessment) and MMSE (mini-mental state examination) tests which provide
      measures of reaction time, short-term memory, multisensory integration and attention. A blood
      sample is also collected for analysis of oxidative stress and inflammatory biomarkers.

      After the baseline assessments, glaucoma participants are randomised (2:1) to receive a
      dietary MP supplementation or placebo for 6 months. Each daily dose of the supplement
      contains 10mg Lutein, 10mg meso-Zeaxanthin and 2mg Zeaxanthin in a softgel capsule. The
      intervention consists of a daily oral consumption of one softgel capsule (recommended to be
      consumed with food) for a period of 18 months, with patients compliance checks and re-supply
      of supplement every 6 months. The placebo looks identical to the active supplement in its
      preparation size, colour, smell and taste. It contains no active ingredients.
    
  