
    
      In 2019, the Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Surgery Section of the Spanish Association of Surgeons
      and the Spanish Chapter of the IHPBA created the Spanish Group of Pancreatic Surgery
      (henceforth, GECP). The GECP notified the associates of both societies about the creation of
      the group by email, and also made announcements on their respective web pages. The GECP
      comprises a council of eight people. On applying to join, hospitals appoint a contact person
      who receives information on the work of the group, which is carried out on a multicenter
      basis. Currently, 72 hospitals are part of the GECP. GECP members perform 78% of PDs
      throughout Spain.

      In January 2020, a survey was sent out to the local surgeon manager of each GECP center,
      describing decisions in pre, intra, and postoperative management of patients with PC
      undergoing PD and five imaginary cases of patients with PC in the pancreatic head
      corresponding to five common scenarios that surgeons regularly assess in multidisciplinary
      oncological meetings (MDTB). It was explained in the cover letter that respondents' answers
      should not necessarily be the ones that appear in the textbooks or clinical guidelines but
      should reflect standard clinical practices at their centers. In the interests of objectivity,
      it was decided that the responses should be anonymous. The questions about decisions and
      cases were devised by the first author and sent to the seven other members of the GECP
      organizing committee who evaluated them and finally agreed on their definitive format. The
      cases presented were: resectable PC without vascular invasion, resectable PC with venous
      invasion below 180ยบ, borderline PC with venous invasion above 180ยบ, PC with arterial invasion
      below 180ยบ and severe venous invasion, and PC with liver metastases.

      Investigators classified hospital level divided as follows (level 1: 0-250 beds or area
      <200,000 inhabitants; level 2: 251-500 beds or area <400,000; level 3: > 500 beds or area>
      400,000); whether liver transplantation is performed at the center (to assess whether greater
      experience in vascular reconstruction affected intraoperative vascular management); the
      number of hospital beds; the number of pancreaticoduodenectomies (PD), distal
      pancreatectomies (DP) and total pancreatectomies (TP) performed at each center in 2018; and
      data on the surgeon who completed the survey including age, gender, position and years of
      experience in pancreatic surgery. Respondents were given a period of 60 days to submit their
      replies.

      The data were collected through an electronic survey using Google Forms and were analyzed
      with the R statistical software (https://www.r-project.org/). Categorical variables were
      expressed as number of cases and percentages. For continuous variables, normality was
      assessed with the Shapiro-Wilk test. Variables that were normal were expressed by means and
      standard deviation, while those that deviated from normality were expressed with medians and
      interquartile range. As contrast tests, the chi-square test with Yates correction was used
      for categorical variables, and the Student's t test and the Mann-Whitney U test for
      continuous normal and non-normal variables respectively. We defined the existence of a common
      national criterion when 80% of the respondents applied the same clinical practice.
    
  