
    
      Investigational sites:

      10-15 high volume Nordic PCI centres with experience in intravascular ultrasound (IVUS).

      Patients:

        -  All consecutive patients admitted with an ischemic event due to ST (estimated number of
           patients >100) either with BMS or DES.

        -  All consecutive patients with symptoms or signs of ischemia due to in-stent restenosis
           with DES (target about 200 patients) and respective BMS patients up to maximum 100
           patients.

      Total number of patients 400. Control groups 1) Lesions treated during the initial PCI, other
      than the index lesion, will be used as control lesions for the stent with failure; ST or ISR
      (IVUS findings).

        -  The study patients will be compared with a matched population from the Westdenmark Heart
           Database to compare the patient characteristics and clinical manifestation during
           initial PCI to find out possible differences in patients with and without stent failure
           Methods: Detailed description of the characteristics of the patient, lesion and
           procedure of the index PCI. Thorough description of the antithrombotic pharmacological
           therapy from index PCI to index event.

      Quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) of index lesion at stent implantation and at the
      index event.

      IVUS of the index lesion at the index event.

      Logistics A one year workload of 10.000 PCI-patients from 10-15 the participating centres
      will constitute the population at risk. With a stent thrombosis (definitive stent thrombosis)
      rate of 1,5 % and a clinical restenosis rate of 4 % there will be 150 patients with any stent
      thrombosis and 400 patients with any restenosis during a twelve months period. With a DES
      penetration rate of 50 % about 75 DES-treated patients will experience a stent thrombosis and
      200 patients a restenosis.

      Ethical approval, data registration and analysis The study will be approved by ethical
      committees and the data management authorities in the participating Nordic countries.

      Data will be registered in a dedicated case report form (CRF).

      Continuous variables will be expressed as mean value +SD and discrete variables as absolute
      values and percentages. Clinical and angiographic variables in the control and index event
      groups will be compared using the Student's t- and the chi-square tests.

      Inclusion criteria Consecutive consented patients with a suspected coronary stent related
      clinical event, admitted to one of the participating hospitals:

        1. Typical symptoms or evidence of myocardial ischemia (stable AP, UAP/NSTEMI, STEMI)

        2. Clinical suspicion of ST is based on the ARC criteria (probable ST). ST will be verified
           by coronary angiography.

        3. ISR resulting in clinical symptoms/events (angina pectoris, unstable angina, NSTEMI,
           STEMI, or documented myocardial ischemia). ISR will be verified by coronary angiography.

      IVUS will be performed whenever feasible based on the patient's clinical condition. If IVUS
      study can not be performed, the above mentioned patients will be included in the initial
      registry (to evaluate feasibility of IVUS in real life), while final analysis will be based
      on data obtained from patients with IVUS study performed.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Informed consent cannot be obtained. IVUS assessment IVUS will be performed whenever
           feasible based on the patient's clinical condition primary to treatment of the index
           lesion. If the IVUS catheter cannot be advanced, the lesion may be dilated by a 2 mm
           balloon. Mechanical pullback will be used (pull-back speed 0.5 mm/sec). The IVUS
           examination will be stored on VHS or CD and send to the IVUS core lab. at Odense
           University Hospital.

      All events (technical problems and clinical events) possibly related to the IVUS
      investigation will be registered and reported following the standard complaint procedure
      process of the manufacturer. In addition, quarterly progress reports (including complaints)
      will be provided to the financial supporting company.

      QCA The angiography obtained during the index lesion PCI-procedure will be used for
      qualitative and quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) assessment using a computerized QCA
      system (Medis, Leiden, Holland).

      At the index event angiography, there should be at least two cine-runs before the
      PCI-procedure and after the procedure with the same angulations as in the index-PCI
      procedure. The angiograms will be stored on CD and sent to the angiographic core laboratory,
      Skejby Sygehus, University of Aarhus, Denmark.

      End points Primary: Angiographic and IVUS findings:

        -  procedure related findings at inclusion

        -  Tabulation and classification of IVUS and angiographic outcomes

      Secondary:

        -  Clinical manifestation of the index event

        -  IVUS procedure related events Compliance to antithrombotic therapy

        -  Outcome of treatment (SR and ST) during the 12 month follow-up: clinical status and
           major cardiac events Safety reporting An appropriate safety plan will be established by
           the initiating investigator. Relevant procedure, product and study-related events will
           be reported following the local regulations. Furthermore, any procedural complications
           and other adverse events as defined by the principle investigator and the study team
           will be reported to the study coordinator and tracked. The coordinating center and the
           principle investigator will review tables and listings of all adverse events from the
           study on a regular basis, analyze these for trends, report unexpected adverse device or
           procedural events to the appropriate bodies/committees as per local requirements and do
           an on-going review of the study to ensure patient safety. The coordinating center will
           follow their procedure for document handling and database reconciliation.

      Complaint reporting Device malfunctions, device-related adverse events and product
      nonconformities will be reported to the appropriate manufacturers following the local product
      complaint procedures by all participating site(s). Complaints will also be reported to
      regulatory authorities as per local requirements
    
  