
    
      The Microtable® Microstereotactic Frame and Drill Press and Associated Method for Cochlear
      Implantation consists of a patient-customized microstereotactic frame which targets the
      cochlea. The intended use of the device in this early feasibility study is to surgically
      access the cochlea, allowing placement of an intra-cochlear electrode array for cochlear
      implantation, thereby providing a less invasive surgical option than currently performed.
      Compared to traditional cochlear implantation (CI) surgery, the investigators hypothesize
      that the minimally invasive, image-guided approach may offer the following benefits: (1)
      shorter procedure time including shorter general anesthesia time, (2) less tissue removal
      potentially eliminating post-operative mastoid bone depression, decreased post-operative
      patient discomfort, and quicker wound healing, (3) better chance of preservation of taste
      secondary to preservation of the chorda tympani nerve, and (4) standardization of electrode
      placement potentially allowing more consistent placement within the scala tympani
      sub-compartment of the cochlea which has been shown to be associated with improved
      post-operative audiological performance. This early feasibility study will focus on the
      advantages of the new technology to the patient. Advantages to the healthcare delivery system
      will be examined during the pivotal study phase.

      The investigators propose this early feasibility study to determine if minimally invasive
      image-guided drilling to surgically access the cochlea for CI can be successfully performed.
      The study will involve only unilateral CI. The decision of unilateral vs. bilateral
      implantation is made clinically and before the patient may elect to enroll in this study.
      Bilateral implantation can take place either simultaneously or sequentially, with the
      decision made by the clinician as part of standard care.

      If a participant is scheduled for routine bilateral CI, the traditional approach will be used
      on one side and the investigational approach on the other. Traditional surgery will be
      performed on the better-hearing ear, and the investigational technique will be performed on
      the poorer hearing ear. To minimize patient variability, the investigators will only be
      studying lateral wall electrodes, the Cochlear slim straight electrode and MED-EL electrodes.
      The investigators plan to enroll 12 cochlear implant patients in two groups. Group 1 will
      consist of patients implanted under direct visualization afforded by lifting a tympanomeatal
      flap, and Group 2 will consist of patients implanted with visualization afforded by passing
      an endoscope across the eardrum via a myringotomy.
    
  