
    
      The study is a prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial comparing two methods of
      postoperative analgesia following primary TKA. Eligible primary TKA patients must be ASA I -
      III and require less than 20 mg oxycodone daily (or its equivalent). Exclusion criteria are:
      allergy to anesthetics, contraindication to regional anesthesia, sensory/ motor disorder
      involving operative limb, non-english speaking, ASA IV or greater, psychiatric or cognitive
      disorders, incarceration, renal insufficiency with Cr > 2.0 and hepatic failure. When
      patients agree to participate in the study the following data will be collected by the
      research staff: ASA physical status, age, height, weight, gender, quantitative opiate use,
      numeric pain score with visual descriptors, painDETECT score, WOMAC score and baseline Pain
      Management Questionnaire. When designated through randomization, local infiltration of
      analgesia will be placed intraoperatively by the surgeons, per usual protocol and patients in
      the LIA group will receive sham adductor canal catheter. All ACC's for both study groups will
      be placed postoperatively in the PACU. Those collecting data will be blinded from identifying
      patients in the control group, as both groups will have ACC placed with same technique.
      Potential risks for each procedure, which will be explained to the patient, include:
      bleeding, local infection, local anesthetic toxicity in the form of seizure and cardiac
      arrest and neuropathy. The preceding are commonly listed though infrequent complications of
      both procedures. Continuous ultrasound will guide the placement of the ACC. All adductor
      canal catheters will remain in for 72 hours. Pt from LIA group will be discharged home with
      sham catheter with a saline infusion at 10 ml/hr via an ambulatory pump. Patients in ACC
      group will be discharged with continuous adductor canal catheter delivering ropivacaine 0.2%
      at 10 ml/hr via an ambulatory pump. Patients will be called daily for pain diary results. As
      well as at 6-8 weeks postoperatively to collect painDetect and WOMAC survey.
    
  