
    
      Potential subjects will be Azoospermic men who turn to the IVF unit at Hadassah Ein Kerem and
      are candidates for a TEFNA treatment.

      Only after the men will receive an explanation of the TEFNA procedure and sign a consent form
      for TEFNA will they be invited to join the study.

      After an explanation, the men will sign a consent form (attached) for participation in the
      study.

      The TEFNA procedure in each testis will begin with an ultrasonically guided Rete Testis
      needle aspiration and washing of the testes tubules. A PP Spinal Needle, of 20-27 Gage and
      90mm length, will be used for the ultrasonically guided puncture of the testis and
      catheterization of the Rete Testis network. After the catheterization, there will be an
      aspiration, followed by the washing of the testis tubule network in saline used for IV, in a
      volume of up to 1mL (5), using a 1mL syringe. In men with Obstructive Azoospermia, in case
      the samples aspirated from the Rete Testis will contain many motile sperm cells (more than
      hundreds), there will be no need for a TEFNA procedure. In cases where an initial sample of
      the Rete Testis aspiration will not show many motile sperm cells, the TEFNA procedure will
      continue on as planned.

      The samples from the Rete Testis aspiration will be separately checked for sperm cells from
      the sample and tissue produced from the TEFNA procedure. The sperm cells produced from the
      Rete Testis will be used for cryopreservation or fertilization of the ovum of the patient's
      partner, as is customary in sperm cells attained through the TEFNA procedure. Should sperm
      cells be produced both from the Rete Testis and from the epididymis or testes, the partner's
      ovum will be fertilized by the highest quality sperm cells of both sources.

      Clinical follow-up on patients will be conducted as customary after testis aspiration.

      The patients will be invited six months after the procedure for an ultrasonic check-up of the
      testes and the Rete Testis.
    
  