
    
      Indocyanine green (ICG) is excreted exclusively in the biliary system and emits fluorescence
      light when viewed using near infrared imaging. This enables extrahepatic biliary tree anatomy
      to be delineated during laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

      Indocyanine green fluorescence cholangiography also enables earlier detection of cystic duct
      and common bile duct during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. This is reported in two studies
      which showed that cystic duct can be identified 11 minutes and 8.6 minutes earlier and common
      bile duct 10 and 11 minutes earlier than white light imaging.

      To date, there is no data published on the use of fluorescent cholangiography in reducing
      operative time of identification of critical view of safety during laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy, which is an integral part of the surgery. Theoretically achievement of
      critical view of safety maybe facilitated by fluorescent cholangiography as this technique
      facilitates identification of biliary structures.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate whether an earlier identification of CVS
      can be obtained by using ICG fluorescence cholangiography as an adjunct to conventional
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy versus conventional laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Secondary
      outcomes assessed are the presence of minor or major complications between this two groups.

      Patients are randomly assigned into two arms; ICG fluorescence cholangiography assisted
      laparoscopic cholecystectomy (ICGFC- LC) and conventional laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC),
      using a computer-generated block randomization. Patients in the ICGFC- LC group received
      intravenous bolus of 2.5mg of ICG before the induction of anaesthesia. All the surgeries are
      performed using standard four ports technique. Near infrared light camera by Karl Storz
      Endoscopy is used intermittently during dissection for the ICGFC-LC group.

      Time to identification of CVS is defined by time of gallbladder retraction to time of
      establishment of critical view of safety. Critical view of safety is achieved when all the
      three criteria set by Strasberg is met. Mean time to identification of CVS in the two groups
      of patients were then compared. All patients are followed up for one month to identify any
      post-operative complications.
    
  