
    
      Pain after cardiac surgery is triggered by numerous factors including skin incision,
      sternotomy, sternal and rib retraction, internal mammary artery and saphenous vein
      harvesting, surgical manipulation of pleura, placement of chest tubes and tissue trauma
      during surgery.Median sternotomy significantly reduces postoperative pulmonary function;
      however, it is the most commonly used approach because it facilitates exposure of the
      surgical field.

      Pain prevents early mobilization, reduction in pulmonary function and accumulation of
      bronchial secretions resulting in atelectasis, pulmonary infections, hypoxia and increase
      duration of ICU stay.Prolonged ICU stay is associated with greater risk of respiratory and
      renal dysfunction, and increases morbidity and mortality.

      Optimal post-operative pain management allows early weaning from mechanical ventilation and
      extubation, early mobilization, facilitate beginning of chest physiotherapy, shortens the
      length of ICU stay and hospitalization, medical costs and decreases incidence of
      post-operative complications.

      Opioid infusions and patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) remain the principal and most
      commonly used for immediate postoperative analgesia after cardiac surgery in Intensive Care
      Units.

      Multimodal opioid sparing analgesia has become frequently used. They are used for the opioids
      sparing effect and for achievement of a more efficient pain management via both central and
      peripheral anti-nociceptive mechanisms.

      Dexmedetomidine is an intravenous α-2 agonist widely used for sedation, anxiolysis and for
      augmenting anesthesia and analgesia with reduction in opioid requirements. Ketamine have a
      great analgesic effect and can be added to multimodal regimen. Magnesium can be added to
      multimodal regimen as it acts as a non-competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
      receptors and has anti-inflammatory effects and can be used in acute pain management.

      The aim of this study is to compare between traditional high opioid, low opioid and
      non-opioid technique on the patient outcome.

      This prospective randomized comparative study will be conducted on 75 patients undergoing
      cardiac procedures that will require cardiopulmonary bypass and median sternotomy at
      Cardiothoracic Surgical Department, Mansoura University Hospitals over 24 months.

      Eligible 75 patients will be randomly allocated to one of three equal groups each contains 25
      patients, they will be randomized according to computer-generated randomization sequence:
      Either high opioid group (group I), Low opioid group (group II) and non-opioid group (group
      III).
    
  