
    
      BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES

      In functional environments, dual-tasks (DT) are common and require a correct motor and
      cognitive performance to be carried out successfully. In people with neurodegenerative
      diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD), to walk with a secondary task affects gait causing
      an alteration of velocity, stride length, cadence and double support time and therefore,
      greater risk of falls. In fact, patients report gait impairments as the most disabling motor
      symptoms of the disease. The inclusion of DT to the assessment and physical rehabilitation of
      patients allows to simulate day-to-day contexts in a controlled and safe environment and
      consequently, extrapolate more easily the advances of rehabilitation to daily life.
      Advantages of this kind of training are not only functional, but it could induce
      neuroplasticity because it is a highly challenging activity for people with PD. While the
      neurophysiological changes of dual-task training are not yet known, the effects of training
      with dual-tasks on gait seem relatively clear. Studies so far have shown that improvements of
      spatiotemporal parameters of DT gait can be observed in integrated and consecutive DT
      training, which means that the addition of cognitive tasks into gait rehabilitation, either
      simultaneous or consecutively, is effective. However, there is not enough evidence that DT
      training is better than traditional EP training, i.e., including only motor training in
      single-task (ST) mode. The rest of the published studies include a passive control group
      (i.e. group that does not perform any type of control rehabilitation) or they correspond to
      repeated measures studies.

      Additionally, there are other methodological issues that hinder the external validity of the
      experiments referenced so far. Firstly, the use of the same DT, both in training and
      evaluation of these effects training, could prevent to observe the transfers of these effects
      in untrained contexts. Secondly, the use of complex secondary tasks during the assessment
      such as mathematical tasks or recite alphabet letters may not be representative of the DT
      that occur in daily life. Thirdly, the different studies included the follow-up usually one
      month after the training, only one study evaluated the effects beyond this time. Finally, the
      lack of training done in a group, it prevents knowing if training with DT is possible in a
      group format, as well as individually at home.

      Thus, this study aims:

        1. To compare the short and mid-term effectiveness of a group dual-task program versus a
           group single-task program on biomechanics gait in people with PD.

        2. To analyze the effect of dual-task therapy on clinical gait variables (standardized
           scales and tests), cognitive performance and quality of life.

        3. To analyze the impact of secondary cognitive and motor tasks on single-gait before and
           after both physiotherapy programs.

        4. To compare the parkinsonian gait before and after both therapies with normal gait from
           matched healthy subjects.

      DESIGN

      This was a single-blind, Randomized Control Trial (RCT) with 8-week follow-up and a
      convenience sample (specifically, modal instance sampling) in two parallel-group
      (experimental and active control group [1:1]) and one matched healthy control group and
      factorial design study.

      BLINDING

      Due to the nature of physical rehabilitation interventions, patients cannot be totally blind
      to the treatment that were performed and neither the treating physiotherapists, but the
      hypothesis and objectives of the study were hidden. At the same time, all participants were
      instructed to not divulge information regarding their intervention to the raters
      physiotherapists, who were blinded to group allocation in all assessment times. To control
      expectancy effects for patients it was explained that it is not yet determined which therapy
      is more effective. On the other hand, a code of consecutive numbers were assigned to the
      patients without pointing to the treatment group to which they belong.

      RANDOMIZATION

      The randomization process was performed by an extern researcher who is not involved in the
      development of the study. Stratified randomization will be performed by the severity stages
      of the disease (Hoehn & Yahr stages I, II and III) and participants were accordingly
      allocated to one of the two groups of physiotherapy treatment. Randomization was performed
      with a Microsoft Excel software with which a random sampling of half of the total of patients
      were extracted by the strata set for the dual-task program. After this, the treating
      physiotherapists will be responsible for the management and organization of the appointments
      of participants.

      POWER CALCULATION

      The sample size power calculation has been conducted based on the changes in the main
      outcomes of gait velocity evidenced in the literature in a verbal dual-task after a dual-gait
      training effect with PD patients. Previously, it has been shown that verbal tasks have great
      interference on Parkinsonian gait. For the sample size analysis, the Gpower software
      (Universit채t Kiel, Germany, Version 3.1) has been used [25]. A type I statistical error of 5%
      and a power of 80% was considered, which has resulted in 24 participants per group of
      treatment.

      INTERVENTION

      To ensure that the therapy sessions were carried out with a maximum of 10 people, the
      development of each program was repeated twice (DTP and STP), until completing the training
      of all recruited participants.

      Both groups of the study (experimental and active comparator) performed 20 one-hour
      rehabilitation sessions, twice a week (10 weeks in total). All sessions of both groups were
      developed in a place provided by the researchers with the necessary elements for
      rehabilitation and in each of the sessions, there always were two physiotherapists. In each
      session, there were no more than ten patients.

        1. Dual-task group Patients with Parkinson's disease carry out the rehabilitation gait with
           a dual-task program (DUALGAIT) with secondary cognitive and upper limb motor tasks.

           In this group, the training of walking and functional secondary tasks (cognitive or
           motor) first was separately (consecutive task training), to be performed later together
           in a dual-task (integrated dual-task training) with a progression system.
           Cognitive/motor secondary tasks were different from those used in the assessment of
           gait.

           Each training session consisted of three parts: the initial warm-up, dual-training, and
           back-to-calm.

           The objectives to walking improve and exercises were: i) Step/stride length with
           objective distance from 0.4 a 0.8 m in a progressive way and adapted to the heights of
           the participants, ii) Cadence/velocity training by digital metronome from 60 to 120 bpm,
           which in combination with the step lengths allowed the progressive training of walking
           velocity, iii) Lateral gait with lengths from 0.4 to 0.8 m., iv) Lower limb kinematics
           in support and swing phase through standardized practice of ankle, knee and hip
           movements during both phase, v) Arm swing practice during gait through elements,
           coordination with a partner and free, vi) Control of the flexor postural pattern by the
           practice of postural exercises and active movement that favor upright posture (neck
           extension, scapular adduction, shoulder retroversion, pelvic anteversion) and vii) Joint
           mobility and dissociation scapular-pelvic waist. In all of them, the use of external
           visual, auditory and verbal cues was included to provide the most objective feedback
           possible during motor learning.

           Additionally, the cognitive tasks used during the training were rehearsed in different
           positions (1st seated, 2nd biped and 3rd static gait) prior to the dual realization with
           the forward gait.

           The types of secondary tasks trained were: 1) verbal fluency, 2) auditory recognition,
           3) visual recognition, 4) mathematical calculation, 5) memory, 6) visuospatial planning,
           7) fine motor skills, 8) motor task of money manipulation, 9) motor transport task and
           10) motor task of transferring an object to another person. Each task category had a
           level of complexity (basic, medium and high).

        2. Single-task group Patients with Parkinson's disease carry out the rehabilitation gait
           without a dual-task program (physical and walking exercises without an additional load
           of cognitive or upper limb motor tasks). Each training session consisted of three parts:
           initial warm-up, physical exercise in single-task condition, and back-to-calm. The
           objectives and walking exercises were the same as those performed in the experimental
           group.

      SUBJECTS

      Forty participants completed the study, 23 performed the dual-task physiotherapy program and
      composed the Dual-task group (DTG), while the other 17 formed the Single-task group (STG).
      All patients came from the La Fe Clinical and Polytechnic Hospital (Valencia, Spain)
      completed all phases of the study. The patients were recruited with the diagnosis made by a
      neurological doctor. All participants signed informed consent prior to their participation in
      the study, then they were randomly assigned to one of the rehabilitation groups (DTG and
      STG).

      TEST PROCEDURE

      Before conducting the biomechanics gait assessments, a previous evaluation was carried out to
      verify the eligibility criteria. This valuation session was held a few days before the
      biomechanics gait assessment prior to the intervention and the following was verified:

        -  Registration of sociodemographic data and neurological history

        -  Anthropometric evaluation

        -  Clinical evaluation of Parkinson's disease (Disease duration, Hemibody where signs
           predominate, Hoehn & Yahr stage, New Freezing of Gait Questionnaire)

        -  Cognitive state (Mini-mental test adapted for Parkinson's disease).

      After determining the eligibility criteria, three assessments sessions were carried out at
      the University of Valencia laboratories. These were: 1) immediately before starting the
      rehabilitation program (Baseline), 2) immediately after completing the rehabilitation program
      (Postintervention) and 3) eight weeks after completing the rehabilitation program (8-week
      follow-up). Between Postintervention and 8-week follow-up tests, participants did not perform
      any kind of physical therapy, sports or physical activity. Participants were evaluated in the
      on-medication state. In each of the assessment sessions biomechanics of gait, the clinical
      performance of mobility, balance and gait, and cognition were evaluated.

      The biomechanics gait evaluation was carried out in a corridor 10m long and data were
      registered using 3D photogrammetry with 12 smart cams (Kinescan/IBV software, Biomechanical
      Institute of Valencia, Valencia, Spain, version 5.3.0.1) and two force platforms
      (Dinascan/IBV Biomechanical Institute of Valencia, Valencia, Spain). All the participants
      walked at a self-selected comfortable speed, barefoot and under five conditions: i) single
      task (ST): walking without secondary tasks with the attention focused only on walking
      performance, ii) visual dual-task (viDT): walking while watching the time on an analog clock
      projected at the end of the walkway, iii) verbal dual-task (veDT): walking while telling the
      evaluator the activities they had performed the previous day in a chronological order, iv)
      auditory dual-task (aDT): walking while listening and recognizing different daily noises and,
      v) motor dual-task (mDT): walking while carrying one glass in each hand and repeatedly
      transferring their contents from one to the other. During DT gait, participants were urged to
      focus attention on the secondary task. For each of the five evaluated walking conditions, 10
      repetitions were performed, five with each foot, to later use their average. Before recording
      gait, participants were allowed to walk in the corridor (ST condition) to familiarize
      themselves with the test.

      The biomechanics outcomes were:

        1. Spatio-temporal outcomes: velocity (m/s), stride length (m), cadence (steps/min), double
           support time (% of gait cycle) and step width (m).

        2. kinematics outcomes: range of motion of the ankle (째), maximum hip extension (째),
           maximum hip flexion (째).

        3. Kinetic outcomes: vertical reaction force 1 (N), vertical reaction force 2 (N),
           anterior-posterior reaction force 1 (N).

      On the other hand, to know if the effects of the treatments would be detectable with the
      clinical tests and scales, a Dynamic Parkinson Gait Scale (DYPAGS), Tinetti Mobility Test,
      both total score (TinettiT) and scores from subtest gait (TinettiG) and balance (TinettiB)
      and Time up and go test (TUG) were used. Finally, we used the Trail making test, parts A
      (TMTa) and B (TMTb) to evaluate executive cognitive performance and the Parkinson's disease
      questionnaire-39 (PDQ-39) for quality of life assessment.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS

      Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS v.24 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Mean and
      standard deviations (SD) were calculated. A three-factor mixed Multivariate Analysis of
      Variance (MANOVA) was conducted to analyze their effects on the biomechanical dependent
      variables previously described in table 3. The within-subject factors are rehabilitation with
      three categories (Baseline, Postintervention and Follow-up) and conditions, with five
      categories (ST, viDT, veDT, aDT and mDT). The between-subject factor is group with two
      categories (DTG and STG). Stride length was standardized by the lower limb length of
      participants. In addition, a two-factor mixed MANOVA was conducted to analyze the effects of
      within-subject factors rehabilitation and the between-subject factor group on the clinical
      tests. When significant effects are found, Bonferroni was used for post hoc comparisons.
      Differences was declared statistically significant if p<0.05.

      To check for differences between the demographic outcomes between groups, multivariate
      one-way analysis with the between-subject factor group was conducted. Furthermore, to test
      for sex differences between groups, a chi-square test was used.

      Before the statistical analysis, the following assumptions were checked: 1) Normality, the
      distribution of the residuals was tested using the Shapiro-wilk test, 2) Sphericity, the
      homogeneity between variances of the differences between pairs of measures was checked with
      the Mauchly sphericity test, 3) Homoscedasticity, homogeneity of variances was evaluated
      using the Levene test, 4) Equality of covariance matrices, the equality of
      variance-covariance matrices across the cells formed by the between-subjects effects was
      tested with the Box's M test, 5) Absence of multicollinearity, the correlation level between
      dependent variables were observed with the Pearson correlation test. When any of these
      assumptions were not met, the necessary statistical corrections were used.

      TIMING OF THE STUDY

        -  Resolution Ethics Committee of the University of Valencia (Spain): May 14, 2014.

        -  Resolution Ethics Committee of the Biomedical Research of La Fe University and
           Polytechnic Hospital (Valencia, Spain): September 9, 2014.

        -  Start of recruitment of participants: June 14, 2014.

        -  Completion of participant evaluations: June 30, 2016.

        -  Data pretreatment, statistical analysis and dissemination of results: from september
           2016 to present.
    
  