
    
      Background Literature Review Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is a sleep disorder
      characterized by recurrent, partial or complete episodes of upper airway obstruction,
      commonly associated with intermittent hypoxemia and sleep fragmentation.1 The best data
      available from international studies reports a prevalence rate of 1.2-5.7% in children.2-4
      The potential consequences of OSAS in children are serious and include failure to thrive5,
      attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder6, excessive daytime sleepiness7, and poor
      learning6. There is also significant concern about long-term cardio-pulmonary risks in these
      patients8. Not surprisingly, along with higher morbidity, children with OSAS also have higher
      use of health care services starting from the first year of life9.

      OSAS is a multifactorial disease, with the primary cause in children thought to be
      hypertrophic tonsils and adenoids. However the persistence of OSAS following surgery to
      remove the tonsils and adenoids is not uncommon. Recent studies using a moderate cut-off
      apnoea-hyponea index (AHI) of greater than 5 events per hour in relatively low-risk
      populations, have demonstrated that 13%10 to 29%11 of children have residual OSAS following
      adenotonsillectomy (AT). Craniofacial form also clearly plays a role in pediatric OSAS as
      skeletal discrepancies such as transverse maxillary deficiency have been strongly associated
      with the disease12,13, and skeletal malocclusion has been found to be predictive of a higher
      AT failure rate14. While the precise nature of the contribution of craniofacial proportions
      to OSAS remains to be characterized, there is early evidence in the literature to support
      maxillary expansion (ME) as an alternative treatment to surgery. Results of OSAS treatment
      with ME have suggested that it may be effective in reducing sleep respiratory disturbances in
      patients with15 and without16 tonsillar hypertrophy. However, limitations existing in the
      study designs have left unanswered questions as to the role of ME in the treatment of
      children suffering from OSAS. Furthermore the studies have been limited to patient
      populations in Rome, Italy, and while anatomical factors are key determinants of the
      predisposition to airway collapse, their relative importance for OSAS risk likely varies
      between ethnicities.17 For this reason, further studies examining these effects on a diverse
      multicultural population such as that found in North America and in particular urban centers
      such as Vancouver, Canada are warranted to realize the potential of this novel form of OSAS
      treatment.

      Study Purpose The purpose of this study is to explore the efficacy of maxillary expansion in
      the treatment of OSAS in children with tonsil and adenoid hypertrophy.

      3. Hypothesis The null hypothesis is there is no significant difference in improvement
      between maxillary expansion and adenotonsillectomy in the objective and subjective outcome
      measures in children with mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea.

      4. Objectives 4.1: Aim 1- To validate the methodology. The methodology will be validated
      through conducting this pilot study and analyzing the preliminary data that are generated -
      if required, improvements in methodology design can be identified during this pilot study to
      assist in design modification before a larger multi-site study.

      4.2: Aim 2- To obtain preliminary data to provide the basis for a larger scale multi-centre
      randomized controlled trial The results of this study will be analyzed, and if it is
      under-powered to avoid type II error as predicted from the sample size calculations, the data
      will used to leverage further funding for a multi-site study.

      5. Methods and Statistics 5.1: Research Design Pilot, randomized, controlled single-blinded
      crossover study. (see Figure 1 - Study Design).

      5.2: Study Patient Selection The study patients will be recruited from the Pediatric
      Otolaryngology Outpatients Clinic and the Pediatric Sleep Disorders Clinic at BC Children's
      Hospital, with fully informed consent from parents/caregivers and assent from study patients.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Ages 5.0 to 10.0 years at the time of screening;

        -  Diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea defined as AHI>2, confirmed on overnight,
           laboratory-based PSG;

        -  Parental report of witnessed apneas or habitual snoring (on average more than 3 nights
           per week);

        -  Deemed to be a candidate for ME by orthodontic evaluation;

        -  Deemed to be a candidate for tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy by otolaryngologic
           evaluation.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Severe OSA or significant hypoxemia in the presence of tonsillar or adenoid hypertrophy
           requiring surgical intervention defined as AHI>25 or SpO2 <90% for >2% sleep time.

        -  An associated craniofacial syndrome or anomaly, including cleft lip and/or palate, or
           any anatomic or systemic condition that would otherwise exclude the patient from
           orthodontic treatment.

        -  Recurrent tonsillitis that meets American Academy of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck
           Surgery clinical practice guidelines for surgery.

        -  Extremely overweight defined as a body mass index z-score > 2.99 for age group and sex.

        -  Severe health problems that could be exacerbated by delayed treatment for OSA,
           including: severe cardiopulmonary disorders (e.g., cystic fibrosis, congenital heart
           disease); sickle cell disease; poorly controlled asthma (with > 1 hospitalization in
           last year); epilepsy requiring medication; diabetes (type 1 or type 2) requiring
           medication; doctor-diagnosed heart disease or cor pulmonale; or a history of stage II
           hypertension (HTN) defined as > 99% percentile and/or requiring medication.

        -  Psychiatric or behavioral disorders that would otherwise exclude the patient from
           receiving orthodontic treatment

      5.3: Intervention Before initiating the intervention the child will undergo overnight
      polysomnography (PSG), clinical examination by a Pediatric Otolaryngologist and an
      Orthodontist, as well as a series of validated parental questionnaires relating to sleep
      habits and quality of life of their child. The intervention period is 4 months with equal
      numbers of patients being randomized to treatment with either ME or AT.

      At the end of the 4-month intervention period all children will be recalled to the Pediatric
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea Clinic at BC Children's Hospital. Again patients will be examined by
      the PI Pediatric Otolaryngologist and Orthodontist and undergo a repeat series of
      examinations, sleep studies and questionnaires in the same fashion as their initial
      appointment. Patients who present with residual OSAS, defined as an AHI>2, on their follow-up
      sleep study will be crossed over to the other treatment arm of the study. Treatment protocols
      will be identical to those described and used in the first phase of the study.

      Patients requiring the second intervention will be recalled for a follow-up assessment,
      repeating the series of data collected at their initial appointment. This will again include
      overnight polysomnography (PSG), clinical examination by a Pediatric Otolaryngologist and an
      Orthodontist, as well the parental questionnaires relating to sleep habits and quality of
      life of their child. (see Figure 1 - Study Design)

      Children who still have an abnormal AHI after the second intervention (treatment failures)
      will be referred to the Sleep Clinic at BC Children's Hospital for further assessment and
      reviewed by the Pediatric Respirologist for consideration of other levels of obstruction that
      may require either further surgical intervention or prescribed continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP).

      5.4: Primary and Secondary Outcomes

      Primary outcome:

      Primary outcome measure will be change in AHI between initial and post-intervention overnight
      PSG. All children will undergo an attended overnight polysomnography (sleep study) at B.C.
      Children's Hospital Pediatric Sleep Laboratory. The data recorded will include the typical
      montage monitoring of electroencephalography (EEG), electrooculography (EOG), chin and leg
      electromyography (EMG), and one electrocardiography (ECG) lead. Respiration is monitored with
      nasal cannula, mouth thermistor or thermo-couple, thoracic and abdominal bands, finger pulse
      oxymetry, and neck microphone. Scoring of sleep stages and of respiratory events will follow
      previously-accepted published guidelines.

      The American Academy of Sleep Medicine, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the American
      Academy of Otolaryngology all define obstructive sleep apnea as an AHI >1, as calculated by
      overnight polysomnography. The articles cited in our rationale use a moderate cutoff point of
      AHI>5 out of convenience in order to highlight their outcome data.

      The use of an AHI>2 for the present study is based on a large body of literature, including a
      recently published outline of an ongoing multi-centered clinical trial (Redline et al. Sleep
      2011;34(11):1509) examining the outcomes of surgical treatment of OSA, which also used an
      AHI>2 as inclusion criteria for the study. A cutoff of 2 is used as a conservative measure to
      ensure ample justification for treatment. Furthermore, as maxillary expansion treatment is
      considered less invasive than the standard surgical AT intervention, the inclusion of
      patients with mild OSAS who might most benefit from non-surgical treatment is justified.

      Secondary outcome:

      Secondary outcome measures include changes in the Children's Sleep Habits Questionnaire18
      (CSHQ), and the OSAS Quality of Life Survey19 (OSA-18) between the initial and
      post-intervention (4 months) timepoints. The CSHQ is a retrospective 45-item parent reported
      sleep-screening instrument to delineate sleep habits and identify problematic sleep domains
      in school-aged children. The CSHQ includes items relating to a number of key sleep domains
      that encompass the major presenting clinical sleep complaints in this pediatric age group:
      bedtime behavior and sleep onset; sleep duration; anxiety around sleep; behavior occurring
      during sleep and night wakings; sleep-disordered breathing; parasomnias; and morning
      waking/daytime sleepiness. Parents are asked to recall sleep behaviors occurring over a
      "typical" recent week.39 The OSA-18 is an 18-item questionnaire that uses a Likert-type
      scoring system to collect information about 5 subscales that are considered to be elements in
      quality of life: sleep disturbance, physical symptoms, emotional symptoms, daytime function,
      and caregiver concerns.40 This is also completed by the parent. The Glasgow Children's
      Benefit Inventory: a new instrument for assessing health-related benefit after an
      intervention. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 2004;113(12):980-6). This is a validated instrument
      specifically designed to measure caregiver satisfaction with a procedural intervention and is
      ideal for our purpose. This is completed by the parent.

      5.5: Randomization The parent or guardian will receive verbal and written detail of the
      study, and be given the opportunity to consider this information before providing informed
      consent to participate. If a decision to participate is made, the child will be allocated a
      study reference number by the study coordinator. Randomization will be based on a
      pre-established randomization table. To ensure an even distribution of study patient numbers
      between the groups, patients will be randomized in blocks with blocks sizes randomized
      between 2 and 4 to prevent identification bias. It is also pre-established that if a child
      (or their caregiver) decides to opt-out of the study after randomization but before beginning
      any treatment, the next identified child would be a replacement for the drop-out child with
      same treatment schedule. If a child dropped out once the any treatment is initiated, there
      would be no replacement and the subject would be included in the analysis on an
      intention-to-treat basis.

      For children randomized to ME, treatment will begin either at the private dental office of
      the Principal Investigator or in the Dental Department of BC Children's Hospital. Expansion
      treatment will be performed by the PI Orthodontist. Additional treatment or referral for
      comorbidities and education regarding general sleep hygiene and healthy behaviors, and use of
      nasal saline spray as needed for nasal mucosal crusting or dryness will also be initiated.
      Costs for orthodontic treatment are not typically covered by the provincial heath insurance
      plan and therefore will be paid through the operating costs of the study. The ME protocol
      will follow the standard of care for orthodontic treatment of maxillary constriction. Pre and
      post-treatment records including lateral and posterior-anterior cephalometric and panoramic
      radiographs, dental study casts, and intra and extra-oral photos will be collected. An
      expansion appliance will be bonded to the molar teeth of the upper arch, with a rate of
      expansion set at 0.25mm each day. A minimum of 7mm of total expansion will be performed. An
      expansion appliance may be also attached to the lower arch at the discretion of the treating
      orthodontist should it be indicated by the clinical conditions of the patient. ME patients
      will have follow up appointments to access the progress of expansion at 2 week intervals for
      the first month, then monthly until appliance removal 4 months later. Upon removal of the
      expansion appliance, patients will be provided with a removable dental retainer and then
      recalled 6 months later for observation as for non-study patients undergoing this form of
      orthodontic treatment.

      For those patients randomized to AT, the procedure will follow the standard of care for this
      procedure. The AT will be performed by the co-investigator Pediatric Otolaryngologist at the
      BC Children's Hospital. A standardized technique for tonsillectomy (using bipolar
      extracapsular dissection) and adenoidectomy (using monopolar suction cautery) will be used.
      Patients will have the standard peri-operative care, post-operative monitoring, and
      post-operative follow-up as for non-study patients undergoing this procedure for this
      indication. Additional treatment or referral for comorbidities and education regarding
      general sleep hygiene and healthy behaviors, and use of nasal saline spray as needed for
      nasal mucosal crusting or dryness will also be initiated.

      5.6: Blinding Assessment and scoring of the primary (overnight sleep studies) outcome
      variable will be performed by Dr. David Wensley, director of the BCCH Sleep Lab. Dr. Wensley
      will be blinded to the treatment received by each patient.

      5.7: Sample Size For this pilot study we anticipate recruiting 30 patients, with 15 entering
      into each initial treatment arm of the study. An informal audit of the referral pattern to
      the Pediatric Otolaryngology Clinic at BC Children's Hospital has revealed that approximately
      15-25 potentially eligible subjects are seen per month. Therefore assuming a very
      conservative recruitment rate of 5 subjects per month, investigators estimate it may take
      approximately 6 months to complete subject enrollment,

      Drop-out/non-compliance rate:

      We estimate a low drop-out rate from the study, based on other studies of this age-group and
      pathology, and we expect drop-outs to be unrelated to treatment effectiveness, therefore
      would be randomly distributed between the groups. Assuming a drop-out rate of around 30%, we
      will require recruitment of 39 study patients to have complete data on 30 study patients.

      Study Patient compliance:

      To reinforce general study participation, after two months a research assistant will contact
      via telephone all patients' families to provide advice as well as for safety and adverse
      event monitoring. At the end of the 4-month intervention period all children will be recalled
      to BCCH for follow-up examinations and testing.

      However due to the invasive nature and inconvenience for children and their family to attend
      an overnight sleep study at a hospital, recruitment into the study and the possibly required
      three PSGs may become an issue. To overcome this concern, a patient incentive of $50 per
      sleep study, to compensate the family for their time and inconvenience as been budgeted.

      5.8: Data

      Data handling and record keeping:

      A study coordinator will be responsible for data collection and storage of randomization
      codes. The numeric data will be stored electronically using REDCap. All electronic files will
      be password protected. Information about study patients and study materials will be kept in a
      locked file cabinet in the Ear, Nose and Throat Clinic at BCCH. The study records will
      continue to be stored in these lockers 5 years after the study has completed.

      Data analysis:

      A two-sample t-test will be used to compare groups after randomization into the two treatment
      arms. Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to evaluate overall treatment effect between
      initial and follow up data for the primary and secondary outcome measures.

      A logistic regression model will be used to relate AHI to combined dental and craniofacial
      variables. Pearson correlation will measure initial intermolar width, mandibular plane angle
      and tonsillar score to changes in the PSG parameters, OSA-18 and CSHQ score before and after
      treatment. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves will be constructed to determine
      the sensitivity and specificity associated with any given cutoff of the dentofacial variables
      in predicting PSG diagnosed OSA. For all statistical analyses P < .05 will be considered
      statistically significant. The results of this pilot study will be underpowered to provide
      any statistically significant conclusions, however the initial data will be invaluable in
      future grant applications necessary for larger scale clinical trials, as well as for
      streamlining patient flow and participation within the Pediatric Obstructive Sleep Apnea
      Clinic at BCCH. Analysis of this preliminary data will also guide future work to focus on
      specific measures and outcomes of potential significance.

      6. Risk

      This study carries no significant safety risk to the participants, beyond the recognized
      risks of the two interventions:

      ME: Minor risks include those associated with undergoing routine and well-established
      orthodontic treatment for maxillary constriction. As with any intra-oral procedure, there is
      a risk of aspirating or ingesting materials or instruments, as well as irritation of the soft
      and hard tissues of the oral cavity. These risks are well understood and generally accepted
      by patients and parents in the routine delivery of any form of dental or orthodontic care.

      AT: Adenoidectomy and tonsillectomy can be associated with post-operative infection or
      post-operative hemorrhage, sometimes requiring antibiotic administration (<10%), readmission
      to hospital (<2%), and/or a return to the operating room for hemostatic control (<2%). These
      risks have low incidence, and are inherent to the surgical procedure, but are not specific to
      this research study. As adenotonsillectomy is the current standard of care for these
      subjects, no additional risk is being undertaken to participate in this study if this
      intervention is included.

      The risk of undergoing ME as the first intervention, subsequently failing to improve, and
      therefore being subject to a minimum 4 month delay before receiving of the current standard
      of care intervention (AT) - is recognized to have minimal clinical significance in this
      population of children with non-severe OSA.

      7. After the study Study patients will be followed by the Pediatric Otolaryngology Clinic at
      BC Children's Hospital on an as needed basis, but as a minimum patients will be recalled at 6
      months following their completion of the study, or normalization of their symptoms, to assess
      the long-term improvement to their sleep disordered breathing. This appointment will consist
      of a clinical exam and general questions to both the patient and parents, as would be
      standard for any post-treatment follow-up appointment in the Otolaryngology department

      8. Difficulties and Limitations The main weakness of the study stems from the fact that it is
      a pilot project for the interdisciplinary management of children with OSA. Patient flow
      through the study will require careful monitoring and coordination between three different
      departments within BCCH.

      To maximize efficiency and convenience for participating patients, the PI, Co-Investigator,
      and study coordinator will meet at least twice monthly to review any adverse events in
      patient flow through the study or timely delivery of study interventions.
    
  