
    
      Background:

        -  Women who carry mutations in genes such as BRCA1/2 have a higher lifetime risk of breast
           cancer (BC) and are at risk of developing BC at earlier ages than women in the general
           population.

        -  Prophylactic mastectomy and/or oophorectomy may be used to decrease risk and intensified
           mammographic and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) surveillance may allow earlier
           diagnosis; however, prophylactic mastectomy has not been shown to convey survival
           advantage over more conservative management.

        -  Greater breast tissue density and low BC incidence result in a lower positive predictive
           value of mammography in premenopausal women as compared to postmenopausal women
           (PPV=0.04 for women aged 40-49).

        -  This study explores whether high-risk breast imaging phenotypes may be identified by
           comparing imaging characteristics of mutation carriers/non-carriers using two imaging
           modalities: mammography and MRI.

        -  Nipple Aspiration Fluid collection (NAF) and breast duct lavage will be used to obtain
           cytologic materials which may be used as an adjunct to breast imaging for the early
           detection of epithelial atypia and pre-invasive cancer.

      Objectives:

        -  Compare four outcomes including two mammographic density measures (qualitative and
           semiquantitative), fibroglandular volume measure using MRI, and contrast enhancement
           measure using MRI (both semiquantitative) in mutation carriers/non-carriers to improve
           lesion detection

        -  Explore non-ionizing approaches (MRI) to BC screening because the effects of ionizing
           radiation due to mammography are unknown.

        -  Use NAF and/or BDL to obtain epithelial cell samples and correlate cytologic and imaging
           findings.

        -  Gather prospective data on the transformation from
           normal/hyperplastic/pre-invasive/invasive disease in BRCA1/2 mutation
           carriers/non-carriers through molecular/genetic studies of breast tissue (via biopsy of
           radiographic abnormalities) or breast fluid (via BDL and/or nipple aspiration) and
           develop molecular markers for early detection of epithelial atypia/pre-invasive cancer.

        -  Assess the psychosocial impact of participation in a BC screening program.

      Eligibility:

        -  Women 25-56 years of age carrying a known BRCA1/2 deleterious mutation.

        -  Women between the ages of 25 -56 who are first- or second- degree relatives of
           individuals with a deleterious BRCA1/2 mutation.

        -  Women aged 25-56 who are first- or second- degree relatives of individuals with
           BRCA-associated cancers in families with documented BRCA mutations.

      Design:

        -  Prospective cohort study of 200 women to gather data on the evolution of epithelial
           cell/molecular changes in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers, by collecting/analyzing NAF, BDL
           fluid, biopsy tissues (when indicated), and serum/lymphocytes; samples are stored for
           future studies.

        -  Women complete questionnaires and undergo breast/pelvis examination, transvaginal
           ultrasonography, serum pregnancy test, fasting glucose, electrolytes, BUN, creatinine
           and CA 125. Standard four view mammogram and breast MRI are performed on study entry and
           annually for three additional years.
    
  