
    
      This study aims is to comprehensively analyze the design, implementation, results, and impact
      of Salud Escolar, a program led by the Mexican Ministries of Health and Education, during the
      first phase of implementation, from August 2020 to July 2021. Salud Escolar considers the
      World Health Organization (WHO) health promoting framework to foster a healthy environment
      and enhance children's physical activity, healthy eating and hydration. Salud Escolar
      consists on several activities aligned in the following components: healthy eating, healthy
      hydration, physical activity and additional cross sectional strategies.

      The first phase of implementation will be conducted in a total of 58 schools located in
      Mexico City purposively selected by the Ministry of Education.

      The design evaluation will use available policy documents and program implementation
      guidelines, scientific literature, to investigate wether the design of Salud Escolar is
      adequate to achieve the proposed objectives.

      The implementation evaluation will be conducted in a sub-sample of 6 intervention schools
      using qualitative methodologies among key informants.

      The results evaluation will be conducted in the 58 intervention schools and pre-post changes
      in self-reported knowledge, attitudes and practices related to healthy eating, hydration and
      being physically active will be measured.

      The impact evaluation aims to evaluate the effect of Salud Escolar on the consumption of
      fruits, vegetables and plain water and daily moderate to vigorous physical activity. A sample
      of 1200 children (6-12 years old) in 15 intervention schools- randomly selected from the
      sample of 58 intervention schools-, and 15 comparison schools - randomly selected from the
      waiting list of available schools in the city will be recruited.

      Based on the results derived from this analysis, a set of recommendations will be provided to
      improve the feasibility of scaling up the program at the national level during the second and
      third phases of Salud Escolar.
    
  