
    
      Regardless of how patients are informed, the investigators do not know how well or for how
      long HIV/AIDS and HIV testing knowledge is retained, if this information should be delivered
      according to patient needs and abilities, and if retention of this knowledge impacts future
      HIV testing behavior.

      The investigators will conduct a multi-site, randomized, controlled, longitudinal trial among
      600 English- and 600 Spanish-speaking 18-64-year-old ED patients to investigate these
      questions. Using a valid measure of health literacy, the investigators will stratify our
      sample within language by health literacy level (lower vs. higher). The investigators will
      randomly assign patients to receive HIV/AIDS and HIV testing information by video or
      pictorial brochure. At one year post-enrollment, the investigators will offer participants an
      opportunity to be tested again for HIV.

      At each study site (Birmingham,Cincinnati, Los Angeles, and Providence), the investigators
      will recruit 300 patients for a total of 1200 patients. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive HIV/AIDS and HIV testing information from a comparable pictorial brochure
      or a video. Randomization will be stratified by health literacy level (lower vs. higher) and
      language (English or Spanish). Those who are study eligible will undergo verbal consent to
      conduct the pre- and post-information questionnaires and information delivery portions of the
      study (video or pictorial brochure). No patient identifiers will be collected during the
      screening process, pre- or post-information questionnaires, or the information delivery phase
      of the study. For those who agree to be in the next portion of the study, written consent to
      participate will be obtained. Written consent will be obtained at this juncture because HIV
      testing and follow-up is performed, and because patient identifiers are needed for the
      remainder of the study. Participants will complete the study instruments at enrollment and at
      3, 6, 9, and 12 months follow-up. At the end of one year, they will be offered the
      opportunity to be retested for HIV.

      As primary aims, the investigators will compare the efficacy of pictorial brochures and
      videos in improving short-term (in ED) HIV/AIDS and HIV testing knowledge and retaining this
      knowledge over 12 months. More specifically, the investigators will determine if and how
      short-term improvement and longer-term retention of knowledge interacts with information
      delivery mode (pictorial brochure or video), patient health literacy level (lower or higher)
      and language (English or Spanish).

      As secondary aims, using the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB model as a
      heuristic framework, the investigators will examine components of the IMB model relevant to
      our study and their interrelationships, their impact on HIV re-testing behavior, and the
      moderating influence of information delivery mode, language and health literacy level through
      the model. In regards to HIV re-testing behaviors, the investigators will assess: (1) testing
      uptake at one year post-enrollment when offered as part of the study, (2) testing utilization
      during the study period but not as part of the study, and (3) change in testing utilization
      one year pre vs. post study enrollment.

      Study findings will guide ED-based delivery of HIV/AIDS and HIV testing information; that is,
      whether delivery modes (video or pictorial brochure) should be selected for patients by
      language and/or health literacy level, or whether either mode could be used. The results also
      will inform EDs when, how, and for whom information needs to be provided for those testing
      again for HIV within one year.
    
  