
    
      Concussion diagnosis and assessment suffers from lack of a gold-standard measurement, leaving
      physicians to rely on physical and neurological examinations, neurocognitive/mental status
      testing, and balance examination, which can be time-consuming and influenced by subjective
      factors. In order to address this significant drawback, there is a need for novel modalities
      that diagnose and monitor concussion in a quick easy-to-use and non-invasive manner.

      Based on our previous analysis of the physiological processes using acoustic signals that
      were collected and analyzed so far, our hypothesis is that the HS-1000 is capable of
      diagnosing and monitoring concussed patients, based on the acoustic raw data derived from the
      generated acoustic signal along with the analysis of the acoustic signals that derive from
      the physiological processes in the brain. These processes, e.g. cerebral blood-flow and the
      respiratory cycle, are impaired during changes in intracranial pressure (ICP) and are
      hypothesized to change as well once the patient is concussed.

      Concussed athletes will be identified through routine visits at the Vanderbilt Sports
      Concussion Center. Controls will be identified among non-concussed athletes being seen at
      Vanderbilt Sports Medicine and will be offered participation.

      After signing informed consent, both healthy subjects and patients will undergo screening
      assessments for this study. Eligible patients and healthy subjects will be enrolled into the
      study and HS-1000 headset portion of the device will be placed in their ears. HS-1000
      monitoring intervals will last from 20 minutes continuously. Following completion of data
      collection, HS-1000 will be removed.

      Safety evaluation will include monitoring of adverse events throughout the study.

      The study duration for each patient will be up to 1 hour. Healthy subjects will undergo two
      recordings approximately two weeks apart.

      Post-concussion patients will have multiple sessions:

        -  Session #1 Baseline recording as soon as possible

        -  Session #2 48 hours after session #1

        -  Session #3 1 week after session #1

        -  Session #4 1 month after session #1
    
  