
    
      Psychological and sociological factors are important in the human illness experience, but
      biomedical factors are the focus of most office visits, particularly in hand surgery. Both
      patients and surgeons can feel uncomfortable discussing emotions, stress, and coping
      strategies. Detmar et al. randomized patients in an oncology practice to receive feedback on
      a HRQL assessment or not during office visits. They observed that feedback on the HRQL
      assessment contributed to physicians' awareness of healthy issues and patient-physician
      communication. There was a difference in perceived emotional support, but not in overall
      satisfaction with the visit[1]. A retrospective study observed in patients with local
      prostate cancer, that pre-therapy HRQL assessment is associated with a better sexual
      function, sexual bother and bowel function according to post-therapy HRQL scores[2].

      The investigators propose a two arm unblended, randomized (1:1) controlled trial to assess
      the effect of providing feedback to patients regarding illness behavior/coping strategies
      (using Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Computer Adaptive
      Testing (CAT) instruments) on patient satisfaction and patient-physician communication in
      orthopaedic surgery.

      If the results of the study suggest that feedback of results from the questionnaires
      increases patients' satisfaction, such an intervention may be used in the future to benefit
      future patients.

      Aim:

      The aim of this study is to assess the effect of feedback regarding illness behavior measured
      with Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Instrument System - Computerized Adaptive Testing
      (PROMIS- CAT) on patient satisfaction.

      Primary Null Hypothesis:

      There is no difference in satisfaction between patients who receive feedback about their
      illness behavior, measured with PROMIS-CAT, compared to patients who do not.

      Secondary Null Hypotheses:

      There is no difference in patient-physician communication about patient's illness behavior
      between patients who receive feedback about their illness behavior, measured with PROMISCAT,
      compared to patients who do not.

      There are no predictors for patient satisfaction.
    
  