
    
      The study was approved by the ethics committee of the Saint-Etienne University Hospital.
      After informed consent, 70 patients over 18 years of age, ASA I to III, scheduled to undergo
      orthopaedic surgery under general anaesthesia were included.

      Exclusion criteria were the presence of heart, respiratory, hepatic or renal failure; a
      psychiatric or neurological pathology, severe depression or dementia; gastro-oesophageal
      reflux, hiatal hernia; drug addiction or chronic alcoholism; obesity with a body mass index
      greater than 30.

      The patients received no pre-medication. After insertion of a venous line, a Ringer's Lactate
      perfusion was initiated. Oxygen therapy at a rate of 4 litres per minute was administered in
      spontaneous ventilation. In case of hypoventilation (saturation (SaO2) <95% and/or end-tidal
      carbon dioxide concentration (EtCO2) >42 mmHg, manual ventilation with a mask at 10 l/min of
      O2 was administered.

      Propofol was administered using a commercially available target-controlled infusion with an
      incorporated pharmacokinetic model developed by Schnider (Base Primea , Fresenius-Kabi,
      Brezins, FRANCE). The initial effect-site target concentration of propofol (0.5 μg/ml) was
      incremented by 0.5 μg/ml every 5 minutes to ensure equilibration between plasma concentration
      and effect site, until LOER. From the beginning of infusion until LOER patients received no
      other agent besides propofol for the duration of the trial.

      LOC was evaluated by an independent observer using two different criteria: OAA/S score <2
      (OAA/S2) corresponding to the absence of response to moderate prodding and LOER.

      To minimize interactions between verbal or tactile stimulations and BIS values, BIS values
      were collected before evaluation of the OAA/S score and eyelash reflex check. Time to OAA/S2
      and time to LOER were measured as well as corresponding brain and plasma concentrations of
      propofol.

      Electroencephalographic activity was monitored by BIS Quatro XP platform® electrodes and a
      BIS VISTA™ 1.01 monitor (Aspect medical system, MA, USA). The impedance of each electrode was
      kept below 5 kΩ. The sensor were reapplied if the quality of the detected signal was not
      suitable to provide a reliable BIS score i.e a signal quality index (SQI) better than 50%.
      The trace was displayed in real time and calculated data (BIS, SQI, and EMG) were recorded
      continuously using the archiving function integrated in the monitor. A 30 second smoothing
      period was set to minimize the variability and sensitivity of artifacts. BIS values were
      validated throughout the trial by SQI values greater than 90.

      Before induction and at the end of each propofol concentration level, BIS, EMG and SQI values
      were recorded. As soon as the OAA/S score was less than or equal to 4, the OAA/S score and
      eyelash reflex were evaluated every 2 minutes independently of the increase in effect-site
      concentration of propofol.

      Arterial pressure, heart rate, SaO2, EtCO2 were measured before induction and then every 5
      minutes until the end of trial. A decrease in systolic arterial pressure ≥20 was considered
      as hypotension, and heart rate <45 defined bradycardia.

      Patients were included consecutively and assigned to one of the two groups according to their
      age: "young" 18 to 64 years (G1) and "elderly" aged 65 years and over (G2). As previously
      described, we considered that a difference of 15 units between the mean BIS values at LOC
      according to age was clinically pertinent.

      Calculation of the required number of subjects was carried out to identify a difference of 15
      units in the mean BIS value at LOC between both groups with a power of 90%, a 5% alpha risk,
      and an identical variability for these 2 groups (SD = 20). Thirty-five patients have to be
      included in each group.

      The qualitative data were compared by a chi-squared test or when indicated by a Fisher's
      exact test. After verification of the normality of their distribution by a Kolmogorov Smirnov
      test, quantitative data were compared by a Student's t-test. A linear regression was used to
      measure the effect of age on BIS and EMG values at OAA/S2 and LOER. All the statistical
      analysis were performed using JMP 6 (SAS Institute Inc, Carry, NC, USA). Values p< 0.05 was
      considered to be statistically significant.
    
  