
    
      This study aims to test the hypothesis that increased inflammation causes increased basal
      ganglia glutamate and consequently anhedonia and psychomotor retardation in patients with
      major depressive disorder (MDD). Excessive inflammation and glutamate excitotoxicity are two
      pathways that have received increasing attention regarding the pathophysiology of
      neuropsychiatric disease including mood disorders. Patients with depression exhibit increased
      peripheral and central nervous system (CNS) markers of inflammation as well as altered CNS
      glutamate as measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). In addition, drugs that block
      either inflammation or glutamate signaling can reverse depressive symptoms, especially in
      depressed patients with treatment resistance.

      Inflammatory cytokines are known to inhibit glutamate reuptake and increase glutamate release
      from astrocytes, and glutamate antagonists have been shown to block inflammation-induced
      depressive-like behavior in mice. Moreover, using MRS, data has shown that administration of
      the inflammatory cytokine interferon (IFN)-alpha significantly increases glutamate in the
      basal ganglia in association with IFN-alpha-induced anhedonia and psychomotor slowing. In
      addition, increased inflammation as reflected by peripheral blood C-reactive protein (CRP) is
      correlated with increased basal ganglia glutamate in association with decreased motivation
      and psychomotor speed in patients with MDD. Nevertheless, the data to date has been
      correlational, and whether increased inflammation causes increased glutamate in the basal
      ganglia, which in turn contributes to behavioral changes in patients with depression has not
      been established.

      To test this hypothesis, investigators plan to determine the cause and effect relationship
      between increased inflammation and increased CNS glutamate by blocking inflammation in
      depressed patients with high inflammation (CRP>3mg/L) using the highly specific tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist infliximab (n=30) versus placebo (n=30). In addition, the
      study team will examine whether changes in basal ganglia glutamate are linked to changes in
      behaviors related to the basal ganglia including anhedonia and psychomotor retardation.
    
  