
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, single-blinded, controlled study. Ninety-eight MS subjects
      will be recruited from the identification of subjects at U.O. Rehabilitative Medicine and
      Rare Diseases and Neuroimmune Center, IRCCS Neurosciences "Bellaria" (BO).

      After evaluation of their eligibility and when obtained the informed consent, patients will
      be enrolled and randomized to the two groups through a randomization stratification approach.
      Subjects will be grouped into strata defined by the degree of impairment (e.g. using outcomes
      from the Expanded Disability Status Scale or EDSS) and then randomized separately within each
      stratum according to a block randomization and will be assigned to one of the two treatment
      groups:

        1. robot-assisted gait training (experimental group)

        2. conventional therapy (control group)

      Robot-assisted gait training:

      Patients will receive 12 training sessions over 4 weeks (3 sessions/week) of RAGT. During
      these sessions subjects will wear a harness attached to a system to provide body weight
      support and they will walk on a treadmill with the help of a robotic-driven gait orthosis.
      The legs are guided according to a physiological gait pattern. The torque of the knee and hip
      drives can be adjusted from 100% to 0% for one or both legs. The speed of the treadmill can
      be adjusted from 0 km/h to approximately 3 km/h and body weight support from 0% to 100%.
      During the first session we will set these training parameters according to subject
      characteristics and demand level. As training will progress, adjustments in the assistance
      provided by the driven-gait orthosis, the amount of body weight support and treadmill speed
      will be performed. Training sessions will last for an hour with 30 minutes of real walking
      time, because subject set-up in the device take approximately 30 minutes.

      Conventional therapy:

      The control group will receive 12 conventional therapy sessions over 4 weeks (3
      sessions/week), that will focus on gait training. Subjects will receive 1 hour of individual
      conventional physiotherapy for session. During the first 5-10 minutes the subjects will
      perform lower-limb and core stretching exercises to increase muscles flexibility; then
      they'll deal with lower-limb muscles strengthening exercises tailored on their baseline
      characteristics (10 minutes). After that, assisted over-ground walking training will be
      performed.

      Outcome measures Outcome measures will be assessed a week before the treatment initiation
      (T0), after two weeks (T1), after 4 weeks (T2) and at 3 months follow-up (T3). Personnel
      blinded to the treatment will assess the effects of the intervention.
    
  