
    
      The standard of care published by the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease,
      (AASLD) do not recommend screening of asymptomatic patients for liver fibrosis so it is
      common that the first a patient learns of the disease is when they are diagnosed with
      cirrhosis. Detection at early stages of the disease process is mostly accidental as a result
      of other procedures.

      Research has clearly established the health risks associated with liver disease and
      comorbidity with a wide range of other illnesses. FibroScan has been shown to be a useful
      test to identify asymptomatic liver disease.

      The FibroScan device (Echosens) works by measuring shear wave velocity. In this technique, a
      50 megahertz wave is passed into the liver from a small transducer on the end of an
      ultrasound probe. The probe also has a transducer on the end that can measure the velocity of
      the shear wave (in meters per second) as this wave passes through the liver. The shear wave
      velocity can then be converted into liver stiffness, which is expressed in kilopascals.
      Essentially, the technology measures the velocity of the sound wave passing through the liver
      and then converts that measurement into a liver stiffness measurement; the entire process is
      often referred to as liver ultrasonographic elastography. The procedure is non-invasive and
      presents no bio-chemical hazards as it uses only well understood ultrasound technology.

      The goal of this screening study is to gather FibroScan data from the at-risk but undiagnosed
      population on a self-selection basis so that incidence rates can be calculated and the
      economics of a single function screening service can be evaluated.

      The objective is to develop evidence based information to determine if noninvasive screening
      of at risk, comorbid people is feasible with this modality.

      Furthermore, a secondary goal is to educate all participants about liver disease, lifestyle,
      healthy diets, organ donation, and clinical trials as part of the Foundation's larger mission
      of being patient advocates.

      Questions Posed by this Study:

        -  What population demographics justify routine screening on a cost benefit basis?

        -  What operating cost burden is required to sustain a mobile screening project and what is
           the minimum utilization required to justify it?

        -  What portion of the asymptomatic patient with advanced disease will be willing to learn
           about clinical trials?

      All patients will receive education about liver disease as part of the intake process. From
      the patient perspective, the key result will be that they receive the printed output from
      their FibroScan test. Interpretation of that result requires expert support. The
      investigators will direct patients to local medical resources where their questions can be
      answered, but the ideal route will be a triage through telemedicine with a hepatologist as a
      way to quickly direct them to proper resources. Patients with test results indicating no
      active disease will be offered connections to nutrition and dietary support. In all cases
      patients will be offered enrollment in online educational tools.
    
  