
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 2009, Hill and colleagues identified heterozygous germline mutations in DICER1, a gene
      which encodes a crucial component of the microRNA processing machinery, in patients with
      familial pleuropulmonary blastoma (PPB). This disorder represents the first reported cancer
      predisposition syndrome that is due to altered microRNA biogenesis, and its discovery
      presents a unique and extraordinary opportunity for CGB and DCEG to play a substantial role
      in the development of this new area, one which is virtually certain to have etiologic
      ramifications far beyond those related to PPB itself.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To establish a cohort of patients with PPB and/or specific neoplasms of the PPB spectrum
           (cystic nephroma, nasal chondromesenchymal hamartoma, ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell and
           other sex cord-stromal tumors, ocular medulloepithelioma, Wilms tumor, embryonal
           rhabdomyosarcoma, pineoblastoma, others to be defined), in order to determine the
           frequency of DICER1 germline mutations in these patients and their family members. This
           will also allow us to identify DICER1 mutation-negative patients who will be crucial for
           future gene discovery efforts.

        2. To characterize the clinical phenotype of, and study the incident and prevalent cancer
           rates in, these patients and their family members, for all cancers combined, and for
           each type of cancer, and to identify and confirm the specific types of cancer and benign
           neoplasms associated with this disorder.

        3. To identify differences between patients with a germline mutation in DICER1 (or another
           gene(s) from this pathway) who do develop cancer and those who do not develop cancer.
           These differences may include genotype/phenotype/cancer susceptibility differences,
           modifier genes (gene-gene interactions) and environmental risk factors (gene-environment
           interactions). The latter two may be informative for modification of cancer risk in the
           general population.

        4. To develop evidence-based management guidelines for cancer prevention and risk-reduction
           strategies for PPB patients and their family members prior to and after obtaining
           answers to the questions/objectives above.

        5. To evaluate various parameters related to psychosocial and behavioral issues resulting
           from being a member of a family at increased risk of PPB.

        6. To create a biospecimen repository of carefully-annotated tissue samples for use in
           subsequent etiologically-oriented translational research projects. These samples
           comprise an invaluable resource for current and future studies related to the etiology
           of, and outcomes following, the various neoplasms that are now known, or later found to
           be, part of the DICER1 syndrome.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Individuals with PPB and their relatives of interest (parents, siblings, grandparents,
           other affecteds).

        -  Individuals in the general population with one or more of the unique tumors reported in
           patients and families with PPB: cystic nephroma, ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors,
           ocular medulloepithelioma, and nasal chondromesenchymal hamartoma, and other associated
           conditions that will be identified under objective 2. Relatives of these patients will
           be eligible for study enrollment as well (parents, siblings, mutation carriers, other
           affecteds).

      DESIGN:

        -  Multidisciplinary natural history study with self-administered questionnaires,
           clinical/epidemiologic/genetic evaluations, clinical and research laboratory tests,
           review of medical records, cancer surveillance, and biospecimen acquisition:

             -  Field Cohort: consented subjects who provide questionnaire data, biological
                samples, medical records, imaging results, etc., from their home communities.

             -  NIH Cohort: consented subjects who do all the above, and who also travel to the NIH
                Clinical Center for a detailed in-person assessment and data collection.

        -  Primary endpoints include all cancers, with specific attention to those currently
           thought to be part of the DICER 1 syndrome.

        -  Secondary endpoints include non-malignant health issues.

        -  Systematic analysis of the entire data set will occur on a yearly basis.

        -  Ancillary studies will be performed using the data and biospecimens collected from study
           participants, as new collaborative opportunities and research hypotheses become
           available. We will do our best to articulate the specific uses that will be made of the
           information and materials collected as part of this project. We also recognize that both
           knowledge and technology are progressing at such a rapid rate that it is impossible to
           predict all the ways in which this material will be used in the future. The Consent Form
           will provide an outline of the kinds of research anticipated, and seek subject approval
           for our having some latitude in how these samples/data are used (with an opportunity to
           opt out of such uses), in order to minimize the likelihood that additional consent would
           need to be sought in the future, and to ensure that we are positioned, as the public
           stewards of this incredibly valuable resource, to take maximum advantage of its utility
           for advancing scientific and clinical knowledge.
    
  