
    
      In a cross-over, randomized controlled trial, 10 healthy young participants (5 men and 5
      women) will be recruited to undergo exercise resistance training randomized to habitual diet
      or habitual diet and supplementation (2 x per training session). For two of the training
      sessions the investigators will utilize a uni-lateral resistance exercise model to identify
      the acute effects of exercise and exercise + supplementation on the integrated rate of
      myofibrillar MPS within subject. This model enhances statistical power and eliminates
      between-subject differences impacting our outcomes. Throughout the study participants will
      record their macronutrient dietary intake. In addition, baseline body composition will be
      assessed with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry.

      Visit 1 (Day -7): Familiarization, strength testing and baseline body composition One week
      before the exercise trial, the investigators will ask participants to visit McMaster
      University to undergo a familiarization session with the exercise equipment and to perform
      3-5 repetition maximum strength testing. This will allow the investigators to calculate the
      resistance (weight) participants will lift in their upcoming training sessions. The
      investigators will also perform a body composition scan using a dual-energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA), assess participants' height and weight, and administer daily food logs
      with instructions to assess their habitual diet.

      Visit 2 (Day 0): D2O administration and resting blood and saliva sampling One week after the
      familiarization visit, the investigators will ask participants to come to McMaster University
      in a fasted state and receive a dose of doubly labelled water D2O equal to 0.8mLs/kgBW and
      every hour for 3 hours after providing a blood and saliva sample. D2O is a safe, and widely
      used stable isotope, used to effectively measure the rate at which participants' muscle grow.

      Visits 3 and 7 (Days 1 and 7): Resistance training program and muscle biopsy On these days
      participants will come to the lab in the morning following their habitual diet routine and
      will have a resting biopsy, blood and saliva samples taken. Next, participants may be asked
      to consume the supplement but will be asked to drink a small amount of D2O. Finally,
      participants will perform a combination resistance style exercise training session and
      immediately following training may be asked to consume the supplement.

      Visit 4, 5, 8 & 9 (Days 2, 3, 8, 9): Resistance training program On these days participants
      will come to the lab in the morning following their habitual diet routine and have a saliva
      sample taken. Next, participants may be asked to consume the supplement but will be asked to
      drink a small amount of D2O. Finally, participants will perform a combination resistance
      style exercise training session and immediately following training participants may be asked
      to consume the supplement.

      Visits 6 and 10 (Days 4 and 10): Uni-lateral acute training session and muscle biopsy On
      these days participants will come to the lab in the morning following their habitual diet
      routine. First, participants may be asked to consume the supplement immediately before
      performing a uni-lateral acute resistance training session. Participants will be asked to
      drink a small amount of D2O but only during Visit 6 (Day 4). Immediately following training,
      participants may be asked to consume the supplement. One hour following exercise participants
      will have a muscle biopsy, blood and saliva samples taken.

      Days 5 and 6 (see attached study timeline): Washout period The investigators will ask that
      participants drink one aliquot of D2O on day 5 and one aliquot of D2O on day 6. One hour
      after participants drink the aliquot of D2O the investigators ask that participants take
      their own saliva sample at home (D2O aliquots and a sampling kit will be provided with
      instructions).
    
  