
    
      Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is an increasingly common and serious cardiovascular disease
      attributable to substantial morbidity, mortality, and health status impairment. The condition
      describes a syndrome of atherosclerotic or thromboembolic arterial obstruction resulting in
      symptoms of malperfusion of the upper or lower extremities [1].

      According to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) practice
      guidelines, patients with PAD fit clinically into one of four categories depending on their
      symptoms: asymptomatic, intermittent claudication (IC), chronic limb ischaemia (CLI), or
      acute limb ischaemia (ALI). Asymptomatic PAD represents over 50% of patients with PAD. The
      classic PAD patient is one who experiences IC: aching pain typically in the calves and/or
      buttocks brought on by activity and relieved by rest. This affects around half as many
      patients as does asymptomatic PAD. Chronic limb ischaemia is defined as pain at rest or
      ulceration with or without tissue necrosis. These patients frequently require amputation,
      especially those with an ABI < 0.5. Finally, ALI is typified by rapid onset of limb ischaemia
      threatening limb viability. It manifests as increasing claudication and typically progresses
      quickly to pain at rest.

      Peripheral artery disease is estimated to be present in 3% of people in the age range of
      40-59 years and in 20% of people over 70 years of age. The femoropopliteal artery is the most
      commonly diseased artery in the peripheral circulation and is the site of a larger percentage
      of lower limb interventions. Lesions in this territory initially respond well to
      recanalization procedures by the endovascular approach; however, the rate of restenosis is
      high. Restenosis is caused by neointimal hyperplasia, a hyperproliferative response to the
      vessel injury caused by angioplasty and the foreign body reaction and abnormal vessel
      geometry caused by stent implantation. The optimal endovascular therapy for peripheral artery
      disease (PAD) has evolved over the last decade. Previous research has demonstrated that the
      long-term outcome is poor for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) alone in the
      infrainguinal region, with restenosis rates exceeding 40% within 1 year. Further studies have
      suggested that self-expanding stents may provide higher patency rates when compared to
      balloon angioplasty. However, observations indicate higher than anticipated rates of stent
      fractures and in-stent restenosis (ISR), leaving room for an alternative strategy.
      Drug-coated balloons (DCBs) have emerged as a mechanism to deliver pharmacotherapies to the
      arterial wall, while leaving no foreign material behind. Drug-coated balloons are important
      innovations in the treatment of PAD. DCBs, like stents, offer potential greater treatment
      efficacy over standard PTA, but with the advantage of not leaving an implanted device (i.e.,
      stent) in the artery. This provides number of potential advantages including preserving
      options for subsequent surgical bypass, should it be necessary, and improving the ease of
      percutaneous re-treatment, should initial treatment fail. Furthermore, DCBs allow for greater
      opportunity for percutaneous treatment strategies in areas where stents may be less
      desirable, such as the popliteal artery. Several manufacturers have developed balloons coated
      with paclitaxel for the treatment of infrainguinal PAD. Employed as a chemotherapeutic agent,
      paclitaxel irreversibly binds to microtubules of the endothelial cells on the vessel wall and
      inhibits cell division, thus hindering neointimal proliferation and the resulting restenosis.
      DCBs utilize an excipient or carrier substance to hold the drug on the balloon surface during
      transit to the target lesion. The excipient can also assist in delivery of the drug to the
      artery wall during balloon inflation. A paclitaxel-coated balloon using a urea excipient
      (Lutonix-Bard) was the first to be approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
      the treatment of superficial femoral artery (SFA) and popliteal lesions in October 2014.
      Another iteration (IN.PACT, Medtronic) from a different manufacturer uses polysorbate and
      sorbitol excipients and was subsequently approved for the same lesion substrate in December
      2014; an indication for in-stent restenosis (ISR) was granted 2 years later (September 2016).
      Most recently, a third DCB (Stellarex, Spectranetics) was approved by FDA, and several others
      are currently undergoing evaluation in investigational device exemption (IDE) trials. In the
      European Union a gradually increasing list of DCBs has gained CE mark and is available in the
      market. DCBs coated with drugs other than paclitaxel, including zotarolimus, sirolimus, and
      everolimus, have been studied in animal models, but have not been used clinically in humans
      for peripheral interventions.

      In general and independent from study participation, doctors are free to decide on the best
      therapy approach for their patients, e.g. they can decide on the basis of their knowledge and
      experience whether the lesion would benefit from DCB usage or standard uncoated balloon or
      stenting. They are free to decide whether or not to use the study; only subjects who are
      treated with the Rontis DCB will be included.

      The study will first test the safety of the RontisDCB and then test the efficacy of Rontis
      DCB compared to historical data derived from standard PTA alone or use of uncoated balloons.
      Further information on the Rontis DCB can be found in the Investigator's Brochure (IB).

      The study will gain safety and efficacy information on subjects with lesions in the
      femoropopliteal artery of 3-15 cm length who receive the Rontis DCB following traditional
      predilatation with an uncoated angioplasty balloon prior to inflation of the DCB.
    
  