
    
      The aims of this study are developments of distress intervention and a suicidal risk scale
      for the patients with chronic medical illness or physical disabilities.

      To achieve the aims, multidisciplinary team is organized such as doctors of internal
      medicine, rehabilitative medicine, psychiatrist specialized in psychosomatics, psychologist,
      nurse, social worker and researchers.

      Before developing the intervention and scale, review of literature about intervention,
      suicide, management system of chronic illness, several scales and others are done. Also,
      qualitative interview and self report scale with those patients are done to figure out what
      bothers them most, how they feel, and what kind of help they need.

      Based on collected data, means of intervention is carefully selected and further review of
      literature is proceeded. Also, questions which describe patients' feeling, discomfort, and
      need are made. Moreover, modified management system of chronic illness is planned to develop
      to link between those who need help among patients and multidisciplinary team members.

      Once, the intervention is developed, subject group and control group are recruited in stroke
      patients, and the intervention is simulated. The change of distress is measured before and
      after the intervention, and 1 month later the intervention is finished with several tools
      such as WHOQOL-BREF, Perceived Stress Scale, Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale, Acceptance of
      Disability Scale, Participation Scale, Pain Belief & Perception Inventory, Insomnia Severity
      Index, FACIT-Fatigue, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, digit span, trail making test,
      stroop test, verbal fluency test.

      Also, newly developed questions and other scales are performed among patients to determine
      whether the newly developed questions are appropriate and how well they reflect their
      difficulties and feelings. After selecting the appropriate questions, the revised version
      will be tested by the patients twice in a different time frame.

      If the revised version is appraised appropriate, it will be distributed as a cell phone
      application.
    
  