
    
      Fracture is often responsible of pain in the paediatric emergency department (ED). This pain
      is very severe and needs effective drugs.

      During a study made at the ED of Necker Enfants Malades Hospital, it has been shown that the
      oral morphine had a limited action on this kind of pain. Therefore it is interesting to
      increase the analgesia by making a drug association, for example with the midazolam witch is
      a benzodiazepine with a sedative and anxiolytic action, and which has got the MMA for the
      intravenous and the intra rectal forms for children older than 6 months.

      The intravenous form has some disadvantages like an extra work and an increase of risk of
      side effects.

      That is why the sublingual form seems to be interesting in this context. Even if some studies
      have shown the benefit of midazolam as a preanesthetic medication given to children scheduled
      for a surgical procedure, none has shown the interest of sublingual midazolam associated with
      oral morphine to relieve the pain due to a displaced fracture.

      The aim of this study is to show a more important pain decrease in the group taking midazolam
      versus placebo.

      It is a randomized simple-blind monocentric study; the group A will receive oral morphine
      with placebo and the group B will receive oral morphine with sublingual midazolam . The pain
      will be quantified thanks to the visual analogical scale (VAS)before and 30 minutes after the
      drugs administration, and we will try to show a difference of 15 points(on 100) of the VAS at
      30 minutes between the two groups.

      60 patients aged from 5 to 16 years old and having a displaced fracture will be enrolled in
      this study which will last 1 year.

      Patients having a contra-indication for morphine and midazolam won't be enrolled as patients
      with femoral fracture which needs a local anaesthesia.
    
  