
    
      Cytotoxic treatment of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) includes most various different
      drugs but 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is the cornerstone in most regimens. Leucovorin (LV) is
      frequently used as a part of a standard treatment regime for advanced CRC in combination with
      5-FU. In numerous randomized clinical trials the addition of LV to 5-FU has been shown to
      significantly improve the antitumor activity and to prolong the survival of patients
      receiving adjuvant chemotherapy or treatment for advanced disease as to compared to treatment
      with 5-FU as single drug therapy.

      In most European countries 5-FU is given as an infusion during 46 hours in combination with a
      two hour infusion of LV. This regime is called the deGramont schedule. In the Nordic
      countries, 5-FU and LV are often given as bolus injections according to the regime called
      Nordic FLV. Leucovorin is a prodrug which has to be metabolized to methylenetetrahydrofolate
      (mTHF) in order to increase inhibition of the target enzyme thymidylate synthase (TS). Due to
      the low concentrations of the reduced folate forms intracellular there is a lack of knowledge
      of the pharmacodynamics of LV when used as an infusion. When the 5-FU/LV used today was
      introduced it was technically not possible to measure the different metabolites of the
      reduced folates in blood and tissue. In the literature there is only one published reference
      measuring the blood concentration after a two hour infusion of LV. However, it has recently
      been possible to separate and quantitate the different folates using sensitive Liquid
      Chromatography/Masspectrometry (LC/MS) methods. Furthermore it has been stated that
      differences in enzyme activity for genes involved in the transport and metabolism of folates
      may be responsible for the large inter individual differences in folate tissue
      concentrations.

      This study is designed to gain an understanding of how a single intravenous infusion of LV
      affects the folate concentration in blood, tumor and adjacent mucosa tissue. By using the
      LC/MS method which was recently developed and it is now possible to quantitate the different
      metabolites of LV in small tissue samples as well as in blood. It is further now possible to
      measure by quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction techniques (PCR) the most important genes
      involved in the folate transport and metabolism ((SHMT1), SerineHydroxyMethylTransferase1 and
      (ABCC3) ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C, (CFTR/MRP), member 3)).
    
  