
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the foremost leading cause of death in women.1 More than 1 in
      3 female adults are affected by CVD.2 Though the prevalence of CVD in women remains high,
      there is a relative paucity of research pertaining to women in Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR).
      Improvements in peak VO2 in CR are prognostically important 3-5 and several studies have
      shown that women increase their aerobic capacity in CR to a lesser degree than men.6,7 Even
      as women participate in many traditional CR programs, data specificity and subsequent
      research has yet to emerge in a meaningful way so that women-centered CR can be better
      customized and their outcomes properly assessed.

      It is understood that women demonstrate a lower VO2 max than that of men8 on entry into CR
      which is often attributed to their smaller muscle mass, lower hemoglobin and blood volume,
      and smaller stroke volume relative to men.9 A finding of our previous study on aerobic
      capacity in patients entering cardiac rehabilitation revealed that values of peak VO2 on
      entry to CR were extremely low, particularly in women.6 It has been observed in the CR
      setting that women have lower physical function scores than men.10 Handgrip strength also
      differs between men and women.11 Baseline maximal exercise capacity of peak VO2 has been
      found to be the best predictors of baseline physical function score along with strength
      measures of leg press and bench press.10 Another study of ours revealed that while a peak VO2
      below 15 was associated with high risk of annual all-cause mortality among men, a peak VO2
      below 12 was associated with highest risk among women.12 Though women in another study had
      lower peak exercise capacities than men, they achieved similar relative improvements as a
      result of cardiac rehabilitation.13 Research in the field deserves further exploration as the
      results remain mixed. As women improve less than men in attaining peak VO2, we have put
      together a training program for women with a goal of optimizing their training potential in
      CR. This program combines the utilization of a training technique termed interval training
      along with specific strength training exercises of the legs. Previous studies that included
      both men and women with CAD have indicated that high intensity interval training might be
      more beneficial than moderate or standard intensity training in terms of improvements in
      aerobic fitness.14-16 However, the specificity of benefits for women remains rather elusive.
      Thus, studying variations in strength and power with appropriate interval training could help
      us attain better outcomes.

      We hypothesize that women, irrespective of age, would be capable of high intensity interval
      training to improve peak aerobic capacity in the CR setting. Furthermore, since women often
      have a deficit of thigh strength entering CR, strength training will also be included. The
      purpose of this study is to examine the value of high intensity interval training and
      strength training to maximize aerobic fitness in Cardiac Rehabilitation for women. This may
      contribute to establishing specific protocols and training guidelines for future program
      design for women in CR. Since a set of comprehensive CR guidelines pertaining to women is
      lacking, it is hoped that the results of this study will help us develop exercise protocols
      and regimen to better structure and modulate CR programs for optimal benefit to women.

      Study Design: Describe the research design, including a description of any new methodology
      and its advantage over existing methodologies.

      This is a prospective study to be conducted at University of Vermont Cardiac Rehabilitation
      Center involving female cardiac patients. At entry to CR, data to be collected from patients
      participating in the study include: 1) Baseline characteristics such as age, body weight and
      height for calculation of BMI, systolic and diastolic blood pressure (rest), heart rate
      (rest, peak), medications, prior cardiac event etc., 2) Aerobic fitness assessment using a
      symptom-limited graded exercise tolerance test on treadmill to determine Peak metabolic
      equivalents (METs peak) and Peak VO2, 3) Strength measurement assessment using a
      single-repetition maximal lift (bench press for upper body and leg extension for lower body)
      and a handgrip dynamometer for handgrip strength, 4) Perceived exertion rate after each
      training session using BORG 6-20 scale18, 5) Self-reported physical functioning assessment
      using the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (MOS SF-36) survey questionnaire (0-100 scale)
      with 100 representing excellent physical functioning, 6) a co-morbidity score to determine
      the presence of peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, chronic lung disease,
      or orthopedic limitations. If a co-morbid condition is present, it is quantified by severity
      as follows: 1, present but not exercising-limiting; 2, present and impacts on exercise
      performance; and 3, exercising-limiting; a total co-morbidity score ranging from 0 to 12 is
      to be determined for each participant, and 7) any "quality of life improvements" for
      participants as measured by the MacNew Heart Disease Health-Related Quality of Life
      Questionnaire.19 All of these measures with the exception of the MacNew questionnaire are
      collected on all CR entrants in the clinical setting.

      The standard exercise training protocol will comprise of 3-one hour long sessions per week
      spanning 12 weeks, consisting of aerobic exercise and resistance training. Each session
      includes treadmill walking, rowing, cycling and aerobic exercise in the control group will be
      performed at an intensity of 70-85% of peak HR (moderate intensity) for a total of 45 minutes
      with rest periods as needed between equipment Patients will also participate in resistance
      training which will include 1 set of 10 repetitions at an intensity of 60-65% of the single
      repetition maximal lift (1-RM) of the following: leg extension, leg curl, bench press,
      shoulder press, lateral pull down, and bicep curl. For those who underwent CABG, upper body
      resistance training will take place 3 months post-operatively.

      The high intensity interval training with more intensive strength training will consist of
      3-one hour sessions over the course of 12 weeks. For this group, all aerobic training will
      comprise of "high intensity interval treadmill walking" (HIT). Patients will warm up for 5
      minutes at 60-70% of peak HR followed by 4 minute intervals to achieve 90-95% of peak HR. In
      between each interval will be a 4 minute walking period at 50-60% of peak HR. You will also
      perform other types of exercise such as cycling and rowing for up to a total of 45 minutes of
      aerobic exercise. You can rest, as needed, in between different types of exercise equipment.
      Additionally, this group will undergo strength training as described above, however, they
      will do 2 sets of 10 repetitions for upper leg exercises at an intensity of 80% 1-RM.

      At entry to CR, the study participants will be asked to fill out the following
      questionnaires:

        1. Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (MOS SF-36) survey questionnaire to report the
           physical functioning

        2. MacNew Heart Disease Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire to measure quality of
           life improvement

      At the completion of the study after 12 weeks, the participants will be asked to do the same
      measures. Random IDs will be given to patients filling out the survey instruments to maintain
      privacy and confidentiality. Additionally, the results will be stored on a password-protected
      secure computer network of UVMMC.

      Statistical Considerations:

      Power calculations undertaken by us (80% power with 5% level of significance) based on
      Wisloff study15 suggested that a sample size of 19 per group is needed to detect a difference
      of 30% between groups in Peak VO2 by exercise training regimen. We intend to conduct an
      interim updated power analysis once we have 10 patients to better fine tune the power
      analysis.

      Baseline characteristics will be presented as mean SD. Non- paired t-tests will be used for
      comparison between groups at baseline (pre-test), at the conclusion of the study (post-test),
      and percent changes after exercise regimen. ANOVA for repeated measures will be used for
      analyzing the effect of the exercise regimen between groups. A level of significance of
      P<0.05 will be used to indicate statistical significance.

      All eligible participants in the study will perform the CR exercise training under the
      supervision of exercised physiologists. This study presents minimal risk to participants as
      indeed, CR participation yields a 25% decrease in overall mortality and a 31% decrease in
      hospitalizations in year 1.20

      Benefits of CR include improved overall cardiovascular health, knowledge of physical
      functioning opportunities and limitations, and ability to both undertake and continue
      exercise for a longer span of time beyond the end of the study. An underlying assumption of
      the study is optimization of exercise might yield a greater training increase in Peak VO2 in
      the HIT group along with possible greater improvements in fitness and quality of life.

      Both groups will obtain all of the standard benefits of CR which include a lower mortality
      rate, a lower re-hospitalization rate, and an improved quality of life.

      Data Safety and Monitoring:

      Hard copy of paper data will be stored in locked office and file cabinets. All electronic
      data will be password protected and stored on the UVMMC secured network server.
    
  