
    
      This is a randomized, controlled open-label parallel group study to demonstrate the efficacy
      benefit of ITB Therapy over BMT in post-stroke patients with severe spasticity who have not
      reached their therapy goal with other treatment interventions.

      In order to evaluate the efficacy benefit of ITB Therapy over BMT in post-stroke patients, a
      two-arm parallel group design will be applied. Patients will be equally randomized to one of
      two treatment arms:

        1. ITB Therapy arm; or

        2. BMT arm

      The study consists of a run-in phase of 21 days for the BMT treatment arm and 2-25 days for
      the ITB Therapy treatment arm, followed by a 6 month active trial.

      The BMT treatment arm will receive a combination of oral antispastic medication and
      physiotherapy. Patients must be prescribed at least one or a combination of the following
      oral antispastic medications: oral baclofen, tizanidine, diazepam (or other benzodiazepines)
      or dantrolene. Following the run-in phase, patients will enter the 6 month active trial.

      The ITB Therapy treatment arm will receive a combination of ITB Therapy and physiotherapy.
      During the run-in phase, a test with intrathecal baclofen will be performed to evaluate the
      response of the patient. Patients fulfilling the test success criterium will be implanted
      with a Medtronic SynchroMed®II infusion system. Following implant, patients will enter into
      the 6 month active trial, which includes a 6 week titration phase, during which time oral
      antispastic medications must be gradually reduced with complete discontinuation by the end of
      the titration period.

      During the 6 month active trial, patients will be assessed at 3 and 6 months. All primary and
      secondary endpoint assessments will be performed by a blinded assessor.

      The total study duration is expected to be 60 months, including a 39 month enrollment period.
      The total duration per patient is approximately 7 months (approximately 1 month run-in period
      followed by 6 months active treatment).
    
  