
    
      High levels of phosphate in the blood are linked with serious effects, due to calcium
      imbalances (high levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH), bone disease, formation of calcium
      deposites in the body and blood-vessel disease.

      Current guidelines indicate that blood phosphorous levels should be maintained between 1.13
      to 1.78 mmol/L in patients who receive hemodialysis.

      This is a 2-stage re-randomization design where Stage 1 is a randomized, open label
      comparison between fermagate and lanthanum carbonate (in a non-inferiority design) and Stage
      2 is a randomized double blind comparison between fermagate and placebo (in a superiority
      design).

      Objectives at Stage 1:

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective is to establish the efficacy of fermagate by demonstrating the
      noninferiority (with possible assessment of superiority) of fermagate to lanthanum carbonate
      in lowering serum phosphate in hemodialysis patients.

      Secondary objectives:

      The secondary objectives are to:

        1. Determine the safety of fermagate in hemodialysis patients.

        2. Compare the effects of fermagate and lanthanum carbonate on measures of mineral
           metabolism, albumin, pre-albumin and iron status.

      Objectives at Stage 2:

      Stage 2 will use patients who complete the 3-month maintenance period of Stage 1 and who were
      originally randomized to fermagate.

      Primary Objective:

      The primary objective is to establish efficacy of fermagate by demonstrating the superiority
      of fermagate over placebo in lowering serum phosphate in hemodialysis patients.

      Secondary objectives:

      The secondary objectives are to:

        1. Determine the safety of fermagate in hemodialysis patients.

        2. Compare the effects of fermagate and placebo on measures of mineral metabolism, albumin,
           pre-albumin and iron status.
    
  