
    
      Research objectives:

        -  To assess the patient health impact of enhanced telecommunications and
           remotely-supported point-of-care ultrasound scanning (RS-POCUS) in prehospital
           situations

        -  To assess the impact of introducing this intervention on current care systems, via
           interviews with various stakeholders involved in the trial (e.g., patients, paramedics,
           emergency medicine consultants, hospital management, etc.) and health economic modelling

      Research questions:

        -  What is the health gain, as assessed by the EQ-5D-5L (EuroQol five dimension
           questionnaire, 5-level version) score at three months, associated with the use of
           enhanced telecommunications and RS-POCUS?

        -  What is the estimated cost-per-QALY associated with the prehospital RS-POCUS?

        -  Where in the care system and in which situations does the intervention produce the
           greatest impact?

        -  How does the use of RS-POCUS affect time to definitive treatment in the studied patient
           groups?

      Patient Randomisation:

      Patients will be randomized to the intervention or control group prior to obtaining consent
      (Zelen randomisation), an approach considered optimal in trials where care is time-critical
      and patients may be highly stressed. This simplifies and shortens the in-ambulance consent
      process because the details of the random allocation and its associated uncertainty don't
      need to be explained until later.

      Randomisation is performed using randomisation envelopes with codes printed on them, located
      in the ambulances. Codes will be reported and recorded on the emergency department contact
      log when a potential patient call-out occurs. If on arrival at the emergency scene the
      patient meets the inclusion criteria, the paramedic will obtain the patient's study group
      allocation by opening the envelope.

      Consent:

      It is crucial that delays to patient transfer are reduced to an absolute minimum in the
      ultrasound scanning group. The process of scanning is rapid and offers virtually no risk to
      the patient, but delays due to requesting consent are potentially more problematic and need
      to be minimised as much as possible. It is therefore proposed to have a two-stage consent
      process: a brief verbal consent to scanning and data transmission in the ambulance, and on
      arrival at the hospital, full written consent to health record analysis and to complete a
      follow-up questionnaire three months later.

      If patients are assessed by the paramedic to lack the mental capacity and understanding to
      provide meaningful consent, an eligible proxy (relative, welfare attorney or guardian)
      accompanying the patient may provide consent on his or her behalf in line with the Adults
      with Incapacity Act, Scotland (2000). If a participant who is unable to consent shows any
      signs of unwillingness to take part or distress, they will be immediately withdrawn from the
      study.

      Patient follow-up:

      Patients will be asked to complete a standard EQ-5D-5L (health-related quality of life)
      questionnaire 3 months after recruitment to the trial, plus a short satisfaction/service use
      questionnaire. Ten patients from both the scanned and control groups will be approached at
      this time to ask if they would be willing to be interviewed about the use of ambulance-based
      ultrasound. If other specific interesting themes meriting further investigation arise from
      the interviews, these may be explored further with additional interviews in other
      participants. Patient involvement in the trial will end on completion of this 3-month
      follow-up.

      Analyses:

      The primary outcome is defined as the patient EQ-5D-5L (EuroQol five dimension questionnaire)
      score three months after the original ambulance episode. Analysis will be on an intention to
      treat basis with a per protocol analysis as a sensitivity. Pre-specified descriptive subgroup
      analyses will examine EQ-5D-5L results by age group, reason for scan and transport distance.

      The economic analysis will include both a within-trial economic evaluation and a model-based
      economic evaluation. The within-trial analyses will take the form of a cost-utility analysis
      from the perspective of the National Health Service. The model-based analysis will also take
      the perspective of the NHS, but try to take into account wider societal costs such as unpaid
      carer time and costs, using standard national figures to estimate these contributions. A
      Markov model will be used to extrapolate from the short-term trial outcomes into the longer
      term.
    
  