
    
      This study will be a non-randomized, pragmatic, pre- and post-intervention quasi-experimental
      study with different pre and post groups. Data will be collected using a concurrent
      exploratory mixed methods approach.

      The study will evaluate the effect of multi-faceted intervention on the uptake of VMMC using
      a pragmatic pre- and post-intervention study design with different pre- and post-intervention
      groups. The intervention includes use of transport reimbursement for men who will undergo
      VMMC, Intensified health education by VMMC champions and women, use of a cell phone SMS
      Tracing to remind clients of their VMMC appointment and use of clinic Escorts to accompany
      clients from the STI clinic to the VMMC clinic for circumcision or appointment scheduling
      (the RITE intervention).

      The intervention will be conducted in five implementation blocks. The sample size for each
      block is 80 uncircumcised men with STIs. The investigators anticipate that each block will
      last about 4 weeks with one week of no intervention between interventions as a wash out
      period making the total duration of implementation about 24 weeks.

      The intervention will be implemented in an incremental fashion as follows: Block one, will be
      for observing the standard of care referral process for VMMC services. In block two, the
      investigators will introduce intensified health education (IHE). Clinic escorts combined with
      IHE will be block three. Block four, IHE, clinic escorts and SMS tracing combined. In block
      five, block four combined with transport reimbursement to form the 'RITE' intervention.
      Eligible men interested in VMMC will receive transport reimbursement when they undergo VMMC.
      Men with symptomatic STIs will receive a coupon to present on the day of circumcision for
      reimbursement. The investigators will confirm documentation of the VMMC procedure in the
      patient's health passport book or VMMC registers before payment.

      This approach will allow the investigators to assess the effect of each of the implementation
      strategies and the different combinations compared to the standard of care.

      The study population will be men attending the Bwaila STI clinic in Lilongwe Malawi. The
      study will enroll 400 men to increase uptake of circumcision from 28% to 60% (national
      target) among uncircumcised men.

      Data on uptake of VMMC will be collected through a standardize data collection form in
      conjunction with routine data from the STI clinic electronic medical registry. Data on
      acceptability and feasibility will be collected through surveys, interviews and focus group
      discussions. The investigators will conduct about 280 surveys for acceptability and
      feasibility with men selected randomly through the implementation period (70 men per
      intervention block). About 20 in-depth interviews with healthcare workers equally divided by
      intervention block will be conducted to assess acceptability and feasibility. Finally, the
      investigators will conduct four focus group discussions with men through the study period to
      assess acceptability and feasibility of the RITE strategy.
    
  