
    
      INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND

      Advanced cancer patients nearing the end of life suffer from pain, anxiety and other symptoms
      that can be very difficult to control. The current practice within Fraser Health Authority is
      to admit these patients to one of three tertiary palliative care units (TPCUs) for pain and
      symptom management. Once admitted, if pain and symptom relieving measures are insufficient,
      patients are given a continuous subcutaneous infusion (CSCI) of the drug midazolam for
      symptom management. While effective, sedation with midazolam often leaves patients unable to
      eat or drink or interact with their environment.

      Dexmedetomidine is a unique and promising agent for managing intractable symptoms in
      palliative patients at the end of life . In addition to providing proportional sedation for
      symptom control, compared to midazolam, dexmedetomidine has the additional attributes of
      providing improved management of pain, dyspnea and delirium. Of special interest to patients
      who would like to continue to be involved in decision making and to be able to communicate
      with loved ones at the end of life is the quality of rousability possible when
      dexmedetomidine is used for sedation instead of midazolam. These features have been well
      studied in the ICU and anaesthesia literature but not in the palliative care environment.

      PURPOSE AND JUSTIFICATION

      Currently, standard care for patients with difficult or intractable symptoms for patients
      admitted to the tertiary palliative care units in Fraser Health is the administration of
      midazolam by CSCI as recommended in the evidence based Fraser Health Authority (FHA) Hospice
      Palliative Care Program Symptom Guideline "Refractory Symptoms and Palliative Sedation
      Therapy Guideline". The same guideline states that among the criteria for implementation of
      palliative sedation therapy is that "in all but the most unusual circumstances, death is
      anticipated within hours to days". However, many other patients with difficult or intractable
      symptoms have a natural course of their illness that is longer than 'hours to days'. These
      patients would benefit from a degree of sedation that is proportional to the severity of
      their symptoms. Therefore, particularly in these circumstances, an option other than deep
      palliative sedation with midazolam is necessary where the patient would very often like to be
      aware of those around them and still not be confused or in pain.

      Despite many studies among ICU and anaesthesia patients, only two reports with four patients
      have evaluated use of dexmedetomidine in the palliative care environment. The first case was
      a 45 year old man with cervical paraganglioma, palliative performance scale (PPS) 10% with
      uncontrolled pain, insomnia, anxiety and severe psychological distress. Combined with
      morphine, a continuous intravenous infusion (CIVI) of dexmedetomidine provided relief of pain
      and anxiety within 30 minutes. The patient was sleeping without sign of pain, but prompt
      communication with his sister was possible. The infusion continued 24 hrs with good physical
      and psychological symptom control. The second case was 54 year old woman with breast cancer,
      PPS 20%, delirium and hypercalcemia. Treatment also included CIVI morphine, haloperidol 10
      mg/day. Dexmedetomidine CIVI for 48 hr infusion improved agitation and the patient was able
      to transfer out of the bed, sit in a chair and communicate when necessary. When intravenous
      access was lost, the patient was sedated with midazolam CSCI 5 mg/hr and died 72 hours hours
      later. The third case was a 40 year old woman with advanced cervical cancer, PPS 10%, renal
      failure, hypercalcemia, intractable agitated delirium and pain with movement. Treatment
      included CSCI morphine, hydration and haloperidol 8 mg/day. Dexmedetomidine infusion
      temporarily improved delirium for 5 hours, but not pain with movement. When restlessness
      returned, dexmedetomidine was changed to midazolam 12 mg/hr for the 4 days until the patient
      died. The fourth case was a 46 year old woman with intractable back and left abdominopelvic
      pain radiating into her left leg. She was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of unknown primary
      with a progressively expanding left retroperitoneal mass involving the psoas muscle and
      adjacent vertebral bodies. After the titration phase of dexmedetomidine, pain decreased to
      6/10 as measured by a numerical pain scale which was considered tolerable by the patient.
      There was no significant sedation. By the third day, the pain increased to 9/10. As it was
      the patient's wish to go home, instead of up titrating the dexmedetomidine, a continuous
      epidural was started with bupivicaine and clonidine.

      Current ongoing studies of dexmedetomidine use in the palliative care environment is limited
      to a Phase II study of dexmedetomidine in treating symptoms of distress in advanced cancer
      patients. The objective of this nine patient cohort study at Duke University Medical Center
      is to assess the effectiveness of 3 separate doses of dexmedetomidine (0.7, 1.5, 2.5 mg/kg/hr
      by continuous intravenous infusion) as add-on treatment for intractable pain, agitation and
      or delirium in terminally ill cancer patients in their last week of life until death.
      Overall, there is limited evidence in the literature to guide practice of using
      dexmedetomidine in the palliative care environment.

      Given this gap in knowledge, the investigators propose to conduct a pilot randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) of dexmedetomidine CSCI compared to midazolam CSCI in advanced cancer
      patients in the palliative care setting.

      The subcutaneous route is chosen for this pilot study as the preferred route of drug delivery
      as this conforms to the current standard of care according the FHA Hospice Palliative Care
      symptom guideline "Refractory Symptoms and Palliative Sedation Therapy Guideline": "Where
      feasible, the use of midazolam by CSCI is preferred to permit responsive titration. In
      general, subcutaneous administration is preferred to intravenous administration because of
      the practical advantage of subcutaneous infusion and the greater risk of apnea when bolus
      injections are administered intravenously". "The subcutaneous route is the most commonly used
      parenteral route in palliative care", "Drugs given via the subcutaneous route tend to have a
      high bioavailability (generally near 100 %)" "Subcutaneous infusion provides blood levels
      comparable to those from intravenous administration", "Perfusion of subcutaneous tissue is
      similar to that of muscle, but rate of absorption is slower."

      Dexmedetomidine has been successfully administered by CSCI in the pediatric population, but
      so far has not been used by CSCI in palliative care patients. Neither midazolam or
      dexmedetomidine are currently approved for use by the subcutaneous route, but Health Canada
      approval will be obtained for the subcutaneous (SC) route for both dexmedetomidine and
      midazolam before starting the study to provide for use of the preferred subcutaneous route
      (over intravenous) in the palliative care environment. The goal of this trial is to assess
      the feasibility and methodological issues before enrolling subjects in a larger, multi-centre
      RCT to assess the effectiveness of dexmedetomidine in controlling pain, dyspnea, nausea
      and/or delirium compared to midazolam. Altogether, findings from this research program (pilot
      RCT and multi-centre RCT) will provide critical information for both clinicians and health
      policy makers on the use of dexmedetomidine in patients with advanced cancer with difficult
      to control or intractable symptoms.

      RESEARCH QUESTION:

      The overall goal of the investigators is to answer the following question: Does
      dexmedetomidine enhance control of pain, dyspnea, nausea and/or delirium, but with improved
      rousability, compared to midazolam in patients with advanced cancer? However, for the
      purposes of this pilot study, the investigators will address the following question: What is
      the feasibility of a multicentre RCT comparing dexmedetomidine with midazolam in enhancing
      control of pain, dyspnea, nausea and/or delirium in advanced cancer patients?

      RESEARCH OBJECTIVE(S):

      The objectives of this pilot study are:

        -  To identify facilitators and barriers to recruiting and consenting palliative care
           advanced cancer patients

        -  To assess site irritation when administering dexmedetomidine by continuous subcutaneous
           infusion as an alternate route to continuous intravenous infusion in advanced cancer
           patients

        -  To assess feasibility of collecting study measures

        -  To assess utility of a new study measurement of acceptable improvement of symptoms as
           assessed by patient, family, and staff

      Other objectives of interest are:

        -  To compare arousability of palliative care advanced cancer patients when symptoms are
           controlled with dexmedetomidine as compared to midazolam

        -  To compare pain, dyspnea, nausea, delirium symptoms of palliative care advanced cancer
           patients sedated with dexmedetomidine as compared to midazolam
    
  