
    
      PTSD is a complex physiological, cognitive, emotional, and behavioral reaction to trauma
      comprising symptoms such as heightened arousal, emotional numbing, avoidance of
      trauma-related cues, and re-experiencing aspects of the trauma. Estimates indicate that 16.6%
      of OEF/OIF veterans returning from deployment develop PTSD (Hoge et al., 2007), much higher
      than the overall prevalence rate of 6.8% among adults in the United States (Kessler et al.,
      2005). Although efficacious treatments for PTSD are available, considerably less is known
      about preventing its progression from sub-threshold symptoms to full PTSD (Feldner, Manson, &
      Friedman, 2007). This is disconcerting because studies show that sub-threshold PTSD is a
      potential risk factor for the development of PTSD (e.g., Buckley, Blanchard, & Hickling,
      1996; Carty, O'Donnell, & Creamer, 2006). Thus, there is a need for the development and
      evaluation of brief preventive interventions that can be easily and effectively implemented
      with individuals who have sub-threshold PTSD, defined as meeting either DSM-IV PTSD criteria
      B and C or B and D, but failing to meet all three, and experiencing at least one month of
      significant impairment (Blanchard et al., 1994).

      Although treatments for PTSD such as Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) and Prolonged
      Exposure (PE) have been generally successful with individuals with full-blown PTSD (Foa et
      al., 1991; Monson et al., 2006; Schnurr et al., 2007), these treatments have not been
      systematically evaluated within a context of prevention and applied to individuals with
      sub-threshold symptoms. Furthermore, despite the effectiveness of available treatments for
      trauma symptoms, several identified barriers to treatment exist for veteran populations,
      particularly those who live in rural settings.

      These barriers to care highlight the need for brief, cost-effective, and self-managed
      interventions aimed at reducing attrition, providing symptom relief, and preventing PTSD in
      rural and underserved populations. One potentially valuable intervention is expressive
      writing (i.e., writing thoughts and feelings about a significant life event). Expressive
      writing is associated with large improvements in psychiatric and physical symptoms and can be
      modified to suit the needs of specified groups (e.g., Frisina, Borod, & Lepore, 2004;
      Pennebaker, 2004; Smyth, 1998). Forgiving others can decrease physiological arousal (Lawler
      et al., 2003; Witvliet, Ludwig, & VanderLaan, 2001), depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic
      stress (Reed & Enright, 2006), as well as anger and substance use (Lin et al., 2004), while
      self-forgiveness is associated with improved quality of life and decreased mood disturbance
      (Friedman et al., 2007; Romero et al., 2006). Thus, a forgiveness-based writing intervention
      may be particularly powerful for addressing responses to trauma. Although previous studies
      have examined forgiveness-based writing interventions (McCullough, Root, & Cohen, 2006;
      Romero, 2008), none has examined the benefits of forgiveness-based writing for patients with
      sub-threshold PTSD symptoms.
    
  