
    
      The study team proposes a twofold approach to determine how immunophenotype may affect the
      course of clinical immunological disease for patients receiving biologic therapy. First, the
      team intends to establish a biorepository and database that includes demographic,
      immunologic, exposure and clinical records. The registry will be set up to facilitate
      research across disease disciplines, and across other registries affiliated with ISMMS.
      Second, over time, the team aims to address specific and an increasing number of research
      questions focused on using novel diagnostics to increase the effectiveness of biologic
      treatment as outlined below. Most subjects will be recruited from the Mount Sinai Therapeutic
      Infusion Center (TIC), although others receiving infusions elsewhere or at home will be
      recruited from outpatient affiliated clinical practices during scheduled medical visits.

      Specific Aims:

      1. (Overarching) Build a repository of biological specimens, questionnaire data, and apply
      state-of-the-art assessment tools to assess the current immunological and clinical condition,
      and changes over time. Specimens and data will be collected in a manner that can readily
      incorporate new technology, new research questions, link to intelligent analytics, and
      provide a resource for future consortia across disciplines. An infrastructure will be created
      that includes a multi-disciplinary Steering Committee to facilitate spinoff research studies
      and harmonize protocols within the TIC and across the Sinai system, resolve procedural
      questions, and communicate updated policies to referring physicians.

      Additional initial specific scientific aims related to responses to biologics prescribed as
      part of standard practice that will be considered in this proposal are to determine:

      2 . Effects of anti-IgE therapy on IgE phenotypes, maturation and production, and clinical
      outcomes.

      3. Effects of anti-IgE and anti-IL-5 therapies on dopaminergeric pathways and clinical
      outcomes.

      4. Effects of anti-TNF, anti-CD20, and other biologic therapies on immunological and clinical
      outcomes.

      5. Effects of IVIG therapy on immunological and clinical course in Common Variable Immune
      Deficiency.

      Futures studies will focus on Clinical Decision Support (CDS), Artificial Intelligence, and
      use of technology to inform and educate current TIC patients. Future studies also will
      feature studies related to immunological and clinical responses to additional biological
      therapies.

      Background The prescription of biological agents and immune modulators to treat chronic
      immunological-based diseases continues to expand. This trend is predicted to continue.
      Applying data-driven and immunophenotype-driven approaches to their use could reveal
      additional pharmacologic targets and signal disease presence or relapse prior to the onset of
      clinical symptoms. These advances in precision medicine also may reduce adverse drug
      reactions and help control overall cost of healthcare associated with inefficient and 'trial
      and error' prescribing. They also may provide information on susceptible individuals and
      their appropriate care during healthcare crises, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic.

      Despite these developments, prospective studies and clinical trials that feature
      immunophenotyping to facilitate 'real world' therapeutic decision-making are limited. More
      comprehensive immunophenotyping has predicted clinical responses to cancer immunotherapy,
      suggesting that this approach may translate to immunologically-mediated nonmalignant
      diseases. But widespread application to multiple chronic diseases is limited by several
      research gaps. These include determination of: 1) new biomarkers (discovery, validation) that
      may inform clinicians of drug responsive endotypes, 2) biomarkers that predict disease course
      over time in replicate studies, 3) optimal methods to link immunophenotype with analytic
      diagnostic and clinical decision-making tools to predict disease course, 4) factors that
      mediate treatment responses, some of which may be modifiable (eg environmental exposures,
      viruses, disease phenotypes).

      The Mount Sinai Therapeutic Infusion Center is an ideal location where investigators have the
      potential to fill in many of these research gaps. The volume is large, with currently 1803
      individuals actively (in 2019) receiving anti-cytokine or anti-CD20 biological treatment for
      their immunological, dermatological and neurological disorders, largely prescribed by members
      of the Divisions of Clinical Immunology, Rheumatology, Pulmonary, Inflammatory Bowel Disease
      (IBD), Neurology and Dermatology. Further, investigators across Divisions (Clinical
      Immunology, Rheumatology, IBD) and Departments (Medicine, Neurology, Dermatology) have
      created a research working group to discuss collaborations and standardized approaches to
      assessing immunological responses to biologics. This registry also intends to coordinate with
      other registries at ISMMS to ensure that it utilizes common approaches to biomonitoring and
      common data elements as much as feasible to facilitate comparisons across cohorts.

      Primary and Secondary Study Endpoints

      The initial scientific hypotheses focus on these endpoints:

      Aim 1 An expanded repository of biological specimens and questionnaire data.

      Aim 2 Measures of IgE phenotypes and associated clinical airway outcomes.

      Aim 3 Measures of changes in the dopaminergic pathway and clinical airway outcomes.

      Aim 4 Measures of anti-TNF, anti-CD20, and other biologic therapies on immunological and
      clinical outcomes.

      Aim 5 Measures of IVIG-induced immunological and clinical outcomes.
    
  