
    
      Background:

        -  Vandetanib (CAPRELSA; ZD6474) potently inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor
           receptor-2 (VEGFR-2), and shows additional inhibitory activity at sub-micromolar
           concentrations against the Rearranged during Transfection (RET) receptor, Flt-4 and EGF
           receptor tyrosine kinases.

        -  Clinical trials have shown that vandetanib is active against medullary thyroid
           carcinomas (MTCs), but the activity is characterized by partial responses of variable
           duration, underscoring the need to develop active combinatorial regimens.

        -  Bortezomib (PS-341, Velcade ), a proteasome inhibitor, has been reported to have several
           putative mechanisms of action and it is likely that its toxicity is mediated by
           affecting more than one pathway or target. Bortezomib is reported to inhibit the nuclear
           factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB) pathway and regulate
           NF-kappaB-dependent expression of several other inhibitors of apoptosis.

        -  In vitro studies have shown bortezomib to be active against a broad range of thyroid
           cancer cell lines. Given this activity of bortezomib and the role of the proteasome in
           regulating diverse cellular pathways, this study proposes to combine bortezomib with
           vandetanib to treat patients with advanced solid tumors with a focus on patients with
           MTC.

      Objectives:

        -  To assess the activity of vandetanib plus bortezomib in adults with MTC, using Response
           Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and tumor biomarkers including
           carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and calcitonin as endpoints.

        -  To assess the safety and tolerance of vandetanib plus bortezomib in dose-seeking
           cohorts.

        -  To compare the combination bortezomib plus vandetanib versus vandetanib alone in adults
           with MTC by assessing the response rate and progression-free survival

        -  In exploratory analyses: (a) examine the correlation between genotype and response to
           therapy in patients with MTC, (b) examine the extent, if any, of rearranged during
           transfection (RET) inhibition in patients with MTC following the administration of
           vandetanib; and (c) examine the effect, if any, of bortezomib on microtubules.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults age 18 and older with unresectable, recurrent or metastatic solid tumors,
           including MTC.

        -  Disease must be evaluable by RECIST.

      Design:

        -  Phase I dose-escalation study followed by randomized phase II trial.

        -  Maximum total number for planned enrollment: 117 - Dose-seeking cohorts of three to 6
           patients until maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/dose limiting toxicity (DLT) reached (up to
           24 patients) followed by a randomized phase II trial comparing the activity of the
           combination of bortezomib plus vandetanib with vandetanib alone (2:1 randomization 62
           plus 31 equals 93 patients).

        -  The MTD and DLT will be determined based on toxicities during the first eight weeks of
           combined therapy.

        -  Cycle length will be four weeks. Response will be determined by RECIST every 12 weeks.
    
  