
    
      Obesity is an important health problem that can affect the entire organ and system of the
      body, leading to various disorders and even death. The fact that BMI is over 40 kg / m2 is
      defined as morbid obesity. The most effective treatment step in morbid obesity is bariatric
      surgery.

      The impairment of inspiratory muscle function related to obesity is associated with increased
      lung elastic load, excessive lengthening in the abdominal muscles, and dissolution of the
      diaphragm, leading to inspiratory muscle weakness and insufficiency. The decrease in its
      endurance is explained by the decrease of glycogen synthase activity in skeletal muscles. It
      was found that there was less decrease in the inspiratory muscle training patients whose MIP
      values were measured before bariatric surgery compared to those who could not do MIP values
      after surgery.

      Respiratory functions due to obesity are impaired due to restrictive mass increase in chest
      wall, tendency to breathe in low lung volumes and the effect of fat distribution on pleural
      pressure. Total lung volume, expiratory reserve volume (ERV), reserve volume (RV), vital
      capacity (VC), functional residual capacity (FRC), FVC, and FEV1 values are low.

      After bariatric surgery, patients' muscle strength decreased. In particular, there was a
      decrease in muscle strength in quadriceps, hamstring, biceps, triceps. The decrease in muscle
      strength after surgery has been associated with a decrease in muscle mass. It was stated that
      patients who did not exercise after surgery lost 7.6 kg of muscle, which was 29.7% of the
      total lost body weight. Resistance exercises performed after bariatric surgery have a
      positive impact on patients' muscle strength and functional capacity.

      Obesity causes a decrease in functional capacity. Increased step width, reduced walking speed
      and step length are shown for the main reasons. Decreased inspiratory muscle strength in
      patients undergoing surgery causes weakness in peripheral muscles. This weakness in
      peripheral muscles also reduces the functional capacity of patients. Inspiratory muscle
      training studies increase the functional capacity.
    
  