
    
      Spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage is an absolute emergency in the field of neurosurgery,
      and it is also a devastating event that commonly results in major neurological disabilities
      or mortalities. Since disease severities and clinical courses vary in each patient,
      pathophysiological studies and prognostic factors are always worth research. From previous
      studies, we know that dysregulation of autonomic system plays an important role in
      intracranial hemorrhage. Hemorrhage itself is associated with sympathoexcitation, and
      patients who develop rebleeding or infarction complications are found to have an even higher
      degree of sympathetic storm. Therefore, the degree of autonomic activities seems to be a
      useful predictor.

      Traditionally, sympathetic activities are measured by plasma catecholamine, while
      parasympathetic activities are hard to measure. In recent decades, the application of
      engineering in biological fields makes a great breakthrough. Waveform analysis of biological
      signals, such as electrocardiograms and arterial blood pressure, can indirectly determine
      autonomic activities. The variabilities of heart rate and blood pressure are subjected to
      frequency analysis. This generates several dominant frequency bands. High frequency bands
      (0.15-0.40Hz) are attributed to the effect of parasympathetic nervous system, while, the low
      frequency bands (0.04-0.15 Hz) are attributed to the effect of both sympathetic and
      parasympathetic nervous systems.

      In this study, all patients with spontaneous intracranial bleedings undergo standard
      treatment and monitoring. This include electrocardiography, arterial blood pressure, and
      cerebral blood flow using transcranial Doppler sonography. For those who also have
      intracranial pressure monitoring, the intracranial pressure are also recorded. All these
      biological signals are exported for wave form analysis. We use frequency analysis,
      time-frequency analysis, and multiscale entropy to analyze these data. The results of
      analyses were also correlated to plasma catecholamine levels, proinflammatory markers, as
      well as the clinical variables. Our aim is to identify predictors of complications and grave
      outcomes from these biological signals. We also apply the results for future
      pathophysiological studies.
    
  