
    
      The study is a randomized, controlled trial where the intervention is the evidence-based
      eConsult model in which consults are submitted by electronic, secure messaging to a
      specialist for review and "virtual" consultation. Primary Care Providers will be randomized
      to the control or intervention group. In the intervention group, ALL new, non urgent, adult
      cardiology referrals will be submitted to the eConsult Cardiology team for an eConsult.
      Consults for children (age <18) and consults for patients who already have an established
      relationship with another cardiologist will not be eligible for an eConsult. Urgent consults,
      such as those for patients with active chest pain or other acute conditions, will not be
      submitted for eConsult and should instead be handled by the on-site care team as per the
      standard protocol. For eConsults, the consult will be submitted using the eConsult pathway
      within the electronic health record. eConsults will be created in the same way that standard
      referrals are created, with attachment of a treatment summary, EKG, relevant results, and
      specification of the consultative question. The eConsult will be received by the intervention
      Cardiology team and reviewed within 2 business days. One cardiologist per day will be
      assigned to review and respond to eConsults.

      The result will be received by the primary care provider who will be responsible for acting
      appropriately on the cardiologist's recommendations. Recommendations will be case specific
      and may include one of three broad areas of suggestion: 1) suggestions for ongoing management
      by the primary care provider, 2) suggestions for additional testing in advance of a
      cardiology face to face appointment or to better determine a next course of action, and 3)
      immediate cardiology referral.

      For each of these options, the primary care provider will be responsible for following up and
      implementing the recommendations made by the Cardiologist. When referral is recommended the
      primary care provider will refer the patient to the cardiologist of their choice based on
      their location and the patient's preference. While not required, they may refer the patient
      to the eConsult cardiology team at University of Connecticut for face to face care if
      desirable, but may also refer to other Cardiologists. The intervention will last one year.
      Providers randomized to the control group will provide standard care which involves a
      traditional referral for an in-person cardiology visit.
    
  