
    
      Lung cancer has been a leading cause of death for years. There are more than 10,000 new cases
      in Taiwan. Delayed discovery of the disease is a reason for high mortality rate. Most cases
      are discovered after second stage. Early discovery of the disease rely on low dose CT scans.
      Early stage lung cancer patients are candidates for minimally invasive surgeries.
      Traditionally thoracomies and video-assisted thoracic surgeries require general anesthesia
      with double lumen endobronchial tubes. The technique of double lumen intubation and one lung
      ventilation causes respiratory complications and damage to the trachea, larynx and vocal
      cords. With the development of single port thoracotomies, anesthesia can be minimized as
      well. Patients receive an epidural, intercostal or paravertebral nerve block to decrease
      pain. Minimal anesthetic agents may be given to decrease anxiety or to induce light sedation.
      Patients does not need to be intubated and can maintain respiratory function and can recover
      quickly.

      Not only can video-assisted thoracic surgery be used in lung tumor treatment, it can also be
      used to threat esophageal and mediastinal lesions, pneumothorax or as a diagnostic tool.
      Video-assisted thoracic surgery was shown to decrease acute phase inflammatory reactions,
      decrease immunosuppression and can be beneficial for tumor treatment.

      The intravenous sedation medications used in non-intubate thoracic surgery decrease pain and
      anxiety. However, many will develop respiratory depression and upper airway obstruction.
      Also, spontaneous pneumothorax during surgery causes one lung ventilation. Traditional oxygen
      supply cannot meet the demand of non-intubated thoracic surgery. Transnasal humidified
      rapid-insufflation ventilator exchange offers 30-70 L/min oxygen via nasal cannula. Its
      humidified oxygen can decrease discomfort from cold dry gas. It also provides positive
      pressure to the airway thus decrease airway obstruction.

      Our hypothesis is that non-intubated thoracic surgery with transnasal humidified
      rapid-insufflation ventilator exchange can maintain optimal surgical condition such as
      maintain arterial oxygen pressure, decrease acute phase reactions, tumor suppression and
      accelerate recovery after surgery.
    
  