
    
      Phase of Study: Non-Drug Study

      Objectives:

        1. Primary To investigate the causes of low level viraemia (LLV) in HIV-infected
           individuals with no PI resistance associated mutations (RAMs) on conventional genotyping
           who have a detectable plasma HIV viral load (pVL) and report >95% adherence* to their
           ARV regimens containing a boosted protease inhibitor.

           *in case the questionnaire cannot be performed, clinical documentation of adherence will
           be used for interpretation of adherence level.

        2. Secondary To observe the evolution in virologic and immunologic responses following
           routine clinical intervention in HIV-infected individuals with no primary protease
           inhibitor mutations (IAS, USA) on conventional genotyping who have a detectable plasma
           HIV viral load (pVL) and report >95% adherence* to antiretroviral regimens containing a
           boosted protease inhibitor.

             -  in case the questionnaire cannot be performed, clinical documentation of adherence
                will be used for interpretation of adherence level.

      Study Design: A multi-centre, non-drug, observational cohort study.

      Methodology: HIV-infected individuals attending three selected HIV clinics at the Chelsea and
      Westminster Hospital, St Mary's Hospital and Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital over the duration
      of the study will be identified at weekly viral resistance meetings and routine clinic
      appointments if they demonstrate the following HIV pVL criteria:

        1. An HIV pVL of 41-2000 copies/ml (c/ml) on two consecutive tests after being <40 c/ml on
           at least two occasions on a bPI-containing regimen

        2. An HIV pVL of 41-2000 c/ml on two consecutive tests having never achieved <40 c/ml on a
           bPI-containing regimen after more than six months of treatment.

      Eligible patients will be provided with a patient information sheet and a written consent
      form. Following consent:

        1. Virologic and immunologic assessments will be collected from the clinical records
           available

        2. Viral resistance test (VRT) (using VircoTYPE HIV-1 Virtual PhenotypeTM-LM for
           conventional genotyping and Ilumina MiSeq as next generation sequencing, NGS for
           minority species testing) will be performed on the first detectable HIV pVL(>40 c/mL)
           found in clinic and at 3 to 6 and 12 months later, if HIV pVL is still >40 c/mL.

      Planned Sample Size: 120 to 240 samples over the one-year study period, with each centre
      providing 40 to 80 samples.

      Summary of Eligibility Criteria: HIV-infected individuals with no primary protease inhibitor
      mutations (IAS, USA) on standard VRTs who have a detectable pVL and report >95% adherence*
      ARV regimens containing a boosted protease inhibitor with HIV VL criteria as detailed above.
      Individuals who have a detectable HIV VL after stopping ARV or having an 8-item Morisky score
      of above 2 (or <95% reported adherence will not be eligible.

      *in case the questionnaire cannot be performed, clinical documentation of adherence will be
      used for interpretation of adherence level.

      Number of Study Centres: Three

      Duration of Study: One year from study approval. Samples for resistance testing will be
      collected over the duration of the study.

      Criteria for Evaluation:

        1. Emergence of new primary protease inhibitor mutations (IAS, USA) using NGS will be
           described.

        2. Comparison of respective parameters (HIV VL and CD4 count) between different clinical
           interventions. The latter will not be dictated by the protocol but will be conducted as
           routine clinical practice.

      Primary Endpoint:

      Development of primary protease inhibitor mutations (IAS, USA) on NGS in HIV-infected
      patients with primary protease inhibitor mutations (IAS, USA) on standard VRTs who
      demonstrate LLV on ARV regimens containing a bPI.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Proportion of patients achieving an undetectable HIV VL following an intervention during
           periods of LLV on ARV regimens containing a bPI

        2. Evolution of CD4 cell count following an intervention during periods of LLV on ARV
           regimens containing a bPI.

      Note: This is a non-drug study and no interventions will be dictated by this protocol.
    
  