
    
      Anal fissure (AF) is common among children attending pediatric and surgery clinics and is
      frequently associated with painful defecation, stool withholding and constipation which
      affect 1%-30% of the pediatric population. Constipated children consume low fiber diets, come
      from lower socioeconomic families and tend to be obese. The reason why anal fissure develops
      is still largely unclear, however the pathogenesis points to an initial anal trauma cause by
      the hard stool leading to anal sphincter hypertonia or spasm which cause local ischemia and
      non-healing ulcer. It is not clear why the posterior anal canal is the most affected part by
      the local anal ischemia.

      Current medical therapy for chronic anal fissure focuses on alleviating the two main
      pathologies by using anal sphincter relaxing topical ointments and laxative to treat
      associated constipation. The classical text book described treatment of AF focus on
      increasing fiber intake to treat the underlying constipation. Jensen et al, has found that
      treating the first episode of anal fissure with bran is more effective than local anesthetic
      or steroids. The American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons practice parameters suggest
      that increase in fluid and fiber ingestion, use of sitz baths, and if necessary use of stool
      softeners are safe have few side effects and should be the initial therapy for all patients
      with anal fissure.

      There have been many recent randomized trials describing the effectiveness of Nitroglycerin
      (NTG), Botulinum toxin injection or the topical calcium channel blockers such as Diltiazem
      (DTZ) in adult and pediatric. A systematic review of the available randomized trials of these
      agents has shown that topical agents are marginally better than placebo [15]. Furthermore, in
      most trials that have demonstrated the effectiveness of topical agents laxatives usage was
      either not well controlled or lactulose was the main agent used. In children, many recent
      randomized trials have demonstrated the superior effectiveness of PEG over lactulose
      consequently; we think that treating AF with PEG is likely to improve the success rate and
      lead to persistent log-term fissure healing. Most adults and pediatric RCTs that have
      demonstrated the effectiveness of topical agents in healing AF, have focused on comparing
      various topical agents to placebo in treating AF, however the effectiveness in comparison to
      placebo has never been demonstrated in patients how are placed on more effective laxative
      such as PEG. We hypothesize that replacing lactulose with a more effective laxative such PEG
      as a sole agent to treat AF can eliminate the effectiveness and therefore the need to add
      topical sphincter relaxing agent such DTZ or NTG. Laxative-only treatment is likely to be
      more convenient and more cost-effective.
    
  