
    
      A temporary loop ileostomy is widely used when operating rectal cancer. The ostomy is then
      reversed in a separate operation. Morbidity of stoma reversal is significant, but not clearly
      defined. One complication in connection with stoma closure is development of hernia at the
      former stoma site.

      A hernia is a weakening of the muscular layers and the connective tissue of the abdominal
      wall, which may cause pain and discomfort, as well as an inconvenient bulge. A hernia could
      also cause more serious complication of obstructed or strangulated bowel. According to
      international studies, the incidence of hernia at the ostomy site varies between 7% and 35%.
      Many of the studies are heterogenic and some of them include both colostomies and
      ileostomies. Among studies that focus on reversal of ileotomies the hernia incidence varies
      between 11-15%. Preliminary results from a retrospective study in Stockholm indicates a
      frequency of 7,9%.

      The best method to avoid hernia after stoma closure is not known. Most commonly surgeons tend
      to close the fascia in one layer with monofilament suture. In the study mentioned above 91%
      of the operations were done with one-layer monofilament, mostly PDS. Use of prophylactic mesh
      in the abdominal wall has been proposed, but there is currently insufficient scientific
      evidence to recommend it as a routine.

      The present study is focused on loop ileostomy closure after rectal cancer. A
      non-heterogenous group of ostomies will serve as a base to evaluate whether the incidence of
      hernia may be reduced. If this study detects a decreased frequency of hernia when using
      prophylactic meshes, it may lead to new recommendations for this patient group.

      PHaLIR is a prospective, double-blinded randomized study in which patients planned for stoma
      reversal after rectal cancer surgery will be randomized to retro muscular mesh Ultrapro
      Advanced or standard treatment without mesh. Operating time, complications, LOS, pain,
      infections and postoperative hernia are to be studied. The patients will be identified and
      asked about participation when they come for postoperative control after rectal cancer
      operation and are planned for the ileostomy reversal after check of the rectal anastomosis.
      They will be given oral and written information and signed informed consent is required from
      all patients.

      At operation the operation-protocol should be filled in. The operation notes will be written
      in a blinded way and the original version will be stored on paper until after the study is
      finished and then added to the patient chart.

      At discharge from the surgical ward the patient should be planned for a follow up at the
      surgical clinic at 30 days postoperatively. The doctor at the follow up visit should be
      another than the operating surgeon. The patients should then fill in a questionnaire and the
      surgeon should note the postoperative complications in the 30-days follow up form. At the
      30-day follow up the surgeon checks that the one-year follow up after the cancer operation is
      commissioned. Normally this is a CT thorax and abdomen with contrast. For the study-patients
      it should be complemented with the question of hernia and the CT scan shall be a CT with
      straining. The normal 1-year follow up for the cancer will be the follow up for the ileostomy
      reversal also. That means that in most cases it will take place 6-9 months after the
      reversal. At this control and at the three years control (after cancer operation) the patient
      will be given or mailed a questionnaire (the same as the 30-day questionnaire). The follow up
      by doctor could be done either with a clinical visit or a telephone call according to the
      routines of the clinic when they follow up their cancer patients. At three years follow up
      after cancer operation patients will also get the same questionnaire and the CT scan follow
      up at three years will also be with straining.
    
  