
    
      Patients will be given a written explanation of the study and screened for inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Included patients will have a repairable, full thickness rotator cuff
      tear limited to the supraspinatus and infraspinatus, confirmed by MRI. Patients with
      concomitant biceps tenotomy, tenodesis, arthroscopic subacromial decompression, and distal
      clavicle excision will be included. Patients with prior operations on the shoulder, partial
      thickness tears, subscapularis tears or labral tears requiring repair, irreparable
      supraspinatus tears, staged bilateral rotator cuff repairs, or concomitant suprascapular
      nerve decompression will be excluded. We will also exclude patients with co-morbid conditions
      requiring the use of corticosteroids. Patients who cannot have an MRI for medical reasons
      will also be excluded.

      All participants will volunteer to enroll in the study by signing informed consent
      (Attachment B). All potential subjects will be over 18 years of age and capable of providing
      their own informed consent. Patients will be recruited from the patient populations of Dr.
      Edwards, Dr. Elkousy, Dr. Morris, Dr. Gombera and Dr Brown. The informed consent process will
      be conducted by the investigators, their staff, or their research associates (e.g.,
      orthopedic surgery fellows), who will explain the purpose and methods of the study, the risks
      and benefits, and requirements of participation. Randomization to groups will occur following
      informed consent; patients will not know to which group they are assigned.

        1. Arthroscopic transosseous equivalent rotator cuff (TOE) repair will be performed; this
           is our standard procedure, using suture anchors in the medial and lateral rows for a TOE
           technique. The medial row will be 4.5 mm Polyether ether ketone (PEEK) anchors and the
           lateral row will be a 5.5 mm PEEK knotless anchor. Medial row anchor sutures will be
           tied.

        2. FlōGraft® details: 4cc of FlōGraft® will be used in each treated patient, provided in a
           single peel pouch containing two 2cc vials. In FlōGraft® treated patients, FlōGraft®
           will be applied, following repair as detailed below.

        3. FlōGraft® Preparation Protocol 3.1 Store FlōGraft® at -65◦C or colder until immediately
           prior to use. 3.2 Remove box from cold storage, open exterior box and remove interior
           package containing vials.

           3.3 Neither the interior dust cover nor the outside of the vial are sterile. Do not
           place either the interior package or the vial in sterile field.

           3.4 Remove vials from packaging, place on non-sterile, secure, flat surface, or hold
           vial firmly in one hand allowing contents to thaw (3-7 minutes.) Hold vial upright to
           aspirate contents. Note: Allograft should be implanted immediately post-thaw, but not
           later than eight (8) minutes post-thaw.

           3.5 Pierce the vial cap and draw thawed solution into syringe. Do not pressurize vial
           with air prior to extracting thawed FlōGraft® solution.

           3.6 If needed, change needle size based on surgeon preference (18g to 23g.)

        4. FlōGraft® Implantation 4.1 After the rotator cuff repair is completed, shut off
           water-flow to joint. Excess water in joint is drained through the skin incisions,
           creating a "dry" sub-acromial space.

           4.2 Insert needle through skin incision or percutaneously. Under direct visualization,
           inject FlōGraft® directly into rotator cuff tissue at repair site in approximately 0.50
           cc aliquots. Cover entire repair site.

           4.3 Implant allograft into the cuff muscle more medially to the repair in 0.25-0.5 cc
           aliquots, as appropriate.

        5. Postoperative management: 4 weeks immobilization in abduction sling; passive range of
           motion will be initiated at the discretion of the surgeon based on tear size. Active
           range of motion will begin at 8 weeks to 16 weeks.

        6. Diagnostic MRI will be performed at one and two years postoperatively.
    
  