
    
      1. Introduction 1.1. Transsexualism Transsexualism is a condition in which an individual's
           gender identity is incongruent with the assigned sex at birth. Many transsexuals suffer
           from severe psychological problems caused by this this incongruence, referred to as
           gender dysphoria. Supporting transsexuals in living in the sex with which they identify
           leads to amelioration of psychological problems and medical problems. In sex
           reassignment therapy, cross-sex hormone therapy is an essential element.

           1.2. Cross-sex hormone therapy in transsexual patients In many patients, cross sex
           hormone therapy is used to conduct sex change. In transmen (biological women with
           perceived male sex), testosterone is used for gender reassignment. In transwomen
           (biological men with perceived female sex), the most commonly used medication is
           estrogen. Successful therapy leads to the development of typical secondary sex
           characteristics. Data and knowledge regarding the effects of cross-sex hormone therapy
           on the human body, additionally to the desired sex affirming changes, is scarce.

           1.3. Investigation of the effects of estrogen and testosterone on the human body
           Investigating the effects of cross-sex hormone therapy provides further information on
           the effects of testosterone and estradiol on the human body. One of the most recognized
           differences between men and women regarding health is the increased cardiovascular risk
           of men as compared to women. In transmen, testosterone therapy leads to an increased
           risk for myocardial infarction. Data from the diabetes prevention program suggest that
           in males the probability of developing diabetes mellitus type 2, a major risk factor for
           cardiovascular disease is positively correlated with serum concentrations of estradiol
           and negatively correlated with concentrations of testosterone. Furthermore, previous
           studies pointed to differences in the regulation of eating behavior of men and women
           potentially contributing to the development of obesity and type-2-diabetes.

           The above mentioned findings are just examples of plentiful dissimilarities in health
           and disease of the two sexes with unknown causes. To date studies assessing e.g. markers
           of cardiometabolic disease in cross-sex hormone therapy remain inconclusive.

           1.4. Purpose of this study To gain novel insights into the effects of sex hormones on
           the human body, current study aims to characterize four highly interconnected
           physiological systems in patients undergoing cross-sex hormone therapy: glucose and
           lipid metabolism, energy balance, eating behavior, and the cardiovascular system.
           Gathered knowledge will help to identify pathophysiological mechanisms for the
           development of overeating/obesity, insulin resistance, and cardiovascular disease.

        2. Aims The study is designed to investigate the effects of testosterone and
           estradiol/cyproteron acetate in patients with gender dysphoria/transsexualism undergoing
           cross-sex hormone therapy in comparison to a control group without hormone therapy.

           Effects of cross-sex hormone therapy on:

           Part A Glucose and lipid metabolism Part B Body composition and energy balance control
           Part C Psychobehavioral traits with a focus on eating behavior Part D (Cardio-) Vascular
           system

           To best possibly attribute observed effects to the applied sex hormones, baseline
           measurements before starting cross-sex hormone treatment will be performed (V0).
           Measurements will be repeated at five time points during ongoing cross sex hormone
           treatment (V1-5):

           V0 Baseline assessment before start of cross-sex hormone therapy V1 Three months after
           start of cross-sex hormone therapy V2 Six months after start of cross-sex hormone
           therapy V3 Twelve months after start of cross-sex hormone therapy V4 Two years after
           start of cross-sex hormone therapy V5 Five years after start of cross-sex hormone
           therapy To be able to exclude unspecific order effects of the measurements and to be
           able to compare obtained results with non-transsexual persons, controls not undergoing
           cross-sex hormone therapy matched for age, body mass index, health status (morbidity)
           and education will be included.

        3. Research Design and Methods 3.1. Participants and recruitment This is a five year
           observational, non-invasive study to evaluate the effect of cross-sex hormone therapy on
           metabolism, eating behavior, body composition, energy expenditure and the cardiovascular
           system. Results will be compared longitudinally on an intra-individual level, as well as
           on an inter-individual level by comparing transmen with transwomen and both groups with
           non-treated controls. Transsexual patients will be recruited at the outpatient clinic
           for Endocrinology at the University Hospital Leipzig. Patients seeking cross-sex hormone
           therapy will be asked before starting cross-sex hormone therapy for their willingness to
           participate in the study. Patients willing to participate will be screened for study
           eligibility. Eligible subjects will be informed about the study procedures and possible
           risks. Upon receiving written informed consent, the patient will be included into the
           study. Willingness to participate in the study will not influence the medical treatment.

      A control group of men and women matched for age, body mass index, health status (morbidity)
      and education who are nor undergoing cross-sex hormone therapy will be recruited via online
      advertisements.

      3.2. Study procedures Seven days prior to baseline assessment, accelerometers will be handed
      to participants to measure physical activity. Four days prior to baseline, participants will
      be asked to complete a 96h activity log to objectify physical activity. Food intake will be
      self-assessed four days prior to baseline assessment via questionnaire as instructed by a
      trained dietitian. Dietary restraints will be assessed (e.g., lactose intolerance, etc.) to
      adjust procedures of ad libitum food intake measurement to individual needs. A tour of our
      metabolic unit and the MRI facilities will be given to participants and procedures explained.
      Subjects will be asked to fill out behavioral questionnaires at home, within one hour of
      completing their breakfast, to decrease variability of answers.

      On the day of baseline assessment, prior to initiation of cross-sex hormone therapy/no
      therapy, current medical history including current medication, a physical exam including
      measurement of weight, waist and hip circumferences, blood pressure and heart rate will be
      performed. In the fasted state, blood will be drawn to measure fasting glucose, HbA1c%, serum
      insulin, triglycerides, total-, low- and high-density-lipoprotein concentrations. Insulin
      sensitivity and HOMA-IR will be calculated. The fasting blood draw will further include
      measurement of 17β-estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, sex-hormone binding globulin
      (SHBG), blood cell count, creatinine, ALAT, ASAT, GGT, TSH, and FGF21. In control women and
      transmen we will record whether menstrual cycle still persists. From each blood draw, serum
      will be stored at -80°C for future analyses. In order of procedures performed during baseline
      assessment, subjects will receive:

        -  Assessment of body composition: Fat mass and fat-free mass will be assessed using body
           impedance analysis (BIA).

        -  Measurement of resting energy expenditure: Baseline indirect calorimetry using a
           ventilated hood method will be performed in the fasted state resting energy expenditure
           (REE) prior to hormone substitution therapy/no therapy. The measurement will take 30
           min. In brief, a clear plastic hood will be placed over the participants head with a
           soft collar around the neck to prevent any air leaks. The hood will be securely
           ventilated with room air and over 30 min. constant fractions of gases flowing out of the
           hood will be analyzed for carbon dioxide and oxygen concentrations. Via measurement of
           the respiratory quotient, calorimetric measurements will be performed during 5 min.
           intervals and over a period of 30 min. the subject's mean REE will be estimated. Using
           the ventilated hood method, adverse events are scarce and may include claustrophobia.
           Thus, subjects suffering from claustrophobia will be exempt from this measurement.

        -  Ultrasound of vessels and microperfusion: Ultrasound will be conducted to evaluate
           arterial stiffening (abdominal aorta and carotid artery; regional aortic strain and
           aortic impedance characteristics via LVOT doppler and aortic tonometry, GE Healthcare,
           Vivid E9 system). Peripheral near-infrared spectroscopy combined with a vascular
           occlusion test will be used to evaluate microperfusion (near-infrared spectroscopy,
           Diaspective Vision, Tivita tissue).

        -  Ad libitum food intake: For breakfast, subjects will undergo an ad libitum food intake
           situation in which they will be exposed to a buffet and asked to eat as much as they
           want. The buffet addresses individual dietary retrains (e.g., vegan diet). Caloric and
           macronutrient intake will be measured. Prior to and immediately after the buffet,
           participants will rate their mood, hunger, and desire to eat on a 10 cm visual analogue
           scale.

        -  Snack Food Taste Test: For assessment of taste preferences and as an additional measure
           of ad libitum food intake a snack food taste test will be performed. This test will be
           administered within 30 min. after lunch. This will be a taste test where participants
           will be asked to rate four types of food that will be placed in front of them in large
           bowls: potato chips (70 g), peanuts (100 g), Oreo cookies (100 g), and M&M's (100 g).
           Participants will be asked to provide mood and appetite ratings. They will then be
           instructed to consume as much or as little as they wish and to judge the taste of the
           food products using the provided rating scales. The experimenter will then leave the
           room and return 10 min. later, remove the bowls of food and administer a final rating
           scale of mood and appetite. The bowls of food will be weighed before and after the taste
           test as a measure of food and calorie intake.

        -  Response to thermic stimuli: Via an electrode positioned below the base of the index
           finger (C6) of the participant's non-dominant hand, thermic stimuli (cold versus warm)
           will be administered and subjects will be asked to indicate cold/warmth perception.
           Perception of cold will be measured four times in a row, followed by warmth perception.
           Then thermal discomfort will be triggered via administration of one cold versus one warm
           stimulus.

        -  Measurement of taste perception and smell: Administration of standardized gustatory and
           olfactory stimuli will enable the assessment of (non)specific taste perception and the
           subject's ability to perceive certain scents. Taste perception will be assessed one at a
           time by placing paper slip on the participant's tongue that had been coated with one
           specific, known flavor. Similarly, the participant's ability to perceive certain scents
           will be tested. In this case, specific, known scents will be placed in front of the nose
           of the participant who will be asked to determine the scent and then asked to rate it.

        -  Sex hormone deposition in hair: Using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry,
           deposition of sex hormones in hair will be measured (time points V2-V4). For this
           purpose, a small amount of hair will be removed from the occipital region of the
           subject's head and then analyzed.

        -  Visit to our clinical outpatient unit (transgender subjects only): Based on our
           unit-specific standards of care, subjects will receive a prescription for hormones
           intended to induce transformation to the other sex (cyproterone acetate +
           testosterone/estradiol) and advised to begin administration of their first dose of
           medication on day 1 of our study. Patients will be advised to continue with treatment
           according to our unit-specific standards of care for subjects with gender dysphoria
           undergoing hormone substitution therapy.

      Upon baseline assessment, cross-sex hormone treatment versus no treatment will commence.
      Study procedures for V2 through V5 are the same as the above mentioned.
    
  