
    
      Patients who have abnormal ultrasound findings,advanced maternal age, abnormal serum
      biochemical screening, or a personal or family history of chromosomal/genetic conditions will
      be eligible for this study. Prior to receiving genetic counseling, the genetic counselor or
      her designee will approach the patient asking if she would be willing to participate in a
      survey that helps us better determine how well patients understand their testing options for
      the above issues.

      The survey consists of two parts. The first part will be taken prior to genetic counseling to
      see what the patient's baseline understanding of their options are (this is study related.)
      If the patient agrees to participate in the study, she will then receive the first part of
      the survey. After completion of the first part of the survey, the patient will then receive
      genetic counseling (this is standard of care.). Information will also be collected from the
      medical record including age, pregnancy history and the reason for the visit. After receiving
      genetic counseling for their specific indication, patients will decide if they want
      noninvasive prenatal testing, amniocentesis, testing depending what their ultrasound shows,
      or no testing. After this the patient will be given the second part of the survey to complete
      (this is study related). Regardless of which testing is elected, (if any), participants are
      administered the same survey. After completing the survey, the patient will return the form
      to the genetic counselor or her designee. The recruitment period is expected to last
      approximately one year. After recruitment is completed, data analysis will take place.
      Interim data analysis make take place as well.

      Patients will not be contacted for research purposes after the survey has been completed.

      After patients complete this survey, they will require no further information. They are not
      being administered a treatment or receiving a direct benefit from participation; the study is
      designed only to obtain information about patient's decisions, knowledge, and attitudes
      regarding their testing options.
    
  