
    
      We will retrospectively analyze patients with advanced NSCLC who have received at least one
      cycle of nivolumab (3mg/kg intravenously every 2 weeks) within the early access program (EAP)
      or after the drug approval. All patients have been treated with immunotherapy, in second or
      further line, in two Italian Institution (the S. Maria delle Croci Hospital in Ravenna and
      the S. Maria della Misericordia Hospital in Perugia) between February 2015 and May 2017.

      Patient data and laboratory values will be recorded in an electronic anonymized database and
      personally collected by one of the investigators (C.B.). PD-L1 expression will be assessed by
      immunoistochemistry (IHC) on available archival tissue samples with clone E1L3N (monoclonal
      rabbit; Cell Signaling technology, Danverd, MA) or SP263 (monoclonal rabbit; Ventana Medical
      System, Tucson, AZ), in a Ventana automated stainer according to the manufacturer's protocol
      and using proprietary reagents. Since a specific PD-L1 level is not mandatory for prescribing
      immunotherapy in second or further lines, except for pembrolizumab, we established the PD-L1
      positivity as expression on ≥ 1% of tumor cells. To calculate NLR, the absolute neutrophil
      count will be divided by the lymphocytes value measured in peripheral blood within 4 weeks
      prior to the first infusion of nivolumab. Patients will be dichotomized according to a
      pre-specified cutoff value as high (NLR ≥ 3) or low (NLR < 3), since a ratio greater than 3
      has been associated with poor outcome in many types of cancer. Patients will be divided in
      two cohorts according to combined PD-L1/NLR value: cohort1 with PD-L1 positive and low NLR
      and cohort 2 with PD-L1 negative and high NLR. Primary end point will be ORR, calculated as
      the percentage of responses among all treated patients. Response to treatment will be
      assessed by computed tomography and classified according to RECIST 1.1 criteria [15 Eisenauer
      Cancer 2009]. The influence of the combined PD-L1/NLR on overall response rates (ORR), will
      be analyzed with univariable logistic regression. Secondary outcome will be OS and PFS,
      calculated from the start of nivolumab treatment to death and radiographic or clinical
      progression, respectively, with deterioration of performance status classified as disease
      progression. We will also examine whether PD-L1, NRL, or combined PD-L1/NRL contribute to the
      prediction of OS or PFS, through multi-variable analyses. Since data collected included many
      variables, we will perform multivariable models to examine the dependence of OS and PFS on
      known prognostic factors: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS)
      (0-1 vs. ≥2) and brain involvement at time of initiating nivolumab, smoking history [never
      (<100 cigarettes per lifetime) vs. former/current smokers], histology (squamous vs.
      non-squamous), molecular profiling for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Kirsten rat
      sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (K-RAS) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) when available.
      Patients with squamous-cell cancers will be counted as wild type for targetable mutation,
      which are considered to be infrequent in this population. The study was approved by the local
      Research Ethics Committee.
    
  