
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of fentanyl transmucosal tablet to
      placebo in patients having colonoscopy.

      Fentanyl is a highly lipophilic drug absorbed very rapidly through the oral mucosa and more
      slowly through the gastrointestinal tract. Orally administered fentanyl undergoes pronounced
      hepatic and intestinal first pass effects.

      Abstral® is a quick dissolving sublingual tablet formulation. Rapid absorption of fentanyl
      occurs over about 30 minutes following administration of Abstral®. The bioavailability of
      Abstral® has not been studied but is estimated to be about 70%. Mean maximal plasma
      concentrations of fentanyl range from 0.2 to 1.3 ng/ml (after administration of 100 to 800 µg
      Abstral®) and are reached within 22.5 to 240 minutes.

      Fentanyl is metabolised primarily via CYP3A4 to a number of pharmacologically inactive
      metabolites, including norfentanyl. Within 72 hours of intravenous fentanyl administration
      around 75% of the dose is excreted into the urine, mostly as metabolites, with less than 10%
      as unchanged drug. About 9% of the dose is recovered in the faeces, primarily as metabolites.
      Total plasma clearance of fentanyl is about 0.5 l/h/kg. After Abstral® administration, the
      main elimination half-life of fentanyl is about 7 hours (range 3-12.5 hours) and the terminal
      half-life is about 20 hours (range 11.5-25 hours). Impaired hepatic or renal function could
      cause increased serum concentrations. Elderly, cachectic or generally impaired patients may
      have a lower fentanyl clearance, which could cause a longer terminal half-life for the
      compound.

      This is a randomized controlled double-blind study. A total of 200 patients will be included.
      The patients are recruited from 18-85 year old male or female patients undergoing
      colonoscopy. In view of previous studies (Amer-Cuenca et al. 2011) it can be calculated that
      87 patients will be needed per group to demonstrate a 30% decrease in the worst experienced
      pain at a level of significance P = 0.05 and power of 90%. Because of possible dropouts, 100
      patients will be recruited to both groups. Pain will be assessed by numeral rating scale
      (NRS). For the calculation of the sample size, coefficient of variation is assumed to be 70%
      in both groups.
    
  