
    
      RECRUITMENT: This study will be conducted at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN. Patients over 18
      who have chronic kidney disease will be approached for recruitment. Interested patients will
      go through the informed consent process and, if frailty testing was not completed within the
      two weeks prior to consent, patients will complete frailty testing. If patients are
      considered frail or pre-frail, they will be enrolled in the study.

      FRAILTY TESTING: Participants will complete the FP, Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)
      and other frailty testing at the beginning of the study, 4 weeks after beginning the
      intervention, and 8 weeks after beginning the intervention. Frailty testing will include a
      hand grip strength test, a gait speed test over 15 feet, repeated chair stands, balance
      testing, and a body composition scan. Participants will also be asked to wear an activity
      monitor for 5-7 days at each testing point and to complete a set of questionnaires. Height,
      weight, BMI, skeletal muscle mass, percent body fat, and segmental lean mass will be
      recorded. Participants with a pacemaker, an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD), or
      an automated ICD (AICD) will not be able to complete. At enrollment, participants 55 and
      older will undergo a submaximal exercise test to rule out significant undiagnosed
      cardiopulmonary disease (standard entrance criteria for pulmonary rehabilitation).

      INTERVENTION: Participants will be asked to complete 2 1-hour exercise sessions per week for
      8 weeks (16 total sessions) under the supervision of a licensed respiratory therapist in
      Rochester, MN on non-dialysis days unless the participant is on daily or near-daily dialysis
      (e.g. home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis). . The exercise sessions will be based on
      pulmonary rehabilitation and will follow guidelines established by the American Thoracic
      Society. Exercise sessions will include endurance (treadmill or cycle ergometer), strength,
      and flexibility training and will be tailored to individual participants.
    
  