
    
      Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Mexico and the world.
      Malnutrition is often associated with this type of cancer appearing in about 40-50% of
      patients the diagnosis made, affecting the quality of life and prognosis, as well as
      increased toxicity to cancer treatment. Cancer anorexia is characterized by loss of appetite
      and is the main cause of reduced food consumption in lung cancer patients. Anorexia occurs in
      up to 25% of cases. Unfortunately, current therapies available to treat anorexia and / or
      cachexia associated with cancer provide only partial results, mainly because the intervention
      is delayed and the development of an early and effective intervention is still looking.

      In most patients, malnutrition is associated with a hyporexia secondary to the production of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF), leading to an increase in
      metabolism and appetite loss. Nabilone is a synthetic cannabinoid derivative that is widely
      used in oncology for its antiemetic and adjuvant effect of pain. Although widely used for the
      treatment of anorexia in palliative care, no randomized clinical trials demonstrating an
      effect on cancer-associated anorexia, however, in animal models, stimulation of cannabinoid
      receptors, mainly through CB1 receptor can modulate hypothalamic circuits in the brain stem,
      which in turn regulate food intake and satiety. Moreover cannabinoids are able to block the
      effects of TNF in the nervous system, which is associated with appetite changes in cancer
      patients. Additionally, agonists of cannabinoid receptors attenuated weight loss in murine
      models of anorexia.

      Additionally, to diagnosis anorexia The Anorexia-Cachexia scale (A/CS-12) from The Functional
      Assessment of Anorexia-Cachexia therapy (FAACT) questionnaire relates differences in symptoms
      and severity, assigning a value of 0-4 for each of 12 items. A 2010 consensus of special
      interest group of CACS from ESPEN (The European Society for Clinical Nutrition and
      Metabolism) in order to unify criteria, proposed that a score ≤24 of the A/CS-12 would be
      enough to establish a diagnosis of anorexia.

      The administration of Nabilone in patients with anorexia associated with Non-Small Cell Lung
      Cancer (NSCLC) is expected to increase appetite, nutritional status and quality of life.

      Methods: randomized double-blind clinical trial assessing Nabilone effect in non-small cell
      lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with unresectable stage III/IV NSCLC, ECOG performance status
      (ECOG PS) 1-2 and anorexia (main criteria: score of Anorexia Cachexia scale (AC/S-12) from
      Functional Assessment of Anorexia Cachexia Therapy ≤24). Patients are randomized to Nabilone
      at 0.5mg to 1mg, or placebo, given daily orally for 8 weeks. Changes are evaluated from
      baseline to week 2, 4, and 8.

      Time Assessment Dose T0 Baseline 0.5mg T1 2 weeks 1 mg T2 4 weeks 1 mg T3 8 weeks 1 mg

      Sample size:

      To determine the sample size is considered the effect of cannabinoid (dronabinol, 2.5 mg / 22
      days) in appetite in cancer patients by a difference in proportions of 34% more than placebo,
      requiring 32 patients per group plus 20% of loss gives us a total of 39 patients per group,
      with a power of 90% and an α of 0.05
    
  