
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the safety of hormone replacement therapy, in terms of risk of recurrence, in
           women with previously treated, nonrecurrent stage 0-II breast cancer.

        -  Compare this regimen vs non-hormonal symptomatic treatment, in terms of quality of life
           and risk of death, in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by
      center, prior hormone replacement therapy before diagnosis, and concurrent tamoxifen therapy.
      Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive one of the following: Women with an intact uterus whose last
           menstrual bleeding has occurred within 2 years receive continuous oral cyclic
           estradiol-norethindrone combination comprising estradiol only on days 1-12, estradiol
           plus norethindrone on days 13-22, and then estradiol only on days 22-28. Women with an
           intact uterus whose last menstrual bleeding occurred more than 2 years prior to study
           receive continuous daily oral estradiol-norethindrone combination. Women who have had a
           hysterectomy receive continuous daily oral estradiol only.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive one or more non-hormonal therapies (e.g., clonidine, beta
           blockers, psychological support, physical exercise, acupuncture).

      Treatment in both arms continues for 2 years in the absence of disease progression. Patients
      may continue their randomized treatment regimen at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Quality of life is assessed 3 times during the study and then every two years thereafter.
      Gynecological health is assessed at 3 months, 6 months, and one year during the study and
      then annually for at least 5 years. Breast cancer is assessed every 6 months for 3 years and
      then annually thereafter or at the discretion of the treating physician.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,300 patients will be accrued for this study within 5-6 years.
    
  