
    
      Nurses today are facing unprecedented patient acuities, burnout, fear, uncertainty, a
      continuously evolving workflow and nursing shortages, Therefore, workplace-related stress has
      become one of today's most serious occupational hazards. Aromatherapy can be a convenient,
      inexpensive, and non-invasive method of stress relief. There is little research regarding the
      efficacy of aromatherapy by means of inhaling essential oils in reducing workplace
      stress-related symptoms among nurses. Therefore, this study will examine the efficacy of
      lavender-scented aromatherapy tabs (Elequil ® aromatabs ®) in reducing job stress-related
      symptoms among nurses.

      The study for the participants goes as follows:

        1. Nurse identified by:

             -  Leadership

             -  Self-identified

             -  SPARKS member

        2. Process:

             -  Identified nurse will be informed and consented regarding the study.

             -  An aromatab will be given to the nurse.

             -  They will place the aromatab on their uniform top to allow for continuous exposure
                to the scent.

             -  Four (4) hours later - nurse completes survey as to the effects of the aromatab

             -  Completed survey is placed in research file at charge nurse desk in opaque folder.

      Data to be used within the research project will be obtained from the collected survey forms.

      Recruitment will be completed face-to-face between the SPARKS team member, leadership, or
      self -identification of the potential subject. Considerable care will be taken so that the
      person contacted does not feel pressured to participate.

      The research team will meet prior to enrolling the first participant, during and upon
      completion of data collection. Any safety concerns will be addressed at those times. At any
      time during data collection, the PI's or any study team members may request that the team
      meets to address a safety concern. Study participants will be assured of anonymity and
      confidentiality of the data and they will also be reminded that they can withdraw from the
      study at any time.
    
  