
    
      Integrin αⅤβ3 is an important member of this receptor family and expressed preferentially on
      various types of tumor cells and the activated endothelial cells of tumor angiogenesis, but
      not or very low on the quiescent vessel cells and other normal cells. Therefore, the integrin
      αⅤβ3 receptor is becoming a valuable target for diagnosis and response evaluation of
      malignant tumors.

      The tri-peptide sequence of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) can specifically bind to the
      integrin αⅤβ3 receptor. Accordingly, a variety of radiolabeled RGD-based peptides have been
      developed for non-invasive imaging of integrin αⅤβ3 expression via positron emission
      tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Among all the RGD
      radiotracers studied, two PET imaging agents, 18F-Galacto-RGD and 18F-AH111585, have been
      investigated in clinical trials, and the results demonstrated that both radiotracers allowed
      the specific imaging of various types of tumors, and the tumor uptake correlated well with
      the expression of integrin αⅤβ3. Recently, series of RGD dimeric peptides with PEG linkers
      have been studied. The new types of RGD peptides showed much higher in vitro integrin
      αⅤβ3-binding affinity than the single RGD tri-peptide sequence, and importantly, they
      exhibited significantly increased tumor uptake and improved in vivo kinetics in animal
      models. As a representative, 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 could be easily prepared and exhibited
      excellent in vivo behaviors in animal models. No adverse reactions are observed in animal
      models to date.

      For the further interests in clinical translation of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2, a open-label dynamic
      whole-body PET/CT study was designed to investigate radiation dosimetry, plasma
      pharmacokinetics, biodistribution, safety and diagnostic performance of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 in
      healthy volunteers and lung cancer patients. A single dose of nearly 111 MBq 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2
      ( ≤ 40 µg BNOTA-PRGD2) will be intravenously injected into healthy volunteers and lung cancer
      patients. Visual and semiquantitative method will be used to assess the PET/CT images.
      Changes of blood pressure, pulse, respiration, temperature, routine blood and urine tests,
      serum alanine aminotransferase, albumin, and creatinine, and any adverse events will be
      collected from the volunteers. Adverse events will also be observed in the patients.
    
  