
    
      The primary efficacy outcome will be assessed by review of the symptom memory aid (TravMil
      diary). Subjects will follow a symptom memory aid from the onset of a disease episode and
      record relevant symptomatology (date/time and number of diarrheal episodes, associated
      symptoms such as fever, vomiting, nausea, bloody stools and cramps, severity of symptoms,
      functional activity). Use of antibiotics and/or Imodium (loperamide) for each episode will
      also be recorded). An additional memory aid to capture occurrence of solicited adverse
      events, use of new prescription medications, as well as adherence to study medication regimen
      will be utilized by subjects during deployment and returned (or re-created with study
      personnel if lost or incomplete) at follow-up Memory aid data will be actively sought from
      all subjects via required in-person follow-up.

      Secondary efficacy outcomes will also largely be derived from the self-report of subjects via
      use of the memory aid data. Secondary safety evaluation will be performed at the end of study
      visit based on history obtained from the subject regarding medical treatment requiring events
      while deployed.

      Individuals will be enrolled prior to travel/deployment. At the time of enrollment they will
      undergo eligibility criteria review, informed consent process, baseline assessment
      (demographics, medical history, others), sample collection (blood and stool), and blinded
      randomization into a study arm.

      Episodes of diarrhea are expected to occur while on study drug. Subjects will be instructed
      and expected to seek care for these episodes from medical assets available to them at COD.

      Subjects will be instructed to discontinue study drug if they develop diarrhea and are given
      antibiotic therapy. It is not expected that study drug will impact the choice or
      effectiveness of antibiotics used to treat travelers' diarrhea. Some subjects will be
      eligible to restart (only once restart) study drug once they are cured of a travelers'
      diarrhea episode. See US and UK addenda for details.

      The end of prophylaxis is defined as the +/- 96hr period from cessation of prophylaxis due to
      (A) the subject completing maximal period of prophylaxis but remains deployed, or (B) being
      re-deployed and returns to mainland/COO. During this end of prophylaxis period, subjects may
      be seen by study personnel and perform an end of prophylaxis visit.

      The post-deployment period is defined as the return to COO through 8 weeks from return. A
      post-deployment visit, in the COO will be planned for all subjects enrolled in the study and
      will occur as soon as it can be scheduled.

      All subjects will be asked to complete a baseline questionnaire on day of enrollment and
      complete web-based surveys during the follow-up period. Subjects will be emailed the survey
      link at 3 and 6 months post-return to COO. The survey will assess for several types of
      functional bowel disorders and symptoms of ReA using standardized questions and definitions
      and questions and will use disease activity scales to assess impact on daily life.

      A sample of blood will be collected up to 2 times as part of participation in this study. The
      samples will be collected, processed and stored until transported at a later date to central
      lab for testing of acute and convalescent titers directed against bacterial and viral
      enteropathogens. Samples will also be used for biomarker evaluation and support of
      exploratory objectives.

      Stool samples will be used for exploratory microbiological analyses to assess etiology of
      diarrhea by pathogen, antibiotic susceptibility of enteropathogens, and evaluation of impact
      of rifaximin on the microbiome. Serum will be utilized to attempt to determine seroconversion
      status for pathogens not identified during stool analysis.
    
  