
    
      Tobacco smoking rates are substantially higher among individuals with substance use disorders
      (SUDs), relative to individuals in the general population (e.g., 97% vs. 19%, respectively).
      Yet most treatment programs for SUDs fail to address the use of tobacco among patients, and
      integration of smoking cessation treatment with SUD treatment may improve outcomes for both
      drugs. The question remains, however, whether to implement a smoking cessation component
      immediately or only after a patient is stabilized on their SUD pharmacotherapy. Existing
      research that directly addresses this factor is limited and findings are mixed. Therefore,
      the purpose of this study was to compare drug use outcomes among patients at three different
      stages of their SUD treatment: 0-90 days (weekly clinic attendance), 90 days-1 year (biweekly
      clinic attendance), and more than 1 year (monthly clinic attendance) of consistent abstinence
      from illicit drugs. Smokers currently in treatment for opioid dependence, at the WVU
      Comprehensive Opioid Addiction Treatment (COAT) program, were recruited to participate in
      this 12-week study. Our goal was to complete 20 patients from each of the three COAT
      treatment groups. During the 12-week intervention period, individuals continued to attend
      their regular COAT clinic appointments while following a standard varenicline (Chantix®)
      dosing regimen and responding to questions daily via text messaging (e.g., adherence to
      varenicline, use of tobacco, tobacco withdrawal side effects, etc.). The primary outcomes are
      those relevant to feasibility: 1) recruitment, randomization, and retention, 2) adherence to
      medication regimen, and 3) compliance with responding to text message-based questions.
      Secondary outcomes include a comparison of the three COAT treatment groups on 1) relapses for
      all substances, 2) the proportion of smokers abstinent at each assessment (confirmed with
      expired air carbon monoxide samples), 3) days until successful cigarette quit day, 4)
      substance withdrawal and medication side effect symptoms, 5) motivation to quit tobacco, and
      6) cigarette quit attempts.
    
  