
    
      Most women with breast cancer are diagnosed in the early stages of the disease (Stage I and
      II) and 90% of these can expect to survive at least 5 years. Adjuvant chemotherapy regimens
      for breast cancer are often associated with complaints of cognitive changes, mostly the
      inability to concentrate and memory lapses that may persist in some women long after
      chemotherapy has ended. These changes are frequently accompanied by reports of a triad of
      behavioral conditions: fatigue, increased stress, and depressive symptoms. Biologically,
      cytokine release patterns play an important role in regulation of the immune system and
      normal CNS function, including neural cell repair and metabolism of neurotransmitters-both
      critical for normal cognitive functioning. Thus, the theoretical underpinnings of this
      research are embedded in the biobehavioral (mind-body) model which characterizes the
      multidimensional interactions among the mind, neuroendocrine, and immune systems. The purpose
      of this prospective, longitudinal project of 100 women is to determine whether there are
      differences in cognitive functioning and related behavioral conditions (fatigue, perceived
      stress, and depressive symptoms) in women in each of 3 groups: those with early stage BC
      treated with surgery and chemotherapy, women with early stage BC treated with surgery and
      without chemotherapy and an age-gender-education-matched healthy cohort without cancer. The
      primary aim of the project is to examine the relationships among fatigue, perceived stress,
      and depressive symptoms and neurocognitive impairment. A secondary aim is to explore the
      relationships among key behavioral and biological markers that may explain underlying
      mechanisms for development of neurocognitive impairment. In particular, this project will
      explore pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine patterns and their potential associations with
      neurocognitive functioning. For the primary aim, the mixed linear model will be used to test
      for differences between the groups. For analysis of the secondary aim variable reduction
      stage and correlation will be used. The strength of this project is its biobehavioral
      approach to discerning underlying mechanisms of neurocognitive impairment in women with early
      stage BC receiving adjuvant chemotherapy. In addition, three other common behavioral
      conditions associated with BC and/or chemotherapy, fatigue, perceived stress, and depressive
      symptoms, will be evaluated for their potentially confounding effects on cognitive function.
    
  