
    
      Presbyopia is a multifactorial physiological aging mechanism that leads to a progressive
      functional loss of near vision. In addition to the use of reading glasses for presbyopia, a
      wide variety of procedures have been investigated by ophthalmologists to correct this
      refractive error. Cornea laser surgery with multifocal patterns or monovision approaches were
      developed including LASIK, PresbyLASIK, photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), laser epithelial
      keratomileusis (LASEK), thin-flap femto-LASIK or sub-Bowman's keratomileusis (SBK).
      Conductive keratoplasty (CK), clear lens extraction or cataract surgery using multifocal,
      pseudo-accommodative intraocular lenses (IOLs) or monovision monofocal IOLs are also some of
      the techniques that have been used for the treatment of presbyopia.

      Corneal laser surgery and CK are minimally invasive methods, but they provoke irreversible
      changes of the corneal anatomy, whereas scleral surgery and clear lens extraction are more
      invasive techniques. The necessity to develop a minimally invasive, reversible, and safe
      surgical technique with an easy learning curve for patients between 45 and 60 years, led to
      the development of refractive intracorneal lenses (inlays) (such as the AcuFocus, Inc.
      KAMRA™, ReVision Optics® PresbyLens®, and the Presbia Flexivue Microlens™) placed inside the
      corneal stroma. These inlays are refractive lenses that have a central zone free of
      refractive power and a peripheral zone with a standard positive refractive power. These
      inlays are inserted inside the corneal stroma of the non-dominant eye, generally offering two
      different focal points, one for the far vision and a different for the near vision
      respectively. The pocket of the cornea is created using a laser (details to be provided later
      in this protocol).

      The Presbia Flexivue Microlens is intended to improve near vision and decrease dependence on
      reading glasses in presbyopic adults who are tolerant of monovision (as evaluated by
      participation in a monovision tolerance trial (5 to 7 days minimum)), who require a reading
      add of +1.50 D to +3.50 D, who have MRSE between +1.00 D and 0.75 D with no more than 0.75 D
      of refractive cylinder, and who have stable MRSE within 0.50 D over the past 12 months.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of
      the Presbia Flexivue Microlens™ (hereinafter referred to as the "Microlens") implanted in
      presbyopes for improvement of near vision.

      Investigational Plan: This is a prospective, non-randomized, unmasked, multicenter clinical
      investigation. A total of 412 subjects at up to 11 investigational sites in the United States
      will undergo insertion of the Microlens in non-dominant eyes, and will be followed through 36
      months postoperative (assuming an estimated 10% per year lost to follow-up). Each site will
      contribute a targeted minimum of 20 treated subjects, but no more than 25% of the total
      subjects treated in the study. Data on a minimum of 300 subjects with 24 month data will be
      submitted as part of the Premarket Approval; all subjects will be followed through 36 months
      postoperative. Subjects from outside the United States will not be enrolled in this study.
    
  