
    
      Phase 1 and Phase 2 will occur sequentially:

      Phase 1 is the preliminary safety assessment portion of the study, which will follow a
      modified 3 + 3 design to assess toxicity. The trial would be held for review should there be
      more than 1 dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) observed within the first 3-6 patients. The toxicity
      of the in situ vaccine without pembrolizumab (ongoing and previous trials) has been minimal,
      limited to transient febrile response to the intratumoral Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligand
      poly-ICLC, typically resolving with oral acetaminophen. As such, the primary objective of
      Phase 1 is to assess the safety of the addition of pembrolizumab to this in situ vaccine
      protocol. In Phase 1, patients will only be enrolled at the lead institution (Mount Sinai).
      After enrollment of the initial 3 patients, enrollment will pause until all three patients
      have completed cycle 1 of pembrolizumab (DLT evaluation window is 63 days from initiation of
      in situ vaccine). During the pause, new patients may be consented and screened, but not
      initiated on therapy. If 1 or no DLTs are observed in the first 3 patients, an additional 3
      patients will be enrolled. The regimen will be considered safe (in order to progress to Phase
      2) if no more than 1 out of 6 patients experience a DLT. If two or more DLTs are observed at
      any point in Phase 1 then accrual will be stopped for protocol review by Data Safety
      Monitoring Board, PIs and sponsor for possibility of protocol amendment.

      Phase 2 will follow a Simon's two-stage design. This Phase will proceed only if toxicity is
      acceptable as determined in Phase 1.

      Phase 1/2 design: Patients will be enrolled concurrently into three independent cohorts, with
      patients from Phase 1 evaluated within their subsequent disease-specific cohorts. iNHL, MBC
      and HNSCC often have peripherally accessible tumors amenable to intratumoral injection, and
      have all had relatively modest responses to single-agent checkpoint blockade, so are good
      candidates for this novel combination. Patients will be enrolled regardless of the PD-L1
      staining of their tumor. We will also enroll patients previously exposed to PD-1/PD-L1
      targeted therapies either on a clinical trial or as standard of care (as for HNSCC).

      Cohort A: iNHL including but not limited to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL/SLL),
      follicular lymphoma (FL), and marginal zone lymphoma (MZL). This cohort excludes patients
      with diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and any other lymphoma determined to be
      progressing rapidly by investigator (PI or site PI).

      Cohort B: MBC with peripherally palpable disease amenable to intratumoral injection.

      Cohort C: HNSCC with peripherally palpable disease amenable to intratumoral injection.

      Stage 1: Seven patients will be evaluated in Stage 1 of Phase 2 in each disease-specific
      cohort, inclusive of patients enrolled in Phase 1. If no patient in a cohort achieves a
      response, the study in that cohort will close due to a lack of efficacy. The first seven
      patients in each histology will only be enrolled at Mount Sinai.

      Stage 2: If one or more responses are seen in Stage 1, enrollment of an additional 12
      patients for Cohorts A and B or 11 patients for Cohort C will proceed. These cohorts may be
      also be enrolled at collaborator sites (to be determined).

        -  Cohorts A or B: If at least three out of the 19 patients achieve a response, the
           intervention will be considered promising and worthy of further investigation.

        -  Cohort C: If at least four out of the 18 patients achieve a response, the intervention
           will be considered promising and worthy of further investigation.
    
  