
    
      Lateral epicondylitis, also called "tennis elbow" is a common condition affecting 1 to 3% of
      the population; most commonly individuals aged 35 to 55 years. It is frequently self limiting
      but can lead to refractory symptoms in a minority of cases. Pain is localised to the lateral
      epicondyle of the elbow at the point of insertion of the common extensor tendon. Although
      associated with repetitive movement of the extensor muscles of the forearm, frequently no
      precipitating cause can be discerned.

      The term "epicondylitis" is a misnomer as histological investigations have revealed that
      there is only limited inflammation, and the term "epicondylosis" should be employed, due to
      the degenerative nature of the condition.

      The condition is divided in to 4 stages, though progression may not occur through all four.
      Firstly, there is acute inflammation that is quick to resolve. Secondly, prolonged injury
      results in an increase in fibroblasts, vascular hyperplasia, disorganised collagen
      disposition and degeneration of the tendon. Thirdly, further accumulation of structural
      alterations leads to partial or complete tendon rupture. Stage 4 exhibits the same features
      as 2 and 3 but with the addition of calcification.

      Current treatments for lateral epicondylitis include: rest, behaviour modification and
      physiotherapy, anti-inflammatory medication both steroidal and non-steroidal, and surgery.
      Current experimental therapies include muscle relaxants to reduce muscle tone and force on
      the epicondyle, laser therapy to stimulate collagen production, and blood based therapies
      including the injection of autologous blood and protein rich plasma. Trials of the latter two
      treatments give conflicting results due to variations in protocol and trial design.

      Cell Therapy Ltd has developed a regenerative gel, Tendoncel, that combines isolated platelet
      growth factors and cellulose-derivative gel. Tendoncel consists of a proprietary platelet
      lysate formulation that is easy to apply to the skin.
    
  