
    
      Introduction Oral health in older people has been the subject of several studies from
      different perspectives in recent decades. These studies describe the difficulties in
      achieving a holistic view in healthcare when it comes to oral health for older people, and a
      lack of awareness among nursing staff that infections in the oral cavity may also affect
      other parts of the body. In a randomised study, it was shown that professional oral
      healthcare may improve oral conditions in elderly people. Studies have shown correlations
      between poor oral hygiene and pneumonia in elderly people. It has also been shown that both
      chewing ability and daily nutritional intake may be adversely affected in individuals with
      partial or full dentures compared to those with natural teeth or crown and bridge work.

      To ensure good oral health and function, it is of great importance that nursing staff are
      able to support dependent older people in their daily oral care. Basic oral health knowledge
      among nursing staff and further training in oral hygiene procedures have been reported to be
      essential to good quality in oral care. In a study from Norway, it was shown that the
      residents' oral hygiene in nursing homes was significantly improved when an oral healthcare
      program was introduced. The program consisted of new procedures and tools for good oral
      hygiene, as well as practical training in oral care for nursing staff.

      An earlier study by the authors of the present study captured the views of staff in various
      nursing homes for older people on important aspects for well-functioning daily oral care for
      residents. This study emphasised organisational structures involving oral hygiene procedures,
      staff approach regarding prioritising oral hygiene and keeping up skills in oral hygiene
      procedures, and staff views on residents' needs including matters such as how to act when a
      resident refuses help with oral care. Support by a dental hygienist in the nursing home was
      perceived as valuable help. Other authors have made similar findings in long-term care
      facilities, indicating that oral hygiene may be unsatisfactory due to organisational factors
      such as lack of a standard protocol for oral hygiene procedures, lack of time and conflicting
      priorities, lack of knowledge among care providers and cooperation difficulties among some
      residents.

      The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of dental hygienist support on oral
      health and attitudes to oral health care in nursing homes for older people.

      Material and Methods The study had a quantitative design with two comparable study groups
      with older people in two nursing homes. The two most centrally situated public nursing homes
      in the largest municipality in the county of Värmland in Sweden were randomly selected as
      intervention and control group. The Regional Ethical Review Board in Uppsala approved the
      study.

      Study material The two nursing homes were comparable regarding size, resident profile, and
      staffing. The residents included older people with dementia, physical disabilities or
      long-term illnesses. One director of nursing, one registered nurse and 21 nursing assistants
      worked at the intervention nursing home. One director of nursing, one registered nurse and 28
      nursing assistants worked at the control nursing home. All but one of the staff members were
      women. There were 33 residents in each of the two nursing homes. Only dentate residents were
      included.

      Procedures The Director of Social Services in the municipality was given verbal and written
      information and approved the study. The directors of nursing at the intervention and control
      nursing homes were separately informed, both verbally and in writing, about the procedures
      for their respective part of the study. They were not informed which additional nursing home
      was participating in the study. The directors of nursing at both nursing homes supplied the
      residents or their relatives with written information about the study and asked for written
      consent. Only those who consented to participate in the study were included. Edentulous
      residents were excluded from the study. The nursing assistants agreed to participate in the
      study.

      Intervention

      In the intervention nursing home, the study dental hygienists offered regular support over
      the course of three months, comprising the following:

        -  Participation in staff meetings with the director of nursing and nursing assistants at
           the beginning of the study, after six weeks and at the end of the study period. At those
           meetings, oral care routines were discussed and a concept of prescriptions for
           individual oral hygiene procedures was introduced (see below).

        -  Visits to the nursing home once a week. For two hours in the morning, the dental
           hygienists accompanied and supported the nursing staff in their oral hygiene care and
           gave advice on daily oral hygiene procedures for each resident participating in the
           study. Specific difficulties concerning residents with cooperation problems were
           addressed. Each weekly visit ended with a 30 min meeting in which the nursing staff had
           the opportunity to discuss oral hygiene procedures and oral health issues with the
           dental hygienists.

        -  Individual written oral hygiene prescriptions for special oral hygiene devices,
           procedures or products. These were issued by the dental hygienists to residents with an
           identified need for extra oral care support, i.e. with scores >1 in the Revised Oral
           Assessment Guide (ROAG) evaluation.

      Control

      At study start, the director of nursing for the control nursing home was informed about the
      importance of good oral hygiene and was invited to contact the two study dental hygienists if
      support was needed with any particular oral health issue or dental hygiene procedure.

      Clinical evaluation of oral health Clinical evaluations of the residents' oral health status
      were blinded. An independent dentist and dental hygienist, otherwise not committed to the
      planning of the study and not informed about which was the intervention nursing home,
      conducted a dental examination of the residents who had consented to take part in the study
      in both nursing homes. This was done at the beginning of the study and three months later at
      the end of the study. The staff were not informed about the scheduled time for the clinical
      evaluations of the residents' oral health.
    
  