
    
      Study Population Participants will be recruited from all patients who are planning to undergo
      gynecologic surgery by an attending surgeon in the Division of Urogynecology at Duke
      University Medical Center (DUMC). After enrollment and randomization, the participants will
      take the study drug once daily to start on post-operative day one and continue until the
      participant has stopped catheterizing for up to one week after surgery. The participant will
      also complete a daily diary for one week after surgery to record any catheterization and any
      study drug or additional antibiotic medication taken. We will then follow patients for a
      total of three weeks after surgery to monitor for treatment for UTI. At three weeks after
      surgery the observation period for the participant is complete.

      Sample Size Under the assumption of 80% power and an alpha error of 0.05, we would need 156
      subjects to demonstrate a 66% reduction in risk of UTI (i.e. from 28% to 10%) in those
      undergoing prophylactic antibiotic treatment. Therefore, we aim to recruit a total of 175
      participants to account for participant dropout.

      Study Definitions For our study purposes, post-operative catheterization will be defined to
      include patients who are hospitalized post-operatively with an indwelling Foley catheter as
      well as patients discharged with either intermittent self-catheterization (ISC) or indwelling
      Foley catheter. The decision to catheterize will be determined by type of surgical procedure,
      need for inpatient stay and void trial results. Void trials will be conducted as follows: the
      bladder is backfilled with 300cc normal saline, the catheter is removed and the patient is
      prompted to void immediately and, after voiding is complete, a (PVR) post-void residual
      volume is measured. The patient passes the void trial if she voids over 200cc in total volume
      or if her PVR is less than 100cc.

      Our primary outcome of treatment for UTI within the first three weeks after surgery is to be
      defined clinically. A patient will be considered to have received treatment for UTI if she
      receives any antibiotic therapy for clinically suspected or culture-proven urinary tract
      infection (i.e. empirically given upon development of urinary symptoms or prescribed based on
      urinalysis or urine culture results) within the first three weeks after surgery.

      Data Collection Demographic characteristics, operative data and post-operative data will be
      collected. Prior to discharge after surgery all patients will undergo a void trial per
      standard procedure unless they receive an indwelling Foley catheter for overnight
      hospitalization. Post-operatively all subjects will be given a catheterization diary to
      record days of catheterization and days of antibiotic therapy. All subjects will be
      instructed to call our clinical office to report any urinary complaints and/or treatment for
      UTI. Information will be collected from electronic medical records regarding any office
      visits, urine cultures performed or treatment for UTI during this post-operative period. Data
      will be entered into a de-identified study database for analysis by the PI and study
      coordinator who will be blinded to participant randomization.

      Subject Randomization and Blinding Study participants will be randomized to prophylactic
      treatment versus no treatment via a computerized randomization scheme by the IDS at the time
      of enrollment. Patients will be blinded to treatment by the utilization of placebo tablets.

      Adverse Events Nitrofurantoin is FDA approved for the treatment of UTI. We will be using a
      prophylactic dose and will monitor for any adverse events. Adverse events will be reported
      per protocol. A safety monitoring designee will perform reviews on a designated basis
      throughout the study.

      Study Costs There will be no additional cost to the patient for their participation in this
      study. No additional laboratory testing will be performed as a result of participation.
    
  