
    
      Dizziness is a common condition that is responsible for a significant degree of material
      morbidity and burden on our health service. There are multiple causes of dizziness, and these
      originate from pathologies affecting a large variety of different organ systems. Dizziness is
      usually episodic and short-lived, so when a patient presents to their health care provider,
      examination is often normal. As such, diagnosis is challenging and patients often experience
      significant delay in receiving a diagnosis.

      The investigators have developed a prototype device for monitoring dizziness and have tested
      it in a group of 17 healthy volunteers. The results showed that their device is capable of
      accurately, precisely and reliably identifying short periods of induced nystagmus (eye
      movements produced during dizzy attacks) among days' worth of normal eye movement data.

      The overall aim of this trial is to test a fully evolved device for the continuous recording
      of eye movements over a prolonged period of time, on patients suffering from dizziness. For
      the purpose of this study, the monitoring period is 23 hours a day, for 30 days. The device
      is composed of two components: a bespoke single-use sensor array that adheres to the
      participant's face, and a small reusable module that contains a battery, microcomputer, data
      storage facility, battery and connection port.

      The investigators intend to confirm that the device data can be used to identify any
      occurrence of nystagmus, as produced during attacks of vertigo. Each trial participant will
      be provided with the device and enough single-use electrode arrays to allow the array to be
      changed every 24 hours, for thirty days. Participants will be allowed to remove the sensor
      array for up to 60 minutes each day to allow them to wash and/or shower. If patients
      experience an episode of dizziness during the trial, they are required to log the details of
      the event in a trial diary. The identity of these days will not be revealed to the blinded
      investigator who will later conduct a formal, blinded analysis of the data. At the end of the
      thirty-day trial, the sensitivity and specificity of the device will be determined by
      assessing whether the data can be used to correctly identify the dates that participants
      reported dizziness.
    
  