
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the efficacy of bevacizumab and erlotinib hydrochloride as initial therapy in
           patients with newly diagnosed or recurrent stage IIIB or IV non-squamous non-small cell
           lung cancer (NSCLC).

      Secondary

        -  Assess the safety of bevacizumab and erlotinib hydrochloride as initial therapy in these
           patients.

        -  Assess the quality of life (QOL) in patients treated with bevacizumab and erlotinib
           hydrochloride.

        -  Assess the efficacy and safety of subsequent cisplatin or carboplatin in combination
           with gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients who have disease progression.

        -  Assess the QOL in patients treated with subsequent cisplatin or carboplatin in
           combination with gemcitabine hydrochloride at disease progression.

      Tertiary

        -  Identify novel biomarkers in predicting response to therapy and toxicity in patients
           treated with bevacizumab and erlotinib hydrochloride as initial therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, prospective, open-label study.

      Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 and oral erlotinib hydrochloride
      once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Beginning within 3 weeks of documented disease progression, patients receive gemcitabine
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. They also receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour
      or carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with gemcitabine hydrochloride with
      either cisplatin or carboplatin repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and periodically during study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 101 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  