
    
      Diacutaneous fibrolysis is a physiotherapeutic instrumental technique, used to treat
      musculoskeletal conditions causing pain and/or movement restriction . It is applied by means
      of metallic hooks, ending in a spatula with beveled edges, that seems to allow a better
      pressure distribution on the skin and a deeper and more precise application, compared to the
      manual approach.

      Recent studies indicate positive responses regrading pain intensity decrease in sports people
      suffering anterior knee pain, improving range of motion in subacromial impingement syndrome,
      improving sensory conductivity in symptomatic patients with carpal tunnel syndrome, decreased
      pain in patients with chronic epicondialgia or improveing function athletes with anterior
      knee pain.

      However, the specific action mechanism, have not been investigated in depth yet. Clinical
      studies show improvements in strength, pain intensity, range of motion, or function. But
      whether if this effect is produced by changes in tissue tension or by reflexes effects, as
      has been suggested before, still unclear. There are no studies evaluating its effects on
      posterior muscular chain of lower extremity in athletes, where FD effects on neuromuscular
      response could be more evident due to the overload involved on this area.

      Thus, the aim of this study is to evaluate the immediate, and after 30 minutes, effects of a
      single diacutaneous fibrolysis session on contractile and viscoelastic muscle properties and
      mechanosensitibity on posterior muscular chain of lower limb in athletes.

      Design. A randomized controlled trial with blind evaluator. Randomization. Between lower
      extremities of each subject (Random.org). Regardless of its own dominance, diacutaneous
      fibrolysis will be applied to de following muscles and intermuscular septums: gluteus
      maixmus, biceps femoris and semitendinosus to de lower experimental limb. The other extremity
      will not be treat (control limb).

      Sample recruitment. Athletes from UIC university community, who compete officially or
      institutionally, whether they are federated or recorded in a sport official register where
      the predominant activity focuses on the lower train (athletics, cycling, football, rugby...).

      Procedure. The anthropometric data will be collected at the beginning of the study. The
      outcome assessment will be performed by a blinded evaluator at the baseline, immediately
      after the technique application and 30 minutes after.

      An experienced physiotherapist in the diacutaneous fibrolysis technique will apply the
      treatment to the lower limb, previously randomized, in the following musculature and
      intermuscular septums: quadratus lumbar, gluteus maixum, biceps femoris and semitendinosus.
      Intervention procedure will last about 10-15 minutes
    
  