
    
      Urothelial carcinoma is the fifth most common cancer in men and seventh among women all
      around the world. Although a complete surgical resection with or without perioperative
      treatment is the most effective way to offer a potentially curative therapy to patients with
      these cancers, 25% of the patients initially present with locally or systemically advanced
      disease. Systemic chemotherapy is the only current modality that provides the potential for a
      long-term survival in patients with advanced or metastatic urothelial disease.

      Cisplatin based combination chemotherapies such as GP, GP-S, MVAC, and dose dense MVAC with
      G-CSF supports are regarded as a backbone treatment for patients with advanced bladder cancer
      on the basis of the results from previous studies.

      However, there is no consensus on appropriate number of chemotherapy cycles. In phase III
      trial comparing MVAC with GP, patients were treated with 6 cycles (every 4 weeks) of
      chemotherapy. In another phase III trial comparing MVAC with HD-MVAC, there is no
      pre-determined number of cycles, but the median number of cycles were 4 for MVAC and 6 for
      HD-MVAC.

      However, it is hard to complete six or more cycles of cisplatin based chemotherapy due to
      cumulative toxicities of cisplatin such as neuropathy and development of resistance. The
      median age of patients with urothelial cancer is 70 years old and significant proportion of
      the patients already showed impaired performance status (ECOG PS ≥2).

      There has already been reported in several trials of NSCLC, which showed that 4 cycles of
      chemotherapy containing cisplatin has no significant differences in survival or QoL with
      lower incidences of toxicities compared with 6 cycles of chemotherapy.

      The objective of this trial is to assess whether there is any difference in OS between
      patients who are treated with four cycles of cisplatin based chemotherapy and patients who
      are treated with 6 cycles of chemotherapy to determine the optimal duration of chemotherapy
      in patients with advanced urothelial cancer.
    
  