
    
      In the past decade, the characterization of human tumours at the molecular level has
      considerably improved. This has led to the development of targeted therapeutics that inhibit
      specific molecules and pathways involved in oncogenesis. One of the key pathways that is
      dysregulated in cancer is the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/mTOR pathway. This
      pathway is important for cell growth and survival. In most cancer types this pathway is
      over-activated leading to proliferation and survival of malignant cells. Inhibition of this
      pathway is therefore of great therapeutic potential.

      Both temsirolimus and nelfinavir are agents with PI3K /Akt/mTOR inhibiting activity. The main
      active metabolite of temsirolimus is sirolimus that decreases mTOR activity. Inhibition of
      mTOR activity results in G1 phase cell cycle arrest and subsequent inhibition of tumour
      growth. Another effect is growth factor downregulation and inhibition of angiogenesis. In
      addition, mTOR inhibition may exert its anti-tumour effect by inducing apoptosis.

      Although inhibitors of mTOR demonstrated clinical activity in tumor types like, mantle cell
      lymphoma, endometrial carcinoma, and neuro-endocrine tumors, most malignancies are resistant
      by feedback PI3 kinase activation. Resent data suggest that this tumor escape mechanism can
      be overcome by dual inhibition of mTOR and PI3 kinase.

      Nelfinavir is a well known human immuno-deficiency protease inhibitor with PI3kinase
      inhibiting activity, via inhibition of Akt, downstream the PI3kinase cascade. Nelfinavir is
      able to inhibit Akt at concentrations that are achieved in HIV patients at standard antiviral
      doses. Nelfinavir is therefore a feasable and generally well tolerated agent to be used in
      combination with temsirolimus to overcome resistance of mTOR inhibition.

      Simultaneous inhibition of mTOR/PI3kinase pathway by temsirolimus and nelfinavir is a
      promising strategy to treat cancer.
    
  