
    
      The number of persons with Parkinson Disease (PD) in the United States is expected to double
      by 2030 as the population ages. Importantly, this increase in the prevalence of PD will have
      greater impact within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) because the Veteran population
      is older than the general population and Veterans with PD are more likely than those without
      PD to rely solely on VA for their health care. While PD is often characterized by the motor
      symptoms of the disease (tremor, bradykinesia, rigidity), non-motor symptoms such as urinary
      symptoms correlate more closely with impaired well-being as the disease progresses. However,
      the impact of urinary symptoms in PD extends beyond worsened well-being. The urinary symptoms
      of overactive bladder (OAB), including urgency, frequency, and nocturia, with or without
      urinary incontinence, are the most common urinary symptoms of PD. OAB symptoms are associated
      with falls (a cause of increased mortality in PD), with spouse/caregiver stress, and,
      ultimately with institutionalization, thus it is critical that we optimize the care of
      urinary symptoms for Veterans with PD.

      Several studies suggest abnormal central nervous system processing of sensory input from
      bladder afferent nerves contributes to OAB symptoms in PD, possibly because of delayed
      recognition of bladder fullness. This mirrors findings in non-PD populations with OAB. In the
      non-PD OAB population, pelvic floor muscle contractions diminish bladder muscle contraction
      and recent evidence demonstrates that behavioral training with pelvic floor muscle exercises
      improves the cortical integration of bladder afferent signals. Pelvic floor muscle
      exercise-based behavioral therapy for OAB symptoms requires individuals to learn a motor
      skill and implement an adaptive behavioral strategy to delay the need to void. Because of its
      effectiveness compared to drug therapy, pelvic floor muscle exercise-based behavioral therapy
      is recommended first-line in men and women with OAB who do not have PD. However, the most
      recent clinical guidelines for the treatment of urinary symptoms in PD recommend treatment
      with anticholinergic drugs. While some anticholinergic drugs are effective in reducing
      symptoms of OAB, it is important to note that there is a glaring lack of an empirical
      evidence base to promote these drugs in the setting of PD given that they add to the
      anticholinergic burden of antiparkinsonian therapy, and may worsen the cognitive and
      autonomic burdens of the illness. Therefore, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are needed
      to optimize treatment paradigms for urinary symptoms in PD.

      The investigators propose a three-site, RCT conducted at the Atlanta (lead site), Birmingham
      and Richmond VA's to establish non-inferiority of pelvic floor muscle exercise-based
      behavioral therapy compared to drug therapy for OAB symptoms in adults with PD. Groups will
      be stratified by OAB symptom severity, PD motor symptom severity, gender, and site. The
      investigators will randomize 90 participants in order to complete the study in 80
      participants, assuming 85% power and a non-inferiority margin for the OAB symptom score of
      15% at 12-weeks. The primary outcome measure will be urinary symptom severity as measured by
      the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire (ICIQ)-OAB symptom score
      collected at 3 time points during the study: baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks. The
      investigators' benchmark for successful treatment will be a 2 point reduction in the ICIQ-OAB
      symptom score, which corresponds with perceived benefit in preliminary studies of behavioral
      therapy treatment for OAB symptoms in PD. To evaluate the primary efficacy outcome, the
      investigators will utilize a random effects mixed model and adjust for baseline OAB symptom
      score severity. Additionally, in order to better understand central control mechanisms of
      bladder function, the investigators will determine if domain-specific cognitive function
      impacts the response to exercise-based behavioral therapy or drug therapy for urinary
      symptoms. At baseline and 12 weeks, randomized participants will undergo a brief
      neuropsychological battery. Understanding how domain-specific cognitive function impacts
      response to treatment may inform new targets for rehabilitation therapy.
    
  