
    
      -  Background Knowledge about incidence, risk factors and genetic predispositions of
           primary spontaneous pneumothorax in young adults is very limited, and treatment has also
           been controversial. Typically, the first incidence is treated conservatively with simple
           chest tube drainage and only if the disease reoccurs is surgery considered. However,
           conventional treatment may be associated with increased morbidity, prolonged
           hospitalization and many young adults are concerned about the high recurrence of this
           disease. The latter has been reported in as many as 25-35% of patients. Because
           spontaneous pneumothorax in young adults usually is associated with apical blebs, the
           investigators hypothesized that primary surgery (Video-Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery =
           VATS) with resection of such blebs at the time of the first episode of pneumothorax
           might be an effective first line treatment associated with lower morbidity and shorter
           hospital stays, and a definite decline in recurrence rate.

        -  Method From July 2009 the investigators conducted a nationwide study , where 300
           consecutive patients admitted to a Danish hospital with primary spontaneous pneumothorax
           undergo a high resolution CT of the thorax. Based upon the CT the patients are
           randomised to conventional conservative treatment (chest tube drainage) or primary VATS
           with bleb resection and mechanical pleurodesis.

      Participants are followed for ten years. The primary endpoint is ipsilateral recurrence of
      pneumothorax. Secondary endpoints are length of hospitalization, duration of chest tube
      drainage and miscellaneous complications.

      Simultaneously, a research biobank containing blood samples and pulmonary tissue is created
      for future studies of biomarkers and possible genetic causes.

      Finally, the investigators are conducting a national epidemiological study, where the
      incidence in the Danish population is investigated.

      *Perspective This study contributes new knowledge on incidence, genetics and best treatment
      of primary spontaneous pneumothorax in young adults which will have an impact on the future
      strategy of both understanding and treatment of this disease on a global level.
    
  