
    
      Visit 1 Patient will review and sign the study consent form. Subject will be asked to
      complete questionnaires. Then, patient will then be asked to give a semen sample.

      Visit 2 (1 week after Visit I) Prior to this visit, the patient will be randomized to either
      active medication or placebo. First, the patient will then undergo a physical exam including
      a genital and rectal exam. Then, the patient will be brought in to the room and placed in
      lithotomy position. The perineum will be prepped with iodine solution. EMG electrodes and a
      ground will be placed in the perineum. Three landmarks (1. middle of bulbospongiosus muscle;
      2. perineal body; 3. an area equidistant from 1 and 2) will be marked using a skin marker.
      The EMG needle will be placed into each landmark and the patient will be asked to squeeze his
      perineal muscles. Once in the proper location, 1.3 cc of medication (active drug or placebo)
      will be distributed into these landmarks. The remaining 2.6 ccs will be injected into 2 other
      painful pelvic muscle sites as determined physical exam. The area will then be gently
      massaged.

        1. Month Post Injection Mailing:

           The patient will be mailed a packet containing follow-up questionnaires.

        2. Month Post Injection Mailing: Same as 1 Month Post Injection Visit.

        3. Month Post Visit (Visit 3) First, the subject will be asked to fill out follow-up
           questionnaires. Next, a physical exam and prostate massage will be performed and
           expressed prostatic secretions collected. Finally, the subject will be asked to provide
           a semen sample.

      Optional open label trial for those patients randomized to placebo section:

      Open label injection visit (Visit 4) Injection of open label Botox as in Visit 2.

        1. Month Post Open Label Botox Injection Mailing:

           The patient will be mailed a packet containing follow-up questionnaires.

        2. Month Post Open Label Botox Injection Mailing:

           Same as 1 Month Post Injection mailing.

        3. Month Post Open Label Injection Visit:

      Same as Visit 3.
    
  