
    
      The research proposal has been developed in conjunction with the Respiratory Physicians and
      Physiotherapy team who deliver the pulmonary Rehabilitation sessions.

      The investigators want to address if providing patients with monitors to record activity
      levels and then giving feedback on activity level data enhances the effect of the standard
      pulmonary rehabilitation program. The investigators want to pay particular attention to the
      levels of activity outside the duration of the rehabilitation classes - to see if higher
      levels of activity are reached.

      This aims to be a feasibility study done on a small scale where issues such as compliance
      with wearing the device can be monitored closely. Compliance will be reviewed during a one
      week trial of wearing the device prior to starting the rehabilitation sessions. It will also
      enable study participants to get into the routine of wearing the device, charging etc.

      Analysis of the data will be data collected during weekdays, choosing the 4 weekdays where
      there is a minimum of 8hrs of wearing time during waking hours. If the device has been worn
      for less than 8 hours, then days with most wear-time of the device will be selected. This
      method was chosen as it is a robust and statistically validated method of assessing activity
      levels in patients with COPD.

      All study participants will be asked to wear the activity monitor to minimise any bias in the
      collected data. Subjects will be randomised as to whether they receive feedback or not.

      The choice of activity monitor to be used was considered. Requirements are that it should be
      wrist-worn and the data collected by the device able to been downloaded through the
      associated computer software/"app". Wrist worn devices were chosen so that compliance in
      wearing the device would be maximized - they are worn in the same way a normal wrist watch
      would be.

      A model from the brand "Fitbit" was selected based on this criteria. This was justified by
      previous studies showing Fitbit has good validity and usability in measuring energy
      expenditure in COPD patients.

      As all participants in the study will partake in the pulmonary rehabilitation sessions there
      will be no deviations from standard care with this project. Analysis of activity will be
      downloaded, once a week, from the devices during the sessions and subjects randomised to
      receive feedback will have a 10 minute session dedicated to this.

      There is a risk that subjects will have an exacerbation of their condition/chest infection
      during the period of pulmonary rehab. If a subject is too unwell to attend a rehabilitation
      session they will receive their feedback on their next attendance. Any subjects that are
      hospitalised during the study will be withdrawn.
    
  