
    
      This research study involves chemotherapy as a possible treatment for pediatric patients with
      Diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG)

        -  The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment
           including evaluations and follow up visits.

        -  The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

             -  Marizomib

             -  Panobinostat

      This study consists of 2 parts:

        -  Part A : The investigators are looking at the highest dose (up to a targeted maximum
           dose) of the study drug Marizomib that can be administered safely without severe or
           unmanageable side effects in participants that have DIPG, not everyone who participates
           in this research study will receive the same dose of the study intervention. The dose
           given will depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled prior and how
           well the dose was tolerated.

        -  Part B: Participants who tolerate Marizomib alone will be treated with Marizomib and
           panobinostat, but at lower dose of marizomib than the dose of marizomib when given
           alone.

      Participants are expected to be on study treatment for up to 2 years followed for up to 5
      years.

      It is expected that up to 45 people will take part in this research study. This research
      study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug and also
      tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies.
      "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

        -  Marizomib has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a
           treatment for any disease.

           -- This is the first time Marizomib will be given to children.

        -  Panobinostat has not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
           treatment of diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma but it has been approved for other uses.
    
  