
    
      ICU patients have a high incidence of bacterial infection in the lower respiratory tract,
      mainly with severe pneumonia, often causing severe sepsis and septic shock, which is one of
      the main causes of death in patients. At present, the biggest difficulty faced by clinicians
      is the continuous increase of bacterial resistance rate and the increase of patient mortality
      due to the early inadequacy empirical anti-infective treatment. Studies have shown that
      patients with VAP(Ventilator Associated Pneumonia) have irrational drug use in the early
      stage, with a mortality rate of more than 50%. When the rate of appropriate drug use has
      dropped to 33%, while mechanical ventilation time and ICU hospitalization time have been
      significantly shortened. Therefore, identifying pathogenes as early as possible and
      shortening the time of empirical anti-infective treatment are very important for improving
      the prognosis of patients with severe pneumonia and reducing the incidence of bacterial
      resistance.

      There are three traditional methods for detecting pathogenic microorganisms: 1. microbial
      culture method is the most traditional means of identifying pathogen. It is necessary to
      inoculate the patient's body fluid, blood, etc. in a suitable medium, incubate in a suitable
      incubator, and then pass the drug. Sensitivity tests determine the resistance of
      microorganisms, usually takes 3-7 days. For some specific types of pathogenic microorganisms
      or microorganisms with harsh growth conditions, there may be negative culture results.
      Therefore, the traditional culture methods have disadvantages such as poor timeliness,
      relatively high requirements, and low positive culture rate (30-40%). 2. time-of-flight mass
      spectrometry: the mass spectrometry technique is used to analyze and detect the protein
      components of the strain, and the characteristic peak spectrum is obtained. Compared with the
      bacterial map in the database, the bacteria can be judged by matching. The method can be
      shortened by about 6-8 hours compared with the conventional culture method, but since the
      detection of the colony needs to reach a certain amount, the specimen can not be directly
      detected after obtaining the specimen, and the preliminary microbial culture is required.
      Therefore, the detection time still takes 1-2 days or more, and there is also the
      disadvantage of low timeliness. In addition, it is necessary to compare the expansion and
      standardization of the database, and the inability to analyze the resistance of
      microorganisms is also the inadequacy of the detection technology. 3. High-throughput
      sequencing technology: With the rapid development of molecular biology in recent years,
      high-throughput sequencing technology is widely used in the early diagnosis of clinical
      microbiology, the principle is mainly through the connection of the universal linker to the
      fragmentation to be sequenced. Genomic DNA, which produces tens of millions of
      single-molecule polyclonal polymerase chain reaction arrays, then performs large-scale primer
      hybridization and enzyme extension reactions, and obtains complete DNA sequence information
      by computer analysis. However, this technology is difficult to effectively distinguish
      between pathogenic bacteria and background bacteria, technology and database to be
      standardized, detection time still takes about 2 days, can not obtain microbial resistance,
      expensive and other shortcomings At the office. In summary, the current time limit for
      targeted anti-infective treatment is stopped 2 days after the specimen is taken. Therefore,
      the search for new, pathogenic microbial detection technology that is faster, more accurate
      and more sensitive is a hotspot and a difficult point in the field of microbial and
      anti-infective research in recent years.

      The PCR-CRISPR/Cas12a combination technology of alveolar lavage fluid developed by the
      College of Life Sciences of Nanjing University is based on PCR amplification and fluorescence
      signal detection twice to achieve the detection of the presence and absence of specific DNA
      sequences in the test sample. technology. The determination of the detection result of the
      clinical sample pathogen is based on the comparison of the fluorescence results of the PCR
      product of the sample DNAD with the fluorescence detection results of the positive control
      (PC) and the negative control (NC) as a standard. The specific recognition function of the
      CRISPR/Cas12a system relies on the specific guidance and binding of the crRNA to specific
      DNA, and the specificity of the crRNA is determined by detection of a positive control of a
      common pathogen by a single crRNA. The detection technology is highly specific and takes only
      2-3 hours, which is a qualitative leap in the detection time compared to the conventional
      technology.

      In order to verify the feasibility and accuracy of the technology, the Center and the Nanjing
      University of Life Sciences for the common pathogens of ICU pneumonia (Acinetobacter
      baumannii, MRSA, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, etc.) for alveolar A
      preliminary study of the PCR-CRISPR/Cas12a combined detection technique for lavage fluid.
      Twenty-nine specimens of lower respiratory tract alveolar lavage fluid were cultured by
      conventional bacterial culture method and combined with PCR-CRISPR/Cas12a. The results showed
      that the accuracy of detection and identification of pathogens based on PCR-Cas12a technology
      reached 93.10% (27/29). For the 27 specimens, the pathogens infected by the traditional
      isolation culture method can be detected by PCR-CRISPR/Cas12a technology. The two exceptions
      were the detection of Acinetobacter baumannii in the No. 6 sample by the traditional
      isolation culture method and the detection of Proteus mirabilis in the No. 13 sample (not
      within the range of pathogens detected). Moreover, the pathogens identified by the
      PCR-CRISPR/Cas12a combination technique were more than one or two different than the
      traditional culture methods, which was consistent with the PCR, suggesting that the
      sensitivity is much higher than that of conventional microbial culture, and the results are
      reliable. These preliminary results indicate that the PCR-CRISPR/Cas12a combined detection
      technique has good accuracy and high sensitivity.

      Based on those, the research team speculated that the combination of PCR and CRISPR/Cas12a
      detection technology of alveolar lavage fluid to guide anti-infective treatment of pneumonia
      patients can achieve targeted anti-infective treatment and improve patient prognosis. To
      validate the above hypothesis, we designed a multicenter randomized prospective study
      comparing the effects of PCR-CRISPR/Cas12a combined detection with alveolar lavage fluid and
      traditional microbial detection techniques on antimicrobial adjustment and prognosis in
      patients with ICU pneumonia. It aims to find more rapid, accurate and sensitive microbial
      detection technology for patients with pneumonia, and to achieve earlier precision treatment.
    
  