
    
      Type 3 neovascularization also called retinal angiomatous proliferation is a subtype of
      neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) that is characterized by intraretinal
      neovascularization.

      The incidence of type 3 neovascularization is relatively lower than other subtypes of
      neovascular AMD, constituting 10 to 20% of entire neovascular AMD. However, it is a very
      important disorder because it often leads bilateral visual deterioration. The high risk of
      bilateral involvement is characteristic of type 3 neovascularization. In some cases, the
      visual prognosis of the initially uninvolved eye with better vision, is poorer than the
      initially involved eye. In addition, profound visual loss may occur during the treatment
      course, especially in undertreated cases. Thus, preserving vision is particularly important
      in type 3 neovascularization, which subsequently highlights the importance of investigating
      more effective treatment strategies. Previous study suggested the need for proactive
      treatment in type 3 neovascularization to reduce the risk of abrupt visual loss.

      Treat-and-extend (TAE) regimen is a widely-used, effective anti-vascular endothelial growth
      factor treatment regimen for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD), regardless
      of subtypes of AMD. However, since type 3 neovascularization is at high risk of GA, there has
      been some debate regarding the benefit of TAE, when compared to the as-needed regimen, for
      treating type 3 neovascularization. Despite some controversy, reports indicated that
      increased injection frequency is associated with development or progression of GA. Thus, it
      is important to balance efficacy and efficiency when treating type 3 neovascularization.

      Type 3 neovascularization is a disorder in which the treatment outcome of TAE regimen was
      first reported. Nevertheless, only limited evidence has been available regarding the efficacy
      of TAE using aflibercept in this disorder. In addition, all the previous studies were
      retrospective, based on relatively small study population. Moreover, results of extending the
      injection interval to 4 months have not yet been reported. Recently, ALTAIR study provides a
      scientific evidence that injection interval can be extended to 4 months when using TAE
      regimen. In type 3 neovascularization, extending the injection interval is not only decreases
      treatment burden of the patient, but also may improve long-term visual outcomes because it
      may decrease the injection frequency. If this regimen is found to be effective in type 3
      neovascularization, it may contribute to more widespread use of TAE regimen using aflibercept
      for type 3 neovascularization.

      In addition, there are two questions which have not been addressed in previous TAE studies
      for type 3 neovascularization. The first question is "Is the treatment using TAE regimen can
      impede the fundamental progression of the disorder?". Since visual loss in type 3
      neovascularization usually develops in stage 3 disorder (eyes exhibits serous pigment
      epithelial detachment on OCT, it will be a very meaningful result if TAE can impede stage
      progression. The second question is "Is there any clues to predict the recurrence of fluid?"
      Since avoiding under-treatment is very important in type 3 neovascularization, it is very
      important to identify any factor predictive of recurrence. To address this question, it is
      necessary to evaluate the serial changes in vascular morphology of type 3 neovascularization
      lesion. Previously, however, this kind of approach cannot be performed because it requires
      frequent, serial indocyanine-green angiography examination. Fortunately, recent advent of
      OCT-angiography provides simple and safe evaluation of vascular morphology. By using
      OCT-angiography, any vascular morphologic changes preceding the recurrence of fluid during
      the TAE treatment can be evaluated.

      The purpose of the present study is to investigate the 18-month treatment outcome of TAE in
      type 3 neovascularization. The maximum injection interval was set as 4 months. Since the
      ALTAIR study nicely show how to extend the interval to 4 months, the study protocol of ALTAIR
      study was partly adopted in the present study.
    
  