
    
      This is an observational study using ultrasound (US) to assess and characterise
      lipohypertrophy (LH) with a sub-study to assess the impact of LH on glucose variability in a
      case-crossover study.

      The study aim is to assess LH using ultrasound and its impact on glucose variability.

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. To use ultrasound to characterise (appearance, location, mass, and distribution) LH
           tissue in participants with T1DM injecting insulin.

        2. To develop a standard operating procedure for using US to assess LH.

        3. To develop a grading system to evaluate LH using US.

        4. To investigate the relationship between the observed LH and glucose variability,
           glycaemic control, and/or severe hypoglycaemia.

        5. To assess quality of life, diabetes distress, and insulin treatment satisfaction after
           moving to a new injection site and being alerted to the existence of LH.

        6. To learn more about how people living with type 1 manage their injection sites.

      Study design:

      All patients attending the diabetes clinics in Guys and St Thomas' Foundation Trust with type
      1 diabetes for more than three years and thought to have LH will be offered the opportunity
      to participate in the study. Those testing their glucose four or more times a day and with a
      standard deviation of their mean glucose greater than 4mmols, will be offered to participate
      in the case-crossover arm of the study; a sub-study, which forms a students doctoral studies.

      All participants will be asked to give demographic details and medical history. They will be
      asked to complete a series of questionnaires about their injection technique, diabetes
      distress, insulin treatment satisfaction and quality of life. All participants will have a
      baseline glycated haemoglobin taken, and for those in the case-crossover study an additional
      1,5-anhydroglucitol and insulin antibody tests done. The case-crossover study with then be
      fitted with a continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) device to record their glucose variability
      for the following six days. They will then return for the US assessment of their injection
      sites and digital palpation; while all other participants in the characterisation study only,
      will have had this done at the first visit. All participants will be advised as to where they
      have LH and where they can inject to avoid LH and after five weeks in the case of the
      case-crossover study return for a second CGM of six days, and then all participant return
      after six weeks for the final visit.

      At this visit they will complete the questionnaires for a second time and a short exit
      interview will be conduct to gather information on their experience of injecting into a LH
      free site and injecting insulin. The glycated haemoglobin will be repeated and for the
      case-crossover study another 1,5-anhydroglucitol will be taken. Finally, the participants
      will have a session with a diabetes specialist nurse, who will advise them on maintaining a
      stable glucose level and refer on as appropriate to their diabetes team.
    
  