
    
      The postoperative acute pain of hip or knee arthroplasty can decrease early postoperative
      rehabilitation if uncontrolled. This pain is commonly managed with medications, which can be
      associated with a variety of side effects, including sedation, confusion, and falls. These
      side effects are particularly common among the elderly, who undergo the majority of these
      procedures. Adding non-pharmacologic therapies for pain management that can decrease the use
      of medication during the early post-operative period following hip or knee arthroplasty would
      be beneficial to patient recovery.

      According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Consensus Statement, acupuncture has
      shown promising results in some medical situations, such as the management of post-operative
      and chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting, as well as in post-operative dental pain. While
      a recent study funded by the NIH National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
      showed that acupuncture provides pain relief and improves function for people with
      osteoarthritis of the knee, studies involving acupuncture and arthroplasty are few.

      Two recent studies in which acupuncture was used in patients who underwent arthroplasty
      showed mixed results. In a study of ear acupuncture for pain relief in hip arthroplasty,
      there was decreased use of pain medication in those receiving acupuncture; however, the pain
      intensity rating was the same in both the acupuncture and sham acupuncture control groups
      (Usichenko TI, Pain, 2005). In a study that involved a longer duration of acupuncture therapy
      following total knee arthroplasty, patients who were treated with acupuncture in addition to
      standard physiotherapy showed no difference in pain, stiffness, or function at the end of six
      weeks when compared to patients who received standard physiotherapy(van Arendonk N,
      Physiotherapy, 2004-Abstract only). Further studies are needed to assess the efficacy of
      acupuncture in the post-operative pain management of patients who have undergone hip or knee
      arthroplasty.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to test the feasibility of conducting such a study in
      order to competitively apply for funding for a full clinical trial.

      This study is a randomized, single-blind, controlled trial with acupuncture in the immediate
      post-operative period versus sham acupuncture or standard medical care at HealthEast
      Woodwinds Hospital in Woodbury, Minnesota. Ninety (90) patients scheduled for elective hip or
      knee arthroplasty will be recruited from Woodwinds Hospital and randomized to one of the
      three treatment groups in a 1:1:1 ratio (30 patients in each group). Patients in the
      acupuncture or sham acupuncture group will receive one treatment on postoperative day 1. Pain
      medication use will be recorded and pain intensity will be assessed using the Visual Analog
      Scale.
    
  