
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare two usual PT programs to determine if one is more
      effective than the other in reducing disability and pain in individuals who are survivors of
      physical and or emotional trauma. Numerous studies have assessed the mental health issues of
      SOT and the psychological interventions used to address these issues, but there has been
      little research on interventions that address the somatic pain and disability complaints in
      SOT in spite of the fact that 78-83% of survivors report chronic pain.

      There is large variability in physical therapy management of painful conditions, representing
      an opportunity to improve patient care and outcomes. Choice of physical therapy intervention
      can vary based on the individual therapist's years of experience or type of PT practice
      specialization, or lack of specialization. The biomedical model (BIOM) of physical therapy
      (PT) management addresses pain problems by targeting treatment towards the physiologic
      structures or tissues in the region where the patient is reporting the pain sensations. This
      model follows the premise that pain is due to tissue damage and localized inflammation due to
      faulty biomechanics and movement patterns, injury, disease or disuse. The Academy of
      Orthopedic Physical Therapists Low Back Pain Clinical Practice Guidelines recommend manual
      therapy, targeted spine strengthening, endurance and flexibility exercises to treat patients
      with acute, sub-acute, and chronic back pain, and follows this BIOM approach. Additionally,
      there are a variety of exercise methods and manual therapies touted by practitioners leading
      to heterogeneous interventions given for similar patient conditions. A 2014 study compared
      the outcomes of two different types of targeted spine interventions for the treatment of low
      back pain, and found the results to be equivocal, with approximately half the subjects in
      each treatment group demonstrating significant improvement. A biopsychosocial (BPS) PT
      approach of pain neuroscience education, Graded Motor Imagery and general conditioning
      exercises encompassing the health and skill related components of fitness has also been found
      to reduce pain and improve function in patients with chronic low back pain, in patients with
      complex regional pain syndrome and in patients with phantom limb pain. These conditions
      involve central brain changes due to the experience of chronic pain; pain neuroscience
      education and Graded Motor Imagery are purported to address these central changes. These
      studies, however, had methodologic issues, such as lack of a control group or small sample
      sizes. Exercise helps address the fear avoidance component of chronic low back pain, and
      helps to improve strength, endurance and tolerance for daily functional activities.
      Furthermore, pain education was found to decrease pain and improve function in SOT in a small
      pilot study. Patient education is a major component of any PT intervention.

      There are a few small studies that have examined the effects of a BPS approach with promising
      results for specific chronic pain conditions, and there are studies that support the BIOM
      approach in treating musculoskeletal pain conditions but BPS- and BIOM-based treatments have
      not previously been compared in a large randomized controlled trial, nor described in the
      treatment of chronic pain in STT.

      Researchers have sought to determine PT methods that are most beneficial in reducing chronic
      pain and disability, but studies to date have been inconclusive. The investigators objective
      is to compare the BIOM and BSP methods of PT to identify best treatment for individuals who
      have experienced physical and/or emotional trauma and have resultant disabling chronic pain
      due to this trauma. Findings from this work could help physical therapists provide targeted,
      effective treatment to help ameliorate the effects of chronic pain and disability in this
      population. With 78-83% of SOT living with chronic pain, the study findings will help
      therapists choose appropriate interventions to achieve optimal patient outcomes.
    
  