
    
      Major depression (MD) is the leading cause of disability in youth, with a global economic
      burden of >$210 billion annually (Whiteford et al., 2013). However, up to 70% of youth with
      MD do not receive services (Vitiello et al., 2011). Even among those who do access treatment,
      30-65% fail to respond (March et al, 2007), demonstrating a significant need for more potent,
      accessible interventions for adolescent depressive symptoms and disorders.

      The goal of this project is to assess the acceptability and effectiveness of two
      computerized, single-session interventions that may reduce depressive symptoms in
      adolescents. Single-session interventions (SSIs) have shown promise in preventing and
      reducing youth mental health problems (see Schleider & Weisz, 2017, for a meta-analysis). The
      present trial will be the first to evaluate the effectiveness of two distinct SSIs, targeting
      different types of depressive symptoms, in comparison to an active, previously-established
      comparison intervention.

      The first SSI is designed to instill a growth mindset in youth: the belief that personal
      behaviors and characteristics, such as depressive symptoms, are malleable rather than fixed
      (Schleider, Abel, & Weisz, 2015). In previous trial, a single-session growth mindset
      intervention significantly reduced depressive symptoms in high symptom-adolescents (Schleider
      & Weisz, 2018); however, questions still remain about the benefits of this intervention
      across all adolescents.

      The second SSI, which has not been tested previously, is designed to strengthen self-kindness
      and reduce self-hate. This SSI targets self-hate because it is a symptom of depression that
      has been identified as especially "central," or more important to the maintenance of other
      kinds of depressive symptoms, in adolescents at-risk for emotional difficulties. Because
      self-hate is an especially central symptom, an SSI that systematically, precisely reduces it
      may serve as an especially potent intervention.

      This study will test whether either the growth mindset SSI (GM-SSI), the self-kindness SSI
      (SK-SSI), or both reduces symptoms of depression in adolescents, relative to an active
      "supportive therapy" SSI, which teaches adolescents to share their emotions with trusted
      others (Schleider & Weisz 2018). Our second goal is to evaluate whether the GM-SSI and SK-SSI
      target and specifically improve proximal targets, unique to each SSI, immediately after SSI
      administration, relative to the comparison intervention (e.g., whether the GM-SSI improves
      perceived control relative to the comparison intervention, and whether the SK-SSI alters fear
      of self-compassion relative to the comparison intervention). To test these possibilities,
      adolescents recruited from the Healthy Brain Network research study (Advarra Pro00012309)
      (N=501, 167 per SSI condition; ages 11-17) will be randomized to one of three intervention
      conditions: the web-based GM-SSI; the web-based SK-SSI; or the web-based, supportive therapy
      (control) SSI, which has been validated previously (Schleider & Weisz, 2016; Schleider &
      Weisz, 2018). Adolescents will report on their depression symptoms, perceived control,
      self-compassion, and related domains of functioning at pre-intervention, post-intervention,
      and at three-month follow-up. The investigators predict the growth mindset and self-kindness
      web-based interventions will both lead to larger reductions in adolescent depression symptoms
      relative to the control intervention. Additionally, the investigators predict that the growth
      mindset SSI will lead to larger reductions in perceived control than the supportive therapy
      intervention, and that the self-kindness SSI will lead to larger reductions in fear of
      self-compassion relative to the control program. Results may identify two novel, potent, and
      brief interventions for adolescent depressive symptoms.
    
  