
    
      To address our objectives we have designed a six-month prospective randomized controlled
      study (RCT) investigating cardiovascular disease risk in HIV patients on ART with the
      implementation of an aspirin versus placebo strategy to investigate whether this risk can be
      modified. As nearly all HIV patients are anticipated to be on ART in the upcoming decade, we
      have decided to open this study to only virally suppressed HIV on ART. A total of 100 virally
      suppressed HIV positive Malawians on ART will be enrolled in this study. Initial screening
      will occur in the patient population identified as being HIV positive with viral load
      suppression on ART in the last 3 months. The initial screening will provide cross-sectional
      information on baseline demographic, clinical, and laboratory characteristics of virally
      suppressed HIV patients on ART and will assess baseline cardiovascular risk using laboratory
      biomarker data and endothelial function as surrogate markers (see section under procedures).
      Ability of distal arteries to dilate under stress will be measured using novel ultrasound
      technologies applicable to the limited resource healthcare settings in Malawi. After initial
      screening, eligibility into the study will be determined and selected participants will be
      randomized into one of two arms:

        1. Oral aspirin 325mg daily

        2. Oral placebo daily.

      This longitudinal RCT will reassess cardiovascular risk at the one-month, 3-month, and
      six-month mark using the same CVD surrogate measurements of atherosclerosis performed during
      the initial screening.

      Procedures assessing surrogate CVD markers for atherosclerosis:

        1. Laboratory analysis (Venipuncture): Inflammatory biomarkers

           • C-Reactive Protein (CRP), Interleukin-6, Tumor Necrosis Factor- alpha

        2. Endo-PAT analysis

        3. Brachial Flow Mediated dilation

        4. Carotid Intima-Media Thickness
    
  