
    
      Objectives. The purpose of this pilot study is to identify human neurophysiological
      parameters that are sensitive to talampanel, as assessed by transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) and electroencephalography (EEG). Talampanel is a highly selective, orally active
      antagonist of the AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid) receptor.
      The study will test two hypotheses: (1) talampanel will, in a dose-dependent fashion,
      suppress the motor-evoked potential (MEP) amplitude and intracortical facilitation as
      determined by TMS, and (2) talampanel will, in a dose-dependent fashion, cause alterations in
      EEG power within specific frequency bands. We plan to administer a low (25 mg) and high (50
      mg) dose of talampanel and placebo to normal volunteers and measure various TMS and EEG
      parameters that we hypothesize may be influenced by AMPA receptor blockade. We will
      simultaneously assay serum levels of talampanel. We will use statistical tests to correlate
      changes in the TMS and EEG measures with drug concentration. The results of this study will
      allow us to undertake a follow-up study in which we will determine the effects of AMPA
      receptor blockade by talampanel on human motor and cognitive function. Our ultimate goal is
      to determine whether drug-induced blockade of AMPA receptors can be achieved without
      unacceptable neurological impairment.

      Study population. This will be a blinded and placebo-controlled pilot study using 12 normal
      volunteers.

      Design. Normal volunteers accepted into the study will be subjected to the following exams:
      (a) TMS determination of MEP amplitude and paired-pulse testing at baseline and at peak serum
      levels after drug or placebo administration, (b) digital EEG recording for 1 h at baseline
      before administration of drug or placebo and during a period of 3 h after administration.
      Samples for serum chemistry, liver function tests, hematology, and urinalysis will be
      obtained at admission, at discharge, and in every clinic visit during the study. Blood
      samples for determining serum talampanel levels will be obtained at 1, 2, 3, and 8 h after
      drug administration. MEPs at interstimulus intervals of 2 to 20 ms will be compared among
      subjects before and after drug administration, by a repeated measures analysis of variance.
      Talampanel levels will be correlated with MEP amplitudes by regression analysis.

      Clinical endpoint. This pilot study will identify information on the best TMS interstimulus
      interval or intervals for measuring changes in cortical excitability after AMPA blockade, as
      well as the EEG frequency band most sensitive to AMPA blockade with talampanel. Because
      talampanel is a highly selective AMPA receptor antagonist, we will be able to infer that the
      parameters that are sensitive to talampanel can be used as empirical assays of AMPA receptor
      function in humans.
    
  