
    
      This is a single-blinded, two-arm, randomized clinical trial of patients with type 2 diabetes
      mellitus that will compare 'usual care' with an 'enhanced care' model of chronic disease
      management that is based in the practices of family physicians participating in Primary Care
      Networks (PCN's).

      In this study, patients will be randomized into:

        1. Usual care (control) Will reflect current patterns of care for patients with type 2
           diabetes in the Capital Health region.

        2. Enhanced Care (intervention) Will receive a multifactorial intervention with three main
           components that include:

             1. optimized medical management,

             2. support for development of enhanced patient self care management skills, and

             3. organized proactive follow-up by chronic disease management (CDM) teams to support
                improvements in care.

      These components are key elements of the Chronic Care Model. They will be delivered by CDM
      teams working in the practices family physicians in the Primary Care Networks (PCN's).

      Clinical Outcome Measures

        -  will be assessed at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months.

      Quality of Life Measures

        -  will be measured at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months.

      Risks and Benefits

      The prevalence of diabetes mellitus is high and expected to increase in the future. It is
      unlikely that current systems of care will be adequate to provide care to patients with
      diabetes in the future. This study will evaluate a model of care of care , based on the
      Chronic Care Model, which has been provided to improve the care of patients with chronic
      diseases like diabetes. Patients may benefit due to improved care for their diabetes. Health
      care providers may benefit through an increased understanding of best methods and
      organization to provide care to populations of patients with diabetes and other chronic
      diseases.

      Privacy and Confidentiality:

      All study data collected will be kept confidential. Respondents will not be identified by
      name in any presentation or publications arising from the study. Access to data is restricted
      to investigators and project staff.
    
  