
    
      Background

      Acute non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) is the commonest form of acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS) and a leading global cause of premature morbidity and mortality. A coronary
      angiogram is recommended in intermediate-high risk NSTEMI patients to detect obstructive
      coronary artery disease (CAD) and so identify patients who may benefit from coronary
      revascularization. In ACS patients, stress testing before invasive management is not
      recommended and so functional information on ischemia is usually not available. Therefore,
      usual care is based on visual interpretation of coronary disease severity revealed by the
      angiogram and treatment decisions include medical therapy, percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) or coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). Since visual assessment of the angiogram may
      be inaccurate, judgements made by cardiologists in every day practice are subjective,
      potentially leading to misdiagnosis and incorrect treatment decisions.

      Recent studies (DEFER, FAME, FAME II) in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD)
      have presented a new approach to the diagnostic management of CAD. Fractional flow reserve
      (FFR) is an index of the physiological significance of a coronary stenosis and is defined as
      the ratio of maximal blood flow in a stenotic artery to normal maximal flow. An FFR ≤0.80 is
      an evidence-based physiological threshold that correlates with the presence of inducible
      ischemia on non-invasive testing. Alternatively, an FFR >0.80 indicates that patients can be
      managed safely with medical therapy. DEFER and FAME highlighted the benefits of FFR
      measurement in stable CAD to more accurately identify flow-limiting stenoses and guide PCI
      leading to improved outcomes and reduced costs compared to angiography alone. In FAME 2,
      compared to optimal medical therapy alone, PCI combined with optimal medical therapy reduced
      the likelihood of urgent revascularization in patients with stable symptoms and functionally
      significant coronary disease. Overall, FFR measurement can identify and exclude obstructive
      coronary artery disease with high diagnostic accuracy, including in patients with prior MI.

      FFR measurement in unstable coronary artery disease

      There is some uncertainty over the validity of FFR when measured in patients with recent MI.
      FFR measurement requires maximal coronary hyperemia which theoretically may be less readily
      achieved in patients with recent MI, potentially, because of microvascular injury.

      The results of several recent studies support the notion that FFR measurements are valid in
      medically stabilized MI patients. First, Ntalianis et al measured FFR in 112 non-culprit
      coronary lesions repeatedly (average interval 35±4 days) in 101 patients with recent MI and
      found similar FFR values at each time-point. In one other study, FFR correctly identified
      inducible ischemia on SPECT in 57 patients >6 days after MI and in one other study of 124 ACS
      patients, deferring revascularization in lesions with an FFR ≥ 0.75 was safe during longer
      term follow-up. In hospitalized patients with recent MI and angiographic intermediate
      coronary lesions, FFR-guided management reduced in-hospital costs compared to deferred
      management with revascularization guided by myocardial stress perfusion scintigraphy.
      Finally, nearly one third of the patients randomized in FAME had a history of medically
      stabilized unstable angina or NSTEMI five or more days from randomization. The FAME
      investigators performed a post-hoc analysis of these patients and found a similar risk
      reduction for major adverse cardiovascular events in the FFR group compared to the
      angiography-guided group leading them to conclude that the benefit of using FFR to guide PCI
      in multivessel disease may not differ between patients with unstable vs. stable coronary
      disease. The FAME investigators concluded that their post hoc analysis could not prove
      equivalence of effects between subgroups since FAME was neither designed nor powered to do
      so.

      Therefore, the potential diagnostic, prognostic and health economic impact of FFR measurement
      to inform the management of unselected patients with recent (i.e. < 5 days) medically
      stabilized NSTEMI has not been established.

      Specific uncertainties with angiography-guided treatment decisions in NSTEMI.

      First, treatment decisions for non-obstructive (FFR>0.80) culprit CAD lack an evidence base
      to guide management. On the one hand, a stent which covers a ruptured coronary plaque might
      reduce the risks of recurrent thrombosis. On the other hand, optimal medical therapy with
      dual anti-platelet drugs and high dose statins might suffice and unnecessary stenting can be
      harmful (e.g. stent thrombosis). Second, in NSTEMI patients with multivessel coronary
      disease, evidence is lacking as to whether non-culprit obstructive lesions should undergo
      revascularization or not. A post-hoc analyses of the contemporary large scale Acute
      Catheterization and Urgent Intervention Triage Strategy (ACUITY) trial found that incomplete
      coronary revascularization was a multivariable predictor of major adverse cardiac events at 1
      year and the risk was related to the number of non-revascularized lesions. A post hoc
      analysis of NSTEMI patients treated during usual care has found that FFR disclosure does
      influence cardiologists' treatment decisions leading to improved diagnostic efficiency
      compared angiography-guided decisions. Third, uncertainties remain about whether maximal
      coronary hyperemia can be achieved in patients with recent MI using the standard dose of
      adenosine (140 micrograms/kg/min) or whether higher doses of adenosine (170 - 210
      micrograms/kg/min) might be needed. This question is relevant since sub-maximal coronary
      vasodilatation could be associated with a falsely elevated FFR value which in turn could
      result in an inappropriate decision in favor of medical therapy rather than
      revascularization.

      Rationale for a trial of FFR-guided management vs. angiography alone in NSTEMI.

      FFR measurement is not a current standard of care in NSTEMI patients. Therefore, in our
      study, FFR will be measured but not disclosed in the angiography-guided control group.
      Second, FFR values and their relationships with clinical outcomes may differ in patients with
      unstable coronary disease compared to patients with stable coronary disease. In our trial,
      FFR will be measured in all patients including in the angiography-guided control group (175
      patients) in whom FFR will be measured but not disclosed to the clinical team responsible for
      the patient. Since patients will be followed-up for clinical events, the relationships (and
      ROC values) between FFR and health outcomes (composite cardiovascular events) will be
      prospectively evaluated.

      Third, since stress testing is not appropriate in acute MI patients, FFR-guided management
      could obviate the need for 'deferred' management. Fourth, FFR has the potential to guide the
      decision for or against revascularization of culprit and non-culprit lesions. Since there are
      no data to support stenting in lesions which are not functionally significant, the
      investigators propose that the treatment decisions are consistently guided by the FFR values
      in both culprit and non-culprit arteries using the established FFR threshold of 0.80 for
      revascularization. Non-flow limiting lesions (FFR>0.80) would be treated with optimal medical
      therapy and flow-limiting lesions (FFR≤0.80) should revascularized by PCI or CABG. Fifth,
      when stenting is performed, the post-stent FFR can be used to ensure that an optimal stent
      result is achieved i.e. an FFR >0.9 in both the culprit and non-culprit lesions treated by
      PCI.

      Study Hypothesis

      Routine FFR measurement is feasible in NSTEMI patients and has additive diagnostic, clinical
      and health economic utility, as compared to current standards of care based on visual
      assessment of the angiogram.

      Methodology

      Overall aim: To generate evidence that will permit (or not) the development of new diagnostic
      and disease management strategies which will accurately and efficiently distinguish between
      flow limiting and non-flow limiting coronary stenoses, a major challenge in current
      revascularization strategies in patients with recent MI directed by angiography alone.

      Primary Aims:

      1) To determine if the treatment and outcomes of NSTEMI patients whose management is guided
      by FFR disclosure differ compared to patients whose treatment is guided by visual
      interpretation of the angiogram alone (FFR measured, not disclosed).

      Secondary Aims:

        1. To determine the feasibility and safety of routine coronary guidewire-based FFR
           measurement in NSTEMI,

        2. To determine the level of agreement between functional (FFR) and visual assessments of
           coronary disease severity in NSTEMI patients,

        3. To assess the proportion of patients with a clinical response to adenosine (initial dose
           of 140 µg/kg/min, maximum dose 210 µg/kg/min), as revealed by typical changes in heart
           rate and blood pressure and the occurrence of patient symptoms,

        4. To determine the relationships between FFR values during the baseline procedure (and
           receiver operating characteristic) and cardiac events during follow-up in all patients,

        5. To provide preliminary data on whether FFR-guided management is associated with improved
           health outcomes and quality of life in the longer term compared to angiography-guided
           treatment decisions,

        6. To perform a health-economic analysis.

      Standard care of NSTEMI patients in the UK National Health Service

      The participating hospitals adhere to current guidelines for optimal medical therapy and
      optimal revascularization. A left main stenosis of >50% and an epicardial coronary stenosis
      >70% are usually taken to be obstructive lesions for which revascularization should be
      considered. In usual care, FFR is normally measured in a minority of patients (<10% of
      patients overall) and is not standard care. Patients who may be candidates for CABG will be
      discussed at the Multidisciplinary Heart Team meeting in each center. If staged PCI is
      clinically indicated then all procedures should take place during the index hospitalization.

      Setting and Design

      A prospective randomized controlled trial will be conducted in up to 6 UK centers including 3
      academic cardiothoracic centers and 3 non-academic regional hospitals.

      Study population

      The investigators estimate 1400 consecutive NSTEMI patients with known or suspected Type 1 MI
      will be screened before coronary angiography. The inclusion and exclusion criteria are listed
      below. Patients who have given informed consent but were not randomized will be included in a
      follow-up registry.

      Catheter laboratory study protocol

      Once the coronary angiogram has been obtained, the cardiologist will assess whether or not
      the patient is eligible based on angiographic criteria to continue in the study and be
      randomized. If this is the case, randomization should take place immediately in the catheter
      laboratory. All eligible patients will be included wherever possible to minimize selection
      bias.

      The main angiographic inclusion criterion is the presence of one or more non-critical
      coronary stenoses ≥30% severity which are (1) amenable to revascularization, (2) associated
      with normal coronary blood flow (TIMI grade III) and (3) in the opinion of the attending
      cardiologist FFR measurement is feasible and may have diagnostic value. Although an
      epicardial coronary stenosis of 70% is usually accepted as a threshold for revascularization,
      a minimum stenosis severity of 30% is adopted for FFR measurement in our study because
      stenosis severity may be visually underestimated. Inclusion of a stenosis >90% severity is
      permissible provided the cardiologist believes FFR has the potential to influence the
      treatment decision based on coronary and patient characteristics. Left main stem disease is
      included and the upper limit for stenosis severity is 80%. The pressure wire (Certus, St Jude
      Medical, Uppsala) will be used to provide an FFR value across all coronary narrowings ≥30%
      severity as appropriate.

      Randomization

      Once the coronary angiogram has been acquired, the cardiologist will then confirm whether or
      not the patient is eligible for randomization. In this case, before randomization the
      cardiologist will initially state the treatment plan based on the available clinical
      information including the angiogram. The treatment plan will then be recorded by the research
      team. Next, randomization will then follow-on immediately using a web-based computer
      randomization tool provided by the independent Clinical Trials Unit. Ineligible patients will
      be entered into a registry.

      FFR informed group: FFR will be measured by the cardiologist immediately after randomization
      and the FFR result will used to guide treatment decisions based on a threshold of 0.80. An
      FFR ≤ 0.80 should result in a treatment decision for revascularization by PCI or CABG
      combined with optimal medical therapy and an FFR>0.80 should result in treatment with optimal
      medical therapy alone. Changes in treatment compared to the treatment plan prior to FFR
      disclosure will be recorded at the time.

      Angiography-guided group and blinding: The patient and the clinical team responsible for the
      patient, including the interventional cardiologists and nurses, will be blinded to FFR. The
      RadiAnalyzer Xpress (St Jude Medical, Uppsala) will be turned away such that it is impossible
      for the clinical team to see the data which will be collected by the research team. The
      pressure wire recording will not be displayed on any other monitor in the catheter
      laboratory. Quality control checks, such as assessments of equalized pressure recordings and
      verification of hemodynamic changes with intravenous adenosine, will be conducted in the
      usual way, with the guidance of the unblinded clinical research team. These steps will be
      followed for all FFR measurements. Adherence to the blinding protocol, including any
      non-protocol disclosure of FFR at any time, will be prospectively recorded and blinding
      procedures will be monitored with site visits.
    
  