
    
      This is a prospective observational study, consisting of multiple parts.

        1. In the first part of the study, eligible, consenting adult patients with low risk
           papillary thyroid cancer who have not had thyroid surgery, are provided with verbal and
           written information about the disease prognosis, surgical treatment outcomes, and the
           option of active surveillance (close monitoring with the intention of treatment if there
           is disease progression or if the patient changes her/his mind), as an alternative to
           immediately proceeding with thyroidectomy. The primary outcome of this part of the study
           is the final disease management decision of the patient (ie. active surveillance or
           thyroid surgery) and we are also examining patients' reasons for their choice.

        2. In the second part of this study, eligible consenting patients who completed the
           preceding part of the study and chose either: a) active surveillance, or b) thyroid
           surgery, are tracked with respect to disease, treatment, psychosocial outcomes, and
           quality of life. For patients under active surveillance, clinical follow-up is conducted
           at a participating study institution. For patients who choose surgery, surgery and
           related clinical follow-up may be performed at any institution (of the patient's
           choice), however, the thyroid cancer-related medical records are regularly reviewed.
           Questionnaires are mailed to patients at one year. The primary outcome for this study is
           decision regret (on the decision for active surveillance or surgery) at one year after
           initiating the disease management decision (ie. active surveillance or surgery). As the
           decision for surgery or active surveillance is up to the patient and the proportion of
           patients in each group is unknown, the results in respective groups will be reported
           separately for the primary analysis (and only compared if sufficient numbers are
           available in each group).
    
  