
    
      Chronic Heart Failure (CHF) is due to structural or functional cardiac anomalies which causes
      a lack of oxygen perfusion to various organs provoking symptoms as dyspnea, fatigue,
      palpitation at rest or during efforts. International prevalence is 1-2% in adult population,
      wich represents 15 million people in Europe and 26 millions in the world. In France, CHF
      represents the first cause of hospitalization. The rate of intra-hospital mortality is 8.2 %
      and the mortality in 1 year is 26 % according to the study OFICA in 2013. Its treatment is
      first medication.

      Cardiac rehabilitation programs are also proposed. According to the latest recommendations of
      the European Society of Cardiology in 2016, patient education on diet, medical treatment
      observance and facilitation of psychosocial assistance with access to a multidisciplinary
      team, will reduce the rate of hospitalization and mortality (level of evidence IA).
      Similarly, the regular practice of an aerobic-type activity will increase the patient's
      functional capacity and improve the symptoms related to the disease. In the same way, the
      risk of re-hospitalization will be reduced (level of evidence IA). Cardiac rehabilitation of
      CHF patients includes a so-called "segmentary analytics" rehabilitation based on strength
      exercises and aerobic-type endurance work. This classical program is called "continuous"
      training in which the patient must exert on a cycloergometer or walking on a treadmill
      between 60% and 70% of his maximum exertion capacity, evaluated with initial VO2 max exercise
      test, before cardiac rehabilation. More recently, a new form of rehabilation mode appeared:
      "Interval Training" (IT) inspired by high level athletes training. It is a training model
      that alternates periods of intensity between 60%-95% of maximum effort (depending on the
      modality) and periods of passive or active rest between 20-30% of maximum effort. IT is more
      suitable for endurance work in CHF patients than continuous training. Indeed, this type of
      exercise has a muscular impact, in terms of strength, superior to that brought by continuous
      training without significantly increasing cardiac work or hemodynamic and metabolic
      parameters. Some studies show the effectiveness of both types of programms (continuous or IT)
      on improving the 6 minute walk test distance (6MWD) and displacing the first ventilatory
      threshold (VT1) for higher intensities. However, the interval training has a better effect
      than continuous program: 19.4% versus 8.3% for 6MWD improvement and 95% versus 75% for heart
      peak rate gain.

      Nevertheless, it have been observed in daily practice that classical conventional IT (CIT)
      program could be difficult to perform in most of CHF patients, due to the severity of their
      pathology, poor physical condition and especially muscle deconditioning. Indeed, this
      deconditioning is linked to the sedentary behaviour of this type of patient because of the
      specific symptoms of his cardiac pathology, which will result in severe intolerance to
      effort. In Cardiac rehabilitation department of Montpellier University Hospital, a new type
      of IT program for severe CHF patients have been tested, with progressive intervals of maximum
      effort and active rest periods, called the Progressive Interval Training (PIT) program. After
      6 months of applying this training model to our patients, it seems to be effective in
      endurance gain in final exercise test and without side-effects in terms of safety. The
      objective is to compare the 2 types of IT workouts (CIT and PIT) in 2 different randomized
      groups, on the improvement of VO2 peak in patients with severe CHF. Secondary ojectives are
      the imporvemnt on 6MWD, life quality and ventilatory threshold at the end of rehabilitation
      (VT1).

      A typical session for a patient takes place in two parts: the first one with analytical
      segmentary rehabilitation exercises identical in terms of the muscular group worked and the
      number of series and repetitions and adapted (charge in kg) to each patient, and a second one
      of endurance aerobic work with conventional interval training (CIT) program or progressive
      interval training (PIT) program according to the randomized groups.

        -  CIT intervention consists in: warming 7 minutes at 15 watts, then alternating exercices
           phases at 30% of maximum power (reached by patient at initial VO2 maximal exercise test
           realized before cardiac rehabilation) during 3 minutes and peak at 60% of maximum watts
           during 1 minute, then return to calm 3 minutes at 15 watts. Total duration of the
           endurance session is 30 minutes. The power in watts of the peak work will be shaped
           according to the Borg (if 6, increase of 5 watt the value of each peak at the next
           session).

        -  PIT intervention consists in: warming 7 minutes at 15 watts, then alternating exercices
           phases at 30% watts of maximum power (reached by patient at initial VO2 maximal exercise
           test realized before cardiac rehabilation) during 3 minutes, a first peak work at 40% of
           maximum power, a second at 45%, a third at 50%, a fourth at 55% and a fifth at 60%, then
           return to calm 3 minutes at 15 watts. Total duration of this endurance session is also
           30 minutes. The peak powers will be shaped according to the Borg (if 6, increase of 5
           watt the value of each peak to the next session).

      Each patient conducts a total of 20 sessions at a rate of 2 sessions per week. It is a
      monocentric, controlled, randomized, prospective study with two parallel groups (open except
      for the evaluation which will be blind). The sample size is estimated at 50 subjects.
      Inclusion criteria are patients with CHF (left ventricular ejection fraction <40%), men or
      women over 60 years of age, admitted on a cardiac rehabilation medical, with a functional
      capacity of less than 5 Mets, all of whom have their free and informed consent for the study.

      The benefits to the patient are those related to Cardiovascular Rehabilitation that increase
      its functional capacity while improving its quality of life.

      If the effectiveness of PIT program on improving aerobic capacity (VO2 max), functional
      abilities (VT1, TDM6 ') and/or quality of life is demonstrated, this program could be
      recommended for cardiac rehabilitation in patients with severe CHF. A larger number of
      patients could benefit from this program which takes into account the muscular deconditioning
      related to their pathology.
    
  