
    
      Although safe in most patients, iodine may be associated with lifethreatening adverse events,
      particularly in high-risk patient. This application is of particular clinical significance in
      patients with conditions like pulmonary embolism which could be fatal. CT pulmonary angiogram
      (CTPA) with sensitivity of 83-100% and specificity of 89-97% is currently the gold standard
      for diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. However, in patients who have allergy to iodinated
      contrast agent, CTPA cannot be performed. Gadolinium based contrast agent can serve as a
      viable alternative in such patients and can be used for Gadolinium enhanced MR pulmonary
      angiography (MRPA) and CTPA. Gadolinium enhanced MRPA however has inherent limitations in
      evaluating pulmonary embolism as evident from multicentre prospective study (PIOPED III)
      which reported technically inadequate exams in as many as 25% of patients (range 11% to 52%).
      The MRPA sensitivity was also low in the range of 78%. Moreover, unlike CT, low spatial and
      temporal resolution of MR hampers precise evaluation of lung parenchyma. Previously
      investigators have evaluated gadolinium enhanced CTPA on a single energy CT (SECT) at
      different tube potential (80 - 120 kV) and reported encouraging results. However, these
      patients received higher volume of gadolinium contrast (mean 53 ml, range 30-64 ml) and in
      spite, the scans performed at 120 kV demonstrated overall suboptimal pulmonary artery
      enhancement. These limitations can be potentially over come with dual-energy CT which
      simultaneously acquires low and high energy data. From this data, monochromatic images can be
      reconstructed at any desired energy from 40 keV to 140 keV.

      The investigators aim to recruit up to 50 patients who will guide in determining gadolinium
      contrast volume, injection rate and image delay required to maximize pulmonary arterial
      enhancement.
    
  