
    
      Patients with primary or recurrent low/intermediate-risk papillary urothelial carcinoma of
      the bladder will undergo resection of all but one marker lesion, measuring at least 6mm but
      no greater than 10mm, and biopsy of normal-appearing mucosa. Patients with a solitary tumor
      will undergo only biopsy prior to treatment. A 2mm cold cup biopsy of the marker lesion will
      always be performed to rule out a potential high-grade lesion and for assessment of
      pretreatment immunohistochemistry expression levels of ERα, ERβ1, Ki-67 (proliferation
      marker) and TUNEL (apoptosis marker). If there are multiple tumors, all lesions, except the
      marker lesion will be resected and sent for analysis. These patients will not receive single
      immediate post-operative intravesical instillation of mitomycin-C. They will then undergo a
      12-week course of treatment with tamoxifen administered as a single daily oral dose of 20mg.
      At the completion of therapy, patients will undergo resection of the marker lesion (or biopsy
      of the tumor bed, if a complete response is observed) and biopsy of normal-appearing bladder
      mucosa again. Toxicity evaluations will be performed at the beginning (day 3), midway (week
      6), and at completion of treatment (week 12), prior to resection of the marker lesion. A
      final assessment for toxicity will also be performed 30 days after completion of therapy as
      well as a second definitive resection of the marker lesion. Urine samples will be obtained
      with the index tumor in place (marker lesion), and after completion of treatment, at the time
      of definitive transurethral resection of the index tumor, as part of the standard clinical
      care of these patients, and at the discretion of the surgeon for assessment of urinary
      cytology. The urine samples will not be utilized for the research study. All normal-appearing
      bladder biopsies (pre and post-treatment), the additional tumors (in case of multiple
      lesions), and the definitive resection of the marker lesion (in the absence of response to
      therapy) will provide sufficient material for immunohistochemistry assessment of the
      expression levels of ERα, ERβ-1, ERβ-2, ERβ-5, Ki-67, and TUNEL, and also for RT-qPCR for
      mRNA analyses of ERα, ERβ-1, ERβ-2, and ERβ-5. The pretreatment biopsy of the marker lesion
      will be performed with a smaller biopsy forceps and will provide limited material, sufficient
      only for immunohistochemistry assessment of the expression levels of ERα, ERβ-1, Ki-67, and
      TUNEL.
    
  