
    
      The growing Brazilian population aging is accompanied by the emergence of common diseases in
      this age group, including osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent
      musculoskeletal disease, affecting 4% of the Brazilian population. There is important
      morbidity which progressively leads to chronic use of drugs harmful to this age group, such
      as anti-inflammatory drugs, increasing the risk of complications and pharmacological
      interactions. In addition to culminating with disabling functional impairment, osteoarthritis
      may progress, leading to the need for arthroplasty. Obesity and longevity are important risk
      factors for osteoarthritis, and both are very prevalent in Brazil.

      2010 IBGE census progressions suggest a growing population increase, with 13% of the
      Brazilian population in 2018. By 2050, 30% of Brazil's population will be over 60 years old.
      This reflects a gradual increase in the elderly with common morbidities in this age group,
      such as osteoarthritis. Proper management of OA involves an educational program,
      multidisciplinary team care, and therapeutic measures aimed at weight loss and maintaining
      mobility.

      Insomnia is the most frequent sleep disorder in the elderly and its prevalence almost doubles
      compared to young adults. In addition to aging, other factors such as the presence of
      clinical comorbidities, including OA, psychiatric disorders, primary sleep disorders and poor
      habits (poor sleep hygiene) contribute to this prevalence. During the aging process, in
      addition to increased nighttime awakenings and increased total waking time at night, there is
      a reduction in time spent in the deepest stages of sleep, which may be compromised in the
      presence of pain.

      Sleep quality is affected by severe fatigue and pain exacerbation in people with OA, ie the
      sleep approach should always be considered in patients with such comorbidity. In addition to
      OA, patients with chronic pain usually have insomnia and depression, increasing the use of
      opioids, sedatives and antidepressants, indicating insomnia and mood changes contributing
      factors to polypharmacy.

      A systematic review of chronic OA pain and spinal pain suggests that interventions such as
      cognitive behavioral therapy and sleep hygiene have good repercussions in people with OA.

      The study of sleep improvement can facilitate the elderly's quality of life, decrease pain
      and reduce polypharmacy. This study aims to evaluate the improvement of sleep quality and
      decrease of daytime sleepiness in elderly with OA.
    
  