
    
      Twenty-six obese adolescents with plans to undergo bariatric surgery for clinical treatment
      will be recruited for research study during screening process at the Yale Adolescent
      Bariatric Surgery Clinic. After the appropriate discussion with surgeon, the choice of
      procedure will be made by subject and legal guardian.

      Every bariatric patient must have completed the thorough six-month evaluation period
      established by the Yale's Adolescent Bariatric Clinic.

      This standard of care pre-operative testing provides as a screening tool to ensure every
      adolescent bariatric patient is mentally and physically appropriate for this surgery.

        -  Monthly visits with clinician (Pediatric Obesity/Diabetology Expert) and dietician to
           discuss lifestyle change management and anthropometric measures.

        -  Psychiatrist or psychologist to screen for depression, uncontrollable psychosis,
           suicidal ideation, and hostile or unsupportive family environment.

        -  Bone age will be obtained to ensure subject has reached or near full growth potential.

        -  Pediatric Cardiology for echocardiogram to rule out left ventricular hypertrophy.

        -  Oral glucose tolerance test to assess glucose status and degree of insulin resistance.

        -  Blood work to assess hepatic and kidney function, nutritional deficiencies, hormonal
           profile, and hyperlipidemia.

        -  Pediatric Pulmonary for sleep study and Pulmonary Function Tests (PFTs) to rule out
           obstructive sleep apnea.

      When a subject is approved for surgery, he or she will meet with Bariatric Surgeon to discuss
      benefits and risks of each bariatric surgery. After the appropriate discussion with surgeon,
      the choice of procedure will be made by subject and legal guardian. For research purposes, we
      seek to monitor the progress of the patients enrolled in Yale's Adolescent Bariatric Surgery
      Clinic. Collecting pre and post long term operative data will allow us to describe this
      efficacy and potential complications that arise with RYGB vs LAGB.

      As standard of care, all subjects will have undergone pre-operative testing established by
      Adolescent Bariatric Surgery Clinic before any of the bariatric surgeries.

      For research purposes:

        1. Month prior to Surgery

             -  Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT)

             -  Abdominal MRI (weight must not exceed 140 kg)

             -  DNA blood extraction

           During RYGB or LAGB Surgery

             -  Liver Biopsy

             -  Visceral (omental fat) and Subcutaneous Fat Biopsy

           Data collection will continue for 24 months post-operatively and include both research
           testing and standard of care clinical appointments.

           Post Surgery 2 week 2 months 3 months 6 months 12 months 24 months Standard Of Care
           Post-op Post-op Post-op Post-op Post-op Post-op Anthropometric X X X X X X Measures
           Hemoglobin A1c X X X X X

        2. Week 2 Month 3 Month 6 Month 12 Month 24 Month Post Surgery (research) Post-op Post-op
           Post-op Post-op Post-op Post-op OGTT X X X Abdominal MRI X X X X X X

      Anthropometric Measures and HBA1c Anthropometric measures will be done at study enrollment,
      monthly leading up to the surgery RYGB or LAGB, and 2 weeks, 2 months, 3 months, 6 months, 12
      months and 24 months post operatively. These measures include height, weight, BMI, BMI Z
      score, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, resting heart rate, % fat mass, and total fat
      mass. Demographic data includes ethnicity and family income. HbA1c will be completed at the
      3, 6 , 12, and 24 month post operative time period.
    
  