
    
      When a person's kidneys stop working, he or she has end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
      Individuals with ESRD cannot live without either dialysis therapy-in which a machine performs
      the functions of the kidneys-or a kidney transplant. Dialysis must remove fluid as well as
      toxins in the blood. People with ESRD have a high risk for death, and the usual cause is
      cardiovascular disease.

      Most people in the United States who have ESRD get hemodialysis therapy in a clinic for four
      hours at a time, three times a week. The stability of hemodialysis sessions varies, and many
      sessions become unstable from low blood pressure and other complications. Unstable dialysis
      sessions can result in negative symptoms, like fatigue.

      Dialysis instability is an important problem. Session instability is linked to injury to the
      heart and other organs. Patients who have unstable dialysis sessions are more likely to end
      up in the hospital or die than are those who have stable sessions. Session instability is
      preventable. The main causes of instability are removal of fluid from a patient too fast or
      removal of too much fluid. Session instability results from many factors: decisions made by
      patients, and decisions by healthcare providers.

      Presently, the way to best improve the stability of dialysis is not clear. Dialysis clinics
      approach this problem differently, and there is variation among clinics in how often
      hemodialysis sessions become unstable.

      In partnership with the National Kidney Foundation and Fresenius Medical Care North America,
      the investigators will test two interventions designed to increase the stability of patient
      dialysis. One intervention, multimodal provider education, focuses on dialysis facility care
      teams. It includes team training, online education, and a checklist. Another intervention,
      patient activation, focuses on patients. It includes peer mentoring by trained ESRD patients.
      Mentors will hold with other patients multimedia-aided meetings that include skills
      instruction and role modeling. These interventions have been successful in hospital care and
      in chronic disease care, and the investigators will adapt them to dialysis safety.

      The investigators will then conduct a study in 28 dialysis facilities in different parts of
      the United States. Seven facilities will get the provider education only; seven will get the
      patient activation intervention only; seven will get both interventions; and seven will get
      no interventions. The investigators will test whether session stability improves in the
      facilities that get either intervention over the one-year study period. This study is
      expected to clarify whether these interventions can make dialysis safer for ESRD patients.
      This will inform hemodialysis care providers on whether to pursue provider-focused or
      patient-focused safety interventions, or both. People on hemodialysis will also have
      information to help them decide whether to become engaged in their session stability, and the
      intervention will help them learn how to do so.
    
  