
    
      Swallowing problems affect as many as 40% of adults over age 60. Serious consequences are
      suffered by the numerous patients with neuromuscular deficits secondary to stroke. Patients
      with dysphagia subsequent to stroke face risk of death from pneumonia, perhaps the most
      serious sequelae of dysphagia, with malnutrition and dehydration also dire secondary
      consequences. If stroke patients survive, they require longer hospital stays and nursing home
      placements with diminished rehabilitation potential. Despite these devastating influences
      that dysphagia secondary to stroke has on health, evidence supporting the effects of specific
      interventions on swallowing outcomes in this population is sparse.

      Neural plasticity is the mechanism by which the damaged brain relearns "lost behavior" in
      response to rehabilitation. A goal of this proposal is to implement several principles of
      exercise and neural plasticity (specificity, repetition, and intensity) in a clinically
      justifiable manner so they may be used to guide clinical research and ultimately practice. To
      that end, we will determine how neuromuscular changes affect swallowing outcomes in response
      to 3 unique 8-week exercise interventions compared with a sham hand (control) exercise group.

      The main hypothesis is that after 8 weeks of intense progressive rehabilitation exercise with
      feedback - lingual press (high-intensity, oral, non-swallowing) stroke patients with
      dysphagia will show swallowing improvement (defined as an improved score on the
      Penetration/Aspiration Scale and/or the Residue Scale in the absence of worsening in the
      other average score) to a greater extent than subjects who perform natural swallowing
      (low-intensity swallowing) exercises or the sham (control) exercise group. This hypothesis
      will be tested by 3 discrete objectives: Objective 1: Compare outcomes of four different
      8-week exercise interventions among dysphagic stroke patients; Objective 2: Characterize
      bolus flow, swallowing biomechanics, lingual anatomy and swallowing function of stroke
      patients through initial calculation of multi-dimensional swallowing profiles
      pre-intervention and comparison of these profiles post-intervention; and Objective 3:
      Determine the most appropriate dose of treatment between 4 and 8 weeks for study subjects.

      We will randomize 200 men and women post-stroke into four groups (50 subjects per group).
      Subjects will be randomized into one of four groups, to identify treatment outcomes. The
      exercise interventions include (a) lingual press (high-intensity, oral, non-swallowing) (b)
      effortful swallowing (high-intensity swallowing); and (c) natural swallowing (low intensity
      swallowing), compared with (d) a non-oral sham (control) exercise. All exercises will involve
      2 sets of 10 repetitions performed 3 times a day on 3 non-consecutive days per week.

      For Objectives 1 and 2 at baseline, week 4, and week 8, each subject will complete
      simultaneous videofluoroscopic and lingual pressure measures to calculate measures of bolus
      flow and swallowing biomechanics, which comprise 1) direction (average Penetration/Aspiration
      Scale Score), completeness (average Residue Scale Score), and duration in msec; 2) isometric
      and swallowing pressures; and 3) duration and extent of hyolaryngeal excursion and opening of
      the upper esophageal sphincter. At each of the 3 timepoints, each subject also will complete
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to measure stroke lesion volume, lingual volume, and lingual
      tissue differentiation as well as complete swallowing-specific quality of life and dietary
      questionnaires. For Objective 3, subjects will complete all measures at baseline and weeks 4
      and 8 to determine when the most benefits are made during the course of exercise. Knowledge
      of the dose response will allow for more accurate prescription of the clinical programs.

      The Dept. of Veterans Affairs has designated "aging" and its impact on health as high
      research priorities. As the aging veteran population grows, dysphagia and its deleterious
      health consequences including pneumonia and/or malnutrition will be an increasing public
      health burden. In fact, VHA Directive 2006-32 was recently issued (May 17, 2006) defining
      standard procedures for assessment and treatment of patients with dysphagia. Appropriate
      diagnosis and treatment for dysphagia with low-cost, non-invasive efficacious exercise
      programs may not only reduce health care costs, but also will lead to improvements in patient
      health and quality of life. For patients post-stroke, the implications are enormous when the
      life-threatening incidence of aspiration is reduced or prevented.
    
  