
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension affects 25% of adults in the United States and remains a leading cause of heart
      disease, stroke, and kidney failure. Despite numerous effective treatments, only 25% of
      people with hypertension are at goal blood pressure (BP). The chronic care model suggests
      that BP control can be achieved by improving patient self-care and the systems through which
      care is delivered. Patient self-care efforts should be directed at counteracting the effects
      of obesity, physical inactivity, poor dietary pattern, and non-adherence to prescribed
      medications on BP. In addition, efforts should be directed at the use of quality improvement
      systems that can counteract the well-documented non-adherence of primary care MDs to
      established clinical practice guidelines. In addition to improving BP control, these
      approaches can also reduce costs associated with hypertension and its consequences. However,
      given the resources that would be required to implement such approaches, it is critical that
      their effectiveness be rigorously established. This controlled study will test the separate
      and combined effects of a behavioral intervention for patients and a CQI intervention for MDs
      on BP control. The patient intervention will employ proven behavioral methods for promoting a
      healthy lifestyle and adherence to medication regimens. The MD intervention will use a CQI
      approach to provide training, motivation, and feedback on performance in a non-threatening
      way to promote continuous self-improvement and adherence to clinical practice guidelines.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The Hypertension Improvement Project (HIP) is a randomized, controlled study that will test
      the separate and combined effects of a CQI intervention for MDs and a behavioral intervention
      for patients on BP control. MDs will be selected from practices in the Duke Primary Care
      Research Consortium that serve low-income and minority populations. Practices will be
      randomly assigned to the MD intervention or to the MD control condition. Within these
      practices, all MDs will receive the same intervention and their patients will be individually
      randomized to the patient intervention or to the patient usual care condition. The MD
      intervention consists of the following three main elements: 1) on-line training modules; 2)
      an evaluation and treatment algorithm for use in the clinic; and 3) a CQI procedure involving
      assessment of clinical performance measures and feedback to MDs on their adherence to
      guidelines. The performance data will be collected for 18 months and feedback will be
      provided to MDs every 3 months. Patients from these practices (approximately 50% women, at
      least 40% African American, and 90% low-income) will be randomly assigned to patient
      intervention or usual care. The patient intervention consists of a 6-month behavioral
      intervention aimed at lifestyle changes to lower BP and promote adherence to prescribed BP
      medications. BP and other follow-up measurements will be performed at the end of the
      intervention and a year later (at 6 and 18 months post-randomization). The primary outcome
      will be the proportion of patients in each treatment group that have adequate BP control at 6
      months. BP control is defined by the Joint National Committee 6 (JNC-6) goals (systolic BP
      less than 140 mm Hg and diastolic BP less than 90 mm Hg for most patients; lower goals for
      patients with cardiovascular or renal disease, or diabetes). Other outcomes of this study
      will include BP control at 18 months, MD adherence to national guidelines, and patient
      adherence to lifestyle recommendations and medication regimens. A cost analysis will also be
      done. The study will enroll 500 patients in 10 practices (approximately 20 MDs), and will
      have 80% power to detect an effect size of 0.3 for the primary outcome. The HIP study will
      test practical interventions for improving hypertension control that can be broadly
      implemented and can reduce CVD risk.
    
  