
    
      A. INTENT AND PURPOSE

      Background:

      Optimizing procedural and patient outcomes relies heavily on tomographic imaging data
      guidance for patients being evaluated for trans-catheter aortic valve replacement or
      implantation (TAVR) by providing accurate information of the aortic valve apparatus (aortic
      annulus and its pertinent neighboring structures).

      The aortic valve annulus is a dynamic complex elliptical or ovoid 3D entity that is also
      subject to constant shape deformation across the cardiac cycle in addition to being
      influenced by the thoracic and intra-thoracic anatomy or variations. Given this inherent
      nature of the aortic valve annulus, electrocardiographic gated cardiac computed tomographic
      angiography (CCTA), a robust dynamic 3-dimensional imaging modality, is now widely accepted
      as the "gold-standard" for evaluating the aortic valve apparatus (AVA). To maximize the
      information obtained by CT, imaging needs to be performed with intravenous contrast
      injection.2 CCTA requires administration of iodinated contrast. The volume of iodinated
      contrast medium is of concern in many patients because candidates for TAVR frequently have
      impaired renal function.2 Contrast reduction and adherence to protocols for prevention of
      contrast-induced nephropathy is recommended.2 For access planning via the ilio-femoral route,
      some groups have reported direct aortic injection with extremely low volumes of contrast.

      Reduction of contrast volumes for CCTA of the AVA can be achieved by using lower flow rates
      than for coronary CT angiography. Although 5 mL/s is typically recommended for coronary
      imaging, 3 mL/s may sometimes be sufficient for imaging patients in the workup for TAVR.2
      Though suggested, these CCTA lower flow rates have not been systematically performed and
      validated in a population being evaluated for candidacy for TAVR. And as recommended by
      guidelines, a standard bolus of 80 mL to 120 mL of low-osmolar iodinated contrast is usually
      necessary for optimal TAVR CCTA scanning.1 In these patients, reducing the dose of iodinated
      contrast at the time of CCTA acquisition in an attempt to minimize renal injury, and at the
      same time being able to accurately assess the aortic annulus apparatus (AVA) will be of
      paramount importance. Some reduction of contrast nephropathy can be accomplished by
      minimizing contrast volume and the use of iso-osmolar or low-osmolar contrast agents. It has
      been suggested that the contrast volume threshold can be estimated by using the ratio of
      contrast volume to creatinine clearance. Nephrotoxicity is more likely when the contrast
      volume/creatinine clearance ratio exceeds 3.7:1.12 And using this, 3.7 x eGFR (estimated
      glomerular filtration rate) can be set as the maximal contrast dose for an imaging test or
      invasive procedure.12 14 CCTA acquisition methods Images were acquired with a Brilliance
      64-slice CT scanner (Philips Healthcare, Andover, Massachusetts, USA). As per the
      recommendations on radiation protection in cardiovascular CT by the Society of Cardiovascular
      Computed Tomography (SCCT), a tube potential of 100 kV will be considered for patients
      weighing <90 kg or with a body mass index (BMI) <30; whereas a tube potential of 120 kV will
      be considered for patients weighing >90 kg and with a BMI >30. It will be adjusted, based on
      each individual patient's size, to the lowest setting that guarantees acceptable image noise
      for a suitable signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) to perform analysis.15 The patients' eGFR was
      first calculated using the MDRD (modification of disease in renal diet) GFR formula. The
      maximal allowable contrast dose for the CCTA was calculated using 3.7 x [(patient's BSA/1.73)
      x MDRD-eGFR].14 Next, the dose of contrast chosen for the CCTA was < 50% of the maximal
      allowable contrast dose. The MDRD formula can underestimate the GFR by about 6.2% in patients
      with chronic kidney disease and by about 29% in healthy individuals, making this an extremely
      suitable conservative approach for calculating the contrast dosing, with a tendency only to
      underdose and never to overdose the contrast. With our extensive experience in doing this, we
      have decreased the total contrast dose for CCTA of the AVA to 45 ml with satisfactory image
      quality and SNR for post-processing.

      Two separate acquisitions (ECG-synchronized for the aortic root and non-gated for the aorta
      and peripheral vessels) may be preferable to an ECG-synchronized acquisition of the entire
      volume to reduce the amount of contrast agent.2 A total contrast dose of 45 ml is essential
      for ECG-synchronized CCTA that utilizes a 64-multislice CT scanner (MSCT) in order to obtain
      satisfactory image quality and SNR of the aortic root. Depending on the remaining amount of
      allowable contrast, a decision was then made to perform a non-gated CT of the aorta and
      peripheral vessels either with no contrast or a low-dose-contrast protocol that we have in
      place for selectively enhancing the ilio-femoral arterial regions.

      The DICOM data will be post-processed by a workstation capable of advanced image processing,
      manipulation and optimal multi-planar reformatting.

      B. CLINICAL HYPOTHESIS AND OBJECTIVES

      Hypothesis:

      Low-dose-contrast CCTA can effectively and safely assess the aortic valve apparatus, and
      effectively direct the trans-catheter heart valve (THV) size selection by providing accurate
      annulus sizing, and provide adequate pre-procedural risk-stratification guidance for
      TAVR/TAVI.

      Study Design:

      The proposed investigation is a retrospective cross-sectional study assessing image quality
      and safety from a renal standpoint between low-dose-contrast CCTA and
      traditional-dose-contrast, and effectiveness of low-dose-contrast CCTA in analyzing the
      complex dynamic 3-pronged aortic annulus geometry pre-procedurally in TAVR to improve
      procedural and patient outcomes. The study cohort will comprise 150 consecutive patients (75
      patients who received low-dose contrast matched by body mass index with 75 patients who
      received traditional dose contrast) seen at THHBP between January 1, 2011 and June 30, 2013.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The Bland and Altman plot ratios method comparison will be utilized and the graphs displaying
      a scatter diagram of the ratios plotted against the averages of the SNR of ascending aorta
      (SNR-AA) obtained with the two different acquisitions (comparing image quality) will be
      generated. A generalized propensity score (to adjust for pre-operative clinical and
      non-clinical factors) approach accounting for the matching will be used to account for
      possible confounding of the association between low and traditional dose groups and annulus
      area, annulus perimeter, and maximum and minimum annulus diameter measurements. Moreover,
      adjusted (by the propensity score) Kappa tests, specificity, and sensitivity will be used to
      assess agreement between low and traditional dose groups. The outcomes are: CT guided
      successful TAVR deployment; unsuccessful TAVR deployment (moderate-severe paravalvular leak,
      rupture, valve embolization, mortality); acute renal failure will be defined as a reduction
      (pre vs post procedure) in renal function as defined by the RIFLE criteria, occurring will be
      used to assess differences between the study groups.

      Sample Size Considerations:

      A study cohort of 50 patients enables the detection of a minimum absolute difference of 3% in
      the primary outcome incidence (power>80) assuming α=0.05, two-sided test.

      B1. Personnel Principal Investigator - Ambarish Gopal Sub-Investigators - Deepika Gopal, Paul
      Grayburn, William Brinkman, David Brown Research coordinators - Molly Mack, Cecile Mahoney,
      Christine McKibben, Christina Worley, Jessica Jones Epidemiologist - Giovanni Filardo, PhD,
      MPH Proposal and Protocol Development-Natalie Settele, PA-C B2. Patients will require the
      following tests/Lab equipment Patients will have received ECG-gated CTA on a 64 slice CT
      scanner as standard of care treatment B3. Patient Population The study is a retrospective
      study of 150 consecutive patients > 18 years of age (75 patients who received low-dose
      contrast matched by body mass index with 75 patients who received traditional dose contrast)
      seen at THHBP between January 1, 2011 and June 30, 2013. Patients with MDRD eGFR < 25 will be
      excluded. The cutoff of 25 was chosen as the maximal allowable dose of contrast for eGFR of
      25 would be about 90 ml (3.7 x eGFR of 25), and half of that maximal allowable contrast would
      be 45 ml (the minimum we require to obtain a CCTA with acceptable SNR for post-processing).

      B4. Risks There are no risks to subjects as this is a retrospective trial.
    
  