
    
      Study Enrollment Procedures:

      Enrollment will be a continuous process with screening and enrolling eligible patients
      admitted through the clinic electively for primary TKR. Informed consent will be taken from
      the patient as per routine protocol before the arthroplasty procedures in the hospital.
      Research objectives, methodology, risks, and benefits will be explained in detail. Consent
      for the participation in the study will only be taken by the primary investigator at his
      clinic or the surgical resident on call preoperatively along with the consent for the
      surgical procedure.

      Pre-Randomization Evaluations Screening:

      The screening will involve the routine history taking and physical examination by the doctor
      and nursing staff in the clinic. Screening won't involve performing procedures that are not
      part of routine management.

      On-study/on-intervention evaluations:

      After screening and assessing the eligibility, patients will be randomly allocated by a 1:1
      ratio to the two intervention groups i.e. prolene or staple using a computer-generated
      randomization sequence by the clinical trials unit (CTU), which they will provide to the PI,
      after patients' admission in the hospital. Patients will be followed from the time they reach
      the ward after surgery until their hospital discharge, which is usually around 7 days.

      Data Collection:

      The data collection will be done by the surgical site infection (SSI) nurses from the
      infection control department of AKUH. These nurses are well-trained to assess the surgical
      site infections in all the surgery patients admitted to the hospital. Training of data
      collectors will be done by the PI to ensure the reliability and validity of the study. The
      data collectors will be strictly instructed to respect the autonomy of participants. Data
      collection will be done by the data collectors under the supervision of the PI and CTU.
      Questionnaires will be checked for consistency and logical data entries. Data entry will be
      done, and counter checked by the PI at regular intervals.

      Data Storage:

      Data collected will be coded and kept confidential without the identifiable information of
      patients. The confidentiality of the study participants will be maintained throughout the
      study period. Data collected will be kept confidential without identifiable information of
      patients who are identified by a number assigned. The hard copy forms will be retained in a
      secured location with the PI after data entry into computer software and will be kept as per
      hospital protocol. The password-protected drives will be used to store data with only the PI
      having access to it. The data will be available for AKUH ethical review committee on request
      and might be published in a journal without disclosing any identifiable information of
      patients. Filled questionnaires will be stored for 5 years after the study is completed as
      per the policy of the institute.

      Sample Size:

      The sample size was calculated via open epi software version 3.01. The level of significance
      was kept at 5% with a power of 80%. The percentage of exposed (staple sutures) with outcome
      (surgical site infection) was 66%. The percentage of non-exposed (Prolene sutures) with
      outcome (surgical site infection) was 33%. The estimated risk ratio taken from a study was 2.
      After adding the non-response rate of 10% the final sample size came out to be 82 patients
      with 41 patients in each arm.

      Plan of Analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be done by using STATA software version 15. The normality
      assumption for the quantitative variables would be assessed using the shapiro wilk test. Mean
      ± SD will be computed for all the normally distributed quantitative variables. The median and
      interquartile range would be reported for the non-normally distributed quantitative
      variables. The categorical variables would be expressed in frequencies and percentages. The
      Cox Proportional Hazard regression will be used for the univariate and multivariable
      analysis. Univariate analysis will be conducted, and crude risk ratios and their 95%
      confidence intervals will be obtained. All significant independent variables at the
      univariate stage will be regressed in a multivariable cox proportional hazard regression
      using the stepwise method in the multivariable model and the adjusted risk ratios will be
      obtained.
    
  