
    
      Objective(s)

        1. To evaluate the pain, acceptability and local tolerability of intradermal microneedle
           injection compared to subcutaneous injection in healthy volunteers.

        2. To evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and immunogenicity of
           adalimumab after administration using microneedles versus subcutaneous injection in
           healthy volunteers.

        3. To explore the usability of optical coherence tomography, clinical photography, laser
           speckle contrast imaging, and thermal imaging in the evaluation of intradermal
           injections.

      Definitions Method: ID or SC injection Compound: adalimumab or saline Treatment: combination
      of method and compound Arm: sequence of treatments

      Design This is a double blind, placebo controlled, double-dummy study. The study physician
      will administer the injection and is thus unblinded to the type of injection. All injection
      site assessments will be performed by (a) study independent member of the clinical staff.

      Sterile saline injection will be used as a negative control. Subjects will receive an
      injection with both sterile saline (SC or ID) and adalimumab (SC or ID). Subjects will be
      randomized to one of the four arms:

      1A) adalimumab SC and saline ID

        1. B) saline ID and adalimumab SC

        2. A) saline SC and adalimumab ID

      2B) adalimumab ID and saline SC

      The maximum duration between treatments will be 5 minutes.

      After a single dose of adalimumab, pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamics, tolerability and
      immunogenicity data will be collected and monitored for a total of 70 days post dose, as the
      half-life of adalimumab after subcutaneous injection in adults is approximately two weeks.

      Investigational drug/device combination In children, adalimumab is commonly used in a dose of
      40 mg SC every two weeks (1). For adults with rheumatoid arthritis the same dose is used (2).
      It was therefore chosen to administer adalimumab in a single dose of 40 mg in 0.4 mL either
      subcutaneously or intradermally in the upper thigh. For saline injection the same volume will
      be used.

      For intradermal administration, the MicronJet600 (NanoPass Technologies) will be used
      (hereafter referred to as microneedle). This CE-marked microneedle consists of an array of
      three hollow pyramid-shaped microneedles with a length of 600 micrometer (3).

      Subjects / Groups A total of 24 healthy subjects (N=6 per arm and N=12 per treatment
      (Adalimumab SC, Adalimumab ID, Saline SC, Saline ID).
    
  