
    
      Prospective, completely randomized, open labeled, controlled study. Patients will be
      randomized into two groups (A and B). Patients of group A will be treated under what is
      considered current standard of care at Maimonides Medical Center while group B patients will
      receive colchicine in addition to standard of care.

      Treatment arm

      In addition to the local standard of care for COVID 19 patients, the patient will receive
      colchicine PO as such:

        -  Loading dose of 1.2 mg followed by 0.6mg after 2 hours if without significant
           gastrointestinal symptoms (day 1)

        -  The next day 0.6mg bid for 14 days or until discharge

      Patients who are on HMG-Co A Reductase Inhibitors (atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin,
      simvastatin), fibrates, genfibrozil, amiodarone, dronedarone or digoxin should have the
      colchicine dosage reduced to a loading dose of 0.6mg followed by 0.3mg after two hours (day
      1) followed by 0.3mg BID for 14 days or until discharge.

      If patients have significant gastrointestinal symptoms after loading, the dosage may be
      reduced to 0.3mg BID for the rest of the 14 day course or until discharge. If
      gastrointestinal symptoms continue, the medication should then be discontinued. Patients who
      experience sensory motor neuropathy, or symptoms and laboratory findings consistent with
      rhabdomyolysis should prompt immediate discontinuation of the drug. If renal function
      deteriorates during the treatment course and CrCl <30ml/min, colchicine should also be
      discontinued.

      Control arm Usual medical therapy (can include medications such as hydroxychloroquine,
      azithromycin)

      Patients should NOT receive, Remdesivir, IL-6 inhibitors (Tociluzimab, Sarilumab), JAK
      inhibitors, IL-1 inhibitors, or other immunomodulators for COVID-19 before randomization.
      Since the primary clinical endpoint is progression of disease, if the patient requires beyond
      8L nasal cannula, eg. high flow O2 or mechanical ventilation, the primary clinical endpoint
      is met and the above experimental medications will be permitted. To rephrase, the patient
      will be allowed, Remdesivir, IL-6 inhibitors and other immunomodulators if then deemed
      medically necessary by the treating physician.
    
  