
    
      Background and Rationale

      Description of research questions and justification for undertaking the trial Cardiac
      Rehabilitation (CR) is an effective treatment for CHD and CVD patients, boasting a range of
      physiological and psychological benefits as well as lowering mortality and risk of secondary
      cardiac incidents. Despite the aforementioned benefits of CR attendance, uptake and adherence
      to CR remain inadequate, with cross-cultural surveys demonstrating that only 10-30% of
      eligible CR patients engage in such programmes. These poor levels of CR participation have
      been previously attributed to low referral rates amongst healthcare providers, however even
      within the 30% of eligible patients who become CR participants, the attrition rate is
      currently 50% and only 20% of attendees report long-term behavioural change. The lack of
      subsequent engagement with the desired adaptive behaviours is at a great cost to the National
      Health Service (NHS), with the cost of delivering a "good quality CR service" at £477 per
      patient and the average cardiac readmission costing £3637. Although physical activity (PA)
      has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of secondary cardiac incidents, 80% of CR patients
      fail to maintain regular habitual PA within the first year following a course of CR..

      Similarly, Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR) has been demonstrated to be an effective
      non-pharmacological intervention for COPD patients, and aims to return the patient to
      independent functioning, reduce disability and improve quality of life. The clinical
      conditions for which PR is routinely offered result in progressive loss of function over
      time. Therefore, any initial beneficial effects of a PR programme are likely to diminish over
      the subsequent eighteen months. Within this time period however, patients who complete PR
      have significantly greater quality of life, PA capacity, and fewer days in hospital relative
      to participants who do not participate in PR . Despite these benefits, uptake and adherence
      to PR is extremely problematic, with studies demonstrating that less than 50% of patients
      referred to PR will complete the course. Additionally, adherence rates reported in randomised
      controlled trials tend to be higher, so even this bleak estimate of adherence may be
      inflated.

      Background Information

      A commonality between CR and PR is the patients' participation in physical activity. Regular
      participation in physical activity (PA) reduces all-cause mortality by 30%, and can help to
      manage over 20 chronic conditions, including CHD, stroke, type 2 diabetes, cancer, obesity,
      mental health problems and musculoskeletal conditions. COPD patients' engagement in
      low-to-moderate intensity daily PA has been shown to enhance their cardiorespiratory health
      and ability for exertion, and reduce dyspnoea symptoms . Additionally, PA reduces cardiac
      mortality by 31%, and has been demonstrated to lower blood pressure, and increase 'good'
      cholesterol in cardiac patients. These effects occur through engagement in relatively low
      levels of activity: 30 minutes, five times per week.

      Despite these far-reaching benefits, patients are less likely than non-symptomatic
      individuals to engage with PA. In 2015, a report by the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges
      portrayed PA as a 'miracle cure', which despite having a better disease risk reduction than
      many drugs, is often overlooked by healthcare providers and their patients. Worryingly, with
      the number of older people with multiple medical problems increasing rapidly, less than a
      third of UK adults over the age of 65 meet the minimum levels of PA.

      Theoretical Underpinning

      Motivation is a key component of behaviour change. With the focus on the motivational aspects
      of behaviour change in mind, Self-Determination Theory (SDT) has become an increasingly
      commonly used theory to design health behaviour change interventions . According to SDT
      individuals adopt or change behaviour on the basis of internal satisfaction and fulfilment,
      termed as intrinsic motivation. Alternatively, individuals are less likely to adopt or change
      behaviour when a reward or inducement provided by an external person is used to compel a
      person to act, known as extrinsic motivation. Environments that support intrinsic motivation
      optimise behavioural effort, persistence and performance. In contrast, environments that
      coerce through rewards serve to diminish behavioural effort, persistence and performance .

      Previous SDT research has demonstrated that intrinsic motivation towards treatment is
      positively associated with adherence to medical regimes among people with chronic illnesses,
      attendance/involvement in an addiction treatment program, and long-term maintenance of weight
      loss among morbidly obese patients. Within physical activity research, intrinsic motivation
      has been found to be strongly associated with physical activity engagement. Similarly,
      increases in intrinsic motivation from pre- to post- exercise referral scheme significantly
      predicted greater adherence to the scheme as well as greater sports-related physical
      activity. The dense body of SDT research in health, including physical activity, suggests
      that interventions underpinned by SDT, should develop and support intrinsic motivation in
      order to optimally motivate engagement with PA.

      Motivational interviewing (MI) is a method of strengthening personal motivation for change,
      and has been shown to be a promising approach for promoting health behaviour change in a
      number of contexts including physical activity promotion. MI comprises several techniques
      used by practitioners to facilitate behaviour change in patients. Some techniques focus on
      the content of the intervention, whereas others focus on techniques reflect the
      practitioner's interpersonal style of delivery. One of the primary roles the MI approach is
      to evoke the patient's arguments for change and to reduce their own arguments for not
      changing.

      Research Critique

      Motivational theories that inform behaviour change (for example, SDT) do not typically feed
      through to into instructor training programmes, particularly in clinical rehabilitation
      settings. Therefore, a significant limitation of motivational theory to date is its ability
      to be translated into clinical practice. Accordingly, it is important that attempts are made
      to ensure motivational theory is translated effectively in clinical practice in order to
      increase patients' motivation for physical activity uptake and adherence in cardiac and
      pulmonary rehabilitation. The current research, therefore, will combine a well-established
      motivational theory (i.e., Self-Determination Theory) with established motivational practice
      (i.e., Motivational Interviewing) in an attempt to integrate theory and practice, offsetting
      Ntoumanis et al's. claims that contemporary motivation research does not typically feed
      through to instructor programmes.

      Previous researches aiming to increase physical activity motivation in rehabilitation have
      predominantly focused on interventions at an individual-level. Whilst it is important not to
      completely disregard this approach, the NHS rehabilitation setting is typically a place where
      clinicians have to facilitate sessions on a group-level. Furthermore, the NHS may not have
      the resources to provide the sufficient level of treatment fidelity that one-to-one
      approaches require in order to be successful. Therefore, the current research will equip
      clinicians with skills to be effective for increasing group-level physical activity
      motivation, as well as on an individual level.

      Motivational-based intervention research for changing increasing physical activity behaviour
      in clinical rehabilitation settings has predominantly focused on intervention effectiveness
      for changing behavioural outcomes. However, the intervention development, delivery and
      content are not often reported, therefore, limiting the applied utility and replication of
      the intervention itself. As such, the current research will pilot and feasibly investigate
      the development of a motivational-based intervention. Doing so will provide a more nuanced
      understanding for motivating cardiac and pulmonary patients' uptake and adherence to physical
      rehabilitation activity. Such information would also be crucial for informing a future RCT
      trial.
    
  