
    
      The study is designed to obtain tumor samples from patients undergoing clinically indicated
      surgical resection of a brain tumor or primary non-CNS tumor after infusion of 13C-glucose,
      13C-acetate or 13C-glucose and 13C-acetate. Patients with a brain mass identified on brain
      imaging and who need surgical resection of the mass will be eligible for this metabolism
      study. Eligible study patients will be screened, recruited, and enrolled at UT Southwestern
      Medical Center in the Harold C. Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, University Hospital -
      Zale Lipshy and University Hospital - St. Paul, Children's Medical Center of Dallas as well
      as at Parkland Health and Hospital System. We will consent 60 patients, including projected
      screen failures and early withdrawals, and anticipate that we will study 25 patients in this
      clinical protocol. Once enrolled, patients will undergo a series of preoperative brain
      imaging studies including 3T MRI with Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) and 1H-MR spectroscopy,
      7T MRI and a brain 18FDG-PET scan within 7-14 days of the scheduled operation. Of these
      studies, only the 3T MRI is standard of care. The DTI and 1H-MR spectroscopy are additional
      scanning sequences that are being done for research purposes. Similarly, the 7T MRI and the
      18FDG-PET are being done for research purposes only. On the day of surgery, the patient will
      have a peripheral IV started while waiting in the preoperative holding area and a 20%
      solution of either [U-13C]glucose and/or [1,2-13C]acetate (to be determined for each
      individual patient by the PI) will be infused at a rate of 4g/hr for a maximum of 4 hours.
      During the infusion period, 4 timed blood samples will be collected for NMR analysis of
      13C-glucose in the blood. The infusion will continue until the tumor has been resected and
      samples have been collected and flash frozen for 13C-NMR spectral analysis and molecular
      analyses. The infusion and tumor collection for 13C-NMR analysis is being done for research
      purposes only. However, the remainder of the neurosurgical operative and post-operative
      procedures will be followed according to standard practice. The patient will be seen 10-14
      days after surgery for a follow up visit at which time an assessment of adverse events will
      be performed. Thereafter, every 6 months for 5 years or until death, the patient will be
      contacted and data regarding treatment, responses, and tumor progression will be collected
      for correlative analysis.
    
  