
    
      The operation of hemithyroidectomy (total thyroid lobectomy and isthmusectomy with
      preservation of the contralateral lobe) is indicated for patients with a unilateral thyroid
      mass that is causing compressive symptoms, cosmetic concern or to exclude thyroid carcinoma.

      The incidence and risk factors for development of hypothyroidism after hemithyroidectomy
      remain unclear. The reported rates of postoperative hypothyroidism vary from 5.0% to 41.9 %
      because of variable follow-up and definition of hypothyroidism (Wormald et al). There are no
      nationally nor universally accepted guidelines for the monitoring of thyroid function after
      hemithyroidectomy.

      Subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with an increased risk of coronary heart events and
      coronary heart mortality (Rodondi et al) and a high level of thyrotropin (within the
      laboratory reference range) has been related to an increased risk of fatal coronary heart
      disease (Asvold et al) Variation in thyroid function is seen between individuals also within
      the normal range. The individual variation in serum levels of thyroid hormones and
      thyrotropin between measurements in the same individual is relatively small compared with
      variations between individuals (Andersen et al). This implicates that around half of the
      laboratory reference range for thyrotropin is abnormal for a given individual. The fact that
      a thyrotropin value of an individual can be within the reference range but still represent an
      abnormal thyroid function in that given person has consequences for the monitoring of thyroid
      function after hemithyroidectomy. It implies that the postoperative thyroid function should
      be monitored by having the preoperative thyroid function in mind and that postoperative
      hypothyroidism should be understood in a broader term. After hemithyroidectomy a change in
      the individual unique set point that results in a lowered thyroid function can represent a
      condition that the investigators refer to as individual subclinical hypothyroidism.

      Weight gain following hemithyroidectomy for benign nodular goiter among patients that do not
      develop overt hypothyroidism is a frequent clinical observation. Body weight is influenced by
      many factors, there among thyroid function. Even small differences in thyroid function with
      s-thyrotropin variations within the normal laboratory range for patients on T4 substitution
      therapy are associated with differences in resting energy expenditure. A prolonged decrease
      in REE could lead to increased body weight (al-Adsani et al).

      Overweight and obesity are major threats to public health. The importance of lifestyle for
      weight gain is not to be doubted but other factors such as slight differences in thyroid
      function might be of importance in the risk of gaining weight as well (Knudsen et al).

      The mitochondria provide cellular energy by converting oxygen and nutrients into ATP by
      aerobe respiration and mitochondrial energy production is regulated by thyroid hormones
      (Weitzel et al). Subclinical hypothyroidism has previously been shown to affect mitochondrial
      function in mononuclear blood cells (Kvetny et al).

      The investigators hypothesize that after hemithyroidectomy some patients develop lowered
      thyroid function which results in a postoperative higher value of serum thyrotropin as a
      consequence of less negative feed-back on the pituitary gland. Weather the postoperative
      lowered thyroid function results in overt hypothyroidism (serum thyrotropin above the upper
      reference limit, lowered serum levels of free T3 and T4), subclinical (serum thyrotropin
      above the upper reference limit, free T3 and T4 within the reference range) or individual
      subclinical hypothyroidism (serum thyrotropin rises within the reference range, free T3 and
      T4 within the reference range) depends on the preoperative set point of thyroid function of
      the given patient but either condition represents a condition that is abnormal. The
      investigators hypothesize that a postoperative lowered thyroid function will affect
      mitochondrial function and result in weight gain.
    
  