
    
      One of the most predominant periodontal diseases is the plaque induced gingivitis. Certain
      plants used in folk medicine serve as a source of therapeutic agents that have antimicrobial
      and other multipotential effects.

      Aim: The aim of study is to evaluate the toothpaste containing high concentration of Aloe
      Vera on reduction of plaque and gingivitis and on clinical periodontal parameter (PI&BOP)
      salivary primary colonizers boat (S. sanguinis and S. mutant).and determine the effect of
      aloe vera toothpaste on the pro inflammatory cytokines (IL_1β) in the gingival crevicular
      fluid.

      Objective To evaluate the efficacy of aloe vera toothpaste on IL_1β by using ELISA technique
      and evaluate the efficacy of aloe vera toothpaste on early colonizer load using (PCR).

      Null hypothesis aloe vera has Anti-Inflammatory effect by reducing IL_1β and some clinical
      periodontal parameters (plaque index& bleeding on probing index) when used by the patients
      with regular mechanical oral hygiene.

      Alternative hypothesis the effect of aloe vera toothpaste is less than Colgate toothpaste on
      the inflammatory marker IL_1β, early load and some clinical parameters (PI and BOP).

      Materials and methods Twenty-four adult patients (male and female) with generalized
      gingivitis participated in the double-blinded randomized crossover trial was divided into two
      groups, (aloe vera and Colgate toothpaste). A week after receiving polishing and
      scaling,24hours plaque re-growth. In zero day, after 24h and 7 days' time points, plaque
      index and bleeding on probe was recorded, and then the participants entered a 7-day washout
      period with regular oral hygiene measures. And 7days to used other type of toothpaste (aloe
      vera or Colgate).in the first visit (zero day) GCF collected from targeted sites (upper
      incisors, labial side). In the second visit (after 24 hours) saliva collected (for early
      colonizer load) and the patient brushing teeth and wait 2 hours, after 2hour saliva collected
      again. the GCF collected in third visit (after7 days), fourth visit (after wash out period)
      and fifth visit from the same teeth. Saliva collected in third and fifth visit.
    
  