
    
      After signing the consent form, eligible participants will complete a health-related
      questionnaire and undergo a gait, balance and strength testing at the time of discharge and
      then be randomly referred to an intervention (n=30) or to a control group (n=30).
      Participants will be recruited until the target sample (n=60) is reached. Randomization will
      be by coin flip.

      Measures (intervention and control groups): The evaluation involves non-invasive assessments
      of physical functioning conducted by physical therapists including balance, gait, and lower
      limb strength testing. Both groups will be tested by physical therapists at baseline 3, and 6
      months post-discharge. A 12-month follow-up call will be made to all participants to ask
      about falls and physical activity. The physical therapists that conduct the testing will be
      different from the physical therapists that deliver the intervention (Otago Exercise
      Program). All tests will be completed in 60-90 minute sessions at Baptist Outpatient
      Rehabilitation Center. The participants will complete a questionnaire including information
      on health and falls history, falls self-efficacy (Falls Efficacy Scale), hospitalizations,
      doctors' visits, and emergency department visits. The participants will also complete a
      physical assessment including gait analysis using an instrumented mat (GaitRite) to collect
      data on the temporo-spatial parameters of gait during preferred gait speed and gait during
      street crossing simulation with regular time: 7 seconds. Street crossing regular time
      allowance was calculated based on the pre-programmed pedestrian street signals, which give
      pedestrians 20 seconds to cross a four-lane street. The GaitRite is a thin mat with pressure
      sensors; an integrated software and web-cam that measures and calculates the gait
      temporo-spatial parameters. The videos are used only as a visual reference to inspect the
      task for quality control during data collection and review and will not be used in the
      analysis or in any other way. The physical assessment will also include the BalanceMaster
      (Natus Medical, Inc.), a fixed force plate to measure the vertical forces exerted through the
      feet to measure center of gravity position and postural control, Tinneti Balance Assessment,
      lower limb strength testing using the 30-second chair stand test, and the Timed Up and Go
      (TUG) assessment for mobility testing.

      Procedures (intervention and control groups): The participants will complete the gait,
      balance and chair-rise tests in random order. They will be asked a priori to wear non-slip
      socks provided by the research team. During the preferred gait speed condition, the
      participants will be instructed to walk on the GAITRite® at their preferred speed as they
      usually do during their daily activities. During the simulated street crossing condition, the
      participants will be instructed to cross the street when the pedestrian lights turn green and
      complete the crossing within the time allowed as displayed by the pedestrian lights on the
      video. The video includes audio of traffic noise for a more realistic road crossing
      environment, and it displays an intersection situation in which the subject will be
      positioned at the intersection, on the sidewalk looking at the oncoming motor vehicle traffic
      from both directions. A pedestrian light with countdown will also be displayed on the screen.
      Thus, a functional dual-task paradigm will be used including visual cues and the participants
      will have to interpret those cues and adjust their gait accordingly. A familiarization trial
      will be completed, followed by three recording trials under each condition. The order of gait
      conditions will be randomized for each participant. Participants are free to stop
      participating at anytime without needing to provide a reason.

      Exercise Intervention (intervention group only): The intervention is a comprehensive program
      addressing aging-related functional decline, fear of falling and inactivity. It targets
      adults with a history of falls or at-risk for falls. Following the assessments, the
      participants will be assigned to a control group who will receive the standard educational
      information on falls prevention, or to an individualized exercise program prescribed and
      delivered by physical therapists (Otago Exercise Program for Falls Prevention). The program
      is an easy-to-implement and affordable exercise program for individuals with high risk for
      falls. The program design model is person-centered and customized to the individual needs. It
      includes a set of leg muscle strengthening and balance retraining exercises, and a walking
      plan. Subjects will go to Baptist Outpatient Rehabilitation Center before discharge for the
      baseline assessment and exercise prescription, then biweekly during the first 2 months (4
      times) for exercise progressions and follow ups, once at month 3 for the first re-assessment,
      then again at 6 months for a booster session and second re-assessment. At 12 months a phone
      call follow up will be done to ask about falls and physical activity. The assessments and
      sessions will be covered by the Baptist Health Neuroscience Center and Rehabilitation
      Services. As part of the program, the participants will do 30 minutes of exercise three times
      per week, and walk continuously or not for 30 minutes at least two times per week for six
      months. Participants record (physical activity log) the days they exercise and walk and
      provide the information to the physical therapists during subsequent visits and/or calls.

      Physical therapists will prescribe the exercises based on a large selection available on the
      program manual. The participants receive an illustration with explanations of the exercises
      they need to do. They receive a booklet with exercise instructions and ankle cuff weights.
      The physical therapists will do exercise progressions by increasing intensity and/or
      difficulty during the subsequent client visits to Baptist Outpatient Rehabilitation Center.
      The program also includes monthly telephone calls from study staff to maintain motivation,
      collect information on any falls, and answer questions between visits.
    
  