
    
      This study is a single center, randomized, observer-blind, active- and placebo-controlled,
      dose comparison study to assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of BW-1010
      administered IN using an Aptar Bidose sprayer or an Eppendorf Electronic Repeater pipette in
      healthy adult volunteers. There is an additional unblinded BioThrax arm administered by SC
      injection. BioThrax is included in the study design only to provide a licensed, active
      control for immunogenicity and safety comparisons. A total of 84 participants will be
      enrolled in the study. Participants will be randomized in one of the following 7 arms:

      A) BW-1010: 50µg - sprayer - IN, 400 µL; 16 participants. B) BW-1010: 50µg - pipette - IN,
      400 µL; 16 participants. C) BW-1010: 100µg - sprayer - IN, 400 µL; 16 participants. D)
      BW-1010: 100µg - pipette - IN, 400 µL; 16 participants. E) Saline (Placebo) - sprayer - IN,
      400 µL; 6 participants. F) Saline (Placebo) - pipette - IN, 400 µL; 6 participants. G)
      BioThrax (Positive control) - SC, 500 µL; 8 participants. All participants receiving test
      article or placebo will receive two doses of the vaccine four weeks apart. Each of these
      participants will receive treatment intranasally using either an Aptar Bidose sprayer or an
      Eppendorf Electronic Repeater pipette. Eight participants will be randomized to receive a
      positive control (BioThrax vaccine) and will receive 3 doses of vaccine two weeks apart.

      Since this is the first-in-human study for BW-1010, a total of twelve sentinel participants
      will receive either the test article or the placebo in a randomized fashion prior to dosing
      the main participants. Four of the 50 µg rPA vaccine and two placebo control participants
      will be randomized and dosed first, with no more than one participant/day with at least 24
      hours safety follow up prior to enrolling the next participant. The Safety Review Committee
      (SRC) will review all safety data available through the Day 8 visit of the last sentinel
      participant dosed from this group and provide clearance to proceed with the 50 µg rPA Main
      Study participants and the 100 µg sentinel group. Four of the 100 µg rPA vaccine Sentinel
      Group and two placebo control participants will be randomized and dosed after safety
      clearance of the 50 µg rPA sentinel group, with no more than one participant/day with at
      least 24 hours safety follow up prior to enrolling the next participant. The SRC will review
      all safety data available through the Day 8 visit of the last sentinel participant dosed from
      this group and provide clearance to proceed with the 100 µg rPA Main Study participants.

      Participants will be followed up for safety and tolerability for 1 year following last
      immunization.

      Participants will be assessed for production of specific antibodies in the form of serum
      toxin neutralization antibodies (TNA) and serum anti-rPA IgG throughout the study until the
      termination visit.

      Since this is a nasal vaccine and it is anticipated that the immune response will be
      different that the standard parental vaccines, the participants will be tested 10 days post
      last dose for rPA-specific cytokine on T-cells (IFN-ɤ, IL-5 and IL-17) and rPA-specific IgG
      and Ig-A on B-cells. Nasal wash will also be tested for total IgA and rPA-specific IgG and
      IgA.

      Safety and immunogenicity analysis will include all randomized participants. Analysis will
      compare the different dose levels, different method of administration. Participants who
      received BW-1010 will be compared to participants who received the saline negative control
      and the BioThrax positive control.
    
  