
    
      Heart failure is a major source of morbidity, mortality and growing public health cost. In
      US, the number of congestive heart failure patients is more than 4 million with more than
      550,000 new annually reported cases. The annual cost of heart failure management exceeds 35
      billion dollars per year.The heart failure readmissions and average length of hospital stay
      cost approximately $11,000 per patient.

      Loop diuretics are used alone in the majority of cases to promote diuresis. An association of
      increased creatinine and increased risk of renal dysfunction, the cardiorenal syndrome, in
      the face of high dose loop diuretics has raised questions regarding the safety and toxicity
      of high dose loop diuretics. While the dose of diuretics is ubiquitous, little data exists to
      guide their use and many clinicians are uncertain as to when and how to initiate and limit
      therapy.

      Prospective randomized data on large number of decompensated heart failure patients receiving
      metolazone in addition to standard therapy is scarce and needs further definitive evaluation
      in terms of clinical outcomes and safety. In many cases, a "stepped approach" with oral loop
      diuretics advancing to intravenous and finally combination high dose diuretics is employed.

      Primary endpoint: Total urinary output and negative fluid balance in millilitres (ml) at 48
      hours following first dose of intravenous diuretic.

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Change in weight from admission to day 2.

        2. Degree of improvement in dyspnea at 6,12, 24,36, and 48 hours assessed with Modified
           Borg Scale (1-10)

        3. All cause mortality at 30 days.

      This is a single center study of at least 200 patients who are admitted to Aultman Hospital
      with clinical decompensated congestive heart failure ( NYHA III-IV). It is a double blinded
      randomized placebo- controlled pilot study of the addition of 5 mg of metolazone per day for
      2 days compared to placebo in patients admitted with acute decompensated heart failure. We
      will compare a strategy of early institution of metolazone with standard of care in patients
      admitted with decompensated heart failure and volume overload. All patients will receive
      standard heart failure therapy, including but not restricted to diuretics, digoxin,
      angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers, beta blockers,
      aldosterone antagonists, hydralazine, and/or nitrates, at the discretion of the treating
      physician.

      After informed consent is obtained, patients will be randomized 1:1 to the treatment arm or
      placebo arm. Two additional doses of metolazone within 6 and 24 hours of administration of
      standard intravenous diuretics will be given to the treatment arm. Patients and physicians
      will be blinded to the administered drug (metolazone vs placebo).Drug will be distributed by
      pharmacy when a patient is consented and enrolled in the trial. Specific
      guidance/recommendations regarding diuretic therapy will be provided (documented in detail
      below) but will be at the discretion of the treating physician. We will collect data on
      demographics, co-morbidities, clinical presentations and outcomes with metolazone
      administration with patient follow up at one week (+3) and 30 (±7) days post discharge.
    
  