
    
      Opioid dependence (OD) is a serious medical and social quandary impacting the lives of
      millions, including disparate demographic populations in the United States. Economic and
      societal costs of prescription opioid abuse in the United States alone are estimated at $56
      billion while the number of drug poisoning deaths attributed to opioid analgesics has more
      than tripled since 1999. In 2008, opioid analgesics were involved in greater than 40% of all
      drug poisoning fatalities. Opiate-agonist pharmacotherapy utilizing buprenorphine/naloxone
      (bup/nal) is known to decrease illicit opiate use. However, poor medication management and
      misuse during self-managed opioid substitution therapy (OST) constrains efficacy, while
      aggrandizing relapse, hospitalizations and mortality. In an adherence study, OST patients
      that mismanaged their medication were >10 times more likely to relapse than compliant
      patients. [5] Thus, one of the most inescapable challenges confronted by health care
      professionals treating OD is assuring medications are taken as prescribed to inhibit relapse.
      Yet, the threats to successful medication mismanagement for substance use disorders are
      unique from those of traditional chronic diseases.

      While the ultimate goal of substance abuse treatment is abstinence, opioid addiction is a
      chronic, relapsing medical condition. Opioid substitution therapy, incorporating methadone or
      bup/nal, represents conventional treatment options for opioid dependence. Methadone
      maintenance in adequate doses reduces cravings, prevents the onset of withdrawal, is not
      intoxicating or sedating, and does not interfere with normal activities of daily living.
      However, significant pitfalls denote methadone maintenance treatment. Methadone is a
      long-acting, full opioid agonist with known abuse and diversion potential and no upper
      boundary to the level of respiratory depression -- overdose can therefore be fatal. In
      addition, relapse rates for methadone maintenance range between 55-90% following treatment.
      Although an effective therapy, the high rates of relapse and diversion render methadone a
      less than ideal solution for many patients. Recently, the bup/nal formulation, commonly sold
      as Suboxone®, was designed to minimize abuse and diversion while retaining all positive
      aspects of methadone treatment. Bup/nal has proven correspondingly effective in treating OD
      as methadone, and more efficient in certain populations. Clinical studies have shown the
      beneficial effect of bup/nal treatment in reducing subsequent opioid use. Administered
      sublingually, naloxone undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism and has negligible
      bioavailability; thus, when used as prescribed, the combination drug (bup/nal) produces
      effects of buprenorphine alone. However, if injected, the naloxone will precipitate
      withdrawal in opioid dependent patients. Thus, bup/nal is intended to reduce the risk of
      illicit use by injection. An additional benefit of bup/nal OST is unsupervised use. Unlike
      methadone maintenance, which generally entails a daily clinic visit, bup/nal allows the
      patient increased freedom, typically requiring only one physician and pharmacy visit per
      month after a stabilization period. Given its lower abuse appeal, strong effectiveness, and
      clear ability to lower relapse rates, bup/nal represents a more suitable treatment option for
      OD, especially in still working individuals.

      In spite of moves toward more unsupervised and self-managed OST with bup/nal, monitoring and
      promoting effective medication adherence is challenging for a number of reasons including
      diversion, lack of motivational support to avoid opioids, and low health literacy. Affording
      patients and their caregivers an interactive toolset to effectively monitor and promote
      medication management during OST therefore represents a major unmet need that this project
      will address. This research project will develop an interactive smartphone/tablet application
      (APP), named SubAID, designed to engage and support patients receiving bup/nal to promote and
      monitor adherence. In order to develop the most appropriate and effective adherence support
      content for the SubAID APP, we will solicit opinions in Focus Groups from OD subjects
      prescribed bup/nal to better understand the adherence complications and problems they
      encounter on a daily basis.
    
  