
    
      Suicide rates are rising in the US and more than a million Americans try to take their own
      lives each year. Effective, brief, low-cost interventions for individuals who attempt suicide
      are essential to saving lives and achieving the goals of the National Strategy for Suicide
      Prevention. This study takes advantage of a time-sensitive research opportunity to test the
      effectiveness of the Attempted Suicide Short Intervention Program (ASSIP), a manualized
      3-session intervention for recent suicide attempt survivors that produced dramatic reductions
      in suicide attempts in a efficacy trial-80% fewer reattempts and an average of 72% fewer
      hospital days over 24 months in the intervention group compared to controls. This research
      will now test its effectiveness of in the US public mental health care system, examine
      theoretically grounded mechanisms, and explore cost-effectiveness. ASSIP is currently being
      implemented by New York State in a Zero Suicide initiative funded by SAMHSA. Consistent with
      NIMH Notice of Interest MH-17-03, this project leverages this federal investment and a strong
      state partnership to conduct effectiveness research.

      Effectiveness. The primary aim of this study is to determine the effectiveness of ASSIP in
      reducing suicide reattempts in a community mental health setting in the U.S. To accomplish
      this aim the investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial with 400 individuals
      referred from psychiatric inpatient and emergency services following a suicide attempt.
      Participants will be randomized to receive either usual care + ASSIP (intervention arm) or
      usual care only (control arm), and followed for assessments at baseline, 6-weeks 3-, 6-, 12-,
      and 18-months.

      Mechanism. The secondary aim of this study to examine the psychological mechanisms of ASSIP,
      as predicted by the Interpersonal Theory of Suicide. To accomplish this aim the investigators
      will conduct statistical analyses of a mediation model to determine (a) whether ASSIP
      improves perceptions of low belonging and being a burden on others, and (b) whether the
      effect of treatment on reductions in suicide re-attempts is mediated by these improvements.

      Cost-Effectiveness. The exploratory aim is to identify potential implementation costs,
      barriers, and facilitators for delivering ASSIP. A stakeholder summary report will be written
      and disseminated, including an estimate, from the perspective of an ASSIP provider, the
      incremental cost per suicide attempt averted by delivering ASSIP to supplement usual care
      following a suicide attempt. This report can be used by organizations and localities
      considering implementing ASSIP as part of their Zero Suicide strategy.
    
  