
    
      In spite of advances in postoperative management and the standardization of postoperative
      care, there is a wide variability in the degree of pain relief achieved which cannot be
      accounted for. The aim of this study is to devise a method for defining a pain phenotype
      sensitive enough to detect differences in genetic makeup between individuals who undergo a
      standard surgical procedure (total knee replacement). This methodology will serve as a pilot
      study for future genome wide association studies. Given the multidimensional aspects of pain
      experience, the phenotype will be combined of various dimensions comprising postoperative
      pain. Reports about single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), which account for some of the
      variability of pain, have been reported in the literature using different pain models. To
      test the sensitivity of our method of phenotyping, the investigators aim to determine if
      variability in our clinical phenotypes can be explained by some of the SNPs published in the
      literature. Patients scheduled for elective unilateral primary total knee arthroplasty will
      be asked to report on various clinical pain variables, fill psychometric questionnaires, be
      subjected to quantitative sensory testing, genotyped for a genes associated with pain, and
      additional SNPs. A composite pain profile will be composed for each patient initially
      examining five candidate genes and related SNPs to find out the SNPs that are significantly
      associated with given pain phenotypes. Samples will be banked for future study of other genes
      associated with pain. Other clinical variables will be collected (e.g. opioid consumption).
      At six and twelve months, psychological questionnaires and pain questionnaires will be sent
      to patient. A model using pain during physical therapy as the dependent variable will be fit
      to the data. Knee joint fluid, urine, and serum will be collected from approximately 30% of
      the subjects who provide their additional consent cytokine and other inflammatory marker
      analysis. All biological specimens will be banked for future analysis. This is a pilot,
      preliminary study which will assess patients prospectively and attempt to correlate markers
      on genes and single nucleotide polymorphisms with patient phenotypes. This method which will
      serve as the foundation for a future genome wide association study of pain. This is a
      preliminary, developmental, prospective follow-up study to develop a tool that will be
      sensitive and specific enough to be used in a large-scale candidate genome association pain
      study.
    
  