
    
      The study is an organizational project, which takes place in a quasi-randomized controlled
      design.

      Every morning at the conference at the Emergency Department, patients are assessed if they
      are suitable for geriatric assessment and intervention and if so assigned to the Geriatric
      Team. Then lots are drawn by the Emergency Department's secretary (envelopes in blocks of 10)
      about two types of organization that is offered the patients that are admitted that day -
      either: 1) 'early geriatric follow-up' that comprises home visits no later than 24 hours
      after discharge (=intervention group), or 2) usual care after discharge with 'follow-up
      visits' by home care and the patient's GP, if they consider it necessary (=control group).

      All the assigned patients are offered comprehensive geriatric assessment and intervention by
      the multidisciplinary team working in the ED consisting of a physician, nurse, and therapist,
      all with geriatric expertise. The assessment and intervention include evaluation of patient
      medication, functional ability, and social conditions.

      The decision on transfer to home or to the Geriatric ward is influenced by the randomization
      of the day as 'early geriatric follow-up after discharge' means that more patients, with
      diseases that would otherwise have required treatment in hospital, can now be treated at
      home. Intervention patients who are considered to be too ill for treatment at home will be
      transferred to the Geriatric ward and then afterwards will receive 'early geriatric follow-up
      after discharge'.

      Early follow-up starts with a visit no later than 24 hours after discharge (except for
      sundays). The first visit is performed by the Geriatric team and after that a tailored
      follow-up is performed as needed up to 30 days after discharge. The intervention can include
      services such as medication review, subcutaneous fluid therapy, blood transfusion,
      intravenous antibiotic treatment, and further examinations. The team can be contacted by
      phone and by e-mail. If the patient is dependent on assistance from home care, is the
      intervention performed in close cooperation with those. The home care is in charge of several
      daily observations with feedback to the team about the patient's illness and disability. In
      the end of the patient pathway, a discharge summary is sent to the patient's GP.

      After discharge, the control group patients receive home-visits as usual by the home care and
      their GP, if they consider it as necessary. Before discharge, the Geriatric team has
      contacted the primary care and announced the discharge and sends a discharge letter. The
      Geriatric team is allowed to phone the patients in the control group after discharge to
      ensure that everything is in order and to deliver results according to hospital examinations.
    
  