
    
      The "7H" intervention

        1. Hypothesis generation: analysis of available informationGPs analyze all the available
           information about possible reasons for frequent attendance from clinical charts using a
           standardized questionnaire designed to facilitate analysis of this information. This
           questionnaire prompts analysis of the following: (1) category of visits and their
           frequencies; (2) type of frequent attender according to the first point; (3) family and
           personal history, and biopsychosocial problem list that needed follow-up; (4) searching
           for common factors for frequent attendance from the previous points; (5) feelings and
           thoughts questionnaires, 'In most interviews with this patient I think ...' (11 items),
           'I feel ...' (13 items); (6) rethinking issues of GP capacity (and processes) to resolve
           the frequent attendance in this patient; and (7) analyzing the different professionals
           who intervened in patient care and their contribution to resolving or continuing
           frequent attendance.Finally, GPs indicate the type of hypothesis from a list of seven
           that they believe made the patient a frequent attender: biological, psychological,
           social, family, cultural, administrative-organizational, or related to the
           doctor-patient relationship.

        2. Hypothesis confirmation: the decision to accept or refute each hypothesis is based on
           the GP's interpretation of the data (cognitive component) and the self-perception about
           feeling sure (emotional component). When necessary, the GPs can try out the hypothesis
           with one or more of the following strategies: another interview with the
           patient,biological and psychosocial tests, and/or asking for the opinion of other
           professionals.

        3. Planning: the GP makes plans for each frequent attender based on the confirmed
           hypothesis and available resources. There are many possible plans, examples of which
           include: making longer intervals between medical revisits for stable chronic patients,
           and asking for collaboration with nurses; looking for possible causes of the unstable
           physical chronic illness and intervening accordingly; scheduling an interview to search
           for a psychological, family or/and, social diagnosis; suppressing unnecessary
           face-to-face medical revisits for repeat prescriptions in stable chronic patients, and
           asking the health centre administrative staff for collaboration; asking the social
           worker at the health centre for help; referring to community resources if necessary; and
           being more realistic about the type of doctor-patient relationship expected. These plans
           are then commented on at the group meeting, after which the GP negotiates the plan with
           the frequent attender. The GP should never suggest to the patient: 'You have to attend
           less frequently'. This would be too aggressive and the patient might react with anger or
           guilt. It is better to offer a search for solutions to the patient's health problem from
           both points of view.
    
  