
    
      Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with TP53 deletion (17p-) and/or mutation has a poor
      prognosis. Different therapeutic strategies have been tested over the last decade such as
      fludarabine-based regimens, alemtuzumab, bendamustine alone or with rituximab, lenalidomide,
      or ofatumumab, but all without compelling evidence for success. For example, with the FCR
      regimen as the standard 1st line treatment for fit CLL patients, only 5% (1 of 22) of
      patients with 17p deletion had a complete response (CR) and 40% of patients were free of
      disease progression at 12 months in the CLL8 Trial. New agents like Bruton's Tyrosin Kinase
      (BTK) inhibitors such as ibrutinib have shown promising results in patients with relapsed or
      refractory CLL, however, outcome of CLL patients with 17p deletion is inferior to other
      subgroups. The CLL11 trial revealed an impressive improvement in efficacy with GA-101
      (obinutuzumab) as compared to rituximab when combined with Chlorambucil. Moreover, the BCL2
      antagonist venetoclax (previously GDC-0199/ABT-199), tested as a single agent in relapsed /
      refractory CLL patients, showed striking activity with tumor lysis syndrome as dose limiting
      toxicity. Consequently, the current trial will test a combination regimen consisting of
      obinutuzumab, ibrutinib and venetoclax (the "GIVe" regimen) as first line treatment in CLL
      patients with TP53 deletion (17p-) and/or mutation with the aim to demonstrate efficacy in
      this population at highest unmet medical need.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of the GIVe regimen in
      patients with TP53 deletion (17p-) and/or mutation and previously untreated CLL requiring
      treatment.

      For this, the CR rate at cycle 15 (d1; final restaging) will be used as primary parameter for
      efficacy. The CR rate is defined as the proportion of patients having achieved a CR or a CR
      with incomplete recovery of the bone marrow (CRi) as best response (according to iwCLL
      criteria) until cycle 15 (d1; final restaging) from start of therapy.

      Efficacy of the regimen will be further assessed by evaluation of the proportion of patients
      free of disease progression (PD-free rate) after 12 cycles of therapy, overall response rate
      (ORR), minimal residual disease (MRD) and overall survival as well as other time to event
      endpoints as outlined below.

      A further secondary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety of ibrutinib, venetoclax
      and obinutuzumab.
    
  