
    
      Study design This clinical-laboratorial, paralel, randomized, prospective and controlled
      study will be determine the impact of of PTFE-d barrier intentionally exposed to bucal
      environment in guided bone regeneration to ridge preservation, using microbiological,
      radiographic, patient-centered outcomes, molecular patter of bone-related markers and implant
      stabilization.

      Experimental groups

      Following local anesthesia, an intrasulcular incision was made around the tooth to be
      extracted and a mucoperiosteal flap was detached for adequate exposure of 3 mm of the
      alveolar crest adjacent to the alveolus. After, procedures for dislocation and dental removal
      were performed in a minimally invasive manner, using periotomes, levers and extractors, if
      necessary. Subsequently, irrigation with saline solution was performed and then, using
      specific software, patients will be randomly assigned to receive one of the following
      treatments:

      GBR Group: After extraction, the PTFE-d membrane (CytoplastTM Ti-250 Titanium-Reinforced,
      Anterior Narrow 12 mm x 24 mm, Osteogenics, Lubbock, TX, USA) was customized with scissors
      and adjusted over the socket, exceeding three millimeters from its margins. Then, the
      membrane was inserted subperiostally under the buccal and palatal flaps with the help of the
      Molt detacher. Minimal flap reflection was performed to stabilize the membrane, which was
      maintained intentionally exposed to the oral environment. Before suturing, the passive
      stability of the membrane over the alveolus was confirmed, as well as the absence of folds or
      wrinkles in the membrane. The flaps were then be approached in the pre-extraction position
      and sutured with crossed sutures, aiming to increase the stability of the membrane, with PTFE
      4-0 thread (Cytoplast PTFE, CS0618PREM, Osteogenics, Lubbock, TX, USA).

      Non-GBR group: After extraction, no further treatment was performed. The flaps were then
      repositioned and sutured with 5.0 nylon thread (Ethicon, Jonhson's Jonhson, São José dos
      Campos).

      Temporary adhesive prostheses adapted to adjacent teeth were installed and maintained until
      the moment of implant placement. The supragingival biofilm control was performed with
      mouthwashes of 0.12% chlorhexidine for a period of 4 weeks in all experimental groups.
      Pre-surgical anti-inflammatory therapy (dexamethasone 4 mg, single dose, 1 hour before the
      procedure) and postoperative analgesics (sodium dipyrone 500 mg, every 4 hours, for 3 days)
      were indicated. Patients were instructed to take analgesic medication only in case of pain
      during the period described above, being instructed to record the amount of medications
      ingested. Prophylactic systemic antimicrobial therapy was performed 1 hour before surgical
      procedures with 2 grams of Amoxicillin and the same medication will be prescribed for 7 days
      in the postoperative period, 500 mg every 8 hours.

      Sutures were removed after 15 days. In the GBR group, the membrane was removed after the
      28-day period, under anesthesia (Hoffmann et al. 2007, Carbonell et al. 2014, Cheon et al.
      2017), being removed gently with the traction movement with the aid of a tweezers.

      All patients were monitored monthly, throughout the study period, to observe periodontal
      maintenance and reinforce hygiene instructions.

      Implants and Prostheses Placement Three months after the extraction, regardless of the
      experimental group, patients received dental implants. Therefore, they were molded for
      rehabilitation planning and surgical guides were made to be used in the implant placement
      surgery. In the surgical procedure, patients were submitted to local anesthesia and
      mucoperiosteal flaps were made for access and adequate exposure of the alveolar bone. After,
      drilling was performed to insert the implants. In both groups, single-stage implants were
      performed, with the immediate placement of provisional prostheses on implants. All surgeries
      were performed by the same operator (EKM).

      After the experimental phase of the study, the definitive prostheses were installed. The
      sutures of the surgical procedures were performed with 5.0 nylon thread (Ethicon, Jonhson's
      Jonhson, São José dos Campos) and it was removed after 7 days. The supragingival biofilm
      control was performed with mouthwashes of 0.12% chlorhexidine for a period of 7 days after
      the surgery. Pre-surgical anti-inflammatory therapy (dexamethasone 4 mg, single dose, 1 hour
      before the procedure) and postoperative analgesics (sodium dipyrone 500 mg, every 4 hours,
      for 2 days) were indicated.

      Clinical examination The same examiner (SB) performed all clinical measurements. To perform
      the intra-examiner calibration, 15 non-study individuals presenting dental implants were
      chosen. The examiner measured the peri-implant probing depth of all individuals twice within
      a 24-hour period. The intra-class correlation was calculated as 95% reproducibility.

      Using a North Carolina/Colorvue probe (Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA), the following parameters
      were measured at four sites of the dental implants included in the study at baseline (before
      extration and GBR) and at 3-month follow-up: Probing Depth (PPD/mm), which was the distance
      from the bottom of the periodontal sulcus/pocket to the periodontal margin; Clinical
      Attachment Level (CAL/mm), which was the distance from the cement enamel junction to the
      bottom of the periodontal pocket.

      Microbioma evaluation Microbiological assessments of the biofilm present on the barriers (GBR
      Group) and in the repair area (non-GBR Group) were made after 3 days of extraction and after
      28 days (at the time of removal of the barrier in the GBR group).

      The microbiological analysis will be done through the Sequencing Technique of the 16S gene by
      the Illumina HiSeq platform, which allows to determine the diversity and abundance of the
      microbial population in the same sample. This evaluation will be carried out at the
      Centralized Multi-User Laboratory of Functional Genomics.

      Evaluation of parameters reported by the patient The assessment of patient-centered
      parameters concerning to symptoms related to morbidity and quality of life in the
      postoperative period will be carried out after 3, 7, 14, 28, 35 and 42 days of extraction,
      using questionnaires, based on a horizontal line of 100 mm (Visual Analog Scale; VAS).

      Molecular evaluation of markers related to osteoclast / blastogenesis In the surgical
      procedure for placing dental implants, during the milling to prepare the bed, bone tissue
      will be removed using a disposable bone collector adapted to the vacuum pump / surgical
      aspirator. Part of the bone tissue sample will be used for analysis of gene expression and
      another part for immunoenzymatic analysis of different biomarkers related to osteoclast /
      blastogenesis. All molecular analyzes related to osteoclast / blastogenesis markers will be
      performed at the Dental Research Laboratory of the Headquarters Institution. All biopsies
      collected will be stored in a specific solution to avoid degradation of RNA (RNAlater®,
      Ambion Inc., Austin, TX).

      Gene Expression Analysis RNA extraction: The removed tissues will be properly packed in a
      solution to avoid degradation of the RNA (RNAlater®, Ambion Inc., Austin, TX). The total RNA
      will be isolated by the TRIZOL reagent method (Gibco BRL, Life Technologies, Rockville, MD,
      USA). First, the RNAlater solution will be aspirated and the crushed sample will then be
      placed in the TRIZOL reagent, shaken for 30 seconds and incubated for 5 minutes at room
      temperature. After this period, chloroform (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) will be added, stirred
      and centrifuged at 10,000 rpm for 15 minutes at a temperature of 4oC. The aqueous portion
      will be transferred to another tube to which isopropanol will be added, shaken, incubated for
      20 minutes at a temperature of -20oC and centrifuged in the same way as described above.
      After this process, a pellet will be formed, which will be washed with chilled 75% ethanol
      and dried at room temperature. The RNA samples will be resuspended in approximately 50µl of
      water treated with diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC) and stored at -70oC. The concentration of RNA
      will be determined using a spectrophotometer.

      Treatment with DNAase will be performed and Real-time PCR (RT-PCR) will be conducted.Primers
      for GAPDH (reference gene), Transforming growth factor (TGF-β), Bone sialoprotein (BSP) and
      Collagen type I (COL-I) will be designed with the aid of a pGBRram developed specifically to
      design primers for LightCycler (Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Mannheim, Germany). All primers will
      be checked for specificity by checking the Melting curve using positive and negative
      controls. The reaction profile will be determined according to the formula suggested by the
      equipment manufacturer. For each of the "runs", water will be used as a negative control, and
      the product of the reactions will be quantified using the manufacturer's own pGBRram
      (LightCycler Relative Quantification Software - Roche Diagnostics GmbH). GAPDH will be used
      as the reference gene (housekeeping) for the normalization of values.

      Immunoenzymatic Analysis Part of the bone tissue sample collected at the time of implant
      placement will be placed in sterile tubes containing 400μL of phosphate buffered saline (PBS)
      with 0.05% Tween-20. All samples will be stored at -20 ° C. Then, the tissue will be weighed,
      homogenized and dissolved in PBS to a final concentration of 100mg of tissue / mL. After
      stirring in Vortex for 10 minutes, each sample will be centrifuged at 370g for 5 minutes, the
      supernatant will be collected and stored at -70 ° C until use. To avoid protease activity,
      the entire procedure will be performed at 4 ° C. Dickkopf (DKK1), Sclerostin (SOST), Tumor
      necrosis factor (TNF-α), Osteoprotegerin (OPG), Osteocalcin (OC), Osteopontin (OPN)
      (HBNMAG-51K, Millipore Corporation, Billerica, MA, USA ), NF-κB binding activator receptor
      (RANKL) (HRNKLMAG-31K-01, Millipore Corporation, Billerica, MA, USA), Osteonectin (OSN) and
      Tartrate Resistant Acid Phosphatase (TRAP) (HCMBMAG-22K, Millipore Corporation, Billerica,
      MA, USA), will be determined using Luminex / MAGpix technology, which allows to determine the
      presence and to quantify in an absolute way the concentration of different markers in the
      same sample.

      For this purpose, the analyzes will be performed in 96-well plates, with the help of the
      high-sensitivity panels mentioned above, following the manufacturer's instructions.The
      samples will be evaluated in duplicate and the average of the values obtained will be used to
      calculate the concentrations of each marker.

      Tomographic Analysis CT scans of the patients will be obtained immediately after extraction
      and 3 months later (before implant placement). Tomographic examinations performed in the
      different periods will be analyzed for the rate of bone loss after extraction and
      preservation of the socket, both vertically and horizontally, through the Dental Slice
      software.
    
  