
    
      Given the high rate of delayed adoption of antenatal care (ANC), and high rates of unintended
      pregnancy and unsafe abortion in Uganda, research on the period of time before confirmation
      of pregnancy is critical to understand underlying beliefs that guide behaviors ultimately
      important for maternal and neonatal health (UDHS, 2011; Hussain, 2013).

      Unmet demand for contraceptives remains high in sub-Saharan Africa, with 25% of married women
      reporting wanting to avoid pregnancy but not currently using modern contraceptives (Clifton
      and Kaneda, 2013). One factor contributing to unmet demand is that women are refused access
      to hormonal contraceptives in some settings, because FP providers cannot rule out pregnancy
      if the woman is not menstruating at the time of her visit (Campbell et al., 2006; Shelton et
      al., 1992; Stanback et al., 1997). While the current standard is for health providers to use
      a simple six-question checklist to rule out pregnancy, the checklist has a false positive
      rate ranging from 11% to 64% (Tepper et al. 2013) and health workers often end up not
      trusting it (Comfort et al., 2016; Hoke et al., 2012). Pregnancy tests can give
      non-menstruating women the ability to confirm they are not pregnant and access hormonal
      contraceptive methods when they may otherwise be denied (Stanback et al., 2013). Greater
      access to pregnancy tests may also motivate women who are uncertain about their pregnancy
      status to adopt FP methods if they receive a negative test result and do not wish to have
      additional children. The administration of a home pregnancy test by a FP provider, including
      community health workers, can also serve as an opportunity for FP counseling which may
      further increase uptake.

      Confirmation of negative pregnancy status can also reduce psychological anxiety, especially
      for women who may wish to delay or avoid becoming pregnant. Among women who may be using
      different forms of contraceptives, confirmation of negative pregnancy could provide proof of
      the methods' effectiveness thereby encouraging these women to continue use. Almost half of
      women in Uganda who adopt a contraceptive method discontinue use within 12 months and about
      13% discontinue use of short-acting hormonal contraceptives because of method failure ((UBOS)
      and International 2012). Especially among women using these particular methods, confirming
      their negative pregnancy status could encourage them to continue use. For women with partners
      who want to delay or avoid pregnancy, confirming negative pregnancy status could reduce
      domestic violence and reduce marital distress. In Uganda, almost 60% of women have
      experienced physical violence in their lifetime, and 60% of these women report that
      perpetrator was their current spouse ((UBOS) and International 2012). In addition, among
      Ugandan women who have ever been pregnant, 16% report having experienced physical violence
      during pregnancy; the likelihood of violence during pregnancy is higher for women who have
      five or more children, lower education, or lower income ((UBOS) and International 2012).
      Confirmation of negative pregnancy could also aid with household decision-making and
      planning; for example, women who confirm they are not pregnant could make greater investment
      (financial, time, physical) in their children.

      Although coverage for at least one ANC visit is high in most developing countries, this is
      not predictive of coverage for at least four visits - the previous number of recommended
      visit by the World Health Organization (AbouZahr and Wardlaw, 2001) and is far from reaching
      the most recent WHO recommendation of at least 8 visits during a pregnancy (WHO 2016).
      According to the 2011 Uganda Demographic and Health Survey, 95% of women receive ANC from a
      skilled provider. However, only 48% attend four or more visits, and the median gestational
      age at the first visit is 5.1 months - well into the second trimester - even though the WHO
      recommends initiating ANC as early as possible (UDHS, 2011). There is some existing evidence
      suggesting that women wait to seek ANC because of uncertainty about their pregnancy status
      (Myer and Harrison, 2003).

      In addition, earlier recognition of a pregnancy could allow women to plan for unwanted
      pregnancies. For pregnancies that are carried to term, earlier recognition would allow women
      to adopt healthy prenatal behaviors earlier (such as avoiding alcohol consumption and
      smoking, taking prenatal vitamins, and using antimalarial bednets). Women would be better
      able to plan for the delivery, including saving for delivery-related costs, such as
      transportation, provider fees, and facility fees and planning for the location of the
      delivery and attendance at delivery. It would also allow women to adopt effective malaria
      prevention behaviors; while the WHO recommends that pregnant women receive intermittent
      preventive treatment for malaria as soon as possible in the 2nd trimester, pregnant women
      should be using anti-malarial bednets during the 1st trimester (when iPTP is
      contra-indicated) to protect against malaria infection, which can result in maternal and
      fetal anemia, placental parasitaemia, low birth weight, and neonatal mortality (WHO 2012).

      Home pregnancy tests - which now cost less than 10 cents each - have the potential to
      facilitate FP uptake and significantly improve reproductive, maternal and child health
      outcomes in sub-Saharan Africa, including Uganda. These tests are easy to administer,
      disposable, inexpensive, and have a low false positive rate. Yet, for women living in rural
      areas in sub-Saharan countries, these tests are typically unavailable outside of health
      centers or they are prohibitively expensive. This study will investigate women's underlying
      beliefs about pregnancy status and examine how providing access to home-based pregnancy tests
      - thus facilitating earlier resolution of uncertainty of pregnancy status - influences such
      beliefs and decisions to take up family planning (FP) or seek appropriate pregnancy services.

      This protocol outlines our proposed study. The results will inform the design of a larger
      study.

      a. Objectives

      The main objectives of this study are to understand the impact of increasing women's access
      to home pregnancy tests on reproductive health care seeking. In this study we focus on
      non-pregnant women and subsequent effects of access to pregnancy tests. Specifically, the
      main research questions of the proposed study are:

        1. Beliefs: How do women form their beliefs about their pregnancy status, risk of pregnancy
           and how do these beliefs correlate with behaviors related to contraceptive adoption
           among non-pregnant women?

        2. Effects of access to pregnancy tests: What are the effects of resolving uncertainty
           through home pregnancy tests on beliefs and reproductive behaviors including FP uptake,
           psychological well-being, and contraceptive continuation)?

        3. Demand/Value of pregnancy tests: What is take-up of free pregnancy tests and if the test
           is distributed for free, at what point in time in the month (in relationship to their
           menstrual cycle or sexual behavior) do women most value using it if they are distributed
           for free? Does willingness to pay for these tests vary by prior experience with
           pregnancy tests and key characteristics such as age and number of previous pregnancies?

      We hypothesize that providing access to pregnancy tests could influence reproductive
      behaviors in the following ways:

      Hypothesis 1: For women who test negative, confirmation of negative pregnancy status using
      home pregnancy tests will facilitate adoption of modern contraceptives to prevent unintended
      pregnancies and reduce anxiety.

      Hypothesis 2: Women who are most uncertain of their pregnancy status (correlated with beliefs
      and sexual behavior) will have a higher value of the pregnancy test (more willing to adopt or
      higher willingness to pay).
    
  