
    
      Previous research suggests that using wireless messaging to handle the values from
      finger-stick blood glucose testing and making the numbers available to both patients and
      their diabetes health care team may improve the management of diabetes. We would like to test
      the GlucoMON glucose meter accessory device and the real-time wireless alerts feature which
      automatically sends to a specific team of interested caregivers whom the patient selects and
      the effects of real-time alerts in the management of diabetes. We also would like to know
      whether this procedure can improve the frequency of glucose pattern management as a patient
      and possibly reduce the costs of care required for frequent interactions between the patient
      and the diabetes care team.

      In this study, we will compare a new wireless device and Internet-based automated data
      management system to existing methods of sharing data amongst an interested care team.
      Specifically, the research will answer the question, "How does the real-time alert feature of
      the GlucoMON device compare to people who regularly initiate telephone calls (notification)
      to interested members of the care team to report a) that a blood glucose test was performed;
      b) the numerical value of the blood glucose level; and, c) the time that the blood glucose
      test was performed?" In addition, the data collected during this study will be used to answer
      the larger question of whether the automated sharing of patient directed blood sugar
      information affects diabetes control positively or negatively and to what degree.

      The GlucoMON device provided by Diabetech, LP is an automated, wireless blood glucose
      collection and reporting system that will be used to send encrypted glucose data through a
      secure Internet connection for review by the patient and the authorized diabetes care team.
      Preparing and delivering the glucose data in this manner will help the care team to know if
      the person with diabetes is testing or not and provide them with some level of information
      regarding current blood glucose control even though they cannot be with the patient.

      The most obvious use of this feature of the automated diabetes management system is the
      delivery of a blood sugar text message to the mother and/or father of a child with type 1
      diabetes attempting to provide remote assistance to their son or daughter at school. However,
      this is only one scenario in which the researchers anticipate patient feedback.
    
  