
    
      Aims: The aims of the proposed study are to determine (1) the ease of use and development of
      simulator sickness while operating the low fidelity Portable Driving Simulator (PDS) in a
      clinic setting and (2) the efficacy of the low fidelity PDS to reproduce the benefits from
      retraining impaired driving skills of stroke survivors, persons with Parkinson's Disease (PD)
      or multiple sclerosis (MS) in a high-fidelity fixed-base simulator.

      Hypotheses: For the first study aim 1, the investigators hypothesize that the simple set up
      of the PDS will make it easier to use and better mitigate incidence of simulator sickness
      that typically leads to attrition than in a high-fidelity simulator.

      For study aim 2, the investigators hypothesize that improvements in lane maintenance,
      adherence to speed limits, reaction to traffic lights, and overall reaction time after
      training using the PDS will not be significantly different from improvements observed after
      training using the high-fidelity driving simulator.

      Background: Currently, simulator-based training is the method with the best evidence of
      retraining impaired driving-related skills after stroke and with promise in individuals with
      Parkinson's disease (PD) or multiple sclerosis (MS). Driving simulators enable patients to
      retrain impaired driving skills in a context that evokes and ''mimics'' the perceptual,
      cognitive, and motor processes used in real-world driving. The fact that real-world traffic
      and driving situations can be presented many times over, without any safety risk, under full
      experimenter or clinician control, and with ''instant replay'' possibility to augment
      feedback enhances the utility of the driving simulator as an ideal tool for driving
      rehabilitation.

      However, the use of simulators to retrain driving skills of patients with stroke, PD, or MS
      has been very limited because of three major reasons. The cost of currently available driving
      simulators (between $50,000 to $500,000), the space needed to house the simulators (15 to 50
      square feet), and the incidence of simulator sickness (rate = 5 - 25%) in high-fidelity
      simulators. The principal investigator recently developed a low cost ($10,000) low fidelity
      portable driving simulator (PDS) in the University of Kansas Laboratory for Advanced
      Rehabilitation Research in Simulation (LARRS) that measures 25.5" Wide, 32.5" High, and 25"
      Deep and requires only approximately 4 square feet of space.

      Study Objectives:

        1. Determine the ease of use and occurrence of simulator sickness while operating the low
           fidelity PDS in a clinic setting.

        2. Determine the efficacy of the low fidelity PDS to reproduce the benefits from retraining
           impaired driving skills of stroke survivors in a high-fidelity simulator.

      Study Procedures: The study team will recruit 10 participants with a first ever stroke, 10
      participants with PD (Hoehn & Yahr stage 2 or 3 during on-medication) and 10 participants
      with MS (Expanded Disability Status Scale between 3 and 6.5). Participants in each diagnosis
      group will be randomly allocated, based on a computer generated random sequence, into either
      the PDS or high-fidelity simulator training. The randomization process will be done by
      principal investigator. All participants will undergo a pre-training evaluation that includes
      driving-related physical, visual, and cognitive tests. Studies have shown that a minimum of
      five hours of training in a simulator is needed for meaningful improvement in driving skills.
      As such, each participant will receive five hours of the assigned training. The first session
      in the simulator will establish participants' baseline driving performance. The next three
      training sessions will be directed at addressing the deficits in specific skills identified
      from the baseline performance. The fifth session in the simulator will establish
      participants' post-training driving performance. All participants will again undergo a
      post-training evaluation similar to the pre-training evaluation. The five training sessions
      in the simulator will each last approximately one hour per day, twice or thrice a week, and
      will be completed in two weeks. The study coordinator, who will be blind to participants'
      group allocation, will administer both the pre- and post-training evaluations. A research
      student in the Laboratory for Advanced Rehabilitation Research in Simulation supervised by
      Dr. Hannes Devos and Dr. Abiodun Akinwuntan will train all participants.
    
  