
    
      Design A single case experimental design (ABACADA) will be used. A, B, C etc represents
      points of intervention and clinical contact with participants when standardised outcome
      measures will be administered by the treating clinician at each session. Phases A1, A2, A3
      represent time between contact during which participants will undertake daily monitoring of
      idiosyncratic symptoms on Visual Analogue Scales (VAS) e.g. degree of avoidance, degree of
      worry, degree of nausea etc, so change between phases across time can be measured.

      Participants will be randomly allocated to differing lengths of baseline phase (initial
      clinical assessment to first clinical session) with 4 potential arms (7, 10, 14, or 17 days).
      The first three clinical sessions (formulation, imagery rescripting and planning of intensive
      days) will take place weekly and last up to 1.5 hours. The two intensive days will last up to
      4 hours each and take place shortly after the planning session and within a few days of each
      other. Three additional follow up sessions will be offered within 10 days of the intensive
      days (2 within one week, and the final session one week after). Follow up data will be
      collected by phone or post 3, 6 and 12 months post intervention.

      Participants Participants will be recruited from consecutive referrals to CADAT for treatment
      of SPOV. Clients will have a diagnosis of SPOV as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-V) as their main presenting problem. They will be drawn from
      the CADAT waiting list, and if necessary from Improving Access to Psychological Therapy
      (IAPT) services at Southwark, Lambeth and Lewisham. These cases will be picked up by and
      treated at CADAT by qualified clinicians.

      Participants are expected to be involved in the study for up to 8 weeks for the treatment
      phase, and 12 months for follow up data to be collected.

      Recruitment Consultant Psychiatrist for the team at the Centre for Anxiety Disorders and
      Trauma will identify potential participants from the waiting list at CADAT who meet the
      inclusion criteria to take part in the study. Potential participants will then be asked if
      they would like to participate at the initial clinical assessment. They will be provided with
      an information sheet and the opportunity to ask questions before making a decision and giving
      informed consent.

      Sample size It is estimated that 6-8 cases will be sufficient for a single case experimental
      design to demonstrate proof of concept. This is based on previous studies using a similar
      design.

      Procedure Patients identified from the CADAT waiting list and who meet the study criteria
      will be asked at assessment if they would like to participate in the study. Those who are
      interested in taking part will be given an information sheet, and the opportunity to ask
      questions before making a decision on their participation. They will then be asked to provide
      informed written consent by signing a consent form before continuing with the study
      procedure. Clinicians will remind all participants of their right to withdraw from the study
      at any time, which will not affect their care or right to treatment as usual. Participants
      will then receive the time intensive form of CBT for their SPOV.

      To ensure therapist adherence to the time intensive format of the treatment, a separate
      treatment protocol has been provided as part of Standard Operating Procedures. This protocol
      is as follows:

        -  Assessment and signing of consent form

        -  Session 1: Re-baseline & Formulation (including a conversation about early memory of
           vomiting)

        -  Session 2: Imagery Rescripting of early memory of vomiting

        -  Session 3: Planning for Intensive Days

        -  Intensive Day 1

        -  Intensive Day 2

        -  3 short clinical follow up sessions

      Standardised outcome measures will be collected at baseline, intervention and follow up
      phases. Participants will also be asked to collect daily idiosyncratic measures in between
      the intervention phases. Participants will be randomly allocated to differing lengths of
      baseline to the time of the intervention with 4 potential arms (7 days, 10 days 14 days or 17
      days). This will be done using a simple spreadsheet by a Research Assistant at CADAT. The
      baseline discussion around the memory of vomiting, imagery re-scripting and treatment
      planning will consist of 1-1.5 hour sessions. Time intensive treatment will consist of two
      sessions over 2 days (4 hours each). Three additional follow up sessions will be
      administered, 2 within 1 week of the intensive days and a third 1 week after the second
      follow up session. The same standardised outcome measures will be collected at 3, 6 and 12
      months by phone or post.
    
  