
    
      Reducing the risk of suicide attempt and suicide is a public health priority. There has been
      no substantial decrease in suicide for the past two decades. Prevention efforts to date have
      focused on primary (e.g. public service announcements) and tertiary (e.g. interventions
      following suicide attempt) methods. Secondary or indicated prevention has been relatively
      unexplored. Secondary prevention requires both accurate screening methods and effective
      interventions. These essential elements are now available. Our recent research demonstrates
      that responses to the suicidal ideation item of the PHQ depression scale are a powerful
      predictor of subsequent suicide attempt and death. Availability of the PHQ in electronic
      medical records creates an opportunity for accurate population-level screening. Dialectical
      behavior therapy (DBT) has strong evidence of tertiary efficacy for preventing suicide
      attempts in clinical populations. Brief outreach tertiary interventions such as caring
      messages have some evidence for preventing suicide attempts. These clinical or tertiary
      prevention interventions provide the best available evidence for use in building secondary
      prevention programs. Resulting programs could then be linked to population-level screening
      data in electronic medical records. The first goal of the research plan is to adapt DBT and
      caring messages to fit delivery models suitable for the large numbers of at-risk patients
      identifiable in healthcare settings. The second goal is to evaluate the feasibility,
      acceptability, and safety of these alternative online suicide and self-injury secondary
      prevention programs. Online delivery models are suitable because they are scalable and can be
      provided securely, cheaply, and utilizing existing systems in healthcare. Three brief online
      interventions will be evaluated: caring email (CE); CE + DBT online program; and CE + DBT
      online program + coach. Each intervention will supplement usual care among high- risk
      patients identified via PHQ depression scales collected at outpatient primary care and mental
      health visits. Intervention content will be drawn from the principles of DBT and caring
      messages. The study design will be additive in order to examine alternative intervention
      models that vary widely in resources required for large- scale delivery. However, these
      interventions will require vastly fewer resources than in-person or telephone interventions.
      The project will involve intervention feasibility (pretesting, N=60) and acceptability and
      safety testing (pilot, N=400). Acceptability wll be assessed by patient intervention
      engagement levels (requiring the large pilot sample) and qualitative/formative intervention
      feedback from patients. Safety will be assessed via rates of psychiatric hospitalizations and
      self-injury diagnoses in the medical record in the intervention conditions compared to those
      receiving just continued usual care. Results of the pilot study will inform the design of a
      full-scale effectiveness trial examining the impact of one or more of these interventions on
      risk of suicide attempt and/or suicide death.
    
  