
    
      Myocardial stunning is a secondary pathophysiologic condition for a sustained reduction in
      myocardial perfusion, which produces kinetic abnormalities in left ventricular wall that
      persist for hours or days after the reperfusion phase. The physiological elements of the
      stunning are: a) reduction in coronary blood flow, b) a partial or complete restoration of
      coronary artery circulation and c) the dysfunction of persistence for a limited period, but
      longer compared to recovery coronaire's flow.

      Cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass is a leading cause of bewilderment myocardique.
      This technique associated with administering a cardioplegic solution used to stop the heart
      and myocardial protection on ischemia see myocardique consideration. It typically also
      secondary to secondary inflammatory condition in the extracorporeal circulation and the
      ischemia-reperfusion phenomenon (formation of free radicals), also with the important
      activation coagulation. Myocardial stunning occurs in suites aortic unclamping during
      cardiopulmonary bypass. Cold ischemia performed by a cardioplegic liquid at 4 °C results in
      reduced energy demands and thus to maintain some balance between metabolism, perfusion and
      myocardial function during coronary by-pass. When aortic unclamping, there is usually a pure
      myocardial stunning (without necrosis). After the coronary by-pass, the myocardial thickening
      fraction is unchanged in the immediate future, but significantly decreased in the hours
      before a full recovery between the following hours. In the factors associated with changes in
      systolic function, autonomic nervous system is responsible for the regulation of blood
      pressure and heart function in response to the stress of the coronary by-pass and the
      postoperative state. Reduced variability in heart rate (heart rate variability - HRV) heard
      how sign of autonomic dysfunction is also associated with myocardial stunning with a rate of
      cardiaque post-surgery complications high.

      So far no group has had the opportunity to study "in vivo" the temporal evolution of
      myocardial stunning after the coronary by-pass as an example of myocardial stunning
      "controlled" in order to better understand the pathophysiology of 'event. Indeed, the basis
      of myocardial function recovery time following coronary by-pass is unknown and the impact of
      intraoperative procedures on this recovery.

      Transesophageal echocardiography, that is the gold standard for assessment of systolic
      function, has gradually gained popularity and is used daily in the ICU to evaluate the
      patient's hemodynamic status and evaluation of contractile function of the left ventricle to
      load. One of its advantages is to measure heart activity at the bedside and assist the
      physician in intensive care in the management of hemodynamic acute changes. It also allows
      also to analyze the response to treatment defined above. Among the limitations of
      transesophageal echocardiography are: the need for intensivists to be relevant to this
      technique, the discontinuous nature of the procedure ( "one shot" monitoring) and finally
      semi-invasif character that make it difficult 'prolonged and repeated execution of the
      various measures.

      Recent improvement in electronics has enabled the development of miniaturized sensors for
      hemodynamic transesophageal echocardiography (ImaCor® ClariTEE®), called hTEE (hemodynamic
      trans-esophageal echocardiography), which are used to perform an extended hemodynamic
      monitoring ventilated patients; these prototypes are not yet widespread in Intensive Care
      Unit; their diagnostic capabilities and therapeutic impacts are currently under clinical
      research. been studies in the past allowed us to validate the clinical image quality and how
      the clinical information obtained are useful for clinical management of patient. In
      particular, these studies have demonstrated the ease with which thanks to the small size of
      the probe, the feedback of the superior vena cava, the patient's volume status, left
      ventricular systolic function based on the Fractional Area Change, the size of the right
      ventricle, and a pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade during the first test of
      positioning sonde.

      The advantages of continuous Htee of this new technique are related to the small size of the
      probe, ease of positioning the probe in the esophagus, the diagnostic reliability and the
      ability to stay up to 72 hours because the risk of pressure sores or lesions are comparable
      to those of a nasogastric feeding tube (which is the same size). Compared to the conventional
      trans-esophageal echocardiography, hTEE offers the advantage of performing continuous
      monitoring rather than a case-by case basis. In particular, for the study of post-operative
      myocardial stunning, this technique allows for a verification of the time course of
      myocardial stunning, and thus describe the pathophysiology and the kinetics of recovery of
      left ventricular contractile function. Furthermore this technique provides the means to
      identify perioperative factors that can change this recovery (induce or shorten).
    
  