
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the feasibility and satisfaction of a brief sleep intervention prior to or
      following a physical activity (PA) intervention and a contact control among overweight/obese
      sedentary African Americans.

      II. Examine experiences of sleep among overweight/obese sedentary African Americans using
      qualitative focus groups.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Pilot test and evaluate the efficacy and sequential effects of a brief sleep intervention
      prior to or following a PA intervention in improving sleep, increasing physical activity, and
      reducing sedentary behavior, compared to a contact control group.

      II. Explore the correlations among psychosocial (e.g., perceived stress, affect, neighborhood
      characteristics), biomarker (e.g., non-fasting glucose levels, blood pressure), and health
      behavior (e.g., diet and sedentary behavior) with sleep and PA.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP I: Participants receive a web-based sleep intervention during weeks 1-4. Participants
      then receive 2 web-based health coaching sessions over 30-45 minutes consisting of topics
      such as healthy shopping, increasing physical activity, identifying barriers, and eating out
      at weeks 5 and 7. Participants may optionally complete an interview over 1 hour at week 9.

      GROUP II: Participants receive 2 web-based health coaching sessions over 30-45 minutes
      consisting of topics such as healthy shopping, increasing physical activity, identifying
      barriers, and eating out at weeks 1 and 3. Participants then receive a web-based sleep
      intervention during weeks 5-8. Participants may optionally complete an interview over 1 hour
      at week 9.

      GROUP III: Participants receive educational material on healthy homes. Participants also
      receive 2 web-based health coaching sessions over 30-45 minutes consisting of topics such as
      healthy shopping, increasing physical activity, identifying barriers, and eating out at weeks
      1 and 3. Participants may optionally complete an interview over 1 hour at week 9.
    
  