
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety (at 3 months) and feasibility of administering daunorubicin
      hydrochloride (daunorubicin) as continuous infusion under the proposed treatment regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety (at 6 months) of administering daunorubicin as continuous infusion
      under the proposed treatment regimen.

      II. To assess treatment outcomes (including complete remission [CR] and complete remission
      with incomplete recovery [CRi]) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) under the
      proposed treatment regimen.

      III. To compare the concordance between magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and echocardiogram
      (ECHO) in identifying cardiac toxicity, ie a reduction in left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LVEF) of >= 10% and ejection fraction (EF) =< 50% compared to baseline LVEF.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously over 24 hours on days
      1-7 and daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-3 in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo bone marrow aspirate
      and biopsy on day 14. Patients with bone marrow cellularity >= 10% and > 5% leukemic blasts,
      may receive a second induction of cytarabine IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-5 and
      daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-2 in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients achieving remission receive cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours
      on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with core-binding factor (CBF) AML may
      receive 4 courses of therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for a minimum of 30 days, at 3
      and 6 months, and then every 3 months thereafter.
    
  