
    
      Music intervention - The music intervention used in the study will be a patient selected list
      of songs or other music delivered to the participant by passive listening via in-ear or
      on-ear headphones. They will be given the choice of using their own personal headphones or
      use a pair provided by the hospital. If choosing to use a hospital device, the earphones
      provided will be disposable to minimise infection risk from re-use.

      Patient preferred music has shown to be more effective than preselected, or prescriptive
      music. Prescriptive music, if not of the patient's preference, could cause further
      discomfort, distress or anxiety. Therefore, investigators will use streaming services to
      provide a bank of music containing a wide range of music and genres to suit the majority of
      music preferences. Music will also be curated based on feedback from age-appropriate sources
      to identify common and popular music in the target participant age group.

      Participants will work with the music therapist to make their selections. Music therapists
      will provide input on how best to synchronise type, tempo and genre of music to the wound
      dressing procedure. As musical preference is very personal, the choice of music provided will
      try to strike a balance of providing what is acceptable to patients while not exposing them
      to music with known stimulatory effects.

      Patients will be given the opportunity to look to music therapists for support in choosing or
      creating a playlist to accompany their procedure.Through a brief questionnaire the music
      therapists will gather pertinent information such as favourite styles, experience playing
      instruments, favourite artists/songs as well as the challenges related to their first
      experience. The music therapist will help to identify possible song choices/playlists for
      various parts of the procedure that may decrease their perception of pain by refocusing their
      attention.

      Randomisation - This will be a randomised crossover study. Patients will be randomised into 2
      groups:

      Group 1: One dressing change or procedure after recruitment will be accompanied by music
      intervention. Subsequent dressing change or procedure will NOT be accompanied by music
      intervention.

      Group 2: One dressing change or procedure after recruitment will NOT be accompanied by music
      intervention. Subsequent dressing change or procedure will be accompanied by music
      intervention.

      With this crossover design, all recruited participants will have the opportunity to
      experience the music intervention.
    
  