
    
      Phase 1 Aim To study energy- and protein requirements after minor burns in adults (TBSA < 20
      %).

      Research questions Do energy- and protein requirements increase after minor burns? Do energy-
      and protein requirements proportionally increase with the severity of injury; depth and
      extent after minor burns? Study design/methods Sample size: 84 patients and 84 healthy
      control subjects (matched by age, gender and BMI).

      Method: All consecutive burns, admitted for treatment at Uppsala Burn Center, fulfilling
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are asked to take part in this phase. Oral and written
      informed consent is collected. Patients background data (severity of burn injury, including
      depth and extent, and the treatment thereof, concomitant diseases and medications, age,
      weight, height, gender, socioeconomic status, alcohol- and tobacco use, physical activity
      level using activity meters, as well as data from questionnaire obtained from routine
      standard of care at Burn Center about sleep, quality of life, pain and depression) will be
      collected. Measure (indirect calorimetry) and calculate energy requirement (Mifflin St Jeor
      equation x Injury Factor x physical activity level) within 2 weeks after injury and 1, 3, 6,
      and 12 months after injury. Measure nitrogen balance (nitrogen balance = nitrogen intake -
      nitrogen loss). Collecting data from blood sample to measure inflammatory response (albumin,
      transferrin, CRP), if the body can use more protein (urea) and measurement of normal kidney
      function (cystatin-C).Collecting data from 24-h-urine collection, urea for calculation of
      nitrogen balance to distinguish between protein intake compared and muscle breakdown. Data
      for calculation of protein intake from nutritional assessment and 4-day food record. Results
      are compared with 84 healthy control subjects measured with indirect calorimetry, blood
      sample, urine collection, and intake measurement.

      Phase 2 Aim To describe nutritional status in adult patients after minor burns. Nutritional
      status is defined as to what degree physiological nutrient needs are met (energy- and protein
      intake compared to measurements and calculations, carbohydrate-, fat-, vitamin-, and mineral
      intake compared to estimated average requirements. Weight and muscle mass compared to normal
      body composition and its development over time).

      Research questions Do minor burns affect nutritional status? Does nutritional status differ
      related to injury severity? Sample size: 84 patients included in Phase 1 are asked to take
      part in this study.

      Method: All consecutive burns, admitted for treatment at the Uppsala Burn Center, fulfilling
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are asked to take part in this phase. Oral and written
      informed consent is collected. Patients background data from phase 1 will be collected.

      Screening for nutritional risk, identifying mild, moderate and severe impaired nutritional
      status (undernourishment): screening tool, NRS 2002 (19), within 2 weeks from injury, and
      follow-up 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after injury. Screening is performed by a dietitian.

      Nutritional assessment: data from phase 1 will be collected about intake, energy- and protein
      needs, weight and muscle mass. Dietary history interview, to collect data about patients'
      intake the year before injury.

      Nutritional diagnosis of malnutrition (16) were nutritional risk screening and nutritional
      assessment will provide the basis for diagnosis.

      Phase 3 Aim To identify types of nutritional diagnoses, and nutritional interventions, and
      the effects on signs and symptoms for respective nutritional diagnosis, in adults after minor
      burns.

      To create a nutrition algorithm for nutritional interventions after minor burns.

      Research questions Frequency of different types of aetiologies to identify nutritional
      diagnoses? Frequency of different types of nutritional diagnoses? Frequency and types of
      nutritional interventions? Is the nutrition diagnosis treated by the nutrition intervention
      (fully, partly, not)? Results of nutritional interventions (variable depends on signs and
      symptoms relevant for respective nutritional diagnosis e.g. energy- and protein intake)?
      Study design/methods Sample size: Patients identified as in need of nutritional intervention
      in phase 2 are asked to take part in this study.

      Method: Oral and written informed consent is collected. Patients background data from phase 1
      will be collected.

      Nutritional intervention: Nutritional intervention is initiated with follow-up at dietitian's
      discretion. Nutrition Care Process is used:

        1. Assessing patient data (material from phases 1-2 and additional assessment at
           dietitian's discretion)

        2. Diagnosing nutritional problems (for example inadequate protein- energy intake,
           inadequate protein intake, food- and nutrition- knowledge deficit, unintended weight
           loss, malnutrition) and determining the problems´ aetiologies

        3. Implementing one or more interventions (for example recommendations on meal frequency,
           foodstuff, use of nutritional support, education on basics)

        4. Monitoring and evaluating patient progress (compliance to nutritional interventions, and
           sign and symptoms relevant for respective nutritional diagnosis, e.g. weight change,
           energy- and protein intake) Compliance to nutritional interventions: evaluated by
           assessing patient data at follow-up (asking patients about compliance to treatment
           during nutritional assessment).

      Weight development: Weekly the patients' weight will be measured as long as patients have a
      nutritional treatment. Thereafter at follow-up 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after injury. During
      the patients´ stay/visits at the burn center this is done at the hospital. Thereafter to no
      more need of dressing changes via health care facility patients will measure weight at
      home/external health facility and report the number to the clinic.

      Phase 4 Aim To study the role, in adults, of nutrition after minor burns (TBSA < 20 %) on
      outcome (wound healing and infections and body weight).

      Research questions Do nutritional status and food/supplement intake affect time to heal
      wounds, frequency of infections, and weight changes, after minor burns? Study design/methods
      Sample size: 84 patients included in phase 1 are asked to take part in this phase.

      Method:

      All consecutive burns, admitted for treatment at the Uppsala Burn Center, fulfilling
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are asked to take part in the study. Oral and written
      informed consent is collected. Patients background data from phase 1 will be collected.

      Wound healing: As surrogate parameter for number of days to wound healing the number of days
      from burn to no more need of dressing changes via health care facility will be measured.
      During routine clinical visits to the burn center, photography of wounds will be taken. Three
      blinded plastic surgeons with burn care experience will assess the photos for % of initial
      wound healed correlated to days from burn.

      Frequency of infections: As surrogate parameter for frequency of infections the number, sort,
      dose, and length of antibiotic treatment(s) during the period from burn to no more need of
      dressing changes via health care facility will be measured.

      Weight development: Weekly the patients´ weight will be measured. During the patients´
      stay/visits at the burn center this is done at the hospital. Thereafter to no more need of
      dressing changes via health care facility patients will measure weight at home/external
      health facility and report the number to the clinic.

      Nutritional assessment: Data from phases 1, 2 and 3, energy- and protein requirements,
      nutritional intake, muscle mass and nutritional diagnoses and the treatment thereof.
    
  