
    
      The clinical picture of 2019-nCoV disease is in a broad spectrum, which includes asymptomatic
      infection, a mild upper respiratory tract infection, respiratory failure, and even severe
      viral pneumonia with death. Although the mortality rate is not yet clear, the reported
      case-fatality risk was 11-14% during the initial studies which included patients with severe
      disease. The overall case fatality rate was reported as approximately 2%. In addition, most
      cases have resulted in a pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen therapy and ventilator
      support. The alarming levels of spread and severity of COVID-19 caused a global emergency and
      this outbreak has been characterized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO).

      The investigational product Favipiravir is an antiviral drug against RNA viruses and has been
      stated as effective for the treatment of COVID-19, first emerged from China, in various
      clinical studies. In February 2020, Favipiravir was used for the clinical treatment of
      COVID-19, has been shown to be more effective than the lopinavir / ritonavir combination in
      80 people. In recent researches, the drug favipiravir is suggested that it may induce
      recovery in a short time in patients with COVID-19-mild type and decrease the treatment
      duration from 11 days to 4 days.

      The investigational product hydroxychloroquine sulfate is a 4- aminoquinoline derivative and
      widely used for the treatment of many rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and
      systemic lupus erythematosus in addition to its antimalarial effects. In vitro studies
      reported that hydroxychloroquine sulfate may be effective against many viruses, including
      SARS-CoV-2 in many in vitro experiments. Additionally, preliminary results of limited number
      of studies have been revealed that hydroxychloroquine sulfate reduces virus load and induces
      improvement in patients with COVID-19. This agent has been also suggested to be used in
      COVID-19 prophylaxis.

      Until now, there is no official report on whether hydroxychloroquine combined with
      favipiravir show clinical activity against the new coronavirus, COVID-19, in Turkey. The main
      purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of hydroxychloroquine and
      favipiravir in the treatment of Turkey population with COVID-19.

      This study designed as an open-label, multicenter, parallel-group, randomized, phase III
      clinical drug trial.

      A total of 1000 subjects aged between 18 to 70 years with symptoms and complaints consistent
      with possible or confirmed COVID-19 observed within the last 5 days and meet all eligibility
      criteria will participate in the study.

      This study will be conducted in 14 sites.
    
  