
    
      Although soy foods contain several components (isoflavones and amino acids) that could
      potentially have positive effects on bone health, there are few long term, large, clinical
      trials using soy as a means of improving bone mineral density. The objective of this study is
      to provide daily soy protein and isoflavones to healthy older women in order to answer three
      major questions:

        1. Does soy protein alone affect bone metabolism?

        2. Do isoflavones, given with soy protein, affect bone metabolism?

        3. What dose of isoflavones affects bone in older women?

      We hypothesize that soy protein will have a beneficial effect on bone in older women compared
      to control protein. Further, we hypothesize that there will be an additional benefit to bone
      in women who receive soy protein plus isoflavones (at both doses) compared to soy protein
      alone.

      Both control and soy proteins used in the study were isolates, meaning they were the highest
      concentration of protein (85-90% by weight) in order to minimize the volume of protein
      supplement that each woman was asked to ingest on a daily basis. The soy protein was an
      alcohol-washed, soy protein isolate containing 90% protein and negligible isoflavone (0.2
      mg/g product). The control protein was a mix consisting of 50% protein from sodium caseinate,
      25% protein from whey protein and 25% from egg white protein. The use of a mix of proteins as
      a control provides a more balanced level of amino acids, mimics the real life mix of proteins
      that humans typically consume, and avoids the unique characteristics of one source of
      protein. In order to maintain the dietary protein intake constant, the participant was
      counseled to decrease her intake of other sources of protein from primarily animal sources by
      approximately 3 ounces per day (the approximate equivalent of the protein powders). The
      isoflavones tablets each contained 57 mg of total isoflavone from primarily genistein,
      glycitein, and daidzein and their beta-glycosides.
    
  