
    
      This study will evaluate a low cost, low intensity, technology based model for delivering
      parenting skills to parents of adolescents in a community mental health clinic (CMHC).
      Specifically, we will test a computer-assisted protocol of Parenting Wisely, a computer based
      parenting program with previously established efficacy. Such an intervention is consistent
      with NIMH strategic plan objective 3.3: "to strengthen the application of mental health
      interventions in diverse care settings by examining community and intervention delivery
      approaches and how they may affect intervention outcomes." Although this is a pilot
      effectiveness study, we will gather information to inform future implementation efforts
      including the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention. Additionally, we will
      conduct qualitative interviews with relevant stakeholders (providers/program managers) to
      better understand barriers and facilitators of adoption and sustainability. This goal will
      help increase the likelihood of a successful, future larger trial across multiple CMHCs due
      to its focus on external validity and implementation barriers when making critical design
      decisions. This approach mitigates a major criticism of traditional efficacy/effectiveness
      studies, i.e. that the methods do not translate well to the community due to cost and
      resource constraints, as well as contextual factors.

      The intervention has the potential to improve public health and community practice by making
      empirically supported treatment techniques more available in CMHCs and improving the
      efficiency of treatment delivery by integrating computerized and therapist delivered
      approaches. Specifically, this study has the potential to advance treatment by: 1)
      understanding factors that enhance or impede computer assisted parent training in the
      community setting; 2) addressing a high-needs underserved population with significant public
      health relevance; 3) engaging the target mechanism of therapist fidelity, competency, and
      alliance as well as parenting skills and self-efficacy that have been shown to influence
      adolescent behavior problems; 4) increasing access to and engagement in an evidence-based
      treatment that can be personalized to the specific parenting skills of a family by the
      selection of modules in PW; and 5) enhancing the ease of dissemination and implementation.
      Furthermore, we believe this approach has the potential for improving response rate, because
      the parenting skills will be delivered with greater fidelity than would be typical of
      therapists teaching parenting in sessions in CHMCs. This improvement should also result in an
      improved response in adolescent behavior. We believe this is true because: 1) meta-analyses
      typically report moderate effect sizes for parent training at the end of treatment; 2) parent
      training is underemployed in community clinics; 3) fidelity to treatment protocols is often
      poor which has been shown to diminish effectiveness of treatment; and 4) frequent staff
      turnover creates high resource demands. Thus, we believe this approach is not only efficient
      but that there is potential for significant improvements in efficacy of parent training with
      this model.
    
  