
    
      There is evidence that both computed tomography (CT) and proton magnetic resonance imaging
      (1H-MRI) have the potential to detect changes in lung structure and function earlier and with
      higher sensitivity than currently available clinical tests. We state the hypothesis that the
      progression of regional lung alterations as detected with MRI and CT precedes the worsening
      of airflow limitation and clinical symptoms. Before the method can be recommended for patient
      stratification or for monitoring disease progression, final proof is needed that any changes
      over time correlate with clinical symptoms and that the quantitative parameters and
      biomarkers obtained with imaging are predictive for the further course of the disease.
      Therefore, a dedicated prospective longitudinal trial is required.

      The primary end point of the study is to use changes in lung perfusion MRI (e.g. pulmonary
      blood volume, pulmonary blood flow) and CT (e.g. airway wall thickness, extent of emphysema,
      extent of air trapping) within a 3-year interval for the prediction of long-term disease
      progression as monitored by clinical tests (within the following 3 years; BODE index (BODE=
      body-mass index, airflow obstruction, dyspnea and exercise capacity index in chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease). A progression of the disease is defined as an increase of the
      multidimensional 10-point BODE index by at least one point.

      This is an exploratory study. The local two-sided type-I error rate is set to 5%.

      Statistical analysis will be primarily conducted as a complete case analysis. Logistic
      regression models with dependent variable COPD progression will be used. Imaging biomarkers
      are used as independent variables. All models are adjusted for the prognostic factors age,
      sex, GOLD (GOLD= Global Initiative For Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) stage and smoking
      status as well as the factor study center.
    
  