
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common joint disorder in the United States (US), affecting
      approximately 12% (~30 million) of adults aged between 25 and 74 years. By 2030, the number
      of US adults with arthritis is expected to reach 67 million leading to continuous increase in
      number of total knee replacement surgeries. While total knee replacement surgeries have shown
      advantages, avoiding or delaying surgery appears desirable, both from medical and health care
      system perspective. Lowering the number of total knee replacement surgeries will also lead to
      a reduced number of costly revision surgeries. Published studies have also demonstrated that
      the outcomes after total knee replacement surgeries for patients with Grade II or III knee OA
      (on Kellgren-Lawrence scale) are worse compared to patients with Grade IV OA. Conventional
      treatment modalities including activity modification, physical therapy, pharmacological
      agents such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), corticosteroids,
      viscosupplementation and narcotics have limitations and potential side effects. Thus, there
      is a need for alternative intervention for patients with Grade II or III knee OA.

      Interest in the use of biologics for regenerative medicine applications has increased over
      the last decade. To be compliant in the United States (U.S.), biologics that adhere to the
      U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulation of Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and
      Tissue-Based Products (HCT/P's) regulated under title 21, part 1271 of the Code of Federal
      Regulations (CFR) must meet all the conditions under section 361 of Public Health Safety
      (PHS) Act to be regulated solely under this section. According to this regulation, HCT/P's
      must meet the criteria of being minimally manipulated, for homologous use only, not to be
      combination products, to have no systemic effect, and to be non-dependent on the metabolic
      activity of the living cells. Despite increased use, there is insufficient literature
      assessing the amount of growth factors (GF), cytokines (CK), hyaluronic acid (HA) and
      extracellular vesicles (EV) including exosomes present in these products, and more
      specifically, umbilical cord derived Wharton's Jelly. In addition, there is limited or no
      literature assessing the safety and efficacy of umbilical cord derived Wharton's Jelly
      products via a clinical study.

      To address the insufficient literature assessing the presence and quantity of GF, CK, HA and
      EV including exosomes, investigators formulated a novel umbilical cord derived Wharton's
      Jelly product and evaluated it for the presence of these factors. The results from this study
      demonstrated that the essential components of regenerative medicine, namely GF, CK, HA and
      EV, are all present in large quantities in the formulated Wharton's Jelly. This study was an
      essential preliminary step to better characterize this Wharton's Jelly formulation before
      performing clinical trials to determine safety and efficacy of this novel formulation for
      regenerative medicine applications.

      The goal of the proposed study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intraarticular
      injection of umbilical cord derived Wharton's Jelly for treatment of knee osteoarthritis
      symptoms. Investigators also hypothesize that patients receiving intraarticular injection of
      Wharton's Jelly is safe and will show an improvement in their overall satisfaction, Numeric
      Pain rating Scale (NPRS), Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and cartilage
      formation over a period of 1 year compared to the baseline visit.
    
  