
    
      The overall goal of the research component of the National Institute of Mental Health funded
      Southwest Hub for American Indian Youth Suicide Prevention Research is to identify effective,
      feasible and sustainable interventions to prevent suicide and promote resilience among
      American Indian (AI) youth. The proposed study will build on 20+ years of behavioral and
      mental health research and partnerships undertaken by the Center for American Indian Health
      (CAIH) at Johns Hopkins with the White Mountain Apache Tribe (WMAT).

      The investigators primary research aim, to be undertaken with the White Mountain Apache,
      includes: 1) identification and voluntary enrollment of youth 10-24 years old using the WMAT
      established surveillance and case-management (CM) system who recently had a validated suicide
      attempt, ideation, or binge substance use episode with recent suicidal ideation; and 2)
      implementation of a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART) to inform how to
      combine and tailor two brief interventions delivered by paraprofessional community mental
      health workers (CMHWs), with promising pilot data, to prevent further suicidal thoughts and
      behavior and promote resilience; and 3) evaluate what are the cost savings per study
      participant with the implementation of the Southwest Hub interventions: NH, ER, NH and ER. A
      secondary aim will be to evaluate the acceptability, feasibility and sustainability of the
      two brief interventions with other Southwest Hub partners, including the Navajo, San Carlos
      Apache, Hualapai, and Cherokee nations, who will have support from the Administrative Core of
      the Southwest Hub to implement their own local tribal suicide surveillance systems for
      community-based identification of at-risk youth.

      The investigators will employ a SMART design to evaluate the effectiveness of New Hope (NH),
      Elders' Resilience intervention (ER), Case Management (CM) and the combination of these
      approaches on reducing suicidal thoughts and promoting resilience among AI youth ages 10-24
      who are confirmed by surveillance case managers to have experienced suicide ideation, attempt
      or a binge substance use and recent ideation in the past 30 days. Youth who assent will
      complete the baseline (case management visit 1 and will be referred to mental health care-the
      standard protocol for the Apache system). During the same visit, youth will be randomized 1:1
      to either New Hope (NH) plus Case Management (CM), or CM alone, using a blocked randomized
      design, stratifying participants by age and event type. All youth will complete another study
      assessment after 30 days. The 30-day time frame will allow ample time to complete the NH
      intervention with participants and assess any changes in youth's mental health status for all
      study arms. Following another 30-day period, all participants will be re-assessed and
      re-randomized, using the same blocking and 1:1 ratio to either the Elders' Resilience (ER)
      intervention plus CM, or CM alone. To track long term outcomes, all youth will complete a
      final assessment 3 month later (6 months post-enrollment). This study will occur on the White
      Mountain Apache Tribe's Fort Apache reservation.
    
  