
    
      Up to date, the treatment of gastric variceal bleeding (GVB) is still sub-optimal in contrast
      to the treatment of esophageal variceal bleeding (EVB), which already had a big improvement
      of prognosis in recent two decades. Gastric varices (GV) rarely rupture. However should it
      occur, the outcome would be worse than rupture of esophageal varies (EV). Rupture of GV is
      characteristic of a higher rebleeding rate (90%), a requirement for a larger amount of blood
      transfusion and a higher mortality (40-50%). Therefore, primary prevention of GV rupture is
      critically important. The management of GV has been focused on treatment of acute GVB. Tissue
      adhesive (cyanoacrylate) may polymerize and occlude the vascular channels in seconds and
      obliterate for more than 70% cases of GV. The rebleeding rate after endoscopic cyanoacrylate
      injection(GVO) of acute GVB is around 30~40% and expertise is required to reduce the embolic
      complications and instrumental injuries.GVO may arrest more than 90% active GVB. The 2005
      Baveno IV International Consensus and 2007 AASLD Guidelines endorsed that endoscopic
      cyanoacrylate injection is the first line treatment for acute GVB. However, its efficacy on
      prevention of first GV bleeding is not known. Non-selective beta-blocker (NSBB) is effective
      to prevent first and second bleeding from esophageal varices. The 2005 Baveno IV
      International Consensus and 2007 AASLD Guidelines also endorsed that NSBB is the first choice
      for the primary prevention of EVB. However, its effect on gastric variceal hemorrhage has
      never been clarified. Actually, GV usually has a large gastrorenal shunting and the portal
      pressure of GV is lower than that of EV. For ethical concerns, NSBB is usually be used for
      primary prevention of GVB, the preventive effect of NSBB had never been proved. Study on the
      primary prevention of GVB is scanty. This is an important issue prompted by current portal
      hypertension experts. The investigators have a lot of experience in the treatment of gastric
      variceal bleeding and published fruitful results in high ranking journals. Therefore, the
      investigators design a randomized trial to compare the effect of endoscopic cyanoacrylate
      injection obliteration versus non-selective beta-blocker in the primary prevention of gastric
      variceal bleeding.
    
  