
    
      Screening will be done prior to enrollment in the study. The following will be done as part
      of the screening process:

        -  Medical history review

        -  Physical exam

        -  Measurement of vital Signs

        -  Blood tests (approximately 6 teaspoons of blood) will be done to see if the liver and
           kidneys are healthy, HIV (the virus that causes AIDS) test for this study and pregnancy
           test.

        -  Urine test

        -  Bone marrow biopsy and aspirate

      If the patient is ineligible or does not have a donor for Allogeneic Stem Cell
      transplantation, you will not be able to participate in this clinical trial.

      After results of these tests are obtained, your doctor will decide whether you can
      participate in this study.

      Study procedures:

      The study drug will be given for 5 days.

      Days 1 through 5:

      The patient will receive dexamethasone 1.5 hours prior to the administration of Clofarabine
      as part of standard care for subjects receiving Clofarabine.

      The patient will receive an intravenous (IV) injection (into the vein) of Clofarabine each
      day for 5 days. This injection is given in the hospital and will be given over approximately
      60 minutes each day. The actual dose of Clofarabine is based on the weight and height of the
      subject.

      The patient will have the following tests done to see the effects of the study drug:

      Each day of Clofarabine administration, on day 12 and then each day until stem cell
      transplantation:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Vital signs

        -  Blood tests. About 3-4 teaspoons will be taken each time.

      Day 12 after Clofarabine administration and then as outlined for stem cell transplantation:

      • Bone marrow biopsy and aspirate.

      After Clofarabine administration, there will be short resting period of 7-14 days. After the
      resting period, the patient will start receiving conditioning chemotherapy regimen (other
      standard of care drugs to better prepare your body for the stem cell transplant). This
      regimen will begin 15-21 days after they first received Clofarabine, and consists of
      additional treatment (chemotherapy and/or radiation). The type of treatment(s) the patient
      will receive for conditioning is dependent on the type of disease. In addition, this
      treatment will be decided by your doctor and is independent of this research. The duration of
      the conditioning period is variable and may take between 5-8 days. Stem cells are usually
      given one day after the completion of this regimen, which will be between 21 and 30 days
      after the patient has first received Clofarabine.

      Follow-up Subjects who have a response and proceed with stem cell transplant will be followed
      weekly for the first three months and then every month for six months, then every two months
      for 12 months, then every three months for 18 months. The stem cell transplant will be done
      21-30 days after first receiving Clofarabine. Subjects who do not go on to stem cell
      transplant will be followed for 3 months following administration of Clofarabine.

      At these visits, the following will be done:

        -  A physical exam

        -  Medical history

        -  Blood tests (about 3 teaspoons blood will be taken) performed.

      End of study

      At this time, the following tests will be done:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests

        -  Bone marrow biopsy
    
  