
    
      Introduction: With a growing number of people living with chronic diseases, the need to
      empower people to self-manage their condition is rising. A key element in self-management is
      goal setting, however, it is not known to what extent people living with chronic conditions
      are capable of setting their own actionable health-related goals. One possible strategy to
      improve goal-setting skills is to provide people with specific information about their health
      profile to stimulate the setting of specific goals. This study contributes to the
      understanding of the specificity of patient-formulated self-management goals by testing the
      effectiveness of providing feedback using a personalized health outcome profile.

      Objective: To estimate among people living with HIV, to what extent providing feedback on
      their health outcomes, compared to no feedback, will affect number and specificity of
      person-defined self-management goals.

      Design: A blinded, stratified, randomized controlled trial design will be conducted targeting
      all participants in the BHN2 (Action for Positive Brain Health Now) cohort in Canada.

      Methods: A personalized health outcome profile has been produced for each person enrolled in
      the BHN1 cohort (Positive Brain Health Now) at cohort entry and at the last recorded visit.
      The same profile will be developed for the participants who will enroll in the BHN2 as they
      go through their visits. The profile covers information on brain health outcomes, health and
      quality of life ratings, and lifestyle factors. Participants from the BHN1 who agreed to
      enroll in the BHN2 as well as the new participants will be contacted. The intervention group
      will receive their personal profile along with instructions on goal-setting and tips to
      improve brain health; the control group will receive only the goal-setting instructions and
      tips. Over 800 members of the BHN cohort have sufficient data to generate the profile and
      will be recruited into the study. Persons will be instructed to enter their goals on a
      specialized web-based goal setting platform within 2 weeks of receiving their profile. At the
      close of the two-week period, the control group will receive their profile. Text mining
      techniques will be used to extract information from the person-defined goals and the
      specificity of the goal will be scored based on word matches to a developed goal-setting
      lexical.

      Expected Results: The expectation is that the intervention group will set more goals and have
      more words matching the developed lexical than the control group. The total number of words
      per person-goal will be calculated for each group and Poisson regression will be used to
      estimate the rate ratio and 95% confidence intervals and compare rate ratios between men and
      women using an interaction term.

      Conclusion: The effect of providing outcome feedback on setting effective self-management
      goals will be tested in this study. The results will provide a thorough understanding of the
      quality of person-defined goals using text mining. Moreover, this study provides evidence
      necessary for future studies using text mining as an inexpensive and timely way for
      evaluation of textual information.
    
  