
    
      Obstructive azoospermia is defined as the absence of spermatozoa in the ejaculate despite
      normal spermatogenesis.Infection, Iatrogenic injury, Vasectomy and congenital atresia are the
      possible causes of it. Non obstructive or functional azoospermia results from testicular
      failure, which is the absence or inadequate production of fully developed spermatozoa within
      the testes.

      Etiologies for testicular failure include genetic disorders such as sexual chromosomal
      abnormalities ; translocations and microdeletions of the Y chromosome; cryptorchidism;
      testicular torsion; radiation and toxins.

      The advent of intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection has transformed the treatment of this type of
      severe male-factor infertility.

      Surgical techniques for sperm retrieval:Testicular sperm aspiration: In men with obstructive
      azoospermia ,testicular sperm aspiration invariably generates enough sperm for
      intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection.

      Testicular sperm extraction:This conventional method of surgical sperm extraction generally
      offers the best chance of retrieving spermatozoa, especially in functional cases and when
      guided by surgical microscope. However, it can be done by simple open conventional biopsy and
      closed surgical extraction resembling Trucut biopsy using a special cannula.

      Cryopreservation Cryopreservation of human testicular tissue obtained by biopsy can be used
      as a potential future source of sperms. For adult cancer survivors, cryopreservation of
      testis biopsies may be the only option remaining if they prefer to father their own
      biological progeny.

      There are 4 types of cryopreservation :

      Slow freezing: involves step-wise programmed decrease in temperature. Rapid freezing: was
      first proposed by . Ultra-rapid freezing :can be considered midway technique between slow
      freezing and vitrification.

      Vitrification: solidifies the sample into a glass-like state. During the freezing
      process,increasing in susceptibility of spermatozoa to lipid peroxidation,as affected by cold
      shock, plays an important role in ageing of spermatozoa ,shortening their lifespan and
      affecting the preservation of semen.The major susceptibility is related in, part to the
      content of polyunsaturated fatty acids.

      Oxidative stress and antioxidants: Oxygen is required to support life, but its metabolites,
      such as reactive oxygen species, can modify cell functions and endanger cell survival. For
      this reason,reactive oxygen species is inactivated continuously to maintain only the small
      amount necessary to maintain normal cell function. There is a balance between the different
      antioxidants and oxidants at normal status. Oxidative stress is a cellular condition
      associated with an imbalance between the production of free radicals, mainly reactive oxygen
      species, and the scavenging capacity of antioxidants.

      Superoxide dismutase and catalase are endogenous antioxidants, which protect cells from
      oxidative stress. Scavengers of reactive oxygen species and antioxidants are important in
      treating and preventing the damage caused by such stress.

      Catalase has been reported from testis, seminal plasma, and spermatozoa Tissue level of
      malondialdehyde is proven indicator of oxidative stress resulting from lipid peroxidation .

      The process of cryopreservation is known to cause more production and/or accumulation of
      reactive oxygen species, as antioxidant defenses are reduced in the process.
    
  