
    
      An increasing number of patients are treated at ICUs worldwide. The majority of these
      patients survive critical illness and are discharged from the hospital. A stay at the ICU is
      most often related to life-threatening conditions and displays a major impact on both
      physical and mental resources of the patients. Studies have shown that a great part of these
      patients also have physical and psychological impairments lasting for a long period after
      their hospital stay. The condition is termed the "post intensive care syndrome" (PICS) and
      describes a state with wide range of symptoms as fatigue, depression, anxiety, memory loss as
      well as both cognitive and physical impairment. During the first five years after discharge,
      more than half of ICU survivors had suffered at least one episode of depression or anxiety

      ICU treatment often involves immobilization and sedation that may lead to both muscle
      weakness, critical illness myopathy and/or polyneuropathy. This may not only affect the
      patients during the ICU or hospital stay, but also for a longer post-discharge period. A
      recent study demonstrated that measured physical health related quality of life was impaired
      for up to one year after hospitalization, and that the physical performance at five years
      post-discharge continued to be lower than in the background population. The physical
      impairments may also influence patient's working ability, and among previously working
      individuals only half had returned to work within the first year after ICU hospitalization.
      After five years, up to 25 % still had not returned to work.

      In Denmark, more than 30.000 people are annually admitted to intensive care units. The annual
      report from the Danish Intensive Care Database (DID) present data regarding a variety of
      outcomes, including length of stay, survival rate and 90 days re-admission to hospital. The
      reports demonstrate an increased quality of care but offer limited information on longer term
      outcome including quality of life for these patients. A recent study have indicated that
      Danish patients might suffer from the same psychological and physical impairments as found in
      international studies, but a better characteristic of the population is needed. Especially
      since the level of public care, including early rehabilitation in hospital differs between
      countries.

      It is therefore essential to investigate and describe the needs, standard of care and the
      physical and cognitive status of these patients both in-hospital and post-discharge in order
      to establish the right level of aftercare for the Danish population. This study aims at
      investigating the in-hospital care as well as the physical and cognitive status of a Danish
      cohort of ICU patients at 3 and 12 month post-discharge.

      The investigators plan to do a substudy regarding exposure to circadian light and delirium.
    
  