
    
      This is a Geographic Information System (GIS)-based retrospective study. Data will be
      extracted from the NTUH medical records database, including the date of notification, sex,
      birth date, residence address, etc of each tuberculosis case. Each case will be geocoded to
      generate spatial coordinates for mapping purpose based on the street address and postal code.
      To protect the privacy of these patients, the personal identification data of TB patients,
      including name and ID numbers, will not be encoded. The encoded data file will also be
      strictly kept confidential.

      Disease mapping is the usual means of presenting descriptive geographic data on disease
      occurrence and creating accurate maps of disease morbidity and mortality. Maps convey instant
      visual information on the spatial distribution of disease and can identify subtle patterns
      which may be missed in tabular presentations. The purpose is to display variations in
      ill-health (for example, related to the underlying sociodemography), formulate etiologic
      hypotheses, aid surveillance to detect areas of high disease incidence, and help place
      specific disease.

      In detecting the spatial patterns of the points geocoded from the addresses, point pattern
      analytical methods are used. Quadrat Analysis is one of them. This method evaluates a case
      distribution by examining how its density changes over space. The density measured by Quadrat
      Analysis is then compared with the density of a theoretically constructed random pattern to
      see if the case distribution in question is more clustered or more dispersed than the random
      pattern. Another one is Nearest Neighbor Statistic, which is derived from the average
      distance between cases and each of their nearest neighbors and captures information on cases
      between quadrats. Using ordered neighbor statistic can evaluate the pattern at different
      spatial scales. A case pattern is said to be more clustered if its observed average distance
      between nearest neighbors is found to be less than that of a random pattern. Ripley's K
      statistic is an extension of the ordered neighbor statistics, which can be used to depict the
      randomness of a case distribution over different spatial scales and capture the
      characteristic of local variations.

      To measure and test how dispersed/clustered the case locations are with respect to their
      attribute values, e.g. socioeconomic status, spatial autocorrelation can be performed. If
      significant positive spatial autocorrelation exists in a case distribution, cases with
      similar characteristics tend to be near each other.

      For polygon data in interval or ratio form, such as the tuberculosis incidence of different
      districts, Moran's I index, Geary's Ratio and the G-statistic can be used. Moran's I uses the
      mean of the attribute's data values as the benchmark for comparison when neighboring values
      are evaluated; Geary's Ratio is based on a direct comparison of neighboring values;
      G-statistic is based on the concept of spatial association or cross-product statistics and is
      capable of detecting the presence of hot spots or cold spots. In case of spatial
      heterogeneity, i.e. the magnitude of spatial autocorrelation varies over space, modified
      versions of the previous three statistics can be used to evaluate spatial association at the
      local scale.
    
  