
    
      The lifetime risk of surgery for stress urinary incontinence in women is 13.6%. Women are
      typically instructed to avoid strenuous physical activity and vaginal penetration for 6 weeks
      following synthetic mid-urethral sling procedures. The historical rationale behind these
      instructions was to prevent disruption of vaginal incisions, promote wound healing, decrease
      recurrence risk and prevent complications such as mesh exposure. Very little medical evidence
      exists, however, to support these activity restrictions which can have a negative impact on
      satisfaction and quality of life. Findings from a single randomized trial challenge standard
      activity restrictions following pelvic organ prolapse repair. Participants were given
      conservative or liberal postoperative instructions and the liberal group experienced fewer
      prolapse and urinary symptoms at 3 months postoperatively; but there was no difference in
      satisfaction between groups. This study, however, did not investigate restrictions on vaginal
      penetration (both groups adhered to 6-week restrictions) and was not specific to women
      undergoing isolated sling procedures. There are no prospective, randomized studies addressing
      vaginal penetration restrictions following mid-urethral slings. There is a single cohort
      study examining expedited recovery following vaginal prolapse repair which advised 3-weeks of
      vaginal penetration restrictions. This study reported an earlier return to intercourse in the
      3-week group than in the retrospectively collected control group where 6-weeks of restriction
      were advised. This study did not evaluate the impact of early versus later return to sexual
      activity on wound complications, mesh exposure rates, pain or satisfaction.

      Animal models suggest that wound healing occurs much sooner than 6 weeks post-surgery. In
      fact, epithelial wounds closed by primary intention typically re-epithelialize in just 24-48
      hours. In a mouse-model with full-thickness vaginal injury, there was complete restoration of
      mucosal integrity by day 7 without surgical closure of the wound. Epithelial healing over
      mid-urethral sling could differ due to a known pro-inflammatory milieu in the setting of a
      mesh implant but the rate of epithelial closure over implanted synthetic mesh has not been
      specifically described. While earlier vaginal penetration could theoretically increase the
      risk of mesh exposure from the known baseline risk of 2-3%, this is unlikely following two
      weeks in a low risk population regardless of menopausal status. Vaginal atrophy has been
      identified as a risk factor for wound healing complications and vaginal mesh exposure and
      could interact with early resumption of intercourse. However, vaginal atrophy can be reversed
      with vaginal estrogen therapy and resultant risks mitigated.

      Given the prevalence of mid-urethral slings for stress incontinence, it is important to
      develop evidenced-based recommendations on post-operative sexual activity restrictions. The
      purpose of this randomized trial, therefore, is to evaluate the impact of early (2 weeks)
      versus standard (6 weeks) removal of vaginal penetration restrictions in sexually active
      women undergoing mid-urethral sling procedures on sexual satisfaction and wound
      complications.
    
  