
    
      The ability of the Staphylococcus aureus to produce massive valve destruction as well as
      abscesses and to switch from acute to chronic infection and vice versa is a significant issue
      in the modern treatment of infective endocarditis. Furthermore, the ability to produce
      different virulence factors to evade the immune defense mechanisms proves the treatment more
      difficult. Another conundrum is the proof of different S. aureus strains isolated from Blood
      culture samples and infected valve samples. This makes a possible treatment of S.
      aureus-based endocarditis more difficult than expected.

      Isolation of Bacteria in the Blood culture samples can take much time (3-14 days), and Cell
      Culture-based assays (CCBA) are not regularly implemented as a diagnostic procedure. CCBA is
      not regularly used in the clinical setting due to the time consumption and high cost. The
      significance of the CCBA method lies in the determination of the possible virulence factors.
      Utilizing the Next Generation Sequence (NGS) method, it might be possible to gain this
      information about the culprit microorganism faster and to identify the different strains and
      virulence factors.

      To date, such correlations between genetic information about virulence factors gained by NGS
      and phenotypic information obtained by cell culture-based assays have not yet been
      performed.If proven, the NGE based analysis of the pathogens and their phenotypical behavior
      could guide antimicrobial therapy and make it individualized. Blood culture and infected
      tissue valve samples will be examined using the NGS and CCBA. The investigators aim to
      compare the differences in virulence factor results in these two methods, to characterize the
      prevalence of different strains of S. aureus in the blood culture and valve samples and to
      evaluate the possible potentials of NGS-based diagnosis of IE and to compare the effects of
      the NGS-guided antimicrobial therapy to the standard of care therapy.
    
  