
    
      Bangladesh has the highest proportion of malnourished children in the world. The infant and
      child mortality are also among the highest in south Asia. In Bangladesh, '. The Government of
      Bangladesh has been trying different ways for reducing childhood malnutrition. Such programs
      include the Vulnerable Group Development (VGD) Project, vitamin A distribution project,
      iodine deficiency disorder control program, iron supplementation program and improving food
      availability for the underprivileged sections of the society. Despite these, not enough
      improvement has been observed in the field of nutrition. In review of the past fifty-year's
      information of dietary intake and growth, it has been observed that food intake has
      substantially decreased and growth faltering in children has worsened (Roy et al 1988).
      Materal malnutrition is evidenced by low weight, short stature and anemia in pregnant and
      lactating women. Micronutrient deficiencies are evidenced by prevalence of xerophthalmia,
      iron deficiency anemia and iodine deficiency disorders. The effects of childhood under
      nutrition, begin with a low birth weight (estimated to occur among 35-50% of births in
      Bangladesh) (Hasan et al 1995) and continue into adulthood.

      The prevalence of PEM among children is very high, and has remained almost the same for the
      last decade. Thirty percent of all children under six years of age are severely stunted and
      another 31.2% are moderately stunted (BBS 1995). As many as 68.3% of the total children are
      under -weight and 16.7% are wasted, the highest rates are in Asia (BBS 1995). Given the
      greatly disadvantaged start by the way of a low birth-weight followed by inadequate
      breast-feeding by their undernourished mothers, average Bangladeshi infants are already below
      the lower end of the range of anthropometric values found among western babies during the
      first three to six months. The late and insufficient introduction of complementary feeding
      further retards the infant's growth; usually the child do not pick up its pace of growth
      before two years of age. By then, it is too late to reverse the early growth lag, which
      persists throughout the life, and similarly some of the damages done to mental development
      are irreparable. The weight for age curve of Bangladeshi children continues to lie below the
      third percentile of the NCHS Standard, though it runs roughly parallel to the standard from
      around the second year of life onward; the older children cope better with the adverse milieu
      of food-insecure and unhealthy household, while being unable to regain lost ground.
    
  