
    
      This is a prospective, single-center, randomized controlled clinical trial, which will
      involve patients over 18 years old who would be recruited consecutively during pre-admission
      consultation at the I.M Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University Cardiac Surgery
      Department. All patients with a diagnosis of valvular heart disease, or aortic arch disease
      and indications for cardiac surgery, according to the European Society of Cardiology/European
      Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery guidelines.

      Five days before the operation, patients will be randomly assigned into two groups using a
      computer-generated randomization table: intermittent hypoxic-hyperoxic training and an
      intermittent hypoxic-hyperoxic training control group. For both groups laboratory testing
      (specific biomarkers - C-reactive protein, troponin I, fatty acid-binding protein (FABPs) and
      lactate) will be performed before training and after the surgery, and the hypoxic-inducible
      factor (HIF 1 alpha) would be implemented before and after the trainings.

      Patients in the intermittent hypoxic-hyperoxic training group will undergo four daily
      procedures of interval hypoxic-hyperoxic training before cardiac surgery, using a normobaric
      device to obtain hypoxic and hyperoxic gas mixtures (ReOxy Cardio; Aimediq S.A., Luxemburg,
      Registration certificate in RU P3H 2014/1486). Before the start of the training, each patient
      would undergo a hypoxic test to assess the individual response to hypoxia, and to determine
      the rate of reduction of blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) with a finger pulse oximeter (Masimo
      SET, measurement accuracy ±2%). During 5 minutes the patient will receive air with reduced
      oxygen content (12%), through a mask under constant monitoring of the heart rate (HR) and
      SpO2. As a safety measure, minimal SpO2 would be set at 82% and maximal accepted increase of
      heart rate would be set to +50% of the initial heart rate. When these values would be
      reached, the supply of oxygen automatically would be switched to a hyperoxic gas mixture
      (35%-40% O2), inhaling of which would be continued until SpO2 reached 100% (even if SpO2 was
      lower before the procedure), therefore depending on the rate of saturation reduction, will be
      taken 1 to 3 minutes (mean 1 min and 50 seconds). The intention is to create hyperoxic
      arterial oxygen tension and not to simply reduce the time required to recover from hypoxia.
      Intermittent hypoxic hyperoxic training would be considered successful if there were no
      significant side effects during the procedure such as angina pain, loss of consciousness,
      severe dizziness or other variants of significant subjective deterioration of the patient's
      condition. In the case of successfully passing the test, patients will proceed to the basic
      intermittent hypoxic hyperemic training. During the training, the hypoxic gas mixture will be
      given to the patient again in intermittent mode, based on the individual test parameters and
      alternating with the supply of a hyperoxic gas mixture. One cycle of the procedure consists
      of hypoxic and hyperoxygenated intervals, the duration of which will be regulated
      automatically according to the biofeedback principle, based on monitoring of individual
      values of SpO2 and heart rate. The duration of the hypoxic period ranges from 3 to 5 minutes,
      and the duration of the hyperoxic period ranges from 1 to 3 minutes, depending on the SpO2
      recovery rate. The total time of the hypoxic gas mixture inhaled during one procedure will be
      20-30 min. A final training would be conducted in the evening before the surgery. Patients in
      the intermittent hypoxic-hyperoxic training - control group also will undergo four daily
      procedures before surgery, using 40 min training periods with simulation of intermittent
      hypoxic-hyperoxic training by using the same equipment, the patient receives moistened air
      through a placebo mask under constant monitoring of heart rate and SpO2. Only the person who
      will conduct the training would know about the patient's allocation to a particular
      intervention group, the anesthesiologists and cardiac surgeons will not have access to this
      information. Episodes of cardiac arrhythmias, hypotension with a need for inotropic drug
      prescription, changes in electrocardiogram, pulse values and blood pressure levels will be
      recorded during surgery and the postoperative period.

      Patients will be monitored for 7 days in the hospital, and 30 days after discharge to
      evaluate the complications.

      Differences between groups will be assessed using the unpaired Student's t-test or the
      one-tailed Anova test followed by the Bonferroni post-test. Baseline corrected logistic
      regression models will be used to estimate the training effect in relation to primary and
      secondary endpoints. Statistical significance will be set at 0.05 to test hypotheses.
    
  