
    
      Background:- Airway clearance using an airway clearance technique (ACT) is one of the core
      treatments for children with chronic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis, periciliary
      dyskinesia, and non-CF bronchiectasis who are unable to clear their secretions effectively.
      One of the most frequently used ACTs is called positive expiratory pressure (PEP) which uses
      a mask to produce a back pressure in the lungs getting air behind the mucus to mobilize it up
      the airways. Unfortunately adherence to performing an ACT is low with a reported rate between
      40 - 70%. Up to the present, there has been no way to objectively measure adherence to an
      ACT. However, with new technology, it is now feasible to connect an electronic device to the
      PEP mask to objectively measure how often the child is actually performing their ACT. This
      proposed study would be the first study to objectively measure adherence against reported
      adherence.

      Purpose:

        1. To objectively measure adherence, using an electronic manometer attached to a PEP mask,
           against reported adherence.

        2. Secondly, to objectively measure adherence after connecting the electronic manometer to
           an age appropriate video game designed to operate only if the PEP mask is used properly.

      The hypothesis is that actual adherence is lower than reported adherence, and that by using a
      video game as a feedback mechanism while performing PEP, adherence will be improved.

      Methodology:-20 subjects with either a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis or non CF bronchiectasis,
      between the ages of 6 - 12 years old will be recruited into this study. Subjects will be
      their own control, in that their reported adherence will be measured against their actual
      adherence. After enrollment, subjects will be provided with an electronic device which
      connects to the pressure port of their PEP mask. They will be told that the device attached
      to the PEP Mask pressure port will measure pressure. Subjects will be asked to continue using
      their PEP Mask as prescribed for 4 months referred to as period one. During this time the
      electronic device will collect data on pressure and how often and when the PEP mask is used.
      In addition the subject or parent will be asked to keep a log book of when and how often they
      did their PEP Mask.

      At the end of 4 months, during a second 4 month period, the electronic manometer will be
      connected to software which will allow the subject to play video games operated by correct
      breathing through the PEP Mask. During this period actual adherence captured through the
      electronic device will be measured against reported adherence for this period and also to
      actual adherence measured during the first 4 month period.

      Primary outcome is rate of adherence to prescribed therapy, measured between reported and
      objectively measured adherence during the first 4 month period. During the second 4 month
      period, rate of adherence will be compared to rate of adherence during the first 4 month
      period. Secondary outcome is change in FEV1 from period one to period two. It is hoped that
      by using fun video games while performing airway clearance, adherence will be improved.
    
  