
    
      Background:

      It is well-established that children's early attachment relationship experiences with their
      primary caregivers play an important role in psycho-social development. However, it has been
      shown that also the child's relationship with other important caregivers, such as early
      childcare providers (CPs), are important for socioemotional and academic development. In
      particular, if a child grows up in an at-risk context the quality of early childcare is
      pivotal for long-term development.

      Children with an insecure attachment to their parents are at heightened risk for developing
      insecure attachments to their CP. Yet, CP interactive behavior (level of sensitivity) is
      shown to be associated with CP-child attachment security, irrespective of the child's
      attachment relationship to the primary caregiver. Therefore, CP interactive skills provide an
      important target of intervention in terms of promoting healthy child development.

      Aims:

      In a randomized waitlist control trial, this study aims to 1) evaluate the efficacy of an
      attachment-based professional development intervention, Circle of Security Classroom (COSC),
      on early CPs' interactive skills; 2) investigate how structural factors, such as group size,
      child-adult ratio, and staff stability moderate effects of the intervention; and 3) evaluate
      feasibility and acceptability of COSC when implemented in a busy real-life context, that is,
      in Danish early childcare centers.

      Methods:

      Childcare centers are recruited from a Danish municipality with a high proportion of at-risk
      families. Teams of 2-5 CPs working in Danish childcare centers are allocated to either COSC
      (eight weekly two-hour sessions) or a waitlist. A total of 110 childcare providers are
      estimated to be enrolled, and the intervention will be delivered in groups of 6-10 childcare
      providers. To facilitate implementation, the managers of the participating childcare
      providers are invited to participate in the intervention.

      Effects of COSC are measured using observations of video-recorded caregiver-child interaction
      (coded for six key interactive skills: Sensitive responsiveness, Respect for autonomy,
      structuring and limit setting, Verbal communication, Developmental stimulation, and Fostering
      positive peer interactions). Structural factors are measured using observation and
      questionnaires answered by childcare providers and managers. Feasibility and acceptability of
      the intervention are evaluated using questionnaires and in qualitative interviews.

      Perspectives:

      The project will provide new knowledge on whether a relatively cost-effective intervention
      can improve the quality of care in Danish childcare centers for young children. Also,
      findings on how structural factors influence the quality of care will directly inform
      practice.
    
  