
    
      The prevention and treatment of obesity and mental health disorders in adolescence are two
      major public health problems in the United States (U.S.) today. The incidence of adolescents
      who are overweight or obese has increased dramatically over the past 20 years, with
      approximately 17.1 percent of teens now being overweight or obese. Furthermore, approximately
      15 million children and adolescents (25 percent) in the U.S. have a mental health problem
      that is interfering with their functioning at home or at school, but less than 25 percent of
      those affected receive any treatment for these disorders. The prevalence rates of obesity and
      mental health problems are even higher in Hispanic teens, with studies suggesting that the
      two conditions often coexist in many youth. However, despite the rapidly increasing incidence
      of these two public health problems with their related health disparities and adverse health
      outcomes, there has been a paucity of theory based intervention studies conducted with
      adolescents in high schools to improve their healthy lifestyle behaviors as well as their
      physical and mental health outcomes. Unfortunately, physical and mental health services
      continue to be largely separated instead of integrated in the nation's healthcare system,
      which often leads to inadequate identification and treatment of these significant adolescent
      health problems.

      Therefore, the goal of the proposed randomized controlled trial is to test the efficacy of
      the COPE(Creating Opportunities for Personal Empowerment)/Healthy Lifestyles TEEN (Thinking,
      Feeling, Emotions & Exercise) Program, an educational and cognitive-behavioral skills
      building intervention guided by cognitive behavior theory, on the healthy lifestyle behaviors
      and depressive symptoms of 800 culturally diverse adolescents enrolled in Phoenix, Arizona
      high schools. The specific aims of the study are to: (1) Use a randomized controlled trial to
      test the short- and more long-term efficacy of the COPE TEEN Program on key outcomes,
      including healthy lifestyles behaviors, depressive symptoms and body mass index percentage,
      (2) Examine the role of cognitive beliefs and perceived difficulty in leading a healthy
      lifestyle in mediating the effects of COPE on healthy lifestyle behaviors and depressive
      symptoms; and (3) Explore variables that may moderate the effects of the intervention on
      healthy lifestyle behaviors and depressive symptoms, including race/ethnicity, gender, SES,
      acculturation, and parental healthy lifestyle beliefs and behaviors. Six prior pilot studies
      support the need for this full scale clinical trial and the use of cognitive-behavioral
      skills building in promoting healthy lifestyles beliefs, behaviors and optimal mental health
      in teens.
    
  