
    
      Postoperative pain after laparoscopic cholecystectomy is not only nociceptive but also
      inflammatory, neurogenic and visceral. Therefore, because of involvement of multiple
      mechanisms, multimodal analgesic techniques utilizing a number of drugs acting on different
      analgesic mechanisms are being used. The multimodal analgesic mechanisms include opioids,
      nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, gabapentinoids, local
      anesthetics, and transversus abdominis plane block. Pre-treatment with gabapentin blocks the
      development of hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia for up to two days. The aim of this study
      is to evaluate postoperative analgesic benefit in patients administered with 600mg oral
      gabapentin as premedication for laparoscopic cholecystectomy under general anesthesia, with
      respect to postoperative pain scores and total postoperative requirements of morphine and/or
      tramadol. In the preoperative period, consent is requested for patients who meet the
      inclusion criteria of the study. At this time it is verified whether gabapentin has been
      prescribed by the attending physician or not. If enrolled, the patient is allocated to the
      gabapentin group (Group A) or to the non-gabapentin group (Group B), according to his/her
      prescription.

      All patients are monitored for electrocardiogram, pulse oximetry, noninvasive blood pressure,
      capnography, bispectral index (BIS®), and neuromuscular transmission with Train-of-Four
      (TOF®) during intraoperative period. Anesthesia is induced with intravenous fentanyl 1 to 3
      µg/kg and propofol 1 to 3 mg/Kg. Muscle relaxation is achieved with rocuronium 0.5 to 1,2
      mg/Kg and orotracheal intubation is performed when TOF count had reached 0. Anesthesia is
      maintained with Desflurane and Air/Oxygen, titrated to maintain the BIS value between 40-60.
      Muscle relaxation is maintained with rocuronium bolus (10mg), when more than two responses
      are detected in TOF stimulation. The lungs are mechanically ventilated and adjusted to
      maintain end-tidal carbon dioxide between 35 and 45 mmHg. All patients are given a continuous
      infusion of polyelectrolyte solution. At the end of surgery, neuromuscular block is
      antagonized with standard doses of sugammadex (2mg/Kg, if TOF≥2; 4mg/Kg if TOF=0 and
      Post-Tetanic-Count (PTC) ≥2; 16mg/Kg, if TOF=0 and PTC<2). The endotracheal tube is removed
      when the TOF ratio is > 90% and BIS > 80, with the patient being conscious, with adequate
      spontaneous ventilation and responded to verbal commands. Perioperative analgesia is provided
      with intravenous paracetamol 1g (administrated after anesthetic induction), parecoxib 40mg
      (administrated after anesthetic induction) and local anesthetic infiltration of trocar
      insertion sites with ropivacaine 0.5%. When gabapentin is preoperative given, the usual doses
      is 600mg. Postoperative nausea and vomiting prophylaxis are assured with intravenous
      dexamethasone 4mg after the induction, and intravenous ondansetron 4mg at the end of the
      surgery.

      At the postanesthesia care unit (PACU), the pain is assessed using a numeric pain rating
      scale at the arrival (0h) and then at 1, 6, 12, 24h, both at rest and at movement (with a
      maximum of 30minute variation at each evaluation time). The investigators will also consult
      the nursing evaluation of pain scores (assessment of pain scores at intervals of 4hours).
      Patients with sedation score of at least 4 are considered sedated. The occurrence of
      postoperative complications is also recorded. At any time, if analgesia is inadequate, the
      anesthesia resident will provide intravenous bolus of morphine (0.05-0.1 mg/Kg) and stop if
      patient has respiratory depression (defined as respiratory rate<10 per minute or Blood Oxygen
      Saturation (SpO2)<90% on air) or is sedated. Droperidol 0.625mg will be given intravenously
      if patient had persistent nausea or had two or more episodes of retching or vomiting. Total
      consumption of morphine during the stay at the PACU is recorded. - Post-operative analgesia
      is usually provided with intravenous paracetamol 1g 8/8h and intravenous parecoxib 40mg
      12/12h. If the patient still complained of pain, then rescue analgesia will be given with
      intravenous tramadol 100mg, maximum 8/8h. Besides that, nausea and vomiting prophylaxis are
      assured with intravenous ondansetron 4mg 8/8h. Total consumption of tramadol during the stay
      at the ward is recorded.
    
  