
    
      Xerostomia is excessive dryness of the mouth. It is due to insufficient (hyposialism) or
      inexistent (asialia) saliva secretion.

      There are many causes. Transitory xerostomia may occur in the presence of anxiety (stage
      fright, fear or dehydration). Prolonged xerostomia is most often related to a systemic
      disease, certain medicines or to radiotherapy of the head or neck.

      Xerostomia is often accompanied by buccal symptoms and signs such as impaired sense of taste,
      fetid breath and mouth ulcers, and it disturbs functions such as speech, chewing and
      swallowing. Because of reduced salivary secretion, there is disturbance of the microbial
      colonization of the buccal cavity, increased demineralization and decreased remineralization
      of the teeth, impaired retention of dentures, dehydration of the mucosa and reduced
      lubrication of the buccal mucosa. These complications may take the form of dental caries,
      candidiasis, atrophy and feelings of burning of the mucosa, difficulty retaining dentures,
      impaired speech and swallowing and impression of decreased or impaired sense of taste.
      Xerostomia has significant harmful effects on the buccal cavity and on the quality of life of
      patients.

      Xerostomia prevalence rates of the order of 18-61% have been reported in the elderly. These
      rates are generally higher in women that in men and increase with age. They are also higher
      in populations in institutions and in those taking multiple medications. Wearing a denture,
      stress and other psychological factors have also been suggested as factors increasing risk or
      or worsening xerostomia.

      Treatments of xerostomia are saliva substitutes and saliva stimulants.

      OGT Spray is neither a substitute nor stimulant of saliva.

      OGT Spray is a solution for oromucosal spray which has lubricant and protective actions.

      The aim of the study was to demonstrate that OGT Spray (oral lubricant) was effective in the
      subjective relief of dry mouth symptoms and objective signs of dry mouth in elderly.
    
  