
    
      Background: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), prevalent among Veterans, puts Veterans at
      increased risk for obesity and related conditions. Veterans with PTSD lose less weight in
      VA's MOVE! weight management program, due to PTSD symptoms that interfere with activity and
      healthy diet. In addition, many Veterans who receive evidence-based PTSD treatment remain
      symptomatic. A behavioral weight loss program that augments standard PTSD care and targets
      PTSD-related weight loss barriers called MOVE!+UP was piloted and iteratively refined among
      44 overweight Veterans with PTSD. The fully developed MOVE!+UP is led by a psychologist and a
      Veteran peer support counselor, who provide complementary expertise. It includes 16 group
      sessions with 90 minutes of general weight loss support, coupled with Cognitive Behavior
      Therapy skills to address PTSD-specific barriers. Each session also includes a 30-minute
      community walk to address hypervigilance-based activity barriers and enhance classroom-based
      learning. Veterans receive two individual dietician visits, and counseling calls as needed.
      The cohort receiving the final MOVE!+UP package reported high satisfaction and had better
      weight loss outcomes than Veterans with PTSD in the general MOVE! program. They also reported
      substantial PTSD symptom reduction. Treatment targets like eating behaviors, activity, and
      insomnia also improved. MOVE!+UP effectiveness must be tested in a randomized trial.

      Significance/Impact: MOVE!+UP is timely and efficient, simultaneously addressing physical and
      mental health of a priority Veteran group. MOVE!+UP is positioned to address HSR&D priorities
      by promoting mental health and improving PTSD symptoms, access to care, and whole health.
      This study is aligned with HSR&D and ORD methodological priorities by using a hybrid type 1
      trial. This study's cost and utilization analyses, and systematic identification of
      implementation barriers and facilitators, would place effectiveness findings in context and
      facilitate rapid translation to the field if MOVE!+UP is effective. This study will also
      provide insights about ways that general MOVE! and PTSD care can be enhanced to improve reach
      and effectiveness.

      Innovation: MOVE!+UP is the first weight loss program designed to address obesity in Veterans
      with PTSD.

      Specific Aims: This study proposes to enroll Veterans with PTSD who are classified as
      overweight or with obesity and who are engaged in PTSD care. They will be randomized to usual
      care enhanced with MOVE! (control) or usual care enhanced with MOVE!+UP (intervention), and
      is guided by three aims: 1) Test whether intervention participants have greater 6-month
      weight loss (primary outcome), and 6- and 12-month PTSD symptom reduction and 12-month weight
      loss (secondary exploratory outcomes), relative to controls; 2) Assess whether compared to
      control, intervention participants have greater improvements on 6-month treatment targets:
      physical activity, eating behavior, insomnia, depression, and social support; 3) Estimate
      intervention and control condition costs and utilization, and identify MOVE!+UP
      implementation barriers and facilitators, to contextualize Aim 1 and inform future
      implementation.

      Methodology: Hybrid type 1 trial with 164 Veterans with PTSD who are classified as overweight
      or with obesity and are currently enrolled in PTSD care.

      Implementation/Next Steps: This hybrid type 1 trial will provide data needed to prepare a
      MOVE!+UP implementation package for broader VA implementation if MOVE!+UP is effective. If it
      is not effective, Aims 2 and 3 will help understand how overweight Veterans with PTSD could
      be better supported in the future. Implementation activities would be coordinated with
      existing local, VISN, and national operational partners.
    
  