
    
      This is a prospective, open-label, single center registry. The study is designed to
      characterize plaque (i.e., assess vulnerable plaque features such as plaque tears, plaque
      thickness, plaque volume, and lipid content in plaque) in heart arteries in patients who have
      suffered a recent acute heart attack, and who have blockages >50% in one or more of the other
      arteries in the heart. The procedure to do this will not be the same procedure that was done
      to open the artery that caused the heart attack, but will be scheduled 2-40 days after the
      first procedure, depending on the urgency to evaluate the other arteries and the stability of
      the patient after the first procedure. The study will specifically evaluate the plaque
      characteristics in the arteries that didn't cause the heart attack, to see if these arteries
      have vulnerable plaque and is at risk for future heart attacks. If FFR shows abnormal blood
      flow, these arteries will be treated with stents. All patients will be followed for 12 months
      after the second catheterization. The purpose of the study is to determine how commonly
      vulnerable plaques are identified in patients with acute heart attacks, and how often these
      lead to future cardiac problems. Identification of plaque features that lead to future
      problems may allow the development of new medications and devices to prevent future heart
      attacks and death. These same plaque features are also thought to be operative in patients
      with blockages in the arteries to the brain, so this study may have important implications
      for stroke prevention as well. All patients will be considered eligible for participation if
      they had a recent acute heart attack resulting from complete occlusion of an artery to the
      heart, if the stent procedure to open the artery was successful, and if they have blockages >
      50% in at least one other major heart artery. Patients will not be eligible for participation
      if they are too unstable with regard to heart, lung, brain, or kidney function, or if they
      have previous bypasses to the heart.

      In selected patients, Coronary CT Angiography (CCTA) will be performed after the initial
      procedure to open the artery within 40 days. CCTA images will be evaluated for plaque
      characteristics, and correlated with the invasive findings.Fractional flow reserve via
      computed tomography (FFRCT), a non-invasive computed tomography method of measuring blood
      flow in the blocked arteries; will also be determined and correlated with invasive FFR.

      The standard portion of the procedure includes the angiogram (X-ray pictures of the
      arteries), FFR (measurement of blood flow in the artery), IVUS and/or OCT (to assess the
      diameter of the artery and the size of the stent), medications, and all office visits. The
      research portion of the study requires all imaging studies be performed (NIRS IVUS, OCT, FFR)
      rather than just one or two of these imaging studies, and the CCTA.
    
  