
    
      Study Background:

      Research has shown that the more lymph nodes removed as part of a radical cystectomy (bladder
      removal) for invasive bladder cancer, the better. However, the number of lymph nodes removed
      varies from person to person. The standard surgical techniques such as robot-assisted
      procedures are new, and researchers want to be able to more reliably tell if the specific
      number of lymph nodes removed is enough to be considered a "complete" removal.

      In this study, researchers will remove the required lymph nodes using a standard
      robotic-assisted procedure, and then remove any additional lymph nodes that remain and need
      to be removed, using a wider ("open") incision in the abdomen. This open technique is also
      being done for standard of care. It is needed in order to complete the "urinary diversion"
      part of the surgery (a procedure of surgically making way for urine to pass out of the body
      so that it does not go through the bladder).

      The main goal of the study is to see if the robotic-assisted procedure removes all of the
      required lymph nodes. The open technique will allow researchers to evaluate how many lymph
      nodes were left behind after robotic-assisted removal.

      It is possible that the machine may have problems and not be available for use on the
      scheduled day of surgery. If that happens, you will have the option to reschedule surgery or
      have standard open surgery. It is also possible that the machine could have problems during
      your surgery. If that happens, your doctor will continue with standard open surgery. Your
      study doctor will discuss these possible situations with you.

      You will be asked to sign a separate consent form for these surgical procedures, which will
      describe the procedures and their risks in more detail.

      Follow-up:

      You will be asked to fill out a brief pain survey once a week for 7 weeks after surgery. The
      survey will take about 5 minutes to complete. You will also be given a diary to record your
      daily pain medication use. It will also take about 5 minutes to complete. You will continue
      to complete the questionnaire once a week and to fill out the diary daily for 6 weeks.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      You will visit the clinic 6-12 weeks after surgery for an end-of-study visit. You will have a
      chest x-ray. Your pain medication use and pain level surveys will be collected. After this
      visit, you will be off-study.

      This is an investigational study. The robotic-assisted bladder removal is FDA approved for
      this purpose. Up to 60 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at The
      University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC).
    
  