
    
      The target group is overweight adolescents, meaning their BMI is over or equal to the 95th
      percentile (BMI>25) and they should not have severe health problems as a result of their
      overweight. For adults, BMI (Body Mass Index; weight in kilograms divided by the square of
      height in meters) values at or above 25 indicate overweight and a BMI at or above 30 defines
      obesity. No such generally accepted definitions exist for children and adolescents. However,
      international standardized cut points have been proposed, among others by Cole et al (2000)
      and experts support the use of BMI cutoff points for children. The cut points proposed by
      Cole et al (2000) are widely used and take age, gender and sex into consideration in the
      estimation. The focus is primarily to prevent a negative development, and the aim is that the
      school health service in the future might implement a modified version of this strategy for
      working with overweight adolescents.

      The design of the study is a complex intervention study with a multi-method design,
      consisting of a quasi-experimental trial and a qualitative study. The sample will be drawn
      from schools in Oslo. Overweight adolescents will be selected and placed in the intervention
      group or control group respectively. The sampling will be based on objective measures of
      weight and height and using Cole's index to define overweight and obesity. Weight and height
      will be measured by the school nurse and will be coordinated with her regular meetings with
      the adolescents in 8th grade.. The study group will receive the web-based intervention and
      the control group will receive standard care. At baseline, 3 months and 1 year both the
      experimental group and the control group will be measured at relevant variables. In the
      qualitative part of the study, in depth interviews with the adolescents in the intervention
      group will be performed and they will write daily unstructured blogs on the web. The sampling
      procedure for the qualitative part of the study will follow the sampling procedure of the
      intervention study. From the intervention group, a strategic or purposive sample of
      adolescents will be asked to participate in the qualitative part (Gerrish and Lacey 2006). A
      sample of maximum variation according to gender and sosio-demographic variables is intended.
      Sampling continues until saturation is reached and the adolescents will be interviewed in
      depth before the intervention starts, further at 3 and 12 months after the intervention is
      ended.
    
  