
    
      Due to the functional impairments caused by a lower limb amputation, it is essential to
      determine the benefits of rehabilitation strategies such as real-time visual feedback
      training. Such training could allow Veterans with transtibial amputations (TTAs) to better
      utilize their prostheses and regain the greatest possible level of function. It is not clear
      how much the prosthetic device (passive-elastic prosthetic foot versus battery-powered
      ankle-foot prosthesis) and/or the user's response to the prosthesis contribute to the
      biomechanical and metabolic effects of using these prostheses during walking. Better use of a
      prosthesis due to targeted real-time visual feedback training could enhance rehabilitation,
      improve function and reduce asymmetric biomechanics, which in turn could reduce common
      comorbidities such as osteoarthritis, leg and back pain, and indirectly, diabetes in Veterans
      with TTAs. The purpose of the proposed project is to systematically establish the metabolic
      and biomechanical effects of targeted real-time visual feedback training of peak propulsive
      ground reaction force (GRF) on the biomechanics, metabolic costs, and muscle activity of
      Veterans with TTAs using their own passive-elastic prosthetic foot and a battery-powered
      ankle-foot prosthesis. The results of the investigators' research could enhance the use of
      prosthetic technology to improve the rehabilitation and function of Veterans with lower limb
      amputations.

      Previous studies suggest that use of passive-elastic and/or powered ankle-foot prostheses may
      not optimize the function of Veterans with TTAs during walking. Targeted, real-time visual
      feedback training of peak propulsive ground reaction forces increased propulsion and improved
      walking function in older (>65 years) and post-stroke adults, who typically have impaired
      ankle power. To the investigators' knowledge, no research has addressed how visual feedback
      of peak propulsive force affects the use of passive-elastic or powered ankle-foot prostheses
      by people with TTAs. In the proposed research, the investigators will determine the
      underlying metabolic costs, biomechanics, stability, and muscle activity resulting from
      targeted real-time visual feedback training of peak propulsive force to identify how Veterans
      with a TTA benefit from more effective use of a passive-elastic prosthesis and/or a
      battery-powered ankle-foot prosthesis and to determine if the addition of mechanical power
      provided by a battery-powered ankle-foot prosthesis can further enhance the function of
      Veterans with unilateral TTAs during walking. 30 Veterans with unilateral TTAs will use their
      own passive-elastic prosthesis both with and without visual feedback training during
      level-ground walking, while the investigators measure their metabolic costs and biomechanics.
      Then, they will use a powered ankle-foot prosthesis (emPOWER, BiONX, Ottobock) both with and
      without visual feedback training during level-ground walking, while the investigators measure
      their metabolic costs and biomechanics. With each prosthesis, subjects will walk at 1.25 m/s
      on a dual-belt force-measuring treadmill 1) with no visual feedback, and then with real-time
      visual feedback of: 2) peak propulsive force from the "no feedback" condition, 3) +20%
      greater peak propulsive force, and 4) +40% greater peak propulsive force. During these visual
      feedback trials, the investigators will ask subjects to match the peak propulsive force
      displayed on a computer screen with their affected leg. The investigators will also ask
      subjects to: 5) match symmetric visual feedback of the peak propulsive force from both legs.
      The investigators will determine if Veterans with TTAs utilizing real-time visual feedback
      training of peak propulsive force can improve metabolic costs, biomechanical symmetry, and
      dynamic stability/balance, while using their own passive-elastic prosthesis or a powered
      ankle-foot prosthesis. The investigators will also establish if Veterans with TTAs can retain
      the metabolic and biomechanical benefits elicited by real-time visual feedback training once
      that feedback is removed. Results from the proposed project will be used to inform
      rehabilitation strategies and prosthetic design, which could ultimately improve health,
      maximize function, and improve quality of life for Veterans with TTAs.
    
  