
    
      Catheter interventions of coronary lesions involve a bifurcation in 15-20%. The treatment of
      bifurcation lesions is usually more difficult as compared to non-bifurcation lesions and the
      complication rate is higher. Possible complications are acute SB closure (BBC one) and higher
      rates of restenosis and stent thrombosis. Carina shifting after stenting ,double or triple
      layers of stents, stent distortion and different tissue distribution may be the reasons. The
      use of drug-eluding stents in the treatment of bifurcation lesions suggests that DES reduces
      the rate of restenosis int he main branch (5-10%); however, results in the side branch are
      not optimal. Current interventional treatment of most bifurcation lesions consists in
      implanting a DES in the MB with POBA and provisional T-stenting of the SB. Drug eluting
      Balloon is the new options and improvements in the field of coronary angioplasty. Clinically
      proven, it offers completely new procedural options to treat vascular stenoses since the drug
      elution does not require a stent platform. Since the SB is rarely stented, the DEB could be
      particularly helpful to reduce the restenosis rate of a SB lesion. PEPCAD V trial has proved
      Percutaneous treatment of bifurcation lesions with a drug-eluting balloon resulted in a
      procedural success of 100%. Follow-up angiography at nine months showed DES-like results in
      MB and SB. In PEPCAD V trial，the MB was dilated with a DEB. Next, a BMS (CoroflexR, B. Braun
      Melsungen AG, Germany) was implanted in the MB. While the procedure is complex, whether we
      can put drug eluting stent in MB directly and this overlap of drug delivery is harmful. OCT
      system had an axial resolution of 20 microm and a transverse resolution of 30 microm. OCT was
      able to penetrate and image near-occlusive coronary plaques. Therefore, it is prudent to use
      OCT to investigate the efficacy of Paclitaxel-eluting PTCA-balloon dilation (SeQuent Please)
      in SB and drug eluting stent (EXCEL stent) deployment in the main branch (reference diameter:
      ≥ 2.5 mm and ≤ 4.0 mm, reference diameter of side branch: ≥ 2.0 mm and ≤ 3.5 mm, length of
      stenoses in either branch ≤ 30 mm) in the treatment of significant (>70%) de-novo-bifurcation
      stenoses of any Medina classification type in the native coronary artery as reflected by
      procedural success and to evaluate the preservation of vessel patency.
    
  