
    
      The study population will consist of healthy subjects who meet the FDA, AABB, and
      site-specific research donor eligibility criteria for an apheresis platelet collection.

      Apheresis platelets (single or double) will be collected in 100% plasma on the Trima Accel®
      Automated Blood Collection system. Each study apheresis collection will be processed using
      the INTERCEPT Blood System for platelets; apheresis platelets containing a platelet dose of
      3.0 to 7.9 x10e11 platelets in 300 to 420 mL of plasma will be processed using the INTERCEPT
      Dual Storage (DS) processing set. The INTERCEPT process will begin on either the day of
      collection (Day 0) or the day following collection (Day 1); illumination must occur within 24
      hours after the end of collection. Test platelet components will be stored for up to 7 days,
      after collection, in 100% plasma. In vitro platelet function will be evaluated on Days 0/1
      (pre-treatment) and at end of storage (Day 7, 6 and/or 5).

      At the end of storage, an aliquot of Test platelets will be aseptically removed from each
      subject's INTERCEPT platelet storage container and prepared for radiolabeling. The in vitro
      quality of the Test platelet sample used for radiolabeling will be assessed prior to and
      following the pre-radiolabeling platelet sample preparations.

      The recovery and survival for Test platelets will be compared against the fresh platelet
      Control. Recovery and survival of INTERCEPT platelets will be assessed after Day 7, 6 or 5
      days of storage for up to 24 evaluable subjects.

      Test and Control will be randomly radiolabeled with either 51Cr as sodium radiochromate
      (Na251CrO4) or 111In as indium oxine, depending upon randomization period and assignment.
      Subjects will be randomized with equal probability to the radiolabeling sequences (111In/51Cr
      vs. 51Cr/111In) for Test/Control. After radiolabeling, the autologous Control and Test
      platelet samples will be simultaneously infused into the subject.

      Blood samples will be drawn immediately before infusion and for radioactivity measurements at
      1 hour ± 15 min and 2 hours ± 15 min post-infusion (Day 0), and 6 more samples will be drawn
      at 1, 2, 3, 4 (or 5 or 6), 7 (or 8), and 11±1 days post-infusion (DPI), at approximately the
      same time of day as the radiolabeled platelet infusion was administered (±4 hours).

      Subjects will be monitored for safety (adverse events) from the first apheresis procedure
      until after the last DPI blood sample is drawn.
    
  