
    
      The threat of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2, from here onward
      mentioned as COVID-19) and the national measures to restrict transmission of COVID-19 in the
      Dutch population have caused a radical change in the daily life of Dutch citizens. Closing of
      schools and public locations, even as the public order for social distancing and
      self-isolation, is affecting the daily structure and lifestyle habits of Dutch children
      greatly. These radical changes in the current situation could yield important information
      regarding the health behaviour of children and their families. Knowledge of these changes and
      their effects on the health behaviour of these children and their families could influence
      future interventions and regulations regarding health behaviour. Current (preliminary)
      prevalence figures show that up to 80% of patients infected with COVID-19 are overweight or
      obese, indicating that being overweight or obese could be a potential adverse predisposition
      in the course of a COVID-19 infection. In the light of this (and possible future) pandemic,
      it is important to investigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the health behaviour
      i.e. lifestyle of children (aged between 4 and 18 years) and their families and especially
      the effects on possible weight gain during the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier studies
      demonstrated that in particular children with overweight/obesity gain weight in situations
      when schools close such as during summer holidays and also during (economic) crisis. It is of
      importance to investigate the effects of the Corona-crisis in particular in these children
      with a high health risk.

      This study aims to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and its measures on lifestyle
      in lean children and children with overweight and obesity. It evaluates differences in
      subgroups, e.a. lean/overweight children, socio-economic status, gender and age.

      Study design is a mixed-methods study. Children and/or parents will receive online
      questionnaires regarding lifestyle during governemantal measures due to the Covid-19
      pandemic, such as closure of schools and sportclubs.

      In addition, several children and parents will be interviewed about the changes in lifestyle,
      and their needs for working on lifestyle, during the pandemic, for in-depth qualitative
      information.
    
  