
    
      As a preliminary study, we are interested in conducting a prospective observational study to
      collect baseline data to characterize and collect baseline data on pain associated with
      needle catheterization in the hospital.

      Many factors including size of needle, experience of the individual placing IV, previous
      history of depression may vary the IV placement experience of a patient; however, only some
      of these factors may directly affect the magnitude of pain experienced by a patient.
      Currently, there is limited literature available on what factors affect the pain/satisfaction
      patients experience with IV insertion. Soysal et al. (2005) have previously reported that
      depressed patients reported higher severity of pain during IV catheter placement than
      non-depressed patients in a cross-sectional, observational study (n= 925). The authors have
      also demonstrated that age, sex, site of IV catheter insertion, use of antidepressant drugs,
      and whether the individual placing the IV catheter is a nurse of physician do not affect the
      magnitude of pain. Similarly, Van Loon et al (2018) have demonstrated that insertion of a
      smaller sized peripheral intravenous catheter did not result in lower pain sensation.
      However, Galvin et al. (2014) conducted a randomized clinical trial that demonstrated that
      the site of IV catheter insertion makes a difference in the pain patients feel during IV
      catheter insertion. Furthermore, no study exists that has investigated whether patients
      experience a different magnitude of pain when different levels of physician trainees place
      the IV catheter. Also, no study exists that compares whether peripheral IV cannulation with
      no pain relief method versus intradermal lidocaine 1% injection versus intradermal lidocaine
      2% injection versus Buzzy® device affect the pain/satisfaction that patients experience with
      IV catheter insertion.

      Through the conduction of this study, we hope to further evaluate which factors and
      techniques affect the experience patients have with peripheral IV cannulation; this knowledge
      could help us figure out ways to make IV cannulation as comfortable as possible for patients
      in the future.
    
  