
    
      This study has two objectives. The first is to measure changes in lung ventilation using EIT
      during the performance of an NBL with and without a one-way adapter valve attached to the
      catheter mount. This will be done by randomising half of the patients to having the one-way
      adapter valve attached to the catheter mount. Assignment will be by randomisation.

      The second objective of the study is to locate the placement of catheter tips during the
      performance of NBLs, using electrical impedance tomography.

      Equipment: A sixteen-electrode single frequency electrical impedance tomography device with
      on-line image analysis (CareFusion). One-way adapter valves which attach to the catheter
      mount (CareFusion).

      Study Population: Critically ill adult patients admitted to the intensive care unit at the
      University Hospital of Wales Cardiff in whom NBLs are performed as part of their routine
      care.

      Recruitment: All patients satisfying inclusion and exclusion criteria, admitted to the adult
      ICU at the University Hospital of Wales from the start date of the study will be considered
      eligible for recruitment. Patients identified by the duty consultant will be notified to the
      research team. Patients will be randomly allocated to have NBLs performed with or without the
      one-way valve attached to the catheter mount.

      Since this is an observational pilot study a minimum of fifty patients will be identified.

      Interventions: The second cohort of patients will have NBLs performed with the one-way
      adapter connected to the catheter mount, otherwise there will be no change will be made to
      the normal standard of care.

      Method: Following cleaning of the skin with alcohol wipes sixteen ECG electrodes will be
      placed equidistantly from one another midway between sternum and umbilicus. A reference
      electrode will be placed on the right hand side of the chest. NBLs will be undertaken
      according to routine standards of care. In brief, this involves pre-oxygenating the patient,
      and inserting a suction catheter attached to a 20ml saline filled syringe through the
      catheter mount (25 patients) or adapter with one-way valve connected to the catheter mount
      (25 patients) until resistance is met. The saline is instilled and then slowly withdrawn to
      obtain a sample. Since saline is conductive, instillation results in a change in local
      impedance which is detected by the array of electrodes. The image obtained will identify into
      which region of the lung the catheter is placed. Any changes in the gas content of lung (due
      to loss of PEEP) will be manifest as changes in lung impedance and reflects a change in
      regional ventilation. NBLs are undertaken when clinically indicated and patients may have
      more than one recoding undertaken up to a maximum of three times.

      Collection of other data: Baseline demographics of patients will be recorded, including age,
      sex, APACHE II score, co-morbidities, diagnosis, days from hospital admission. Ventilator
      settings - mode, inspired oxygen fraction, tidal and minute ventilation, compliance, PEEP and
      mean airway pressure will be recorded.
    
  