
    
      The Project entitled "Community-Based Intervention to Reduce Neonatal Mortality in
      Bangladesh", also known as Projahnmo - I (Project to Advance the Health of Newborns and
      Mothers), is a partnership project of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health
      (JHSPH), USA, with a number of Bangladeshi organizations including: a) the Ministry of Health
      and Family Welfare (MOHFW) of the Government of Bangladesh (GoB), b) the Centre for Health
      and Population Research (ICDDRB), c) Save the Children/USA, Bangladesh Field Office (SC/BFO),
      d) Shimantik, a Bangladeshi NGO, e) BRAC/Bangladesh, f) Dhaka Shishu Hospital and g) the
      Institute of Child and Mother Health (ICMH). The project is funded through four mechanisms:
      1) USAID Global funding to cover expenses of JHSPH to design and to provide technical
      assistance in the implementation and evaluation of the various components of the project, 2)
      SNL/SC funding to JHSPH to sub-contract the Bangladeshi institutions listed above to support
      implementation of the intervention component of the project, 3) USAID/Bangladesh funding to
      ICDDRB to cover the cost of implementation of the research and evaluation component of the
      project, 4) the Bangladeshi government's contribution in-terms of staff time, supplies, and
      facilities. This partnership between multiple research institutions and donors brings
      diverse, rich and unique experiences and expertise. It ensures the relevance of the project
      and increases the likelihood of scaling up and sustaining the intervention.

      The goals of Projahnmo I are to: (a) introduce two models of delivering improved maternal and
      newborn care in rural Bangladesh; (b) measure each model's impact on neonatal mortality and
      other relevant indicators; (c) assess the cost effectiveness and feasibility of the two
      models.

      The project includes two intervention arms with two different service delivery models, home
      care (HC) and clinic care (CC). Community health workers (CHWs) and community mobilizers
      (CMs) deliver the Birth and Newborn Care Preparedness (BNCP) package, which includes
      counseling during the antenatal period, delivery care, care of the baby during delivery,
      postnatal care, and continued counseling and education during the neonatal period. Service
      provision also includes making referral for sick newborns and playing the role of facilitator
      for behavior change in the households and communities. The strategic approaches used also
      include pregnancy surveillance and community-level mobilization of specific target groups,
      such as pregnant women, senior female family members, husbands and other targeted local
      advocacy meetings. In both arms, community-based meetings conducted by CMs focus on
      facilitating involvement of the mothers and other family members in the decision-making
      process and making them aware of the importance of proper antenatal care, delivery care,
      postpartum care, and newborn care. In the HC model, counseling is conducted at home with
      pregnant women and their families by CHWs. In the CC arm, women receive these messages
      through community meetings by CMs and during antenatal check-up (ANC) visits by governmental
      primary health workers and paramedics. In CC arms, CMs identify community change agents to
      assist in creating awareness and promoting behavior change. In addition, traditional birth
      attendants (TBAs), who commonly attend home deliveries in the study communities, have been
      oriented on newborn health.
    
  