
    
      Background/Significance:

      Vocal cord injection augmentation is commonly used to treat glottal insufficiency. Various
      materials are used for injection augmentation including autologous fat, hyaluronic acid,
      collagen, carboxymethylcellulose, and calcium hydroxyapatite. However, all of the current
      injection choices have individual limitations such as temporary effect, unpredictability due
      to variable resorption by the body, unfavorable mechanical properties, and challenging
      handling attributes. Hence, there is a need for a more ideal injection augmentation substance
      that is biocompatible, nonimmunogenic, able to traverse small gauge needles, easy to use, and
      facilitates long term or permanent effect when desired.

      Intervention:

      Unilateral injection augmentation with allograft adipose matrix injectable. Renuva ®, is
      commonly used as in injectable material in plastic surgery for treatment of small cosmetic
      irregularities. The injectable stimulates adipogenesis using key matrix proteins including
      collagen IV, collagen VI, FGF-2, and VEGF. The injectable does not contain any lipids,
      cellular fragments, or DNA content. In vitro and in vivo demonstrate that the injectable can
      stimulate adipose tissue generation. Given this important quality, allograft adipose matrix
      may provide vocal fold bulk for a longer period of time with favorable viscoelastic
      properties which would make it a desirable agent for vocal fold augmentation.

      Objective:

      Assess the safety profile and efficacy of allograft adipose matrix for use in injection
      augmentation Study Design: Single arm prospective clinical trial.

      Methods:

      50 patients with glottal insufficiency will be enrolled to receive vocal fold augmentation
      injection using an Allograft adipose matrix, commercially available as Renuva ® over a 24
      months recruitment period.

      Study endpoints:

      Primary study endpoint will be the completion of 12 months of follow up post injection with
      safety monitoring. Secondary endpoints will include patient reported outcome measures (VHI,
      VFI, DI and EAT-10), blinded Cape-V voice assessment by experts and laryngeal
      videostroboscopy blinded assessment with the mVali tool.

      Plan for analysis:

      The study cohort will be analyzed via descriptive statistics of the primary outcome (safety)
      via incidence of both minor and major adverse events. Non-parametric statistics (Wilcoxon
      signed-rank test) will be used for comparisons of patient reported outcome measures and
      blinded evaluations of voice and videostroboscopy endpoints from post-intervention time
      points to pre-intervention baseline.
    
  