
    
      Further description of extension phase:

      Patients will first be evaluated for inclusion in the extension phase of the study at either
      the follow-up visit following three month withdrawal from Gleevec treatment or at the visit
      after the follow-up visit. Patients can undergo evaluation for inclusion in the extension
      phase up to six months following their completion of the initial one year trial. All patients
      evaluated for inclusion in the extension phase will sign a new informed consent form
      detailing the purpose and procedures associated with the extension phase at the initial
      visit. After the initial visit, patients who meet inclusion criteria will be required to
      undergo evaluation every three months for the 27 months following initiation of treatment, or
      more frequently if deemed clinically necessary. Treatment will consist of Gleevec, at doses
      ranging from 100 to 400 mg daily (100 mg pills will be distributed for oral administration).
      At each study visit, a history and physical exam will be performed and urine and blood tests
      will be conducted for disease activity and organ function. Additional blood for research may
      also be collected at study visits. The Modified Rodnan Skin Score will be measured to assess
      the degree of skin involvement associated with the patient's disease. Patients will also
      continue to complete questionnaires about their ability to function and quality of life.

      Patients will be financially responsible for all professional and clinical services, as well
      as all laboratory and diagnostic tests, associated with the extension phase of the study. All
      co-pays, deductibles and co-insurances will be paid by the participants. Any additional costs
      for parking and travel the patients incur as a result of participating in the extension phase
      will not be reimbursed by the study. Novartis Pharmaceuticals will donate drug supply.
    
  