
    
      Consumption of carbohydrate-rich foods or sugary drinks affects blood glucose levels. Results
      from a large number of studies in humans have shown that diets rich in foods that give lower
      glucose response beneficially affect elevated fasting blood glucose and insulin levels,
      increase the sensitivity to insulin, contribute to the reduction of body weight and lipids
      levels and ultimately bring lower risk of type 2 diabetes.

      Blood glucose responses depend on the amount and type of carbohydrate(s) present in the meal.
      Difference in post-prandial blood glucose response to different types of carbohydrates is
      mainly due to the different rate of their digestion. However, response to the same
      carbohydrate-rich food can be different between different individuals. Blood glucose levels
      after carbohydrate-rich meal are shown to be significantly higher in subjects on high-fat
      diet, in overweight or obese people, or in subjects with different levels of digestive
      enzymes.

      Results from in vitro studies indicate the potential of polyphenols, naturally found in
      fruits, vegetables and grains, to attenuate post-prandial blood glucose spikes following a
      carbohydrate-rich meal. It was previously shown that different polyphenols can slow down
      carbohydrate digestion through partial inhibition of the main enzymes involved, can decrease
      glucose and fructose transport from the gut after digestion and can improve the action of
      insulin after glucose reaches the bloodstream.

      In the previous study it was shown that pomegranate juice attenuates the increase in blood
      glucose levels after a starchy meal. This effect is, at least partly, the result of hindered
      starch digestion by polyphenols present in pomegranate juice.

      The present study will determine whether polyphenols, as normally and naturally present in
      food extracts and beverages, added to a carbohydrate-rich meal, can lower blood glucose
      levels after its consumption, and hence lower its glycaemic index, and if this effect is
      mediated through effects on insulin and other hormones or determined by the individual levels
      of digestive enzymes.

      Healthy volunteers will be asked to consume two different meals: (1) white bread with
      pomegranate juice enriched with extracts from grape seeds and apple peels or (2) white bread
      with placebo drink with the same type and amount of carbohydrates and similar flavor as
      enriched pomegranate juice, but without polyphenols.

      The levels of glucose, insulin, gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon like
      peptide-1 (GLP-1) will be measured in plasma isolated from blood samples obtained before and
      up to 3 hours after the consumption of each meal. The levels of triglycerides and relevant
      organic and fatty acids will also be determined.

      Before recruitment volunteers will be screened for eligibility based on glucose levels, BMI
      and glycemic response to white bread. Additional measurements taken at the screening will
      include blood pressure values and blood lipids levels. All participants will be characterized
      for the activity of salivary a-amylase and copies of a-amylase gene (AMY1).
    
  