
    
      Detail study Introduction Laparostomy is a surgical procedure in which abdominal cavity is
      opened and left opened deliberately called open abdomen, an open abdomen is based on the
      principle of incision and drainage of an abscess and leaving the wound open for free
      drainage, washouts and multiple dressings1.

      Usually abdomen is closed primarily in all abdominal surgeries but some time it is difficult
      to close the abdomen primarily to avoid intraabdominal hypertension because the risk of
      abdominal compartment syndrome and to manage severe intraabdominal sepsis2. Trauma required
      damage control surgery 3, and other complex abdominal pathologies, injuries due to explosive
      devices4, laparostomy and finally staged abdominal closure or DTS deep tension sutures are
      used to close the abdomen5. Multiple techniques are used to close the abdomen temporarily
      after laparotomy to have a second relook laparotomy6. Laparostomy is a complex procedure and
      it is difficult to identify which is the best technique for temporary abdominal closure,
      primary fascial closure, mesh, plastic sheet, bagota bag, urine bag, vacuum assisted closure
      are commonly used methods to cover the abdominal content to prevent the risk of injury
      evisceration and direct exposure to the atmosphere7.

      Our objective is to identify the indications and outcome of laparostomy in emergency
      laparotomy and prevent the abdominal compartment syndrome, in critically ill patients due to
      fecal peritonitis, intraabdominal sepsis and trauma.

      Patients and methods Retrospective Proforma based study conducted from 1st May 2014-31st May
      2018 at Dow International Hospital Ojha Campus Dow University of Health Sciences Karachi
      Pakistan.

      Inclusion Criteria: all critically ill patients admitted through emergency, diagnosed with
      peritonitis, intraabdominal sepsis and trauma managed with damaged control surgery initially
      along with laparostomy in which the abdomen was left open with temporary abdominal cover to
      have a relook laparotomy were included in the study Exclusion Criteria: Patients diagnosed
      clinically with peritonitis and trauma but managed by primary abdominal wall closure were
      excluded from the study.

      Initially all Patients were optimized and resuscitated and all necessary investigations were
      send in emergency eg blood grouping and cross matching, blood complete picture, serum
      electrolyte ,blood urea & creatinine screening for hepatitis. Antibiotic cover, fluid and
      electrolyte support was given to all patients. FFP arranged according to the requirement.
      Imaging performed where necessary in stable patients.

      On laparotomy primary cause was identified and managed with damaged control surgery along
      with abdominal washout and abdomen was covered with a urine bag open from the center to make
      a sheet then sutured all around with the skin or external oblique aponeurosis. All patients
      were managed in the ICU initially for a second relook laparotomy.

      Second relook laparotomy was performed after 24-48 hours abdomen was washed with normal
      saline haemostasis secured and any missed primary pathology was identified and controlled.
      Abdomen was closed in few patient where no need to recheck the abdomen, while in remaining
      patients abdominal content were covered again with urine bag who require multiple washouts
      and dressing. All patients managed by the team of ICU, anesthesia, surgeon, and physician
      from critical care medicine. Morbidity and mortality happen recorded during the period of
      hospital stay Patient discharged after complete recovery with the final closure of abdominal
      wall either with deep tension suture DTS figure 4 or direct layered closure of abdominal
      wall. Data was collected and recorded on a pre designed research Proforma made for this
      study. SPSS version 20 was used to analyze the data.
    
  