
    
      This is a multicenter randomized phase III trial. The purpose is to evaluate and compare the
      pathological complete response (pCR) rates after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with tailored
      chemotherapeutic regimens or standard chemotherapy for stage II/III breast cancer with tumor
      size more than 2 cm.

      For primary operable breast cancer, neoadjuvant chemotherapy is one of standard options.
      Pathological complete response (pCR) was associated with significantly improved long-term
      disease free and overall survival. Anthracycline/taxane-based chemotherapy regimens have been
      studied extensively in prospective trials and are the most frequently prescribed treatments
      in patients with breast cancer as neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Regimens that have been tested in
      large multicenter phase III trials and yielded pCR rates of at around 15% and up to 20% after
      6 cycles of chemotherapy. Recent evidences have showed that the expression of several
      proteins in the tumor samples such as tau, topoisomerase II alpha (topo II), and ERCC1 can
      predict the tumor response to taxanes, anthracyclines, and platinums, respectively. We
      hypothesized that select chemotherapeutic agent according the expressions of drug sensitivity
      predictive biomarkers from patient's tumor sample may improve the efficacy of breast cancer
      treatment.

      In this randomized phase III trial, TE (Docetaxel/ epirubicin) will be given in control arm
      since it is a highly active regimen for breast cancer. In the Tailored chemotherapy arm, 7
      different combination chemotherapy regimens that containing 2 drugs among taxotere,
      epirubicin, cisplatin, vinorelbine, and 5FU, will be given according to the expressions of
      tumor biomarkers. The doses and schedules of those regimens are selected according published
      1st line protocols for breast cancer. The primary endpoint is the pCR rate. After 4 cycles of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy, under the assumption of pCR rate of 15% in TE arm, to achieve 80%
      power at the 5% level (one side) of significance for the detection of a 15% increase of pCR
      rate in tailored regimen arm, 134 patients in either arm should be included in the study. If
      a 10% drop-out rate and multi-center study variation effect are considered, totally 316
      patients will be required.
    
  