
    
      Since the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak, computed tomography (CT) imaging has almost immediately
      established itself as the primary non-invasive diagnostic tool for diagnosis, monitoring of
      COVID-19 pneumonia, and complications thereof.

      While most of the currently available literature relies on non-contrast CT, the need to
      assess vascular abnormalities is being recognized as an increasingly important factor, both
      to help distinguish COVID-19 pneumonia from other viral infections, and to exclude pulmonary
      embolism (PE). Acute PE is believed to be a significant contributory factor in patients with
      adverse outcomes.

      Relating to vascular changes other than PE, additional knowledge is required and not yet
      available to confirm and better understand early observations. In particular, a radiological
      sign referred to as "vascular thickening", "vascular enlargement", or "vascular congestion"
      that is thought to be a specific marker of COVID-19 pneumonia, calls for a thorough
      assessment. Quantitative analysis of this sign and correlation to clinical presentation is
      highly desirable.

      The investigators will conduct a multicentric observational study in the form of a registry.
      For this purpose, each participating center needs to screen hundreds of COVID-19 patients to
      select those who meet the inclusion criteria and do not have any exclusion criteria. Then,
      clinical, laboratory and imaging data of eligible patients will be retrieved. The research
      will focus on the imaging manifestations of COVID-19 pneumonia and their relationship to
      vascular abnormalities within the lung; the potential association between such vascular
      abnormalities and COVID-19 clinical severity will be assessed.

      To achieve adequate statistical power, the study needs to be multicentric, involving 7 Swiss
      institutions; CHUV Lausanne, USZ Zurich, USB Basel, Inselspital Bern, Division Stadt- und
      Landspitäler Inselgruppe, HUG Genève, HRC Rennaz. The following investigators are involved in
      this extensive nationwide effort:

        -  CHUV: Dr DC Rotzinger; Prof SD Qanadli; Prof PY Bochud; Prof L Alberio; Dr JL Pagani

        -  USZ: Prof H Alkadhi

        -  USB: Prof J Bremerich; Dr A Sauter

        -  Inselspital: Prof T Heverhagen; Prof L Ebner

        -  Division Stadt- und Landspitäler Inselgruppe: Prof A Christe

        -  HUG: Prof A Poletti

        -  HRC: Prof O Ratib

      Intrahospital medical records, laboratory tests results, and data from chest CT performed in
      the participating centers between March 1st and July 31st, 2020 will be used to:

        -  assess the frequency of non-PE related vascular abnormalities on chest CT (vascular
           thickening), and their association with parenchymal opacities

        -  evaluate the rate of acute PE among the patients undergoing contrast-enhanced chest CT

        -  quantify the clot burden in terms of proximal or distal obstruction and quantitative CT
           obstruction index (CTOI) in patients with CT-proven PE

        -  evaluate the consequence of PE on pulmonary perfusion (distinguishing perfused vs.
           non-perfused pulmonary opacities) and cardiac morphology (right ventricle dilatation,
           reduced left atrial size)

        -  evaluate the correlation between pulmonary perfusion impairment and clinical severity

      Using clinical, laboratory and CT imaging-derived variables, the investigators will perform
      outcome modelling to derive an integrative score to predict outcomes.
    
  