
    
      Objectives

      Mesolimbic dopamine (DA) release is a key signal for drug reward, and endogenous opioids are
      thought to exert their effects in part by modulating the activity of this system. A
      functional µ-opioid receptor (OPRM1) A118G single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) has been
      associated with increased risk for heroin addiction in some studies. This polymorphism has
      been shown to confer differential pain sensitivity and to alter the release of DA following
      an alcohol challenge. The objective of this study is to examine the role of the A118G OPRM1
      polymorphism for responses to a challenge of an opiate (morphine) with regard to
      psycho-physiological variables measured in the laboratory and for brain dopamine release
      measured by [11C]raclopride PET.

      Study Population

      Healthy male participants who have had experience with oral prescription analgesics (e.g.,
      Oxycontin, Vicodin, Percocet, oxycodone) will be recruited for the study. These volunteers
      will be screened to obtain samples of two groups of subjects: 1) persons homozygous for the
      major 118A allele (118AA genotype); 2) persons carrying one or two copies of the variant 118G
      allele (118AG or 118GG genotype, hereafter called 118GX). We will recruit up to 120
      participants to obtain 40 completers per genotype for the study.

      Design

      We will compare the response of these groups to a challenge with morphine given
      intravenously. Participants will receive a standardized IV challenge of morphine (10.0 mg/70
      kg over 1 minute; morphine concentration 2 mg/ml). Pre and post injection measures will be
      made in two areas: 1) subjective response as measured by standardized questionnaires, and 2)
      measures of physiological response, including pupil response to light, respiratory rate,
      oxygen saturation and a pain rating from putting a hand in cold water and blood chemistries.
      In addition, during this visit, participants will wear the AutoSense mobile physiological
      monitor; parameters measured by AutoSense include respiration rate, heart rate, heart-rate
      variability, skin conductance, and activity level. The injection will be repeated in all
      participants in the PET scanner, once with morphine and once with normal saline. Dopamine
      release will be assessed by determining the difference between the binding potential for
      [11C]raclopride, a positron emitter labeled ligand which binds preferentially to D2 receptors
      during saline administration and its binding potential during morphine administration.

      Outcome measures

      We hypothesize that 118GX subjects will have significantly different subjective response to
      the challenge than 118AA subjects as observed in participants receiving alcohol in a similar
      study (Ramchandani et al. 2011). However, the genotype effect on the response may be opposite
      from the effect of genotype on the alcohol response. We also hypothesize that the PET studies
      with [11C]raclopride will show that 118GX subjects have less dopamine release during morphine
      administration than 118 AA subjects.
    
  