
    
      Background:

        1. Burden: Pneumonia is the leading cause of childhood mortality which accounts for 16% of
           all under-5 deaths in Bangladesh and globally. Most of these deaths happen in the
           developing countries, where WHO recommends adopting Integrated Management of Childhood
           Illness (IMCI) as a strategy for outpatient management of common childhood illnesses,
           including pneumonia, in these poor resource settings.

        2. Knowledge gap: As per the IMCI guidelines, 'Pneumonia' can be treated through home-based
           management with oral antibiotics, whereas 'Severe Pneumonia' should be referred to
           high-level facilities for inpatient care. Previously, chest indrawing was considered as
           one of the signs of 'Severe Pneumonia.' In 2014, WHO revised the IMCI guidelines
           recommending chest indrawing as a sign of 'Pneumonia' instead of 'Severe Pneumonia.' A
           systematic review of the home-based management of chest indrawing 'Pneumonia' reported a
           treatment failure rate of 8.5% on day 6. This implies that some of the chest indrawing
           'Pneumonia' cases will require special inpatient care in addition to oral antibiotics
           and home-based management as currently recommended by WHO.

        3. Relevance: Hypoxemia (SpO2<90%) is one of the strongest predictors of mortality due to
           pneumonia. Many of the chest indrawing 'Pneumonia' cases may have hypoxemia and need
           specialized inpatient care. In response to this, WHO recommended measuring SpO2 level
           with pulse oximetry (PO) as a part of IMCI services. As per the updated IMCI guidelines,
           any sick child (2-59 months) having SpO2 <90% should be referred for inpatient
           management, irrespective of its clinical classification. However, most of the primary
           care facilities are devoid of PO; and there is a paucity of evidence related to the
           feasibility and effectiveness of introducing of PO in primary care facilities.

      Objectives:

        -  Phase-1: To assess the feasibility, acceptability and operational challenges of
           introducing PO in IMCI services at first-level primary care health facilities in
           Bangladesh

        -  Phase-2: To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of introducing PO in IMCI
           services at first level primary care health facilities in Bangladesh

      Methods:

      This study will employ a cluster randomized controlled trial design to evaluate the
      effectiveness of introducing PO in IMCI services (phase-2 objective). The feasibility
      assessment (phase-1 objective) will be nested within the larger effectiveness trail as an
      internal piloting; which will help in generating evidence for designing a robust phase-2
      trial. First-level primary healthcare facilities providing IMCI services will be regarded as
      clusters and the unit of randomization. Twenty-four first level primary care health
      facilities will be randomly assigned to comparison and intervention facilities.

      In phase-1, the feasibility, acceptability and operational challenges of introducing PO in
      IMCI services will be assessed in the intervention facilities. Structured observation of the
      use of PO in IMCI services and community case tracking will be conducted to address the
      phase-1 objective. Rigorous process documentation and qualitative method of data collection
      will be employed to document the process of implementation and assess implementation
      outcomes.

      In phase-2, effectiveness will be assessed through community case tracking in both comparison
      and intervention facilities. Treatment failure rate will be the primary outcome and the
      analysis will consider 'intention to treat' approach. In addition, activity-based costing
      method will be adopted for collecting cost-related data.

      Outcome measures/variables:

      This study will assess the effectiveness of integrating PO in IMCI services in first-level
      health facilities in Bangladesh. PO will be able to identify children who are classified as
      'Pneumonia' based on history and clinical signs but have hypoxaemia. It will facilitate
      referral of children with hypoxaemia to higher level facilities.
    
  