
    
      Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will view the website, take part in a one-on-one
      interview or a small group discussion (a focus group), and one or more questionnaires. You
      may come to M. D. Anderson to take part in this study, which may take place during your
      routine doctor visit, if this is possible. If you are enrolled in a registry outside of M. D.
      Anderson, or if you do not wish to come to M. D. Anderson, you will access the website over
      the internet.

      You will be asked to fill out a brief knowledge and quality of life questionnaire that will
      take 10-15 minutes to complete. For the website, you will be asked to view (all or parts) of
      an early version. The website is designed to offer information and support for adolescents
      and young adults with FAP. Viewing the website will take about 30-60 minutes, depending on
      what stage of development the website is in at the time.

      For the one-on-one interview or focus group (after viewing the website), you will speak with
      a research assistant. You will be asked for your permission to record this interview or focus
      group on an audiotape so that study staff can collect all of your responses. During this
      interview or focus group, you will be asked about different aspects of the website, including
      if you like it, if the information is useful to you, and if the website is easy to understand
      and use. You will also be asked about ways that you think the website can be improved or
      changed to better serve adolescents and young adults patients with FAP. This interview or
      focus group will take about 15-30 minutes to complete.

      For the questionnaire, some participants (those who view later versions of the website) will
      also be asked to complete the Website Analysis and Measurement Inventory (WAMMI). The WAMMI
      is a questionnaire that will measure if the website is appealing and easy to use for
      adolescents and young adults patients with FAP. Examples of questions on the WAMMI will be
      about whether you can quickly find what you want on the website and whether everything on
      this website easy to understand. You will be able to answer the questions on a 5-point scale
      from "Strongly Agree" to "Strongly Disagree." The questionnaire will take about 5-10 minutes
      to complete.

      After you have finished viewing the website and completed the interview (and/or
      questionnaire), you will be given the option to speak with a genetic counselor if you have
      any questions about FAP.

      Length of Study:

      Your total time on this study will range from about 45 minutes to 2 hours. Your participation
      will be over in this study once you have finished viewing the website and completed the
      interview and/or questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 55 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  