
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study will compare the unconditioned and conditioned effects of placebo capsules in the
      treatment of patients with borderline hypertension (BH). The use of placebos is routine in
      trials of antihypertensive medication, but the placebo is nearly always given before the
      active drug, and most studies have relied on traditional clinic measurement of blood pressure
      (BP). However, ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) is the gold standard for evaluating the
      effectiveness of any antihypertensive treatment, and placebo effects on ABP have mostly been
      negligible. However, there is also evidence that when a placebo is given after the active
      drug, there may be a more profound effect. A long series of both animal and human studies by
      the co-principal investigator (Dr. Ader) have shown that such learned or classically
      conditioned placebo effects may have genuinely therapeutic effects. One such study, which
      will provide the basis for the current study, found that placebo given after the active drug
      lowered home BP, but ABP was not evaluated. The current study will extend the previous one,
      and will be performed in Community Health Centers, in a culturally diverse, economically
      disadvantaged population. 120 patients with untreated BH will have their BPs monitored by
      clinic, home, and ABP recording. After a 4-week run-in period of telephone-linked home
      monitoring (continued throughout the study) they will be randomized to 3 groups: no drug,
      active drug (a beta blocker-diuretic combination), or matching placebo. This will enable
      evaluation of the unconditioned placebo effect. For the next 4 weeks all 3 groups will
      receive active drug. ABPM and clinic BP will be measured at the end of each period. For the
      final period patients in each group will be randomized to no drug or placebo. ABPM and clinic
      BP will be measured after 2 weeks, but home BP will continue until BP returns to 140/90 mmHg.
      It is hypothesized that the conditioned placebo effect will result in a delayed return of BP
      to pretreatment levels, and the inclusion of the No Drug group will distinguish this from the
      effects of drug washout. To promote and assess compliance with the medications, electronic
      containers (MEMscaps) will be used. The demonstration of a conditioned placebo effect that
      produces a sustained reduction of BP could result in more economical treatment with fewer
      side effects.
    
  