
    
      The number of elderly patients (>80 years) is increasing and a large proportion of these
      patients will require surgery and anesthesia within the next decades. Elderly patients are at
      higher risk of major morbidity and mortality and are characterized by a reduction in cardiac
      output, liver function and renal function. These physiological changes influence
      pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of drugs administered during anesthesia as for example
      neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA).

      During anesthesia NMBAs are used to facilitate tracheal intubation, establish muscle
      relaxation and suppress reflexes during surgery. Elderly patients are more sensitive towards
      muscle relaxants. In addition studies have reported prolonged duration of NMBAs and an
      observational study found that elderly patients are more prone to experience residual
      neuromuscular blockade in the post anesthesia care unit. However, most studies have been
      conducted in elderly below 80 years.

      It is unknown if there are differences in onset times of NMBAs e.g. rocuronium, mivacurium
      and cisatracurium between younger patients and elderly. Onset time for NMBAs in the elderly
      is of importance since it may influence intubating conditions, especially during rapid
      sequence induction. For example it is unknown in the elderly if an increased dose of NMBA
      reduces the onset time. There remains a need for studies investigating the optimal dose for
      facilitating intubation in the elderly, both during rapid sequence induction and during
      elective procedures.

      The aim of this study is to determine the onset time, duration of action and effect on
      intubating conditions for rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg in patients aged 18-40 years and in patients
      with age > 80 years. The hypothesis of this study is that rocuronium administered in elderly
      patients (>80 years) has a longer onset in the elderly compared to younger patients.
    
  