
    
      The Northwestern University Two-Generation Study (NU2Gen) of Parent and Child Human Capital
      Advancement is funded through Community Action Project of Tulsa County's (CAP Tulsa) Health
      Profession Opportunity Grant (HPOG II) from the Administration for Children and Families and
      through the HPOG II University Partnership grant. The federal awards support the
      implementation of CareerAdvance®, a workforce training and career employment program for
      parents living in Tulsa, Oklahoma and the surrounding communities, as well as our
      Northwestern-based research project.

      CareerAdvance® provides education and training, career coaching, and other supportive
      services for parents while their children attend CAP Tulsa-run Head Start programs, other
      Tulsa-area public preschool programs, and Tulsa-area K-12 public schools. The explicit goal
      of the program is to promote the economic self-sufficiency and well-being of low-income
      families across generations.

      The evaluation is composed of two parts: the Two-Generation Human Capital Outcomes Study and
      the Two-Generation Explanatory Mechanisms Study. Through parent surveys and parent and child
      administrative data we will examine the effects of CareerAdvance® on parent and child human
      capital outcomes (e.g., child academic achievement, parent educational advancement and
      certification, and psychological and family functioning). Using innovative measurement tools
      (e.g. Language Environment Analysis (LENA)) along with parent and child focus groups and
      interviews, we will also explore mechanisms that might give rise to program effects (e.g.,
      home language environment; coping, balance, and stress; and academic and career identities).
      Participants will actively take part in the study for three years and we will collect child
      administrative data for study parents' children until they turn 18 years old or graduate high
      school, whichever occurs last. Current funding for NU2Gen is through September 2020.
    
  