
    
      Empirically supported behavioral treatments cannot be effectively disseminated without
      understanding key quality components. Mechanism-informed quality measures have extraordinary
      potential to enhance pragmatism by eliminating unnecessary elements and targeting multiple
      problems and populations, and to enhance predictive value by detecting mechanism engagement
      early in treatment. Community Mental Health Agencies (CMHAs), however, are often ill-equipped
      to use such measures of treatment quality due to burden and limited resources. Exposure
      therapy for anxiety is an ideal prototype for testing a practical, mechanism-informed quality
      measure in CMHAs given its potential for public health impact and clear theory of mechanism.
      The Exposure Guide (EG), a brief quality tool measuring therapist behaviors and mechanism,
      was developed based on microanalytic coded data showing a strong link between therapist
      behavior and patient outcome across three RCTs of exposure therapy in youth. Initial
      psychometrics for the EG using these RCT data are promising showing reliability, construct
      validity, and predictive validity, and pilot data suggests it may be acceptable and feasible
      in a community setting. Building upon these findings, we propose to test this novel measure
      of exposure quality, EG, in a community setting including its reliability and validity, its
      pragmatism, and which community end-users can become reliable and valid reporters. Therapists
      at a large local CMHA (N = 40) treating anxious youth and young adults ages 5-25 (N = 300)
      will participate in this study. The EG will be completed by 1) agency supervisors monthly, 2)
      therapists per session, 3) patient/families per session, and 4) study raters per session.
      Results from this study will establish an innovative model for measuring therapeutic elements
      that trigger mechanism of change in real-world therapy as well as inform future use of EG as
      a training tool to improve exposure quality in community settings.
    
  