
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Numerous epidemiological studies have shown that the risk of coronary heart disease is
      strongly influenced by plasma lipid levels, especially HDL and LDL cholesterol, and their
      specific apolipoprotein constituents. Genetic studies have established significant
      heritability of these lipid components, and have also identified relatively rare major genes
      that result in extreme lipid values and increased risk of coronary heart disease. Geneticists
      have identified a number of segregating polymorphisms at the four major apolipoprotein
      genomic regions, using a combination of protein and DNA assays. However, in 1988 when the
      study was initiated, the relationship between these polymorphisms and risk of coronary heart
      disease had not yet been properly defined.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study had a case-control design. Cases were consecutively selected from the pool of
      eligible Latter Day Saints Hospital patients referred for coronary angiogram. Eligibility
      criteria included residing in the Wasatch County or Southern Idaho counties, being healthy at
      the time of angiogram and having greater than 60 percent occlusion. Approximately 80-100
      controls were retrospectively selected from the clinic records of the past four years.
      Fasting lipid profiles were defined for cases and controls in terms of total cholesterol,
      total triglycerides, HDL levels, LDL levels, VLDL levels, density gradient distribution of
      HDL-LDL subfractions, and levels of apo A-1, apo B, and apo E. The distribution of genetic
      polymorphisms at the four major apolipoprotein genomic regions was determined by typing all
      cases and controls for isoforms of apo E and apo AIV and a wide variety of DNA polymorphisms.
      Approximately 800 first degree relatives of cases and controls were also typed for DNA
      polymorphisms. Data were collected on risk factors including smoking, alcohol use, obesity,
      physical activity, and diet. Clinical data included medical and family history of
      cardiovascular disease and medication status. Multivariate statistical analysis was used to
      define the relative risk of coronary disease associated with segregating polymorphisms, and
      DNA haplotypes at these loci in conjunction with lipid profiles and risk factors. Analyses
      were also conducted on the extent to which the genetic segregation at these apolipoprotein
      genomic regions influenced the distribution of lipid profiles and whether the distribution of
      risk factors was influenced by the interaction of environmental risk factors such as smoking
      and genotypes at these regions.
    
  