
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), the repetitive collapse of the upper airway during sleep,
      represents a growing individual and public health concern. This disease negatively impacts
      patients' sleep quality and daytime function, including an increased risk of motor vehicle
      accidents. Several large, longitudinal cohorts have consistently demonstrated deleterious
      effects of OSA on cardiovascular health, including elevated rates of incident hypertension,
      myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents. The link between OSA and cardiovascular
      consequences can be largely explained by autonomic imbalance during repeated episodes of
      nocturnal airway obstruction. Compared to those without OSA, people with OSA have increased
      sympathetic activity when awake, with further elevation of both sympathetic activity and
      blood pressure during sleep. Multiple physiologic mechanisms are responsible for these
      autonomic changes during obstructive episodes including the interaction of baroreceptors,
      chemoreceptors and respiratory afferent receptors.

      Positive airway pressure (PAP) serves as a pneumatic stent for the airway, maintaining airway
      patency and normoxia. PAP therapy has demonstrated consistent, meaningful reductions in
      sympathetic overactivity during wake and sleep. Although PAP therapy is highly efficacious,
      fewer than 50% of patients are adequately treated due to adherence difficulty. In 2014, the
      Federal Drug Administration approved hypoglossal nerve stimulation (HGNS) for the treatment
      of patients with moderate-severe OSA who are unable to adequately use PAP. This therapy has
      demonstrated stable, marked improvement in key polysomnography indices, sleepiness measures
      and functional outcomes, however, no study has examined cardiovascular endpoints of HGNS
      therapy in OSA patients.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of HGNS therapy on autonomic and vascular
      function before, during and after treatment for OSA with HGNS. People who have undergone
      implantation of the hypoglossal nerve stimulator at the study site will be told about the
      study at their 2-week post-operative appointment. Those who decide to participate in the
      study will have blood drawn and vascular function measurements taken before the HGNS device
      is activated, during treatment, and after a temporary treatment withdrawal period. The
      researchers hypothesize that all aforementioned measurements will be significantly improved
      following HGNS therapy and return to baseline values following a therapy withdrawal period.
    
  