
    
      Background Low back pain is a usual conditions in the western countries and in Norway 40% of
      the population report decreased function because of back pain. The disease has great economic
      consequences, which in 2004 came to 15 billions to disability pension and 1,46 billions to
      physical treatments.

      Severe incidence of back pain, like tumours, infections, fractures and pareses are rare and
      represent less than 1 % of all cases. The main part is within the category of "non-specific
      low back pain", which is defined as back pain without specific pathology as known cause.

      Based on scientific documentation the back-specialists consider non-specific low back pain as
      a benign and self-limited condition, while patients expect to get treatment because they
      experience the condition as painful and disabling.

      There are several treatments available for patients with "non-specific low back pain".
      According to the European guidelines exercise and cognitive intervention has good effects on
      pain and function (www.backpaineurope.org), but it is not documented effect on return to
      work. In addition it is not documented that treatments which focus on a single treatment
      neither is effective regarding return to work for sick-listed patients.

      It is a usual myth that physical hard work cause back pain. However, only few studies have
      demonstrated correlations between hard work and sick-leave. On the contrary several studies
      have demonstrated that back pain is a multifactorial problem, which is not only due to
      workers' characteristics, but is also closely related to environmental factors, such as the
      workplace, the healthcare system, the compensation system and the interaction between all
      stakeholders in the disability problem.

      The challenges for health personnel is not cure of the patients back pain, but to build up
      rehabilitation programs which focus on disability and work incapacity in patients which are
      at risk of loosing their work.

      Dr. P. Loisel, Montreal, Canada", has since 1995 treated patients with back pain according to
      the "The PREVICAP model - (PREVention of work handICAP)". The main purpose with work-related
      program is to prevent prolonged disability and to help patients back to work. This approach
      includes two steps: first identification of factors on the workplace which contribute to the
      absence of work and second "workplace intervention". Identification of factors at workplace
      includes physical, ergonomic, psychosocial, interpersonal conflicts and administrative
      problems. "Workplace intervention" is a rehabilitation program centred at the workplace,
      allowing a graded transition from the clinical setting to the workplace. Parallel with the
      workplace intervention the patients enter an exercise-program, adjusted to the workplace
      intervention.

      The PREVICAP models have been evaluated in randomized controlled trials and has accelerated
      return to work by a factor 2.4 (p=0.01). The most important effect came from the workplace
      intervention, which alone accelerated the return to work with a factor 1.9 (p=0.01). Patients
      randomized to the PREVICAP model had 60 days absence from work, compared to 120 days in the
      control group.

      The PREVICAP model have been evaluated in Amsterdam, by Dr. Anema and he demonstrated a
      significant difference in the return to work rate between patients randomized to "Workplace
      intervention" and patients randomized to usual treatment.

      At the Back Clinic, Ullevål University Hospital we have evaluated several exercise-programs
      with good effect on pain and function, but not on the return to work rate. This raises an
      important question: will the return to work rate increase by including workplace intervention
      to the exercise program and it is possible to implement the PREVICAP model in Norway with the
      same good results, despite differences between Canada, The Netherlands and Norway with regard
      to culture, soc-economic conditions, working conditions and compensatory systems.

      We are planning to do a randomized controlled trial after the PREVICAP model, where patients
      sick-listed for back pain will be randomized to either a workplace intervention plus an
      exercise-program or to an exercise-program alone.

      Purpose

      The purpose of the project is to answer the following questions:

        1. Will more patients return to work and will they do it faster, when they will be included
           in a work-related rehabilitations program than patients randomized to usual care by the
           general practitioner, at the follow-up 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 and 2 years.

        2. Was there significant difference in pain and function between the two groups at the
           follow-up?

        3. Which factors predict the return to work; medical, socioeconomic or factors at the
           workplace?

        4. At the 2 years follow-up- Had the patients had episodes with back pain and in case, how
           many, of which duration and were they sick-listed for it or did they stay at work?

        5. Is there a favorable cost benefit with the program?

      The study is a prospective single-blind randomized study. The patients will be randomized by
      block-randomisation. The randomization will be carried out at a separate locations concealed
      from the clinical investigators.

      Inclusions criteria: Patients with non-specific low back pain sick listed from 6-8 weeks and
      who are permanently employed. Non-specific low back pain is defined as a back pain not
      attributable to a recognizable, known specific pathology.

      Exclusions criteria: Patients with infection, tumors, osteoporosis, fracture, structural
      deformity, inflammatory disorder, radicular syndrome or cauda equina syndrome, spinal
      stenosis or spondylolysis/ listesis, serious somatic disease and/or psychic disease and
      patients with a poor proficiency in Norwegian.

      All patients will have a clinical examination of a specialist and a an exercise program. The
      patients will be randomized to workplace intervention or a control group. Patients randomized
      to the workplace intervention will be referred to an occupational ergonomist for work site
      evaluation and return to work program, which include ergonomic conditions and relations to
      the employer and colleagues. The occupational task of the ergonomists is to organize contacts
      and meetings between the employer and the patients and make a schedule for return to work.
      Patients randomized to the control group will go back to their general practitioner for
      planning return to work.

      Sample size:all together 260 patients in the study.

      Ethics The study will follow the ethic directions in the Helsinki Declaration and will not be
      initiated before approval from the National Committee for Research Ethics in Norway. In
      addition we will also ask for permission to collect and register the data from the Data
      Inspectorate in Norway. Only patients giving informed consent will be included and they will
      be informed that they can withdraw from the study at any time and that this will have no
      otherwise consequences for their treatment.

      Registrations of drop-outs The moment time and the cause of drop-outs will be registered. We
      will attempt to obtain a clinical examination from drop-outs at the 1-year follow-up.

      Data analyses and statistic analyses All data will be anonymous coded and registered
      electronic i SPSS. They will be unidentified in analyses and presentations.

      Parametric analyses will be applied on data, which are normally distributed or else,
      non-parametric statistic will be used. Survival analyses will be used for investigating
      difference in reduction sickness leave between the two treatment groups. Multivariate
      analyses will be used for identifying differences in pain, function and fear of avoidance
      between the two groups. In addition to analysing the data from the patients who completed the
      trial, the data from dropouts will be analysed according to the intention-to-treat principle.

      Preconditions at the Back Clinic for conduction of the study The Back Clinic, Ullevål
      University Hospital has collaboration with the Compensation system in Oslo, NAV (Norges
      Arbeids-og Velferdsetat). The surplus from the Back Clinic will be used to employ an
      occupational ergonomist. The physiotherapists are employees at the Back Clinic and they have
      tried out the exercise program. Principal investigator (Anne Keller) is applying for grants
      for a post doc fellowship.

      The Back clinic has a test laboratory with a bicycle for testing submaximal oxygen uptake and
      inclinometer for measuring range of motion of flexion of the back. We have collaboration with
      Department of neuroradiology for MRI investigations.
    
  