
    
      3-Day Study (outpatient)

      Healthy normal volunteers will participate in a 3-day outpatient study that will begin
      between days 1-7 of their menstrual cycle (i.e. early follicular phase). A negative urinary
      hCG will be obtained in these women prior to their starting the 3-day study. On the first
      day, subjects will have 4 baseline blood samples of 5mL each drawn at 20-minute intervals
      over an hour (Time = 0, +20, +40, +60). These will be pooled and will represent the
      pretreatment determination of gonadotropins and sex steroid levels. Thereafter, the
      individual vaginal rings to be tested will be inserted. Over the ensuing 3 days, subjects
      will have 3 blood draws per day (at approximately 8-9 AM, 12-1PM, and 4-5PM).

      Serum levels of LH, FSH, E2, and P will be determined at the above time points for the next 3
      days. A repeat CBC and LFT's will be done with the final blood draw. The only exceptions to
      this protocol will be those patients with the Sex Steroid Only rings in whom 75 ug/kg of a
      GnRH antagonist (Acyline IND# 58,448) will be administered subcutaneously every other day and
      upon subsequent onset of menses, subjects will return during day 3-6 for repeat LFT's and
      gonadotropins. This will ensure the return of normal liver function and hormonal levels.

      A visual vaginal examination and colposcopy will be done at baseline and at the time of the
      removal of the ring. If lesions or abrasions are found at study termination, subjects will be
      followed until the lesions resolve. For the initial 3-day studies, daily visual inspection of
      the vaginal tissues will be conducted and findings recorded in a standardized manner.

      The schedule of more intensive early sampling is selected to be certain that no rapid release
      of medication occurs from the rings during the earliest phase following their insertion. This
      will also document that we have, in fact, achieved a steady state of release of the ring's
      content in the circulation prior to expanding the duration of these studies to 14 days in the
      second portion of part A.

      14 Day Study (14-Day Outpatient + 36-hour Inpatient)

      Healthy normal volunteers will participate in a 14-day study that will begin between days 1-7
      of their menstrual cycle (i.e. early follicular phase). A negative urinary hCG will be
      obtained in these women prior to their starting the 14-day study. On the first day, subjects
      will have 4 baseline blood samples of 5mL each drawn at 20-minute intervals over an hour
      (Time = 0, +20, +40, +60). These will be pooled and will represent the pretreatment
      determination of gonadotropins and sex steroid levels.

      The individual vaginal rings to be tested will then be inserted. Subjects will return each
      day for the next 13 days between 8am and 12pm to the General Clinical Research Center to have
      5mL of blood drawn to measure serum levels of LH, FSH, E2, and P. On day 14, the vaginal ring
      will be removed.

      A visual vaginal examination and colposcopy will be done at baseline and at the time of the
      removal of the ring. If lesions or abrasions are found at study termination, subjects will be
      followed until the lesions resolve. For the initial 14-day studies, visual inspection of the
      vaginal tissues will be conducted at least 3 times per week and findings recorded in a
      standardized manner.

      Two days later, subjects will be admitted to the General Clinical Research Center between the
      hours of 8am and 12pm for a 36-hour inpatient stay. Subjects will be given a 240 ug dose of
      the GnRH agonist intravenously and the subject's bloods drawn for GnRHa determinations at 0,
      15, 30, 60, 75, 90, 120min, and then hourly for the remaining 36 hours. A repeat cbc will be
      drawn with the final blood draw.

      These determinations will then be compared to the GnRH agonist determinations from the
      vaginal route of delivery during the previous 14 days and hence the % absorption of the GnRHa
      from the vagina.

      The exceptions to this protocol will be those patients with the Sex Steroid Only rings in
      whom 75 ug/kg of a GnRH antagonist (Acyline IND# 58,448) will be administered subcutaneously
      every other day for the course of the 14 days. These subjects will not undergo the inpatient
      stay after the ring is removed. Repeat LFT's will be drawn with the final blood draw as well.
      Anytime the Acyline injection is given, subjects will be monitored for at least 30 minutes
      after each injection for signs/symptoms of an allergic reaction. Upon subsequent onset of
      menses, subjects will return during days 3-6 for repeat LFT's and gonadotropins. This will
      ensure the return of normal liver function and hormonal levels.
    
  