
    
      This trial will be performed as a multi-center phase I/II trial with MB-CART2019.1 and
      consists of part I. In part I, 12 to 18 patients with relapsed or resistant CD20 and CD19
      positive NHL/CLL/SLL will be treated. Six plus three (6+3) patients in dose level 1 and 2
      will be treated.

      The trial will be conducted in Hematology Departments of Hospitals which meet the structural
      and personnel requirements for performing the planned regular trial-related investigations.
      Only sites will be chosen with expertise in and necessary facilities for managing cytokine
      release storm and other severe adverse events associated with this therapy such as
      neurotoxicity. A corresponding training to site personnel prior to trial start must be
      performed. The responsible intensive care unit (ICU) must be informed about the clinical
      trial before inclusion of the first patient and the respective dosing date in order to make
      sure that the medical staff of the ICU is able to react appropriately without any loss of
      time in case of emergency. The University Hospital of Cologne will provide the Coordinating
      Investigator. Additional clinical sites may be added during the trial.

      Patients will be screened between day -30 and day -15. If the patient satisfies all the
      protocol inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria, he/she will be included in the
      clinical trial. Leukapheresis will be performed at the collection center on day -14 according
      to local standard practice. The leukapheresis product of the patient will be shipped by a
      special courier to the designated manufacturing center assigned by the sponsor. The
      leukapheresis sample will be used for the individual manufacturing of MB-CART2019.1 by using
      the automated CliniMACS Prodigy® System. The manufacturing of MB-CART2019.1 will start on day
      -13 and will be finished on day -1.

      On day 5 of the manufacturing process the IPC (in-process-control) will indicate, if the
      manufacturing process is successful. Therefore, the lymphodepleting chemotherapy must only be
      started after the positive result of the IPC was confirmed by the manufacturer. Chemotherapy
      for lymphodepletion will be done on days -5 to -3.

      Administration of MB-CART2019.1 will be performed on day 0 in the Hematology Departments of
      all sites. Patients will be followed up as inpatients until week 4 with close monitoring of
      their vital functions and lab parameters for signs of adverse events. In the second follow-up
      phase (week 4 until week 12), response will be assessed, and adverse events will be
      documented. A follow-up examination will be performed at week 12 (achievement of primary
      endpoint) and at month 12 which is considered end of trial or end of active part of the
      trial. In the long-term follow-up yearly until 5 years or patient's death, safety and
      response assessment as well as persistence of MBCART2019.1 will be performed. These
      assessments will be analyzed and reported separately and are not part of the entire clinical
      trial. This is a 6+3 trial design with a 0.3 log dose increment (1x106/2.5x106 MBCART2019.1
      per kg BW in a single infusion) and maximum 2 dose levels. If none or one of the six patients
      at dose level 1 experiences a dose limiting toxicity, another six patients will be treated at
      dose level 2. If two DLTs are observed at dose level 1 another three patients will be treated
      with the same dose. If more than two DLTs are observed at dose level 1, trial will continue
      at dose level 0. Dose escalation continues until at least >2 patients among a cohort of six
      to nine patients experience dose-limiting toxicities or dose level 2 is completed. The MTD is
      defined as the dose level below the dose inducing a DLT in more than 2 patients within one
      dose level. DLT will be evaluated within 4 weeks after the infusion of MB-CART2019.1. An
      interval of at least 28 days between the treatment of the first and the second patient in
      each dose level is mandatory. An observation period for DLT of 28 days is considered to be
      safe to exclude potential toxicities prior to inclusion of the next patients into the same
      dose group or prior to dose escalation.
    
  