
    
      The participant will be assigned to either group 1 for MRI-guided cryoablation or group 2 for
      PET/CT guided cryoablation. Each participant's placement will be made by a team of
      radiologists, medical oncologists, surgical oncologists, and radiation oncologists.

      After the eligibility screening

      Group 1:

      The investigators will assess the participant's tumor by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).
      This is a safe and standard exam that will show the physician where the participant's tumor
      is located. MRI scans typically take 60 minutes. The investigator will ask the participant to
      complete a "Quality of Life" questionnaire.

      Following the participant's baseline scan, the physician will schedule the participant's
      procedure in the Advanced Multimodality Image-Guided Operating (AMIGO) suite. The participant
      will be placed under general anesthesia for the procedure. A cryoablation needle will be
      inserted through the skin and into the tumor using MRI guidance. The tip of the cryoablation
      needle forms an iceball which will be used to ablate the tumor cells.

      The physician will be able to see the tumor during the procedure through the MRI scan. The
      procedure will take about 3 hours, and the participant will be spending approximately 2 hours
      in the post-treatment anesthesia care unit. The participant will spend the subsequent night
      in the hospital, and will be discharged the next day.

      The investigators will ask that the participant to return 1 month, 3 months and 6 months post
      procedure. The participant will be asked to complete the Quality of Life questionnaire at the
      1, 3 and 6 month follow up visits.

      Group 2:

      The investigators will assess the participant's tumor by a Positron Emission Tomography (PET)
      scan and Computerized Tomography (CT). These are safe and standard exams that will show the
      physician where the participant's tumor is located. PET/CT scans typically take 60 minutes.
      The investigator will ask the participant to complete a "Quality of Life" questionnaire.

      Following the participant's baseline scan, the physician will schedule the participant's
      procedure in the AMIGO suite. The participant will be placed under general anesthesia for the
      procedure. A cryoablation needle will be inserted through the skin and into the tumor using
      PET/CT guidance. The tip of the cryoablation needle forms an iceball which will be used to
      ablate the tumor cells.

      The physician will be able to see the tumor during the procedure through the PET/CT scan. The
      procedure will take about 3 hours, and the participant will spend approximately 2 hours in
      the post-treatment anesthesia care unit. The participant will spend the subsequent night in
      the hospital, and will be discharged the next day.

      The investigators ask that the participant return 1 month, 3 months and 6 months post
      procedure. The participant will be asked to complete the Quality of Life questionnaire at the
      1, 3 and 6 month follow up visits.
    
  