
    
      Patients at risk for stress hyperglycemia are often prescribed insulin (Intensive insulin
      therapy, IIT and maintenance of blood glucose at a level between 80 and 110 mg per
      deciliter), which are the medication that reduce the level of glucose in the blood. By
      lowering the glucose level, these patients have a lower incidence of arrhythmia, myocardial
      ischemia and reperfusion injury, and heart failure and so on. But there are many patients
      whose hyperglycemia are not well controlled.If investigators are simply doubling the insulin,
      that only 10% of the benefit can be received.And it often bring significant side effects
      (Such as: hypoglycemia, etc.) in critically ill patients. Several studies have suggested that
      the use of berberine can effectively lowering the blood glucose level.The chemical structure
      and mechanisms of drug is clearly, and the side effects are seldom, the price of berberine is
      very cheap. The purpose of this study is to observe the therapeutic effects of combination of
      insulin and berberine on stress hyperglycemia in patients with heart disease whose level of
      blood glucose are not well controlled when only using insulin postoperatively.

      This study will enroll postoperative patients who currently are injected with insulin by
      insulin pump，but the level of blood glucose is not controlled well. Patients will be assigned
      to receive 500mg of Berberine twice a day or a placebo(meanwhile they are receiving intensive
      insulin therapy) in a randomized, double blind, and prospective way. Investigators will occur
      at preoperative baseline, operating time and postoperative days 2, 4 and 8. Blood will be
      collected for laboratory testing, and acute physiology and chronic health evaluationⅡ and
      therapeutic intervention scoring system-28 will assess patient's condition at baseline and
      days 2, 4 and 8. At days 2, 4 and 8, medication efficacy will be also assessed and tests of
      blood glucose will be performed. Insulin count will be used to assess effectiveness of
      Berberine treatment at days 2, 4 and 8. Meanwhile, medication side effects will be monitored
      and the incidence of hypoglycemia or stool frequency are rigorously recorded at days 2, 4 and
      8.
    
  