
    
      The liver has a cardinal role in the haemostatic system. Liver has the major role in
      synthesizing all clotting factors and coagulation inhibitors. Under the physiological
      conditions the balanced levels of procoagulant and anticoagulants determine the risk of
      hemorrhage and thrombosis.

      In chronic liver disease due to chronic hepatitis and underlying cirrhosis, this haemostatic
      imbalance leads to hypercoagulability which favors thrombosis despite the longer coagulation
      times of their plasma, compared with that of healthy individuals. The end stage cirrhosis is
      however predominately associated with bleeding tendency.

      Protein C (PC) and protein S (PS) are vitamin K-dependent glycoproteins, that act as natural
      anticoagulants.

      Antithrombin III (AT III) is a natural anticoagulant that is synthesized exclusively in
      parenchymal cells of the liver The cause of hypercoagulability in chronic liver disease is
      the reduced level of protein C and increased level of factor VIIIa .As a consequence of
      hypercoagulability, the deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, hepatic and portal vein
      thrombosis may occur.

      Varnika et al 2017 found a significantly low protein C value in both chronic hepatitis and
      cirrhosis group when compared with control group.

      Acquired deficiency of АТ III can be caused by decreased synthesis due to damage to hepatic
      cells Patients with CLD were (and are still) subjected to laboratory screening with the
      prothrombin and activated partial thromboplastin times (PT and APTT), and those with abnormal
      values were (are) treated with plasma or procoagulant agents to correct the abnormalities and
      to prevent haemorrhage during invasive procedures or to stop bleeding from the
      gastrointestinal tract. Saja et al., and Saray et al 2009 found significantly low protein C
      value in both chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis group when compared with control group. This
      was a sign of reduced hepatocyte synthetic capacity in chronic hepatitis. Zocco et al 2009
      showed that in CLD reduction in plasma levels of PC correlate with a higher Model For
      End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score. These findings, including the present one, confirm that
      levels of PC are sensitive markers .

      Determination of the levels of AT III and aminotransferase activity in patients with liver
      disease may be used for differential diagnoses and the monitoring of disease progression.

      Little attention had been paid to the fact that, similar to procoagulant factors, their
      anticoagulant counterparts (namely protein C [PC] and antithrombin) are also reduced to the
      same extent in this setting.
    
  