
    
      Amifostine is designed to protect the cells in normal tissues against the toxicities of
      chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study.

      Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine blood tests. Your complete medical
      history will be recorded. You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital
      signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate), weight, and height. You
      will have a dental exam. You will complete a questionnaire that asks questions about dry
      mouth. In addition, you will be asked questions about your diet and eating habits. This
      should take no longer than 10 minutes. Also, saliva will be collected by a simple, in-office
      oral test that measures saliva flow rate over a 5 minute period. Women who are able to have
      children must have a negative blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive IMRT Monday
      -Friday over a 6-7 week period. In addition, 2-3 hours before IMRT, you will also take
      pre-medications by mouth to prevent potential nausea and skin reactions (anti-nausea &
      antihistamine), including drinking water.You will receive daily IMRT therapy, excluding
      weekends and holidays. The radiation dose is designed to conform to the 3-dimensional shape
      of the tumor by controlling the intensity of the radiation beam to focus a higher radiation
      dose on the tumor (and not the surrounding normal tissue). Thirty (30) to 60 minutes before
      every IMRT treatment, you will receive study drug in two injections beneath the skin. IMRT
      will take about 30 minutes to complete.

      Every day that you are receiving IMRT (Monday-Friday), you will be asked about any drugs you
      are taking and any side effects you are experiencing. Your vital signs will be recorded.

      Every week (Weeks 2-7), you will have a complete oral and physical exam. You will complete
      the questionnaire that asks questions about dry mouth. You will be asked questions about your
      ability to perform daily activities (performance status evaluation). Your weight will also be
      measured. You will be asked to complete the symptom survey (the M.D. Anderson Symptom
      Inventory) that will ask you to rate your symptoms and how much the symptoms interfere in
      your daily activities.

      On the last day you receive IMRT or amifostine (whichever is last), you will have a complete
      oral exam and you will complete the questionnaire about dry mouth.

      Six (6) weeks after the end of therapy, you will have an end-of-therapy visit. At this visit,
      you will have a complete physical and oral exam with a saliva collection. You will complete
      the questionnaire about dry mouth. Your weight will be measured, and you will have a
      performance status evaluation. Blood (about (2) tablespoons) will be drawn for routine blood
      tests. You will be asked about any drugs you are taking and any side effects you are
      experiencing. In addition, you will be asked questions about your diet and eating habits.

      You will be asked to complete the symptom survey (the M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory) that
      will ask you to rate your symptoms and how much the symptoms interfere in your daily
      activities every week for 2 months after the end of radiation therapy. After this point, you
      will be asked to complete the symptom survey every month for 1 year.

      You will have follow-up visits 4, 7, 10, and 12 months after the end of therapy. At these
      visits, you will have a complete oral exam and saliva collection. You will complete the dry
      mouth questionnaire. Your weight will be measured, and you will have a performance status
      evaluation and you will be asked questions about your diet and eating habits.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Amifostine is FDA approved and commercially available.
      Amifostine is FDA approved to be given through a needle in your vein but not FDA approved to
      be given through a needle under the skin.

      Up to 20 patients will take part in this study. All patients will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  