
    
      Parents serve as co-regulators for their young children, helping them regulate behaviors,
      emotions, and physiology and supporting the development of healthy brain circuitry.
      Neglecting parents often fail to serve as co-regulators, which has implications for young
      children's self-regulatory capabilities and brain development. As children become older,
      these difficulties with self-regulation may become more pronounced. Adolescence represents a
      period of particular vulnerability for the emergence of mental health problems because of
      increasing demands for regulation of emotions and behaviors, coupled with on-going
      development of neural circuits that support emotional and behavioral regulation. The
      Attachment and Biobehavioral Catch-up (ABC) intervention was designed to help parents learn
      to interact in responsive and sensitive ways, with the expectation that children would show
      enhanced ability to regulate behavior, emotions, and physiology. The efficacy of the ABC
      intervention among parents involved with Child Protective Services (CPS) was assessed.
      Parents were randomized to ABC or to a control intervention. Children were followed at T1
      (ages 1-4) and T2 (ages 8-10). At T1, more of the children in the ABC group developed secure
      and organized attachments than children in the DEF group, and children in ABC showed more
      normative production of cortisol, less expression of negative emotions, and poorer inhibitory
      control than children in DEF. ABC parents were more sensitive and showed more optimal neural
      activity than DEF parents. At T2, ABC children showed greater prefrontal cortex activation in
      response to threat than DEF children, suggesting better regulation to threat at the level of
      brain activation. Also at T2, children in the ABC group reported more secure relationships
      with parents, and showed more normative cortisol production and more optimal autonomic
      nervous system functioning than DEF children. In adolescence, the ABC intervention is
      expected to result in enhanced brain circuitry and more optimal functioning across domains as
      assessed at multiple levels of analysis relative to the control intervention. In the proposed
      study, behavioral and neurobiological development among 13-, 14- and 15-year-old adolescents
      whose parents were referred by CPS to a randomized controlled trial in infancy (n=120), and
      among low-risk adolescents followed since middle childhood (n=80) will be assessed.
    
  