
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if CES is a reasonable first line alternative to
      the current standard of care (SOC) which relies on the use of trazodone for patients with
      subacute stroke. This objective will be answered by addressing the following:

      • Specific Aim 1: To determine if stroke patients with insomnia who receive CES treatment
      sleep more hours than stroke patients treated with sham CES.

      Hypothesis: Stroke patients with insomnia who are treated with CES will accumulate more
      sleeping hours than patients who are treated with sham CES.

      • Specific Aim 2: To determine if stroke patients with insomnia who receive CES treatment
      have better sleep efficiency than stroke patients treated with sham CES.

      Hypothesis: Stroke patients with insomnia who are treated with CES will demonstrate
      significantly better sleep efficiency than stroke patients treated with shame CES.

      The study will take place at Zale Lipshy Hospital in Dallas, Texas. The study will enroll 85
      stroke patients who score 7 or higher on the Insomnia Severity Scale. Patients will be
      randomized to a control group or CES treatment group. Patients will receive CES or sham CES
      for 7 days after a 24-hour washout period. Objective and subjective sleep assessments will be
      conducted daily during the 7-day study period. Endpoints will be total time spent sleeping,
      sleep efficiency and daytime drowsiness.

      The known risks of CES are minimal and mild in nature. They include potential for headache,
      irritation at the site of electrode placement and dizziness. These adverse reactions are rare
      and in most cases there are no immediate or delayed side effects.

      This randomized controlled trial is designed to meet two study objectives related to quality
      of sleep and daytime drowsiness.

      Demographic data will be collected from the hospital record and will include age, gender,
      type of stroke, self-reported history of insomnia or other sleep disorder, prior use of sleep
      medications, in-hospital use of sleep medications, co-morbid medical conditions.

      Patients admitted to inpatient rehabilitation (IPR) who consent to the study will undergo an
      overnight washout period before initiation of CES or sham treatment. This allows for any
      sleep medication they might have received while in acute care to be metabolized and leave
      their system. On their admission day, day 0 (d0) patients will be asked if they want to
      participate in our study. If they choose to participate and meet medical inclusion criteria,
      they will be tested with ISI. Patients who meet the full criteria will not receive sleep
      medication or CES on their first night.

      The study will begin on day 1 (d1) with the patient receiving 20 minutes of CES/sCES in the
      morning. This time will be distraction free without the entrance of laboratory technicians,
      nurses, housekeeping or other staff members. When this period is complete, they will
      participate in usual care. At midday they will be asked to complete the Karolinska Sleepiness
      Scale (KSS). The patient will wear the actigraph throughout the study. This procedure will be
      repeated for 7 treatment days. All procedures will be carried out by research team members or
      a trained nurse.

      The intensity of the CES will begin on setting 2, standard setting recommended by the device
      manufacturer, and the patient will have the option to increase the intensity to setting 3 on
      the second treatment day if they feel they did not receive any benefit from the device.

      If the patient does not feel they are getting adequate sleep the patient may choose to opt
      out of CES/sCES treatment and receive the standard of care medication for the remainder of
      the study. Patients who choose the SOC rescue will continue to be monitored with the
      actigraph. A patient may choose to leave the study at any time.

      Information on side effects for the CES treatment will be collected during the 7 days of the
      study.

      Methods of assigning patients to treatment groups and blinding Patients will be randomized to
      the active or sham treatment group using an online randomizer, Research randomizer
      (www.randomizer.org). A list of random numbers will be generated prior to the study. Patients
      will be assigned a random number in the order that the generator produces. All even patients
      will be assigned to the control group; odd numbered patients will be assigned to the
      treatment group.

      Procedural responsibilities and oversight Nursing staff will be educated how to administer
      the CES and asked to help distribute and collect the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale
      questionnaire. Photos of proper placement and instructions will be posted in subjects' rooms
      for reference. Researchers affiliated with this project will apply and remove the actigraph
      watches and be responsible for data acquisition, cleaning and charging of the devices.
      Researchers affiliated with the study will be responsible for ensuring CES is delivered to
      the appropriate patients on the days required per protocol.

      Verbal recruitment process will be used for the study. The attending and resident physicians
      will be educated about the study and asked to identity patients who may be appropriate. A
      member of the research team will explain the risks, benefits and rationale for the study to
      patients who meet inclusion criteria. Patients will be enrolled when they arrive on the
      rehabilitation floor if they choose to participate. Consent will be attained via a written
      document in the subject's primary language (English or Spanish).

      The research team will protect subjects' privacy by conducting all study related verbal
      interactions with the subject in a closed room, such as the patient's room. For
      confidentiality, each subject screened will be assigned a unique identification number (ID#).
      Subjects will only be identified by the unique ID # in the data. No demographic data or
      personal information will be used to identify subjects. This unique ID# will be linked to
      subject name and will be kept in a locked file cabinet, accessible only to the research team.
      Only the research team will have access to the data. All data for presentations and
      publications will be reported as mean ± standard error of means. Investigators will educate
      faculty and residents on each floor about the study to maintain privacy and compliance.

      Sample size was calculated based on several studies that measured the number of hours that
      subacute rehabilitation patients sleep in an inpatient hospital setting. Alpha levels for
      error probability were set at .05 for a two-tailed test with 80% power to detect a difference
      between means of control group compared to CES treatment group.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to determine differences between CES and sCES treatment
      groups. A T-test will be used to determine if sleep time means differ between groups (p≤
      .05). A chi square analysis will be used to compare data collected from the Karolinska
      Sleepiness Scale. A non-parametric test will be used if data is not able to demonstrate
      normal distribution.
    
  