
    
      After informed consent has been signed, subjects will undergo standard of care vaccination
      with 0.5 mL of Td (tetanus and diphtheria toxoids adsorbed) intramuscularly into the deltoid
      muscle to ensure adequate immunity to the tetanus antigen.

      Eligible subjects will undergo a 1-2 hour leukapheresis (to pull off white blood cells) for
      immune monitoring. Within 48 hours of leukapheresis, subjects will receive vaccine site
      pre-conditioning as a single dose of Td toxoid (in a total volume of 0.4 mLs salt
      water/saline) given in the intradermal space (just under the surface of the skin) to the
      right groin area. The pre-conditioning will be administered one day prior to receiving
      PEPIDH1M vaccine. The peptide vaccine is administered in the upper thigh area approximately 4
      inches below the groin in the intradermal space as vaccine # 1. Subsequent vaccines will be
      given on day 15 ±3 days (vaccine #2) and day 29 ±3 days (vaccine #3). Each injection of the
      peptide vaccine will be given half on the right groin and half on the left groin. The first 3
      peptide vaccine injections will occur without temozolomide (standard of care chemotherapy).

      Seven to twelve days after the 3rd vaccine, subjects will have standard of care surgery to
      remove the tumor. Tumor samples will be evaluated for the IDH1 markers and analyzed for other
      cells that may have entered the tumor.

      Based on the the tissue obtained at surgery, subjects with stable histologic grade at
      recurrence will then be treated with vaccine and temozolomide. During monthly cycles of
      temozolomide, subjects will receive the vaccine on day 22 (+ 2 days) for a maximum of 15
      total vaccines (which includes the first 3 bi-weekly vaccines). Patients that have
      transitioned to a higher grade brain tumor at the time of surgery will receive temozolomide
      and radiation therapy per standard of care and monthly vaccines (vaccines #4-6). After
      completion of radiation therapy, subjects in this treatment group will receive vaccines
      monthly on day 22 (+2 days) with post-RT cycles of TMZ to a maximum of 15 vaccines.

      All Adverse Events will be collected from time of consent until off study. The treatment
      phase of the study will end 1 month after the last vaccine. Patients will be followed only
      for overall survival, progression-free survival, and subsequent therapies thereafter.

      Subjects will have blood collected for immune monitoring and biomarker testing during the
      following times: prior to initiating vaccine therapy (at the leukapheresis visit), prior to
      surgery to remove the tumor, at the clinic visit prior to starting first cycle of
      temozolomide after surgery (or radiation therapy and temozolomide for those who transition to
      higher grade), at vaccine #6, and at end of vaccine treatment (1 month after vaccine #15 or
      time the subject comes off study, whichever comes first).

      Subjects will be imaged with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) according to
      standard of care every 10 weeks (+/- 4 weeks) while on temozolomide and afterward, per the
      treating neuro-oncologist's recommendation. Revised Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO)
      criteria will be used for assessment of pseudoprogression and tumor progression. Subjects
      demonstrating definitive progression will be removed from study.

      As part of standard care for these subjects, upon tumor progression, participants may undergo
      biopsy or resection. As this is not a research procedure, consent will be obtained
      separately. Subjects that have this procedure done within the Duke University Health System
      will be asked to have a portion of the tumor sample, if possible, to assess immunologic cell
      infiltration, antigen expression, and biomarkers for immunologic response.

      Please note, data collection will continue to occur outside of the defined primary and
      secondary outcomes for exploratory objectives.

      The specific exploratory objective involves describing the progression free survival (PFS)
      and overall survival (OS). The endpoint is the proportion of patients alive without disease
      progression 6 months after initial vaccine treatment, and both the median PFS, and the median
      OS.

      The objective will be reviewed at 3 years after the last subject came off study.
    
  