
    
      This is a group-randomized intervention trial to reduce sexual risk-taking behaviors among
      young people attending alternative schools with a slight modification in the typical,
      group-randomized study design.

      We will conduct the study in two waves. For Wave One, we will randomize 10 alternative
      schools (5 to intervention and 5 to comparison conditions), and then recruit and enroll a
      cohort of 500, 9th-grade students into the study (cohort 1). For Wave Two, we will cross-over
      the treatment conditions among the schools and enroll a new cohort of 9th-grade students into
      the study. Prior to the intervention, we will conduct a baseline measurement and conduct a
      post-intervention measurement at 6-, 12- and 24-months. The major hypothesis to be tested is
      that adolescents attending alternative schools who receive a multi-component HIV/STD
      intervention will reduce levels of unprotected sexual intercourse relative to those in the
      comparison condition. The major dependent variables are unprotected sexual intercourse,
      number of sexual partners, and proportion currently sexually active (last 3 months).

      The specific aims of this project are to:

        1. Adapt a tested, school-based, multi-component HIV prevention intervention for high-risk
           adolescents attending alternative schools using qualitative data from the target
           population and community representatives.

        2. Assess the community acceptance, cultural sensitivity, and relevance of the proposed
           program for the target population.

        3. Evaluate the effect of the multi-component HIV intervention on sexual risk-taking
           behaviors (unprotected sexual intercourse, number of sexual partners, deciding not to
           have sexual intercourse) among high-risk youth attending alternative schools.

        4. Evaluate the effect of the multi-component HIV intervention on decreasing other
           risk-taking behaviors such as substance use and needle sharing behavior among youth
           attending alternative schools.

        5. Evaluate the effect of the multi-component HIV intervention on student impact variables
           such as knowledge, self efficacy, attitudes, barriers, and perceived norms among youth
           attending alternative schools.

        6. Disseminate findings to the scientific community, school districts, and community
           agencies.

      We will conduct this study among 9th- grade students attending alternative schools in Houston
      Independent School District (HISD) and other community alternative schools. HISD Central
      Administration and Community Education Partners, the major HISD contractor, for alternative
      schools have agreed to participate in the study. We have identified ten alternative schools
      that have agreed to participate in the study. Students who are enrolled in alternative
      schools are fairly heterogeneous in terms of the rationale for being in these types of
      programs. Students may be in these programs for a variety of reasons including, low school
      performance, high absenteeism, truancy, behavior problems, social problems, pregnancy, or
      being in the juvenile justice system. However, all of the students enrolled in the identified
      schools are considered high-risk adolescents. We have identified 10 schools that have agreed
      to participate in the study with a total number of students enrolled in 9th grade at over
      1000 students per year providing a more than adequate target population for recruitment. Of
      these students, 36% are African-American and 60% are Hispanic. Approximately 43% of the
      population are female.

      Parental and student consent will be secured prior to administration of the risk assessment.
      Procedures will be used to achieve high rates of parental consent including sending
      information home about the project with particular emphasis on the confidential nature of the
      risk assessment.

      Risk assessment data will be collected by using a talking, interactive computer for the
      collection of baseline, 6-month, 12-month, and 24-month post-intervention followup.

      Baseline data collection will be conducted in the schools. The data collection staff will
      give a brief overview of how to use the computer and will help them to enter basic
      demographic information to acquaint them with the procedures. The computer will be equipped
      with headphones to maintain privacy, and the respondent can ask questions to our data
      collection staff, if needed. Post-intervention risk assessments will be conducted in the
      schools as youth are still enrolled in the alternative school program. We expect that the
      majority of students will still be enrolled in the alternative school at the 6-month
      followup, but that the 12-month and 24-month follow up will have to be conducted in various
      locations. We will track students enrolled in the study and conduct their follow up
      assessments in school, home, or in a location that is mutually agreed upon.

      Curriculum Component We will adapt an existing curriculum, Safer Choices, to high-risk
      alternative school youth by obtaining feedback from the target population, conducting focus
      groups with parents and youths, and by obtaining feedback from community agencies through the
      Community Advisory Board. Although, Safer Choices was found to be effective in reducing
      unprotected sexual intercourse among inner-city high school students in Houston, the
      curriculum may need to be adapted to the experiences of these alternative school youth.

      The target population has much higher prevalence of risk behaviors at younger ages than
      adolescents in regular schools.Further, these youth are at much greater risk of abusing
      drugs, being involved with legal authorities, being from single family households, having
      lower social support, having academic difficulties and learning disabilities, having suicide
      ideation and depression, and living in poorer communities. In adapting the program,
      therefore, we face the challenge of making the program fit the setting and students in
      alternative schools.

      The curriculum will be designed to change students' knowledge, perceptions of norms, beliefs,
      self-efficacy, interpersonal skills (i.e., refusal skills), and high-risk behaviors related
      to HIV. The curriculum will include use of peer facilitators for selected lessons such as
      role playing. Intervention strategies will include demonstrations of skills by role playing,
      use of role model stories, and other experiential learning techniques. The Safer Choices
      curriculum will be modified to combine the 9th and 10th grade lessons to select those lessons
      which best match with the learning objectives for high-risk youth. The curriculum will be
      delivered during the school days by facilitators (project staff) who will receive intensive
      training prior to implementation and coaching and support during implementation. The Teacher
      Training Protocol used for Safer Choices will be adapted to train facilitators.
    
  