
    
      The NRP is becoming more and more a self learning program followed by a written test and
      practical hands-on evaluation; but the way the practical skills are taught and practiced has
      not been uniformly determined.

      The current strategies for teaching involve resuscitation instructors. There are several
      difficulties in the developing world to achieve the objective of having a provider trained in
      neonatal resuscitation in every delivery. Part of this problem is due to the lack of
      instructors and-or budget constraint in addition to logistic difficulties.

      Our Hypothesis is that a well developed self administered video complemented by a self
      practice using a mannequin will allow providers to reach at least similar performances on the
      initial steps and mask ventilation for neonatal resuscitation.

      Objectives:

      The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that a self administrated video jointly with
      a mannequin give similar results than the current Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP), a
      pre-validated Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE)hands-on course provided by a
      certified instructor.

      Specific aim:

      To compare the effectiveness of two different teaching strategies on the quality of the
      ventilation of a mannequin, using a mask by NAÏVE providers. In two different moments,
      approximately 15 minutes after having taken the course and at a mean of 3 months afterwards.

      Two different groups of novice providers will be randomly selected to receive one of the
      following teaching strategies:

      A. A Video based Self instruction with simultaneous video triggered practice with a mannequin
      without instructor feedback (Spanish in South America, English in North America) on initial
      steps and adequate mask ventilation for neonatal resuscitation.

      B. A pre standardized hands on lesson will be offered by a NRP certified instructor followed
      by a debriefing session per a pre-validated OSCE protocol (current standard).

      Afterwards, all the subjects will be invited to ventilate a mannequin with a standardized
      instruction (tbd for example…2 minutes ventilation, rate 40 to 60 and the necessary pressure
      to slightly reach chest rising). This performance will be digitally recorded.

      Two independent certified instructors will evaluate the performance, blinded to the assigned
      group. A previously validated OSCE (objective structured clinical evaluation) performance
      evaluation grid will be used. The gold standard will consist on a high quality performance
      done by an NRP instructor.
    
  