
    
      Plaque index (PI), gingival index (GI), presence of bleeding on probing (BOP), pocket depth
      (PD) and clinical attachment level (CAL) were used during the clinical periodontal assessment
      at 6 sites per tooth except third molar. All periodontal assessments were conducted with a
      manuel probe* by an experienced calibrated periodontist (AD). Calibration exercises were
      performed in 5 non-study periodontitis patients for probing depths (PD) and attachment loss
      (AL). The reproducibility of the parameters was verified via the kappa coefficient, which was
      0.90 for PD and 0.88 for AL. After clinical evaluation, individuals were divided into 6
      groups according to the 2017 World Workshop on the Classification of Periodontal and
      Peri-implant Diseases and Conditions (Chapple and Papapanou).

        1. Healthy control groups:

           Consisted of individuals with clinically healthy gingiva on an intact periodontium who
           had a BOP score less than 10% and PD≤3mm, showed no attachment loss or radiographic bone
           loss.

        2. Gingivitis groups:

           Consisted of individuals with a BOP score of 10% or greater and PD≤3mm with no
           attachment or radiographic bone loss.

        3. Stage III -Grade C periodontitis groups:

      Consisted of individuals with interdental AL ≥5 mm, radiographic bone lose extending to
      middle or apical third of the root, PD≥6 mm and tooth loss due to periodontitis of ≤4. Rapid
      bone loss is observed compared to biofilm and % Root Bone Loss/age >1.0 is determined as
      grade C.

      AL caused by root caries in the cervical region of the tooth, gingival recession caused by
      traumatic reasons, distal region of the second molar tooth due to extraction of the third
      molar, lesion in the marginal periodontium of endodontic origin, vertical root fracture were
      excluded from the study because they were not periodontal origin.

      GCF samples were collected in the morning hours 24-48 hours after clinical periodontal
      measurement. GCF was obtained using strips of filter paper† from the buccal part of an
      interproximal region in each quadrant. In the Periodontitis group, GCF was obtained from the
      regions where the most radiographic bone loss and SCD were observed. In these areas, if any,
      the plaque was slightly removed with sterile tools, and the area was isolated with cotton
      rolls. After drying the teeth with air, paper strips were placed in the gingival sulcus so
      that they remained there for 30 seconds. Strips contaminated with blood or saliva were
      removed from the study. The volume of absorbed GCF was determined by a calibrated electronic
      device (Periotron 8010, oraflow). The strips were then immediately transferred to sterile
      polypropylene tubes and frozen at -40°C for storage until analysis was carried out.The data
      obtained in this study will be analyzed using the SPSS 17 package program. Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      and Shapiro Wilk's tests will be used to investigate the states of variables coming from the
      normal distribution. 0.05 will be used as the level of significance when interpreting the
      results; if p<0.05, it will be stated that the variables do not adapt to the normal
      distribution, and if p>0.05, the variables adapt to the normal distribution. If the variables
      do not adapt to the normal distribution, nonparametric Kruskal Wallis-H tests will be used
      when examining the differences between the groups.
    
  