
    
      Chronic pain is a highly prevalent and costly condition in the US. An estimated 88.5 million
      adults suffer from daily pain, resulting in estimated cost of $500- 635 biJlion due to lost
      productivity, and $261-300 billion in health care expenditures. To manage their chronic pain,
      5 to 8 million Americans take an opioid medication daily. Yet , the risks associated with
      ongoing opioid prescription , including overdose, abuse and diversion, temper their analgesic
      effects.

      Opioids are not more effective in the treatment of chronic pain compared with non-opioid
      approaches. Current guidelines have adapted to the evidence, recommending opioid-sparing
      approaches for treating patients with chronic pain, and tapering for those on higher doses to
      safer levels of use. Tapering opioids, however, requires replacing them with effective
      non-opioid strategies. Improving mobility has been shown to improve pain and decrease
      medication use among patients chronically prescribed opiates. Concurrently, financial
      incentives and the use of behavioral incentives have been shown to promote mobility.

      Appreciating the gains in health outcomes that can be made with "connected health"
      approaches, we propose a novel pilot study designed to evaluate if technology enabled care
      (TEC) strategies and financial incentives can improve patient mobility in our chronic pain
      population, reduce pain and decrease opioid use . Our primary aim is to determine if chronic
      pain patients who receive TEC-enhanced treatment with financial incentives demonstrate
      increased participation in activities that promote mobility (physical therapy, yoga, tai chi)
      in comparison to patients receiving usual care. Secondary outcomes will include whether
      increased activity participation also reduces pain severity and opioid use, and improves
      function and increases the number of daily steps taken. The results of this pilot will enable
      us to determine what strategies are effective at increasing mobility and if these gains
      translate into reduced pain and decreased opioid use.
    
  