
    
      This is a randomized, controlled clinical trial comparing subthreshold micropulse laser
      versus sham laser treatment for eyes with diabetic macular edema with good visual acuity of
      20/32 or better.

      Subjects will be randomized to receive either subthreshold micropulse laser treatment or no
      treatment (sham). Randomization will occur as a ratio of 2:1 and will take place during the
      clinic visit.

      Subjects selected for the study will undergo a complete ophthalmic examination, including
      measurements of best corrected visual acuity, low luminance visual acuity, contrast
      sensitivity (using ETDRS testing with a masked coordinator), intraocular pressure, slit lamp
      exam including documentation of lens status, and dilated funduscopic exam with standard
      dilating agents used at the UC Davis Eye Center. Subjects will then undergo baseline imaging
      including Spectral Domain Ocular Coherence Tomography (SD-OCT), fundus autofluorescence (FAF)
      and microperimetry testing. Both the use of OCT, FAF, and microperimetry testing are within
      the standard of care for the management of DME.

      The duration of an individual subject's participation in the study will be two years which
      will include at least 10 total visits at various time points including on the day of
      enrollment, followed by 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12, 15, 18, 21, 24 months after the day of
      enrollment.

      The subjects in the treatment arm will be treated on the day of randomization by SML
      photocoagulation using the Iridex IQ577 laser unit with TxCell scanning laser delivery
      system.

      Subjects in the sham treatment arm will undergo the same set up procedures as those receiving
      the laser treatment, however, no actual laser treatment will occur.

      Subjects will then return to the clinic for repeat ophthalmic exam, OCT imaging, and
      microperimetry at 1 month, 3 month, 6 month, 9 month, 12 month, 15 month, 18 month, 21 month
      and 24 month time points, which is similar in frequency as standard of care.

      Patients in the treatment arm are eligible for repeat SML laser at any subsequent visit if
      there is any decline in vision (1 or more ETDRS lines) or worsening in edema (>10% increase),
      at the discretion of the treating physician. If vision declines to 20/40 or worse at any
      study visit, patients in the treatment arm will undergo repeat treatment with SML laser,
      while those in the sham arm will undergo repeat sham laser.
    
  