
    
      The immense disease burden of major depressive disorder (MDD) and unsatisfactory response
      rates to pharmacological and psychological interventions highlight the need for further
      development of treatment alternatives. The development of these alternatives relies on an
      understanding of the pathophysiology of depression, which has, despite considerable efforts,
      remained largely elusive. Findings have converged on the proposition that depression cannot
      be attributed to a singular factor and is better understood as a dysfunctional interaction of
      multiple parameters. At the neural level, depression is described as a dysfunction of several
      cortical and sub-cortical networks associated with affective salience, cognitive control and
      self-reverential thoughts. Encouragingly, several studies have shown that pathological
      alterations in one of these networks, the Default Mode network, may normalize following
      several weeks of treatment using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), an
      accepted treatment for major depression.

      The present study aims to elucidate the time course of this modulatory effect on the
      different networks showing pathological connectivity profiles. Specifically, our aim is to
      obtain several measurements of functional connectivity and concomitant measures of the
      symptoms of depression prior to, throughout, and following the 4 week treatment course of
      iTBS, a faster but equally effective non-invasive brain stimulation technique compared to
      rTMS. Due to the fact that weekly changes in network connectivity are expected to be
      relatively small, the stronger BOLD Signal at 7T and the fact that peak temporal correlation
      coefficients calculated between network nodes have been shown to be significantly higher at
      7T than 3T (e.g.) in the Default Mode network should greatly aid in detecting these
      differences. At each of the 7 measurement time points, fluctuations of BOLD signal will be
      recorded during a rs-fMRI scan lasting about 15 minutes. Our approach will allow to
      characterize the temporal profiles of the antidepressant effects of iTBS, thereby furthering
      our understanding of the mechanism by which iTBS contributes to the normalization of
      pathological neural connectivity and the reduction of depression symptoms. This proposed
      longitudinal functional imaging of therapeutic changes is highly relevant to the field of
      clinical neuroscience and should further advance our understanding of the pathophysiology of
      depression.
    
  