
    
      The aim of this post-marketing observational study in adult patients with moderate to severe
      chronic plaque psoriasis is to obtain further data on patient's Quality of Life and assess
      the impact of Adalimumab treatment on patient's quality of life in conditions of day-to-day
      clinical practice in Greece. This study will further assess the relationship between clinical
      outcomes and patient-reported outcomes. As this is an observational study, Abbott will not
      provide the study drug. Humira will be prescribed according to the routine medical practice.
      The participating physicians are free to determine the appropriate therapy for each patient
      and make treatment choices as deemed clinically necessary.

      The Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) will be used to assess patient quality of life. The
      Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) total scores range from 0 to 30, with 0 corresponding
      to the best quality of life and 30 to the worst. The Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI)
      has well-established reliability and validity as determined in several studies. Moreover, it
      is frequently used in clinical trials of psoriasis.

      The physician's global assessment of disease severity (PGA) will be used to measure patients'
      disease status at the time of assessment. It is a 6-point scale measuring the degree of
      overall psoriatic lesion severity, and scores range from 0 (clear) to 5 (very severe).

      Complementary, European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions health questionnaire (EQ5D) will be used
      as a measure of health outcome. This is applicable to a wide range of health conditions and
      treatments and it provides a simple descriptive profile and a single index value for health
      status. Health economic data will be collected by using European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions
      health questionnaire (EQ5D) questionnaire and data regarding patients hospitalisation due to
      psoriasis. Hospitalisation data will be collected 6 months before the period and throughout
      the observation period.

      Moreover, this study will observe the current medical practice in prescribing Adalimumab in
      Greece and more detailed data on prescription behavior will be collected. Guidelines have
      been developed in order to ensure that the new class of therapy (biologic agents) is
      introduced in a systematic and planned way to achieve the greatest possible benefit to people
      with psoriasis and to facilitate safe and effective prescribing. However, many issues are not
      fully addressed, such as recommendation regarding the amount of time for wash out of previous
      antipsoriatic drugs and combination therapies. Such issues remain at the discretion of the
      healthcare professional. Since this is an observational study the patient will be treated in
      accordance with the physician's usual and customary medical practice. Thus, the following
      information regarding the use of Adalimumab will be collected

        -  the previous systemic treatment history will be recorded including previous biological
           therapies that patient received, if any,

        -  wash out periods prior to initiating Adalimumab therapy, if any

        -  reasons for stopping previous treatment,

        -  combination of Adalimumab with other topical or systemic antipsoriatic agents, if
           applicable

      Furthermore, demographic data of patients suffering from psoriasis in Greece will be
      collected (age, gender, ethnicity) and disease data such as duration of the disease,
      involvement of nails or joints, geographic distribution of the disease in Greece will be
      collected.
    
  