
    
      Background: Musculoskeletal disorders (MSD) are the leading cause of pain and loss of
      function, and are complex complaints of high prevalence, resulting in high costs and the
      psychosocial disadvantages of these patients. The prevalence of work-related physical stress
      in primary school teachers worldwide depending on the region ranges from 32% to 67%.
      Schoolteachers also represent an occupation group among which there appears to be a high
      prevalence of MSD. Many studies have shown that musculoskeletal pain (MSP) impairs quality of
      life (QoL) to a varying extent. For working populations, musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are
      considered as being responsible for a substantial impact on QoL and incurring a major
      economic burden in compensation costs and lost wages. Since being a reason for seeking
      healthcare, MSDs decrease productivity at work, cause absence due to sickness and even to
      early retirement.

      Musculoskeletal pains top the list of the most common work-related ailments in Austria. In
      2018, they were the third-leading cause for taking sick leave. MSD is one of the leading
      causes of ill-health retirement among schoolteachers. Gender, age, length of employment and
      awkward posture are found to be associated with higher MSD prevalence rates among teachers.
      Primary School teachers spend 25% of time in squatting, kneeling, or sitting position on the
      floor. An additional 26% of their time was spent sitting on small, child-sized furniture. 18%
      of teachers' activities were involved in flexing at the trunk greater than 20°. Classroom is
      configured for primary school pupils. The intensity and frequency correlated with ergonomic
      factors in the work environment.

      Beside physical pressures in teachers work, the occupational engagement and individual coping
      capacity are very important. Schaarschmidt and Kieschke found four types of work-related
      coping behaviours. These types include psychological aspects of the health. Particular
      attention is paid to the question of personality factors that facilitate a health-promoting
      approach to the demands of the profession. The picture for teachers is quite problematic. The
      teaching profession appears to be associated with higher health risks than other fields of
      employment. Furthermore, striking gender differences were observed. Female teachers
      apparently suffer from greater stress than their male colleagues. On the other hand, there
      are hardly any school-specific or regional differences. Personality traits that prove
      beneficial for the teaching profession are, in particular, conscientiousness, extraversion
      and psychological stability. Increased neuroticism is a risk factor for experiencing
      professional stress and burnout. A low level of neuroticism is a favorable personal
      disposition in the teaching profession, since everyday teaching is characterized by diverse
      and permanent social interactions. Therefore, teachers should be expressive, enjoy
      communicating, be confident, and assertive in socio-communicative situations. In addition,
      appreciative behavior, friendliness and empathy, team and problem-solving skills are
      advantageous for teachers.

      Schaarschmidt was able to show by coping patterns that in the context of school in Germany
      and Austria there is a critical distribution of these coping patterns regardless of the type
      of school. In all school types, at least 50% of the teachers are in the risk patterns
      (overload, burn-out) and just under 20% are in the healthy pattern, in which there is
      sufficient positive experience of work, commitment and resilience to the challenges of the
      profession. This picture becomes even more problematic when one compares the pattern
      distribution between female and male teachers. A shift to the disadvantage of female teachers
      is evident in all school types.

      Both, musculoskeletal pains and psychological stress, has a great influence on the health and
      quality of life of primary school teachers.

      Aim: The primary aim of this observational study is to enquire the physical and psychological
      conditions in primary school teachers in Upper Austria. The second goal is to evaluate the
      influence of physical activity and personal factors on physical and mental health. The
      personal feedback will evaluate qualitatively in the sense of a holistic view. The authors
      hope that the results will provide new insights into the factors influencing the works of
      primary school teachers.

      Methods: The survey will conduct by an online questionnaire using the "Questback Enterprise
      Feedback Suite" tool. The questionnaire included four sections. After the introduction page,
      followed the physical stress examination with the Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire (NMQ).
      The second part will survey the psychological stress with the 11 item short test with the
      "Work-related Behaviour and Experience Patterns" (AVEM) and Big5 personality questionnaire
      (TIPI G). At third sections, the physical activity level will enquiry with the Short-Version
      of the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ). The demographic characteristics
      (gender and age) and the risk factors (smoker/non-smoker, teaching profile, Job category and
      anthropometric parameter) will collect finally.
    
  