
    
      Rosacea affects roughly 16 million Americans who desire better treatments than those
      currently available. Acne vulgaris, another chronic inflammatory skin disorder, mainly
      affects teenagers but also affects 20-40% of adults. Investigating potential new treatments
      will not only satisfy a clinical need, but also offers the opportunity to learn about the
      pathogenesis of the disease and skin biology. The purpose of this study is to investigate the
      possible role of timolol as a therapy for the erythema and papules associated with acne and
      rosacea. It has been shown that timolol is beneficial and safe to treat infantile
      hemangiomas. The investigators hypothesize that it may also be safe and effective in the
      treatment of acne and rosacea.

      In a single experiment where the test case was the PI (a practicing physician), the
      investigators treated his rosacea with timolol for this off-label indication and have noticed
      an improvement in flushing and an unexpected improvement in acneiform eruptions associated
      with the rosacea. After 30 days, less flushing and acneiform lesions were noted on the
      treated right side compared to the left side . Similarly, at 60 days after treatment, as
      visualized by infrared imaging, significantly less inflammation and flushing was noted on the
      treated right side even outside of episodes of flushing. The improvement was durable, such
      that after a 60 day washout, improvements were still noted. In summary, during testing of the
      PI as a case subject, timolol appeared effective, safe, and with some disease-remissive
      effects.

      Our aim is to conduct a 16 week split-face pilot study with up to 30 patients who have a
      diagnosis of either inflammatory acne or rosacea to assess whether timolol maleate
      effectively reduces erythema, flushing, telangiectasias, and/or papules. The investigators
      also propose to biopsy a subset of our study patients to examine the biological activity in
      the skin before and after treatment. The investigators are particularly interested in
      studying epigenetic DNA methylation abnormalities in these conditions at baseline to compare
      to normal subjects and as a result of therapy.
    
  