
    
      The Anesthesia Quality Institute is home to the National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes
      Registry , a data warehouse that has been designated as a Qualified Clinical Data Registry by
      the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for Physician Quality Reporting System
      reporting. With 20 million cases and growing, Anesthesia Quality Institute's clinical data
      provides an evidence-based rational that informs treatment choices and helps control
      treatment costs.

      National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry is intended for all anesthesia providers
      caring for patients. The registry provides participating providers with:

      Custom continuous performance monitors Performance gap analysis and patient outlier
      identification Access to improvement interventions to close performance gaps including
      patient care management tools, targeted education, resources and other evidence based
      interventions Registry and peer-to-peer benchmarks

      Performance

      Participants have unlimited access to National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry to
      identify opportunities to improve anesthesia clinical care. Reports allow participants to
      immediately identify gaps in specific quality measures and focus efforts to close those gaps.
      Performance tracking reports capture trends over time and help measure improvements in
      quality care. National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry also provides participants with
      access to national benchmarking reports.

      Patient Outliers

      National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry participants can also improve care by
      reviewing performance results across their patient population. This information helps to
      address clinical gaps in a timely manner. Consider and choose interventions that can lead to
      sustainable practice improvement for your aggregate performance, which can help reduce the
      number of patient outliers in the future.

      Improvement

      National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry identifies possible interventions for
      improvement based on clinical quality gaps found through calculating selected data. Data can
      be used to review performance and determine quickly the impact of an improvement
      intervention. Results are presented graphically to identify trends in performance.

      National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry is approved by Centers for Medicare and
      Medicaid Services as a Qualified Clinical Data Registry . A Qualified Clinical Data Registry
      is a registry comprised of Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS) and/or non Physician
      Quality Reporting System-approved measures which qualifies as a Centers for Medicare and
      Medicaid Services-approved reporting tool for Physician Quality Reporting System. Previously,
      physician anesthesiologists were limited to reporting three measures to Physician Quality
      Reporting System. National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry has more than a dozen
      additional anesthesia-related measure--helping eligible professionals satisfactorily report
      on outcomes that matter to them and their patients, and more easily meet Physician Quality
      Reporting System requirements.

      Qualified Clinical Data Registry reporting services are included in American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) membership, and all Eligible Professionals may participate through
      American Society of Anesthesiologists membership. Non-member physicians and non-physicians
      must pay additional fees. All eligible professionals using Qualified Clinical Data Registry
      reporting services must be a member of National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry.

      Steps for becoming a National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry participant

      National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry participants range from pen-and-paper
      anesthesiology practices to the most wired academic centers. You do not need an AIMS system
      or electronic health records to participate. Anesthesia Quality Institute will help
      facilitate the contribution of desired data.

      National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry allows for close collaboration between
      Anesthesia Quality Institute, individual providers and healthcare technology vendors. Roles
      are defined as follows:

      Anesthesia Quality Institute Key Roles

      Define data and outcomes collected in National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry Provide
      unifying definitions and templates Contract with individual practices and hospitals to
      exchange data Report collected data

      Individual Anesthesia Practices, Hospitals and Providers Key Roles

      Provide data to National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry Use reports to improve patient
      care to meet various local, state and federal regulatory requirements

      Vendors of Anesthesia Information Technology Key Roes

      Facilitate National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry through reporting work with
      individuals; vendors that provide formatted data for contribution to National Anesthesia
      Clinical Outcomes Registry will be listed as Anesthesia Quality Institute Preferred Vendors
    
  