
    
      Background. Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the most prevalent psychiatric
      disorders and a leading cause of disability worldwide. Existing therapies fail to produce
      complete recovery. Progress toward improving outcome must include innovations that are safe,
      powerful, inexpensive and simple (for fast and effective dissemination). The proposed
      research seeks to test one such innovation. We seek to improve outcome by improving memory
      for the content of cognitive therapy (CT) sessions. CT is one of the most promising
      approaches to the treatment of MDD, yet there is room for improvement.

      We believe that adding memory enhancing strategies to CT may improve MDD outcome because: (a)
      MDD is often characterized by memory impairment, (b) there is evidence that the memory
      impairment is modifiable, (c) CT typically entails the activation of emotion, (d) emotion can
      impair or bias memory and (e) there is evidence that memory for the content of therapy
      sessions is poor.

      Aim. To evaluate if a strategy designed to enhance memory for the content of CT sessions
      improves treatment outcome for MDD. Cognitive support involves a series of specific
      procedures that support the encoding and retrieval stages of an episodic memory. It is
      hypothesized that CT+Cognitive Support, relative to CT-as-usual, will be associated with
      improved depression outcome at the end of treatment and 6 months after the completion of
      treatment.

      Research Plan. A small pilot feasibility RCT will be conducted on adults with MDD (n = 48)
      who will be randomized to one of two groups: (a) CT+Cognitive Support (n = 24) or (b)
      CT-as-usual (n = 24). Outcome measures will be taken at baseline, end of treatment, and 6
      months after treatment. Long-term objective. To provide the pilot data needed to prepare a
      larger scale intervention study focused on improving outcomes by improving memory for the
      content of therapy sessions. The outcomes, if positive, will have major public health
      implications because simple, inexpensive memory enhancing strategies can be readily included
      as a standard feature in all psychosocial treatments for a broad range of mental illness.
      Project
    
  