
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that is
      the leading cause of non-traumatic disability in young adults. Pathophysiopathologically, MS
      has long been considered a disease mediated primarily by CD4+ T cells. However, recent
      clinical trials demonstrating significant efficacy of B-lymphocyte (B-lymphocyte) depletive
      therapies have highlighted the major role of this cell population in the development of MS.
      Thus, it has been shown that these cells, in addition to their ability to secrete pathogenic
      antibodies, produce pro-inflammatory cytokines in this disease, and an imbalance between
      these potentially pathogenic pro-inflammatory B-Ls and regulatory ("anti-inflammatory") B-Ls
      (Bregs) has been suggested.

      Bregs have protective functions in autoimmune diseases including MS, however the mechanisms
      that regulate the development and function of Bregs are poorly characterized. In our research
      laboratory (INSERM UMR1236), one of the lines of research focuses on the role of
      interleukin-2 (IL-2) signaling in the fate of the B lymphocyte. Our team has thus
      demonstrated that this cytokine, essentially produced by CD4+ T lymphocytes, triggers the
      differentiation of naïve human B cells in vitro into plasma cells. And, more recently, the
      analysis of the early response of BLs in mice disabled for the IL-2 receptor specifically in
      mature BLs (Il2rbfl/flCD19cre/+) suggests a role of IL-2 in the acquisition of
      suppressive/regulatory functions. In addition, numerous studies conducted in both human and
      mouse models of MS demonstrate the major role of this IL-2/IL2R signaling pathway in the
      pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases.

      The hypothesis is that IL-2 signaling induces the polarization and/or regulatory function of
      Bregs in vivo and that deregulation of this IL-2/IL2R pathway could contribute, by a
      mechanism intrinsic to B lymphocytes, to the development of autoimmune diseases such as MS.

      While a defect in IL-2 signaling plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of MS, the impact
      of this defective signaling on regulatory B lymphocyte populations, which has been shown to
      play a protective role in the development of the disease, has never been studied. This study
      could help establish a new mechanism predisposing patients to develop the disease.

      The objective of this study is the analysis of the Bregs population in the blood of MS
      patients (at the diagnostic stage and in different forms) who are untreated compared to
      controls who are healthy in various aspects.
    
  