
    
      Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is a wave of mass neuronal firing and neuronal and glial
      depolarisation which propagates through grey matter in the central nervous system in response
      to a pathologic stimulus, at a rate of between 1 and 5 mm per minute. First described by Leão
      in 1944 as a sudden depression of ECoG amplitude spreading across the cortex of the rabbit
      (Leao, A. A. P. 1944), CSD can be elicited in experimental animals by chemical, electrical,
      and mechanical stimuli, with varying degrees of ease. CSD provoked in healthy, normally
      perfused neural tissue does not induce persistent metabolic stress or cellular damage, and
      indeed such induction of CSD in animal experiments may confer protection against the adverse
      effects of a subsequent ischaemic insult (Kobayashi, S. et al. 1995).

      In animal models of focal cerebral ischaemia, usually induced by occlusion of the middle
      cerebral artery, a spontaneous phenomenon occurs around the periphery of the core territory,
      with electrophysiological features essentially identical with CSD, and similar capacity to
      propagate across cerebral cortex. Designated "peri-infarct depolarisation" (PID), this event
      is associated with infarct expansion, or recruitment of at-risk cortical territory into the
      expanding core, and has been shown capable of causing this expansion, in the absence of
      therapeutic intervention. Indeed it has been hypothesized that glutamate release may be
      involved in PID generation, and that excitotoxicity may accomplish detrimental effects via
      this route (Hossmann, K. A. 1994), (Obrenovitch, T. P. and Urenjak, J. 1997). Some
      experimental neuroprotection treatments for stroke act to decrease the incidence of PID
      (Iijima, T. et al. 1992;Chen, Q. et al. 1993;Busch, E. et al. 1996).

      In traumatic and ischaemic (especially in middle cerebral artery occlusion and aneurysmal
      subarachnoid haemorrhage) brain injury in humans, a phase of delayed deterioration often
      associated with severe and refractory brain swelling develops between 2 and 5 days after the
      initial ictus, and is associated with poor or fatal outcome. The cause and mechanism of this
      deterioration remain poorly understood, and the possibility exists that CSD/PID events might
      contribute to deterioration.

      To date, CSD or PID have been reported in only ten human subjects in two papers (Mayevsky, A.
      et al. 1996; Strong, A. J. et al. 2002). Strong et al. reported that transient ECoG
      suppressions suggestive of depolarisations are common - but by no means universal - after
      brain injury in humans. Sub-dural ECoG electrode strips were placed in 14 patients who had
      undergone craniotomy for trauma or intracranial hemorrhage; monitoring was for up to 60 h
      following the injury. Five of these patients (36%) showed patterns of ECoG depression
      consistent with PID/CSD in brain regions adjacent to the primary injury.
    
  