
    
      Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disease resulting from mutations in the cystic fibrosis
      transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Patients with CF manifest pathological
      changes in a variety of organs that express CFTR. The lungs are frequently affected often
      resulting in chronic infections by bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and airway
      inflammation. Treatment of chronic lung infections is one of the principal goals of CF
      therapy. Arikace™ (liposomal amikacin for inhalation) is a sustained-release formulation of
      amikacin encapsulated inside nanoscale liposomal carriers designed for administration via
      inhalation. It is hypothesized that the sustained-release pulmonary targeting and biofilm
      penetration properties of this formulation will have several advantages over current
      therapies in treating CF patients with chronic lung infection caused by Pseudomonas
      aeruginosa.

      This double blind, placebo controlled Phase 3 study has been designed to evaluate the
      efficacy, safety and tolerability of Arikace™ in treating CF patients with chronic
      bronchopulmonary infection. Eligible subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receive 590 mg of
      Arikace™ or placebo once daily using a PARI Investigational eFlow® Nebulizer. Subjects will
      receive 28 days of treatment and will then be followed for safety for 56 days. Total study
      duration is up to 102 days (~3 months) including an up to 18 day Screening period. Subjects
      will be evaluated for safety, tolerability and efficacy bi-weekly throughout the study.
      Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Arikace™ in blood, sputum and 24-hour urine will be determined in a
      subgroup of study subjects who consent to PK evaluation.

      At the completion of the TR02-109 protocol, subjects who have consented and meet study safety
      criteria may enroll in the long-term, open-label, multi-cycle extension study of 590 mg of
      Arikace™ (under a separate protocol TR02-110).
    
  