
    
      Low back pain is one of a few conditions which affects all individuals through the lifespan.
      The etiology of low back pain is multifactorial and in many cases self-limiting, however it
      also is the leading cause for working age adults to be disabled with more than $87 billion
      spent on low back pain disorders in 2013 Lumbar disc herniation and internal disc disruption
      are two causes more common in these younger age groups reaching 39-42% with a predicted
      probability above 60% until age 50y. While the natural history of disc herniation suggests
      most individuals will return to a prior level of function in 3-6 months, there is a high rate
      of recurrent episodes which can cause short-term disability. Continued pain from a discogenic
      source can lead to decreased activity levels and accelerate degenerative changes in the disc
      and facet joints as described by Kirkaldy-Willis.

      Current guidelines for treatment of axial low back pain from discogenic sources including
      those with radiculopathy include a 6-12-week course of conservative care including
      medications, therapy, acupuncture, chiropractic and exercise before an interventional
      paradigm of injections and/or surgical treatment. For those individuals who do not improve
      with conservative care and have predominately axial pain, options are limited as success
      rates from epidural steroid injections and surgery are 50% or less. Other treatments include
      chymopapain injection, intradiscal electrothermal annuloplasty (IDET), nucleoplasty,
      methylene blue injection, ozone injection , fibrin sealant injections. All of which have 50%
      or less likelihood of reducing pain more than 50%, although much of this data is from
      uncontrolled or prospective case-control studies only.

      Platelet- rich plasma (PRP) injections stand apart from those listed above in that they are
      purported to be "regenerative" interventions for the diseased lumbar disc. PRP is a
      concentrated injectant of growth factors and anabolic factors which have in vitro and animal
      studies that have demonstrated upregulated proteoglycan synthesis and nucleus pulposus
      proliferation, restoration of disc height, healing of annular puncture wounds and
      anti-inflammatory effect with down regulation of TNF-alpha and IL-1. There has been limited
      clinical trials in humans on the effect of intradiscal PRP, including 3 trials of which 1 is
      a RCT and 2 are prospective series. Efficacy of intra-discal injection has shown
      statistically significant benefits in reduction in pain, improvement in physical function at
      follow-up points from 3-24 months. Each of these trials have limited sample sizes, short
      duration follow-up and lack of a standardized PRP preparation, making the generalizability
      difficult.
    
  