
    
      Thyroid surgery can result in change in the voice. This is because two nerves controlling the
      voice quality are situated very close anatomically to the thyroid gland and are at risk of
      damage during the surgery. One of the nerves that is called the recurrent laryngeal nerve
      controls the movements of the voice cords and is more readily identifiable and its injury is
      also detected easily by direct examination of the voice box as reduced/absent movement of the
      voice cord. It gets damaged in upto 1% of thyroid surgeries. The other nerve that is of
      interest to our study is called the superior laryngeal nerve, and its external branch (EBSLN)
      controls the pitch of the voice cord by supplying a muscle called the cricothyroid. This
      nerve is difficult to see and is reported to be damaged in 50% of thyroid surgeries. Its
      damage cannot be picked up on direct examination of the larynx and voice changes are subtle
      though devastating for individuals who depend on their voice for their livelihood singers
      actors etc. The Investigators would like to study if using a nerve monitor that is used to
      check the RLN during thyroid surgery can also be used to check the EBSLN. The Investigators
      hope that this could reduce the chances of damaging the nerve significantly. If the study
      shows good preservation of the EBSLN with the nerve monitor the Investigators will be able to
      make it a standard procedure during thyroid surgery.

      The Investigators plan to recruit patients undergoing thyroid surgery involving one half of
      the thyroid gland. They will be given all the information about the study and consent will be
      obtained. If they agree to participate they will be divided into two groups randomly those
      who will have the intraoperative EBSLN monitoring and those who will not. All patients will
      have a preoperative voice assessment in the speech therapy unit which will involve filling in
      a voice questionnaire and undergoing a glottography (pitch assessment) They will then undergo
      the surgery Approximately 3 months after the surgery they will have another voice assessment
      using the voice questionnaire and the glottography. At this time they will also have an EMG
      assessment of the cricothyroid muscle which is the best method to check the function of the
      EBSLN. No further procedures/assessments will be undertaken.
    
  