
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare time to disease progression in patients with grade 1, 2, or 3 follicular B-cell
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who respond (i.e., complete or partial response, or stable
           disease) to treatment with rituximab and are then treated with sargramostim (GM-CSF)
           with vs without autologous immunoglobulin idiotype-KLH conjugate vaccine.

      Secondary

        -  Compare response rate improvement in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare overall complete response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare duration of response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the safety of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to prior treatment (yes vs no) and response to rituximab during
      study (complete response [CR] or partial response [PR] vs stable disease [SD]).

      All patients receive rituximab IV once weekly for 4 weeks. Five weeks after the last dose of
      rituximab, patients are assessed for response. Patients with progressive disease are removed
      from the study and do not undergo randomization. Patients with a CR, PR, or SD are randomized
      to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive autologous immunoglobulin idiotype-KLH conjugate vaccine
           subcutaneously (SC) on day 1. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC on days
           1-4.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive placebo SC on day 1. Patients also receive GM-CSF SC on days
           1-4.

      In both arms, treatment repeats monthly for 6 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity
      or clinically significant progressive disease. After the first 6 months, patients with a CR,
      PR, or SD may continue to receive treatment (per treatment arm as above) every 2 months for 1
      year (total of 6 doses) and then every 3 months thereafter in the absence of disease
      progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months until disease
      progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 342 evaluable patients (171 per treatment arm) will be accrued
      for this study within 18 months.
    
  