
    
      There are currently various treatment techniques have been employed for the rehabilitation of
      patients with functional back pain in general. However , it is essential to search for
      resources to compose the therapeutic treatment program along with conventional exercises.

      With regard to the functional rehabilitation , physical therapy , has emphasized the muscles
      directly involved in the painful process (Richardson et al . , 1999) . Through exercises
      primarily used in functional rehabilitation , it is possible to treat and prevent impairments
      , restore function , promote physical and social well being . The therapeutic approach of the
      column follows the same principles as other structures , keeping up the proper precautions
      concerning the region's proximity to the spinal cord and nerve roots ( Kisner , Colby , 2005)
      . On this basis several treatments have been proposed , however , the most effective therapy
      is still a matter of controversy .

      It is known that back pain can result in neurological imbalances , mainly affecting the deep
      muscles of the trunk and paraspinal , multifidus and transversus abdominis ( LINDGREN et al .
      , 1993; HIDES ; Richardson , Jull , 1996; HODGES ; Richardson , Jull , 1996). We observe a
      reduction in these shooting action potential and changes in motor control , represented by
      weakness, atrophy and reduced functional capacity ( HODGES ; MOSELEY , 2003; MACDONALD ;
      MOSELEY ; HODGES , 2006; RENKAWITZ ; BOLUKI ; Grifka , 2006 , RICHARDSON ; HODGES ; HIDES ,
      2004; BARR ; GRIGGS ; Cadby , 2007) .

      Therefore, an appropriate exercise program should be able to provide muscular support ,
      minimizing the risk of disability by recovering the functionality of the spine ( McFeely ;
      GRACEY , 2006). For this purpose it is recommended to strengthen the abdominal muscles ,
      lower back and lower limbs ( HANDA et al . , 2000; CALMELS et al . , 2004; Lidder ; BAXTER ;
      GRACEY , 2004; HAYDEN et al . , 2005; McFeely ; GRACEY , 2006; RODACKI et al . , 2008) .

      Currently the lumbar stabilization is considered a beneficial technique in the treatment of
      patients with low back pain , because in addition to reduce painful symptoms , promotes
      strengthening the stabilizing muscles such as multifidus and transversus abdominis . (
      O'Sullivan , TWOMEY ; Allison 1997, Richardson et al. 1999; HIDES ; jull ; Richardson , 2001;
      YILMAZ et al. 2,003 ; Choi et al. 2005).

      In studies carried out by Kjellby - Wendt et al. (2001) , Mannion et al. (2007) Johansson et
      al. (2009 ) it was possible to prove that the lumbar stabilization associated with stretching
      and strengthening exercises for the lower back , abdominal and lower limbs was effective in
      reduction of pain of the patients concerned .

      Furthermore, there was a close relationship of low back pain with decreased range of motion
      and flexibility ( Takala , 2000) . Thus , another approach indispensable and complementary
      treatment for herniated disc is muscle stretching , it is able to provide a reduction in pain
      and decreased pressure within the core ( KUUKKANEN ; Malkia , 2000; HAKKINEN et al. 2,005 ;
      Kisner , Colby , 2005) .

      The vibration is considered an innovative feature in the treatment of chronic low back pain
      and herniated disc as many musculoskeletal effects are noticed from this . According to Silva
      (2011) for exposure to vibration, it is possible that the muscles produce a force about 15
      times higher than that produced in normal conditions, in order to oppose the action of
      gravitational force . Cardinale and Bosco (2003 ) stated that the vibration causes changes in
      muscle length , so in an attempt to mitigate this effect , the afferent influence the motor
      response , causing modulation of muscle stiffness . According to Bishop cited Barbosa (2009 )
      in response to stimulation of the muscle spindle is an isometric contraction known as the
      tonic vibration reflex ( RTV ) , which is accompanied by a reciprocal inhibition of the
      antagonist and blocking myotatic reflex .

      Thus , along with the voluntary contraction , this therapy provides improved motor control
      and strengthening exercises , to increase the range of activation of muscle spindles
      triggering the tonic vibration reflex ( BOSCO ; CARDINALE ; TSARPELA , 1999; Rittweger ;
      BELLER ; Felsenberg , 2003; Curry ; Clelland cited DIEEN ; SELEN ; CHOLEWICHI , 2003; SILVA ;
      Couto ; SZMUCHROWSKI , 2008) . For present inability to generate muscle strength needed to
      avoid instabilities in the affected segments , the vibration becomes a relevant resource in
      the treatment for chronic low back pain and disc herniation ( YILMAZ et al . , 2003) .

      Although they represent a major cause of pain and functional disability , does not observe
      the use of biomedical instrumentation for quantitative analysis in clinical practice , such
      as guiding therapeutic management.

      For the establishment of an appropriate physical therapy intervention becomes necessary to
      use equipment to assess that provide quantitative data regarding the patient's functional
      capacity , since the current legislation does not allow the physiotherapist to request tests
      such as MRI , CT and rays -X. It is believed that the association between an accurate
      assessment and appropriate treatment can guide the therapeutic making it more effective in
      attenuation of pain , allowing functional improvement of patients with disc herniation and
      low back pain in general.

      - Surface Electromyography

      As a result of the pain , it triggered a defense mechanism that results in a change in motor
      recruitment deficit represented by the generation of muscle strength and increased agonist
      antagonist activation ( DIEEN ; SELEN ; CHOLEWICHI , 2003; Larivière et al . , 2003; BASSANI
      et al . , 2008) . Aimed at quantifying motor function becomes useful a resource as surface
      electromyography , which enables the recording of muscle electrical activity in real time ,
      allowing the identification of abnormal patterns of response ( Portney , 2004) . The device
      comprises electrodes reference surface and connected to the unit via cables sealed , and
      sensor preamplifiers information leading to electrical activity , and also biofeedback unit .
      The collected data are stored in the computer for further analysis , normally made by means
      of the square root of the mean square value (RMS ) comprising the result of the signal
      amplitude by means of the average power in the time interval considered , containing
      information about the number of motor units fired at a given motion ( Hamill , Knutzen ,
      1999; DE LUCA , 2002; MACHADO , 2008; O ' SULLIVAN , SCHMITZ , 2010) .

      - Platform Power

      Another evaluation method applicable to cases of herniated disc is the force platform that
      consists of two rigid surfaces interconnected by means of sensors , allowing to quantify the
      ground reaction force during the stance phase of the movement ( BARELA ; DUARTE , 2011) .
      Thus , it is of great interest because patients tend to adopt an antalgic posture , reducing
      the weight bearing on the limb ipsilateral to the disc herniation .

      - Accelerometer

      It is known that patients with low back pain may suffer biomechanical changes that directly
      influence kinematic and kinetic parameters . Therefore , it is appropriate to examine the
      speed , amplitude and angle of movement . Therapists and patients can benefit from the use of
      a device able to provide such data in a simple and flexible , making it easy to conduct and
      providing greater comfort to both. Therefore , we developed a device called accelerometer ,
      which is composed of three parts , which are : sensor , receiver and software for data
      conversion on the computer .

      The sensor is part of the equipment positioned in the joint under consideration. Each sensor
      is constituted by a microcontroller, a three-axis accelerometer and a processor network . The
      microcontroller communicates with the accelerometer chip through a Serial Peripheral
      Interface ( SPI ) . When prompted , the accelerometer chip microcontroller sends the values
      of X , Y and Z corresponding to the force vector ( Gaino , 2010) . From these values the
      microcontroller assembles a data packet to be sent via wireless communication . The processor
      sensor network is restricted to connecting to the network , and is therefore called end
      device .

      The function of the receiver is receiving the sensor data and send them via serial
      communication to the computer . Finally , a software program is responsible for converting
      data received from the accelerometer sensor .

      To determine the angle of inclination of a certain body part, the program is designed to
      break the force vector of three vectors ( X , Y, Z ) , from which one can obtain the angle of
      each axis if the calculation the angles of the three vectors with their respective unit
      vectors . The system provides the angles for the three Cartesian axes every 0.5 seconds of
      exercise.

      The software also provides the function to calibrate , allowing to adopt the pertinent angles
      to each patient as a starting position , keeping the slope from this position . Data is
      written to a text file and automatically stored in a folder on the local disk C :/ , the
      identification data occurs by the date and time naming each file generated .

      - Questionnaire Short Form Health Survey ( SF -36 )

      Commonly , patients with chronic pain face psychological problems that directly affects their
      self-esteem and social interaction . Thus , we have the Short Form Health Survey ( SF -36 )
      widely used in assessing the quality of life of patients with low back pain ( MILANI et al .
      , 2009; VERESCIAGINA ; AMBROZAITIS ; AKAUSKAS , 2009; AHRENS ; SCHILTENWOLF ; WANG , 2010;
      Luedtke et al . , 2011; HAUGEN et al . , 2011) . It is a non-specific questionnaire
      consisting of 36 items divided into social function , mental health index , physical and
      social function , pain index , vitality , physical appearance and emotional and general
      health perceptions , which concludes the evaluation protocols volunteers in this study (
      Rosanova et al . , 2010) .
    
  