
    
      The pilot study proposed in this protocol will determine whether patients with a BMI of
      30-39.9 kg/m2 will consent to liver biopsy, accept randomization to VSG, participate in
      lifestyle modification for a one-year period and consent to a paired liver biopsy at 12
      months. Sixty candidates will be biopsied with 42 randomizations within the first year
      yielding 19 (including dropouts) participants/group. This should be sufficient to further
      estimate meaningful differences in liver histology given the estimated weight loss of
      lifestyle modification with and without VSG and a correlation of percent weight loss and
      histological score improvement over the short term (12 months). Determining the impact of the
      VSG is essential for expanding the traditional indications for bariatric surgery and thus,
      broadening the potential impact of this pilot study.

      The investigators will screen patients by telephone between the ages of 40 and 67 with a
      self-reported BMI of 30-39.9 kg/m2, a history of prediabetes, or type 2 diabetes. Prospective
      participants will be asked to provide a copy of their most recent liver chemistries to see if
      the AST or ALT fall in the inclusion range. The investigators will screen for a history of
      alcohol or other substance abuse and a surgical history that would preclude a safe VSG.
      Prospective participants will be invited to attend a seminar. They will be instructed to keep
      a food and exercise log for two weeks and return for a second visit. After consent is signed,
      during the eligibility review period participants will have their height and weight recorded,
      history reviewed, liver function tests, HbA1c, a urine sample, a basic metabolic profile, and
      INR will be obtained at this time and the participant will be referred for a liver biopsy. If
      the biopsy is consistent with NASH with a NAS >=5, then the participant will undergo MRI
      assessment and serum markers for inflammation. Vital signs (pulse, temperature, respiration,
      blood pressure, weight and BMI) will be obtained at each study visit. Participants will then
      begin an 800 calorie per day diet for 7 days during which they will receive their
      randomization assignment to VSG or not; all participants will receive lifestyle modification
      as the investigators need to see if surgery can provide any additional benefit to lifestyle
      modification. A basic metabolic panel will be performed at the conclusion of the 800 calorie
      diet. VSG will be performed laparoscopically and the greater curvature resected 6 cm for the
      pylorus to the angle of His over a 40 French Bougie. Lifestyle modification can begin
      immediately after surgery, though the VSG participants will not have calorie limits until 6
      months after surgery. Participants will be seen regularly by the hepatologist and surgeon at
      1 week, 4 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months. Lifestyle modification will be overseen
      by Nancy Sherwood, Ph.D. Lifestyle will be delivered on an individual basis once per week for
      the first 6 months, twice per month for the next 3 months, and monthly up to one year.
      Vitamins A, B1, B12 and D and a comprehensive metabolic panel including liver chemistries
      will be performed at 3 months and 12 months in both groups. At 12 months a repeat liver
      biopsy will be performed (participants will have the opportunity to select an alternative
      approach if they did not have a good experience with the initial liver biopsy in order to
      ensure a paired specimen). This decision will be made in conjunction with the interventional
      radiologist. MRI for steatosis and elasticity will be performed and serum inflammatory and
      fibrosis markers will be obtained at 12 months as well as the collection of another urine
      sample. Participants will exit the study but will continue usual care after 12 months. We
      will create a biorepository for stool samples to measure the microbiome and for remaining
      liver tissue to measure the transcriptome.

      Participants meeting study entry criteria are randomized with equal probability to one of two
      study groups: (1) Lifestyle modification (LSM) or (2) Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy (VSG + LSM)
      with Iifestyle modification, followed for 12 months. The primary goal for the trial is to
      determine if we can recruit, randomize, and retain participants to perform invasive and
      non-invasive measurements of NASH and fibrosis, deliver lifestyle modification and
      demonstrate the safety of VSG. The investigators wish to also understand which of these two
      interventions is more effective in achieving, 12 months after entry into the trial, a
      reduction in NAS composed of the non-weighted scores: (1) steatosis 0-3 (2) Inflammation 0-3
      and (3) ballooning 0-2. Secondary goals include comparing the two treatment groups for
      changes in other measured outcomes including MRI assessments of intrahepatic triglyceride and
      liver elasticity and serum markers. As a pilot study, a sample size of 19 in each group
      should offer significant information as to the difference in NAS score reduction between to
      two groups and achieve adequate power to distinguish clinically significant changes in the
      primary and secondary outcome measures. These data support the overarching objective i.e. to
      provide evidence that a larger, longer-term clinical outcomes trial is feasible. A goal is
      for a longer term follow up for 5 years to assess the durability of treatment effects and
      treatment differences.
    
  