
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) complicates a critical illness from 13% up to 78%, needing renal
      replacement therapy (RRT) up to10 % of all patients in the intensive care unit (ICU). Both
      intermittent (IRRT) and continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) are used. The advantage
      of the latter is that it has lesser influence on hemodynamics and is better tolerated in
      critical ill patients.

      Another complication during their stay is the inability to feed themselves. Nutrition is a
      cornerstone in the care for the critical ill and should be started within 3 days of admission
      to the intensive care unit. To optimize a nutritional prescription, protein and energy
      targets need to be defined. Predicting formulae based on anthropometric measures and other
      parameters can be used to calculate the caloric need but indirect calorimetry (IC) remains
      the gold standard. Caloric need can be derived from Energy expenditure which is calculated
      with the Weir's equation using carbon dioxide (CO2) production (VCO2) and oxygen (O2)
      consumption (VO2). Therefore, it is underestimated if CO2 is lost through other means than
      the normal respiratory route. Hence one of the contra-indications of IC is CRRT.

      The totalCO2 (tCO2) travels through the vascular structures within the red blood cells or
      inside plasma. There, most of the content has 3 different forms: as physically dissolved CO2,
      bicarbonate, and carbamino compounds. These compounds are in equilibrium with each other.
      During RRT, a potential loss of CO2 and its different forms may occur due to ultrafiltration
      in the dialysate. No large trials were conducted trying to quantify this loss nor identifying
      the determining factors which can be used to predict this loss. Indeed, one author even found
      a gain in tCO2 of the blood during dialysis with acetate. Trisodiumcitrate is used as an
      anticoagulant during CRRT. It is a weak base and due to pH change may alter the equilibrium
      of the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation and thus influence the balance between CO2 and HCO3-
      and its extraction through CRRT.

      Although indirect calorimetry in the intensive care unit has been evaluated during CRRT, the
      loss of tCO2was not considered. The investigators explored the possibility to predict and
      easily calculate this CO2 exchange so IC can be used during CRRT.
    
  