
    
      Each year the morbidity and mortality associated with respiratory tract infections fluctuates
      seasonally. This rise and fall is associated with the changing prevalence of respiratory
      viruses in the population. Myriad respiratory viruses are responsible for these infections.
      For example, Influenza Virus, Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), Parainfluenza Virus, Human
      Metapneumovirus, Rhinovirus, and Adenovirus have all been identified as causing such
      infections. Numerous pathogenic subtypes have been identified within most of these viral
      groups. Apart from supportive measure (e.g., bed rest, hydration, etc.), there are no
      effective treatments for these viral infections; however, antiviral agents (e.g.,Tamiflu) can
      be used to alleviate the severity of flu-like symptoms.

      Each year the virus population fluctuates, and with it the antigenic presentation of the
      dominant strains that circulate through the population. Epidemics arise when larger and
      larger portions of the population do not have innate or acquired resistance to such strain(s)
      in a given season. The World Health Organization (WHO) maintains a separate website dedicated
      to tracking outbreaks of influenza, especially avian influenza
      (https://www.who.int/fluvirus_tracker). Influenza outbreaks monitored in the hope that a
      pandemic similar to the Spanish Flu of 1918 can be avoided; it is estimated that well over 25
      million people died from the Spanish Flu. The United States government also maintains a
      separate website with resources regarding the flu and pandemic related information
      (http://www.pandemicflu.gov/). On June 11, 2009 the WHO raised the pandemic threat level to 6
      in response to the global appearance of a new strain of swine Influenza A (subtype H1N1). The
      rapidity with which the H1N1 virus has spread exemplifies the notion that quickly and
      accurately identifying a viruses associated with an outbreak is critical to global public
      health.

      In the present study a collection of respiratory specimens that are well characterized will
      be archived for later evaluation using the artus® Influenza RG PCR test. The artus Influenza
      test is a real-time PCR test that identifies Influenza A, Influenza B, and Influenza Type
      A/subtype H1N1 from nasopharyngeal swab specimens.
    
  