
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare two strains of BCG (Connaught vs Tice) in terms of efficacy (yearly
      relapse rate) and tolerability in patients with Ta or T1 papillary carcinoma of the urinary
      bladder or carcinoma in situ of the urinary bladder. II. Assess the role of prior exposition
      to mycobacteria (vaccination/Tbc) for BCG treatment efficacy in these patients. III. Define
      the role of fever occurrence as a potential indicator for BCG reactivity in these patients.
      IV. Evaluate the p53 status of the resected tumors and IL-8 secretion into the urine as
      predictive factors of BCG reactivity in these patients. V. Evaluate disease free interval and
      disease free survival, time to progression, and overall survival in these patients. VI.
      Evaluate quality of life in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      center, T stage (Ta vs T1 vs CIS), and BCG immunization status (positive, i.e., greater than
      10 mm diameter vs negative-indeterminate, i.e., less than 10 mm diameter). All patients
      undergo complete transurethral resection (TURB) to remove bladder tumors. A Mantoux test is
      performed. Patients with stage T1 disease undergo a second resection within 2-4 weeks after
      initial TURB. Patients are randomized to receive either BCG Onko-Tice (arm I) or BCG
      Connaught (arm II). Both arms receive BCG by catheter beginning 2-14 days after the last
      TURB. Patients must hold the BCG in the bladder for 2 hours. BCG is instilled once a week for
      6 weeks. Quality of life is assessed before randomization, daily during first and last weeks
      of treatment, every 6 months for the first 2 years, and then annually thereafter. Patients
      are followed every 6 months for the first 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 300 patients will be accrued for this study within 6 years.
    
  