
    
      Veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan have high rates of co-morbid PTSD symptoms and
      hazardous substance use (HSU). Evidence-based treatments for these problems are available in
      VA specialty clinics, but multiple barriers lead to low utilization of these treatments.
      Novel treatment approaches are needed. Previous research supports that 1) primary care-mental
      health integration (PC-MHI) services are associated with increased treatment engagement, 2)
      technology-based interventions are well accepted by Veterans and are more effective when
      delivered with professional support, and 3) Veteran peer services are associated with
      improved treatment engagement, patient motivation, and overall functioning. This study will
      add a Peer-Support component to an existing Web-based Cognitive Behavioral Treatment (CBT)
      for PTSD and HSU called Moving Forward. Preliminary data analyses from our NIAAA-funded trial
      indicate that participants who used Moving Forward more had larger reductions in PTSD
      symptoms. Qualitative feedback supports that Veterans want interpersonal interactions while
      receiving treatment and need help engaging in the treatment more fully. Therefore, this pilot
      study will investigate if adding peer support to Moving Forward improves patients outcomes. A
      randomized controlled trial (N=30) comparing Moving Forward to Peer-Supported Moving Forward
      will be conducted. The peer support component will consist of semi-structured brief sessions
      conducted weekly for the 12 weeks of study treatment by a VA-certified peer support
      specialist. Peers will receive study-specific training and weekly supervision from clinicians
      that are part of the study staff. Primary outcomes will include process outcomes (treatment
      engagement, patient satisfaction) and clinical outcomes (PTSD symptoms, alcohol and substance
      use, quality of life).
    
  