
    
      Between 10% and 20% of patients with hypercortisolism (Cushing's Syndrome) have tumoral
      ectopic production of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) that causes cortisol excess. If an
      ectopic tumor cannot be found or if surgery cannot be done, the treatment options include
      medicines that reduce cortisol production and bilateral adrenalectomy. The available
      medications that reduce cortisol production have important adverse effects and are not
      effective in some patients and adrenalectomy leads to lifelong requirements for medical
      hormone replacement. Thus, additional treatment options would be welcome. This study
      evaluates a potential new medication for the treatment of these patients; mifepristone blocks
      the effects of cortisol rather than decreasing its production. The purpose of this study is
      to see whether this agent can improve diabetes or other symptoms of Cushing's syndrome in
      subjects with ectopic ACTH secretion. Another purpose is to evaluate adverse effects with
      this drug. Patients with presumed ectopic ACTH secretion and diabetes will take mifepristone
      600 mg daily by mouth, and the effect on diabetes and other symptoms of Cushing's syndrome
      will be measured. Subjects will return to the hospital at 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after
      starting mifepristione for evaluation of diabetes and other symptoms. The agent will be
      available for up to 12 months for patients in whom it is effective.

      Patients take mifepristone by mouth 3 times a day. Each dose will contain 200 mg. Patients
      may remain in the hospital for all or part of the initial safety studies, every two weeks for
      eight weeks. During this period blood pressure, glucose tolerance and blood chemistries are
      measured and EKG and urinalysis done every two weeks. The mifepristone dose can be decreased
      or stopped if there are adverse effects. When the mifepristone dose is stable for eight
      weeks, patients will be re-evaluated. Patients then return to the hospital for evaluations
      one month later and then every 3 months. Those who do well on the drug may continue to take
      it for up to 12 months.
    
  