
    
      1. the relevance of OSAHS and carotid atherosclerosis Patients are distributed
           questionnaire and recruited from neurology clinic，vascular ultrasonography clinic of
           Xuanwu Hospital if they match the inclusion criteria. After initial screening, carotid
           atherosclerosis patients with skeptical OSAHS are sent to sleep center for
           polysomnography examination to determine the severity of OSAHS. At least 50 patients for
           mild, moderate, severe OSAHS each are recruited for OSAHS Group. At least 100 patients
           without snoring from questionnaire and without OSAHS after PSG screening are recruited
           for non OSAHS Group. Vascular ultrasonography examination for carotid are done for the
           two groups. Data of carotid vascular plaque from two groups are collected. Statistics
           are done to detect differences of carotid atherosclerosis severity between patients with
           and without OSAHS, also the severity of OSAHS.

        2. the relevance of the progress of carotid atherosclerosis and oral appliances
           intervention for treating OSAHS All carotid atherosclerosis patients with OSAHS are from
           patients of the first study. If they consent the treatment of oral appliances, they are
           recruited into this second study. At least 100 patients are recruited. They are divided
           into 2 groups by randomized block design by Evidence-based Medicine Center of Xuanwu
           Hospital. One group is oral appliance intervention group, the other group is no
           intervention group. The intervention group patients accept oral appliance treatment, and
           no intervention group patients do not accept OSAHS treatment. The two groups both accept
           anti-hypertension treatment or anti-diabetes treatment, or anti-hyperlipidemia treatment
           according to their own situation in neurology clinic.

      At timepoint of initial time, one month after oral appliance treatment, one and a half year
      after oral appliance treatment, the intervention group should accept PSG(Polysomnography)
      examination to monitor the treatment of OSAHS.

      At timepoint of initial time, one month after oral appliance treatment, one and a half year
      after oral appliance treatment, the two groups should accept breath holding test to monitor
      the cerebral vascular reserve.

      At timepoint of initial time, one and a half year after oral appliance treatment, the two
      groups should accept carotid vascular ultrasonography examination to monitor the progress of
      carotid atherosclerosis.

      Cerebrovascular events and death are recorded from initial time. Statistics are done to
      detect the influence of treatment of OSAHS on carotid atherosclerosis.
    
  