
    
      Addiction adversely affects individual and family well-being, public health, and public
      safety across the state of WI. Appropriate treatment can prevent myriad physical consequences
      of addiction, such as HIV, viral hepatitis, endocarditis, motor vehicle accidents and other
      trauma. Treatment to one addicted individual prevents 63 crimes per year-not including
      intimate partner and child abuse, which remain under-reported. An individual's contact with
      the WI criminal justice system constitutes a critical point for referral into supervised
      treatment to promote the recovery of the user and, hence, public health and safety. This
      project and related future work will help optimize prevention, intervention, and policy
      development targeting substance use, crime and related consequences. Specifically, the
      proposed work will 1) examine the impact of collaborative community treatment models
      involving generalist physician offices, specialist treatment facilities, and criminal
      justice, 2) examine HIV risk behaviors and their response to study conditions, and 3)
      disseminate results to state and national audiences to promote collaboration between criminal
      justice, specialist care, and generalist health care in reducing drug-related harms to
      individual and population health. There is a high prevalence of opiate dependence among the
      criminally involved. Buprenorphine/naloxone (Suboxone) is considered a well-investigated,
      highly effective medication-assisted treatment for opiate dependence, but it may only be
      supervised through the few specialist treatment facilities in the state, or by physicians who
      have historically been less likely to offer this service. The effectiveness of community
      physician treatment supervision has not been tested for those in the criminal justice system.

      The proposed project seeks to test models to expand treatment access for substance dependent
      individuals. The project builds logically upon previous work by the PI. Substance dependent
      offenders are specifically chosen for investigation due to (1) the greater severity and
      prevalence of substance use problems and complications when compared to the more general
      adult substance-dependent population, (2) the impact of drug-related criminal behavior upon
      victims and upon the safety and well-being of our communities, and (3) the suitability of our
      team and community-based collaborators to conduct research with addicted offenders in order
      to promote individual recovery, public health, and public safety.

      To contribute to knowledge regarding potential models for the expansion of treatment and
      supervision for substance dependent offenders, the current project and related future work
      will aim to:

        1. Compare models of treatment involving (1) specialist-directed treatment followed by
           physician-office based treatment, and (2) physician-office-based treatment alone.

        2. Determine if and to what degree a period of stabilization with specialist-directed
           treatment improves outcomes over physician-office-based treatment alone.

        3. Clarify the optimal period of time for such a period of "specialist stabilization."

      In this study, "stabilization" refers to a period of time at the front end of treatment
      during which the addicted offender participates in a more stringent set of supervisory
      conditions tied to their medication dispensing. This includes daily reporting for medication
      dosing and more frequent urine drug testing.

      The primary study outcome will be time to commission of new crime. The primary outcome will
      be measured via the publicly available Wisconsin Circuit Court Consolidated Court Automation
      Program (CCAP) database. The Wisconsin Circuit Court Access website provides access to
      certain public records of the circuit courts of Wisconsin. The information displayed on the
      website is an exact copy of the case information entered into CCAP case management system by
      court staff in the counties where the case files are located. The court record summaries
      viewed are all public records under Wisconsin open records law and freely accessible to the
      public. The CCAP database will searched periodically for all enrolled study participants
      until data analysis has been complete.

      Secondary outcomes include ongoing drug use as measured by urine drug testing, previously
      validated self-report measures; and treatment uptake and adherence. Secondary outcomes also
      include standardized measures of HIV risk behaviors, health services utilization, and cost
      benefit (societal perspective).

      All subjects will be recruited via Journey Mental Health Center (formerly Mental Health
      Center of Dane County), which serves as the assessment unit for the Dane County Drug
      Treatment Court (DTC). This study will determine whether varying periods of initial
      stabilization in specialist treatment affects outcomes vs. physician-office treatment alone.
      The study will randomize 40 participants to one of 2 conditions characterized by the duration
      or lack of the "specialist stabilization period": 1) buprenorphine/naloxone via physician
      office (B-PO) x 10 months, or 2) buprenorphine/naloxone via specialist center (B-SC) x 3
      months followed by B-PO x 7 months. Subjects will receive behavioral treatment and court
      supervision as usual. The primary outcome will be time to re-arrest/new crime. Secondary
      outcomes include ongoing drug use measured by 1) urine drug testing, and 2) validated
      self-report measures, treatment uptake and adherence, standardized measures of HIV risk
      behaviors, health services utilization, and cost benefit.
    
  