
    
      Low-grade gliomas (LGG), the most common of which are pilocytic astrocytomas, diffuse
      astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas, and mixed oligo-astrocytomas are a diverse family of
      central nervous system (CNS) neoplasms that occur in children and adults. Based on data from
      the American Cancer Society and Central Brain Tumor Registry of the United States (CBRTUS),
      approximately 1800 LGG were diagnosed in 2006, thus representing approximately 10% of newly
      diagnosed primary brain tumors in the United States. Pilocytic astrocytomas (WHO grade I) are
      the most common brain tumor in children 5 to 19 years of age3. Diffuse astrocytomas,
      oligodendrogliomas, and oligoastrocytomas are all considered WHO grade II low grade gliomas
      (LGG) and are more common in adults. Pilocytic astrocytomas are generally well circumscribed
      histologically and radiographically and amenable to cure with gross total resection. In
      contrast, the diffuse astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas, and oligoastrocytomas are more
      infiltrative and less amenable to complete resection. From a molecular genetics standpoint,
      the most common alterations in LGG are IDH1 mutations6 and mutations in the tumor suppressor
      gene TP53, located on chromosome 17, the gene product of which is a multifunctional protein
      involved in the regulation of cell growth, cell death (apoptosis), and transcription.
      Additionally, several molecular factors are of favorable prognostic significance,
      particularly the presence of 1p/19q co-deletion and IDH1 mutations.

      WHO grade II LGGs are at extremely high risk to undergo malignant transformation into more
      aggressive and lethal WHO grade III or IV high-grade glioma (HGG). Even with a combination of
      available therapeutic modalities (i.e., surgery, radiation therapy [RT], chemotherapy), the
      invasive growth and resistance to therapy exhibited by these tumors results in recurrence and
      death in most patients. Although postoperative RT in LGG significantly improves 5-year
      progression-free survival (PFS), it does not prolong overall survival (OS) compared with
      delayed RT given at the time of progression. Early results from a randomized trial of
      radiation therapy plus procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine (PCV) chemotherapy for
      supratentorial adult LGG (RTOG 9802) demonstrated improved PFS in patients receiving PCV plus
      RT compared RT alone. Nonetheless, PCV is considerably toxic and currently not widely used
      for management of glioma patients. Although chemotherapy with temozolomide (TMZ) is currently
      being investigated in LGG patients, it is unknown whether it confers improves OS in these
      patients. Further, our recent study has indicated that 6 of 10 LGG cases treated with TMZ
      progressed to HGG with markedly increased exome mutations and, more worrisome, driver
      mutations in the RB and AKT-mTOR pathways, with predominant C>T/G>A transitions at CpC and
      CpT dinucleotides, strongly suggesting a signature of TMZ-induced mutagenesis; this study
      also showed that in 43% of cases, at least half of the mutations in the initial tumor were
      undetected at recurrence. These data suggests the possibility that treatment of LGG patients
      with TMZ may enhance oncogenic mutations and genetic elusiveness of LGG, therefore calling
      for development of safer and effective therapeutic modalities such as vaccines.

      Taken together, LGG are considered a premalignant condition for HGG, such that novel
      interventions to prevent malignant transformation need to be evaluated in patients with LGG.
      Immunotherapeutic modalities, such as vaccines, may offer a safe and effective option for
      these patients due to the slower growth rate of LGG (in contrast with HGG), which should
      allow sufficient time for multiple immunizations and hence high levels of anti-glioma
      immunity. Because patients with LGGs are generally not as immuno-compromised as patients with
      HGG, they may also exhibit greater immunological response to and benefit from the vaccines.
      Further, the generally mild toxicity of vaccines may improve quality of life compared with
      chemotherapy or RT.
    
  