
    
      1. Methodology All patients presenting for neurosurgery will be considered and the study
           will take place on the Theatre Admissions Units at the Royal Hallamshire Hospital,
           Sheffield, United Kingdom. After gaining consent, baseline anxiety levels will be
           assessed using the APAIS and STAI questionnaires. The subject will then be randomised
           using a web-based programme to one of two groups: intervention (Yintang point), or
           control (no intervention). All the acupuncture will done with the same type of needle
           and by the same investigator. The questionnaires will be repeated 30 minutes later to
           assess the effect of the intervention.

        2. Design: type of study design and justification The study is a randomised control trial
           looking at an acupuncture point utilised for anxiety reduction (Yintang), and a
           controls. The ratio of intervention to controls is 1:1. After advice for experts in
           acupuncture, the investigators are not including a placebo acupuncture intervention or
           sham acupuncture. This is because it is increasingly recognised that any form of
           acupuncture or acupressure can have central effects and that sham acupuncture is
           actually impossible to undertake. Pilot study data (awaiting publication) done in the
           investigator's institution demonstrated a mean (standard deviation) STAI score in
           neurosurgical patients of 8.86 (4.4). Previous data have suggested that acupuncture may
           reduce anxiety levels by 25-37%. Assuming a p< 0.05 and power 0.9, in order to
           demonstrate a 30% reduction in STAI scores, the investigators will need 58 patients in
           each group. Assuming a 10% dropout rate, the investigators aim to recruit 64 patients in
           each group (128 in total). The investigators have shown that anxiety levels are not
           related to gender or site of surgery (cranial vs. spinal) and therefore will not
           stratify the groups. The investigators will undertake block randomisation to try and
           minimise any learning effects by the acupuncturist.

        3. Analysis including statistical methods, where appropriate The investigators will use
           analysis of variance (ANOVA) to analyse anxiety scores from the two questionnaires
           (after testing for normality of data distribution). Pain scores will be analysed by
           t-tests and postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) incidence by Chi-squared.
    
  