
    
      Non-specific neck pain (NSNP) is a widespread health problems and a major cause of pain and
      disability. This condition is complex, disabling and has a heterogeneous presentation, which
      makes NSNP difficult to treat. Currently, the best evidence supports combining different
      forms of manual therapy (mobilizations, manipulations and manual muscle techniques), and
      exercises. Yet, identifying the most effective treatment characteristics and dosages remain
      challenging. Central in the debate about best practice management of NSNP and NSLBP is the
      efficacy of tailored versus generic (non-tailored) treatment. To date, sufficient evidence
      for the application of specific physiotherapy modalities or therapy aiming at specific NSNP
      subgroups is lacking. Although more research has already been conducted for the lumbar spine,
      there is an ongoing quest to identify relevant subgroups and provide patients with an
      assessment-driven targeted intervention to achieve meaningful and long-lasting changes.

      Attempts have been made to identify relevant and homogeneous subgroups for patients with
      NSNP. Several classification systems have been proposed, based on (1) prognosis or (2) the
      underlying mechanism(s) driving the disorder: (2a) pain mechanisms, (2b) features of
      movement/posture/muscle activation , and (2c) pathology/diagnosis. The main goal of
      subgrouping patients is to enhance treatment efficiency. Nevertheless, a profound clinical
      reasoning process is necessary to identify clinically relevant subgroups. By identifying
      accurate and useful diagnostic criteria for NSNP and NSLBP, more informed decisions regarding
      the management of these conditions could be made.

      Clinicians and researchers are hopeful that tailoring treatment to subgroups of patients may
      positively impact on patient outcomes and more efficient usage of health-care resources. For
      the lumbar spine, tailoring treatment to different subgroups is already present in
      literature. For example, in patients with pain provoked by postures/movements, tailoring
      treatment to modify specific features of posture/movement is effective and patients allocated
      to subgroups respond better to matched rather than unmatched interventions. Yet, other
      studies showed no additional benefit. Despite the growing interest for tailoring treatment
      for NSNP, the definition of tailored/stratified care is broadly used and interpretation is
      diverse. In order to determine best practice for the individual patient, tailoring the
      treatment should account for the multidimensional nature of non-specific spinal complaints
      and respect the individual characteristics of the patient within its subgroup. Additionally,
      it must take into account that patients may present with features of multiple subgroups or
      evolve through subgroups during treatments.

      Previous studies on NSLBP already showed that targeting treatment can reduce costs and may
      improve outcomes when specific groups are compared. Unfortunately, at this moment, no
      conclusive high-quality evidence is present for its superiority. In addition to the lumbar
      spine, research on stratified care for NSNP is scarce compared to NSLBP research. Despite its
      major prevalence and socioeconomic consequences, no recommended or validated classification
      systems to stratify care for NSNP and to target specific subgroups are available. This
      suggests that the treatment decision in this heterogeneous group mostly depends on the
      clinical reasoning process, which is often incomplete in research on NSNP.

      In order to evaluate the best practice for NSNP, a classification system based on a profound
      clinical reasoning process, identifying clinically relevant subgroups should be implemented
      to guide treatment tailoring and to allow a holistic and individual approach, instead of
      oversimplifying non-specific spinal complaints as one condition.

      GOAL :

      To evaluate the effectiveness of a patient tailored treatment (PTT) combined with
      individualized education, compared to (1) a non-patient tailored treatment (NPTT) consisting
      of a generalized exercise program with education and (2) a control group for (sub)acute
      (recurrent) nonspecific complaints.
    
  