
    
      A popular crossover fighting video game released in 2001 for the Nintendo Gamecube that
      emphasizes reflexes and dexterity to perform specific maneuvers will be used in this study as
      a potential dexterity trainer.

      The Eyesi is a training device utilized in many ophthalmology residency training programs to
      improve intraocular operative skills. The EyeSi is a validated training tool that uses
      high-end virtual reality that can be equipped with instrumentation for cataract or
      vitreoretinal surgery. The device itself consists of eyepieces that replicate a surgical
      scope, a mannequin head where handpiece probes can be inserted and position tracked to
      virtually recreate a surgical environment. The simulator also has a monitor that can be used
      to see the surgical simulator environment. As part of the software, numerous training tasks
      and exercises are available programmed into the device. These exercises utilize numerous
      metrics such as distance traveled, tissue treatment, efficiency, instrument handing, and
      others to provide the user with a raw score out of 100 for each task.

      Subjects will then be asked to complete a manual dexterity questionnaire including history of
      video game use as well as tasks demonstrating manual dexterity ability such as the ability to
      play a musical instrument. Participants will then be randomized to the intervention group or
      the control group.

      The intervention group will be asked to play 10 minutes of the Gamecube game "Super Smash
      Brothers Melee" as their "warm-up" prior to completing the EyeSi surgical tasks of
      navigation, forceps, and bimanual with their scores collected and averaged across all tasks.

      The control group will complete the EyeSi surgical tasks of navigation, forceps, and bimanual
      with their scores collected and averaged, but will not perform a "warm-up" task.

      Planned statistical analysis will include an average of total scores across navigation,
      forceps, and bimanual tasks. Chi square analysis will then be utilized to determine any
      statistical significance between intervention and control groups. Simulator scores will also
      be associated with questionnaire responses and simple linear regression will be used for
      analysis.
    
  