
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the most prominent cause of morbidity and mortality among
      patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and end stage kidney disease (ESKD).
      Unfortunately at the present time, the investigators do not have an effective treatment to
      reduce the high CVD mortality in these populations. Accelerated atherosclerosis,
      inflammation, and vascular stiffness are prominent factors contributing to CVD in CKD.
      Interventions that can effectively counter these factors may provide significant benefits for
      the management of CVD in CKD. Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is an inexpensive and safe
      anti-inflammatory drug that has been in clinical use for over 4 decades even in patients with
      CKD and ESKD. In recent times, multiple in vitro, in vivo, and human cohort based data have
      shown that HCQ benefits multiple parameters of CVD, including inflammation, endothelial
      function, metabolic syndrome, insulin sensitivity and atherosclerosis. Recently the
      investigators through the animal studies validated that HCQ indeed has significant
      anti-atherosclerosis and vasculoprotective effects in CKD milieu. The investigators further
      conducted a small, human, feasibility study that shows a potential for HCQ on parameters
      relevant to CVD in CKD. As the next step, the investigators propose to conduct a
      proof-of-concept, randomized controlled trial (RCT) to ascertain the effects of HCQ on the
      structural, functional, and biochemical measures of atherosclerosis and CVD. The
      investigators will enroll 100 albuminuric, stage 3b CKD subjects in a with 1:1 allocation
      (HCQ : placebo) and treat for a duration of 18 months. The investigators' three specific aims
      are as follows: Specific Aim (SA) 1 will evaluate the ability of HCQ, compared to placebo, to
      slow the progression, or reverse atherosclerosis through serial examination of carotid
      atherosclerosis through non-contrast MRI performed at baseline and after 9 and 18 months of
      treatment with HCQ or placebo. The investigators will measure the change in total carotid
      plaque volume (TPV) as the primary outcome measure, and changes in total plaque surface area,
      maximal stenosis, and the type (fibrous, stable, or unstable), and stability of plaques as
      secondary outcome measures. SA2 will evaluate the impact of HCQ vs. placebo on inflammation
      (SA2a), and vascular stiffness (SA2b) at baseline, and at 6, 9, 12, and 18 months as
      secondary outcome measures. The investigators will quantify inflammation through
      high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (SA2a) and vascular stiffness through measurements of
      aortic pulse wave velocity (SA2b). Specific Aim 3 will examine the effect of HCQ and placebo
      on the trends of hard cardiac and renal outcomes and drug safety. The results of this trial
      will provide critical preliminary data to justify and plan a definitive, multicenter RCT to
      examine the effects of HCQ on hard outcomes of CVD in CKD. Additionally, this study may
      provide insights into the importance of select inflammatory and vascular factors in CVD with
      wider future implications for those with CKD and perhaps the general population.
    
  