
    
      BACKGROUND & RATIONALE: The conventional approach to heart valve operations is open-heart
      surgery. This involves a vertical incision along the sternum (breastbone) and splitting it in
      half to gain access to the heart and its related structures. Open-heart surgery provides
      maximal exposure of the heart to the surgeon and results in good clinical outcome. However,
      post-operative recovery after open-heart surgery can take anywhere from 6 weeks to 3 months
      due to the time required for the sternum to fully heal. During this time patients can
      experience considerable pain and reduced mobility which have a significant negative impact on
      quality of life and productivity. Patients are also prone to major sternal complications such
      as wound opening and sternal infection, all of which may compromise respiratory function and
      overall recovery.

      Minimally invasive valve surgery is a less invasive alternative to open-heart surgery. At the
      Foothills Medical Centre, surgeons perform minimally invasive valve surgery through a
      technique called right mini-thoracotomy. This involves a small incision on the right upper
      chest and leaves the sternum fully intact. This approach has been increasingly favoured and
      adopted by patients and physicians due to the benefits of avoiding sternal complications
      associated with open-heart surgery as well as cosmetic benefits. Despite these benefits, it
      is still unclear whether minimally invasive valve surgery provides better clinical outcomes
      and quality of life compared to conventional open-heart surgery.

      RESEARCH QUESTION & OBJECTIVES: The aim of this observational research study is to assess the
      post-operative functional recovery and clinical outcomes of minimally invasive valve surgery
      via right mini-thoracotomy and conventional surgery via full median sternotomy. The
      objectives of this study are:

        1. To assess post-operative functional recovery in minimally invasive and conventional
           valve surgery patients by assessing recovery of respiratory function, pain, physical
           function, and quality of life back to baseline.

        2. To assess post-operative complications in minimally invasive and conventional valve
           surgery patients by assessing the incidence of early mortality, stroke, post-operative
           atrial fibrillation, permanent pacemaker implantation, paravalvular leak, pulmonary
           complication, wound infection, acute kidney injury, and reoperation.

        3. To assess post-operative valve function in minimally invasive and conventional valve
           surgery patients by assessing valve gradients and degree of leakage.

        4. To assess perioperative support for minimally invasive and conventional valve surgery
           patients by assessing ventilation time, cardiopulmonary bypass time, cross-clamp time,
           amount of blood transfusion, analgesic requirements, and length of ICU and hospital
           stay.

      METHODS: The proposed clinical study is a single-center, prospective cohort study. All
      participants will undergo data collection procedures over a 12-month follow-up period.
      Specifically, data regarding demographics, medical history, and medications will be
      collected, and spirometry testing with a hand-held spirometer will be performed at baseline.
      Patients will be evaluated in hospital on post-op Day 3 and at discharge for pain,
      analgesic/antibiotic use, wound healing, any clinical events, quality of life (EQ-5D), and
      spirometry. Subsequently, patients will return to hospital for follow-up visits post
      operatively for physical examination, interview, additional quality of life questionnaires
      (EQ-5D, KCCQ-23, Health Assessment Questionnaire), and spirometry testing at 2 weeks, 6
      weeks, and 3 months after surgery, with a final phone interview at 12 months.
    
  