
    
      Mothers who are physically and/or psychologically dependent upon alcohol and drugs are at
      risk for a wide range of parenting deficits beginning when their children are infants and
      continuing as their children move through school-age and adolescent years. Behavioral parent
      training programs for drug dependent mothers have had limited success in improving
      mother-child relationships or children's psychosocial adjustment. One reason behavioral
      parenting programs may have had limited success is the lack of attention to emotional aspects
      of the mother-child relationship, including (1) mothers' recognition of their children's
      emotional needs and (2) mothers' capacity to respond sensitively to their children's
      emotional cues. Research on attachment suggests that the emotional quality of the early
      mother-child relationship has important implications for many developmental capacities,
      including emotional and behavior regulation in early years, and social competence academic
      achievement in school-aged and adolescent years. In this Stage I therapy development study,
      we propose to modify a previously piloted attachment-based group parenting intervention
      called Emotionally-Responsive Parenting Group or ERP. The goal of the intervention is to
      improve the mother's capacity to recognize and sensitively respond to her child's emotional
      cues. In a pre-pilot study (see Preliminary Study 6) we tested the feasibility of conducting
      the ERP group intervention as an adjunct group treatment for 23 primarily cocaine-dependent
      mothers in outpatient drug treatment and found that ERP was highly feasible and showed
      initial promise for improving maternal recognition of emotional cues. In this study, we aim
      to modify and validate the intervention as an individual therapy for drug dependent mothers
      of children ages 18 to 36 months in preparation for a Stage II controlled efficacy trial.

      More specifically, we will:

        1. Develop and modify a 12-session ERP individual therapy for drug dependent mothers
           enrolled in outpatient drug treatment have custody of a child between 18 and 36 months
           of age. Fifteen mothers enrolled in outpatient drug treatment will participate in this
           phase of the ERP manual's development.

        2. Develop and implement a therapist training and supervision program for delivery of the
           ERP manualized treatment. This phase will include the development of ERP adherence and
           competence rating scales.

        3. Conduct a randomized, controlled pilot study to determine the potential feasibility,
           acceptability, and efficacy of ERP compared with, Parent Education (PE), a 12-week
           comparison condition in which mothers will attend 12 1-hour parent education sessions
           conducted by a paraprofessional. Sixty mothers enrolled in outpatient drug treatment who
           have at least one child between the ages of 18 and 36 months in their custody will
           participate. Because the intervention will directly target change in maternal
           psychological representations of parenting, primary outcomes will be (a) maternal
           'reflective functioning' (capacity to make inferences about emotional cues, (b) capacity
           for balanced psychological representations of the child, and (c) knowledge of the
           child's developmental capacities. The intervention will indirectly target maternal and
           child behavior and maternal psychosocial adjustment. Secondary outcomes will be:
           maternal sensitivity to her child's emotional cues, the child's use of the mother as a
           secure base, and maternal psychiatric distress, daily functioning and substance abuse.

        4. Explore the impact of process variables on outcomes, and potential mediator and
           moderator effects.. Process variables will be: (a) attendance, (b) therapeutic alliance,
           (c) therapist adherence and competence and (d) use of additional treatment services.
    
  