
    
      This study´s objective was to identify the effectiveness of bed bath video during simulation
      in the performance of undergraduate student skills. Method. This is a randomized, blinded
      clinical trial. The sample consisted of students of the second year of nursing graduation who
      were divided into two groups: intervention group (students who simulated bed bath using the
      video) and control group (students who simulated bed bath without the video). The students
      attended an expository dialog class about bed bath, structured on the basis of literature and
      that subsidized the elaboration of the video and the instrument to evaluate of the
      performance of the abilities. After the class, the subjects were consulted about the desire
      to participate, and those who agreed, signed the consent form. After the theoretical class,
      students were invited to attend the UNIFESP Skills and Simulation Teaching Center and were
      randomized to one of two groups (control or intervention), according to the sequence
      determined by the Random System. Randomization was carried out by a teacher who did not
      participate of any phase of this study, with masking of this phase. After randomization, the
      student was instructed to perform the bed bathing procedure on the low fidelity manikin,
      based on the knowledge obtained in the theoretical class, and no guidance was given at this
      time. At this stage, the teacher evaluated the student's skills through the checklist. It is
      emphasized that this teacher was not informed if the student evaluated was of the control
      group or intervention, and there is masking of this phase. The instrument for evaluating the
      performance of bed bath skills was the previously prepared and validated checklist called
      "Instrument for bathing in the bed - IABL", which presented good internal consistency in the
      validation study (Cronbach's alpha = 0.896) . This instrument is composed of three topics
      (nursing orientation, material preparation and procedure) and 56 items, whose scores vary
      from 0 to 56 points, in which the higher the score the better the students' abilities
      performance. Each item of this instrument was observed during the execution of the procedure
      before and after the simulation and was considered as executed properly (1 point), inadequate
      (0 point) or not performed (0 point). The performance of each student was analyzed by adding
      the scores of the items of the instrument. Subsequent to this first evaluation, the students,
      both in the control group and in the intervention group, received the intervention by another
      teacher. The students of the control group performed the simulation of the bed bath
      procedure, with the aid of a tutor and the intervention group simulated the bed bath while
      watching the video, under the supervision of the tutor. The tutor, from both groups, acted as
      facilitator of the teaching-learning process, according to the needs presented during the
      simulation period. At the end of the simulation, the student of both groups was instructed to
      perform the bed bath procedure once again, and no guidance was given at this time. The
      performance of the student's abilities was evaluated by the same instrument and by the same
      teacher of the first evaluation. Prior to the collection, the research project was submitted
      to the Research Ethics Committee and the data was collected after its approval.
    
  