
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed favorable prognosis stage IIIA
           non-small cell lung cancer treated with neoadjuvant cisplatin and docetaxel with vs
           without thoracic conformal radiotherapy followed by surgical resection and docetaxel.

      Secondary

        -  Compare median and progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare clinical and pathologic response rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate pathological complete response with disease-free and overall survival of
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate DNA damage repair genes (ERCC1 and XRCC1), microtubule-related proteins
           (TUBB-III and MAP4), and shed tumor DNA with response and outcome in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Correlate protein profiles, using MALDI-TOF proteomic analysis of tumor and serum, with
           response and prognosis in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the efficacy of fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography scanning in
           assessing pathological response of the tumor and the mediastinal lymph nodes and in
           predicting long-term outcome in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate comorbid conditions with survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to T
      stage (T1 vs T2-3), number of involved mediastinal lymph nodes (1 vs 2 or more vs not
      evaluable), and nodal micrometastases vs clinically involved nodes (mN2 vs cN2).

        -  Induction therapy: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on
                days 1 and 22.

             -  Arm II: Patients undergo thoracic conformal radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week
                for approximately 5½ weeks (total of 28 doses). Patients also receive cisplatin IV
                over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 22, and 29 and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15,
                22, and 29.

        -  Surgery: Within 4-8 weeks after completion of induction therapy, patients with stable
           disease or better undergo a lobectomy or pneumonectomy with a formal systematic
           mediastinal lymph node dissection.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Beginning 4-6 weeks after surgery, patients receive docetaxel IV
           over 1 hour on days 1, 22, and 43 and pegfilgrastim or filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously
           on days 2, 23, and 44.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, within 2 weeks after completion of induction
      therapy, and then at 6 and 12 months after surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6
      months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 574 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  