
    
      Surgeries that require lung isolation have been using double-lumen tubes (DLT) for
      endobronchial intubation as the preferred method due to its numerous advantages.

      However, the larger diameter of the DLT compared to the single-lumen tube can be more
      difficult to insert during intubation. [1] The use of video laryngoscopes (VL), which were
      found to have lower rates of intubation failure, reduced incidences of tracheal and laryngeal
      trauma, improved glottic view, and increased ease of use, are gaining interest for its use in
      endobronchial intubation. [2, 3]

      The use of McGrath® VL systems for DLT endobronchial intubation has been studied and compared
      to that of conventional laryngoscopy, as well as that of other VL systems. When compared to
      the conventional Macintosh laryngoscope, McGrath® VL has been consistently associated with a
      better glottic visualization. [4 - 6] Other advantages include reduced need for external
      laryngeal manipulation and a lower rate of intubation-associated complications, such as
      bronchospasm and trauma to the oral mucosa. [7] However, results regarding time to intubation
      have been controversial.

      The use of King Vision® VL for DLT endobronchial intubation has not been studied as much as
      the McGrath® video laryngoscope. Two studies compared the King Vision® VL system to the
      conventional Macintosh laryngoscope and to other VL systems. When comparing King Vision® to
      Macintosh laryngoscope, the time to intubation was comparable between the two devices. [8, 9]
      However, one study found that in a simulated easy airway, a significantly longer time to
      intubation was shown with King Vision® VL. [9] King Vision® VL and Macintosh laryngoscope
      were also comparable in terms of glottic visualization, intubation difficulty, first-pass
      success rates, need for optimizing maneuvers, and postoperative symptoms indicative of
      pharyngeal or laryngeal trauma. [8, 9]

      Therefore, competency in endobronchial intubation using video aided laryngoscopes is built
      through continuous and regular hands-on training. [10] The learning curve of the novice is
      usually monitored aiming to detect when satisfactory performances are reached. This is widely
      done using the cumulative sum analysis (CUSUM) test, which provides an objective evaluating
      method of skill learning via ongoing monitoring. [11]

        -  Educational Course.

             -  All participants will attend a 30-minutes didactic virtual training course on the
                Zoom platform equipped with a slide presentation including a demonstrative video on
                the endobronchial intubation and the tips and tricks for using the two study
                devices.

             -  Additionally, a 5-minute hands-on practice session would be provided on each
                simulated airway model under close supervision by the investigators (AK, MK, SS,
                and TAG).

        -  Before each DLT intubation attempt, the manikin, laryngoscope blade, and DLT will be
           lubricated.

        -  After completing the DLT intubation, participants should have a 15-minute break before
           performing intubation using another laryngoscope.

        -  All intubations will be performed with a 35-Fr left-side DLT.

        -  The participants will not be allowed to watch each other to avoid any learning effect
           through observation.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Updated and finalized statistical analysis plan will be written, before closing the database.
    
  