
    
      Periodontal disease is a main cause of tooth loss. Patients with periodontal disease may
      receive sanative therapy (ST), a deep cleaning of the teeth that helps prevent the
      progression of periodontal disease. Post-ST, maintenance appointments are an important part
      of the strategy used to help these patients prevent the progression of periodontal disease
      and maintain their periodontal health. Given that numerous chronic diseases, obesity, low
      levels of physical activity, being a smoker, poor diet, and older age are all risk factors
      for periodontal disease, these factors may also be predictive of worse periodontal health 5
      to 10 years post-ST. Many modifiable periodontal risk factors such a physical activity,
      exercise, and obesity have not been studied in relation to periodontal outcomes post-ST, and
      other factors such as diet, sex and age have not been comprehensively studied. The primary
      objective of this study is to determine, at 5 to 10 years post-ST, if physical activity,
      exercise, sedentary time, flavonoid intake, protein intake, BMI, sex, age, smoking status,
      and number of sites with periodontal probing depth (PPD) ≥ 4 mm at baseline are significant
      predictors of periodontal health. A secondary objective is to determine if lifetime estrogen
      exposure impacts periodontal health in women. Periodontal health will be measured using
      probing depth, tooth loss, bleeding on probing and plaque index. Established questionnaires
      will be used to assess dietary intake, physical activity and sedentary behaviour. Within the
      study the investigators will also assess if and how a patient's periodontal health has been
      impacted by clinic closures and rescheduling of maintenance appointments that were mandated
      by regulatory organizations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The investigators will also
      ask questions about changes in diet, physical activity and oral hygiene during COVID-19.
    
  