
    
      Abstract:

      Skin preparation solutions are used to clean the skin of the patient before surgery to
      decrease the rate if infection. This is particularly important for hip replacement to reduce
      the risk of prosthetic joint infection. The use of a mark on the skin for site identification
      has become the standard of care to decrease wrong site surgery. The Joint Commission has
      mandated site identification as part of the surgical "time-out". This procedure is also
      mandated by hospital policy. Preliminary work on cadaveric skin shows that the type of skin
      preparation can erase the mark used for surgical site identification. Erasure of the mark
      presents the surgeon with difficulty in performing the site identification. Any error or lack
      of visualization of the site marking could lead to catastrophic wrong site surgery. Our
      hypothesis is that chlorhexidine based skin preparation solutions erase site marking in
      comparison to iodine based skin marking solutions. We intend to prospectively study twenty
      patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty to determine if the site marking is erased by
      chlorhexidine based skin preparation solutions when compared to iodine based skin preparation
      solutions. This information is critical to all surgeons who must balance the risk of wound
      infection versus wrong site surgery.

      Study Procedures:

      We intend to study twenty patients of one orthopaedic surgeon (SCM) undergoing total hip
      replacement in the supine position. Patients must be English speaking and of light skin color
      to standardize the contrast of the site marking. The study will be discussed with the patient
      in the clinic setting before the surgical date. Patients will be randomized into either using
      a chlorhexidine based skin preparation solution (Chloraprep® (chlorhexidine gluconate 2% w/v
      and isopropyl alcohol 70% v/v; Enturia Inc., Leawood, KS, USA)), or an iodine based skin
      preparation solution (Duraprep® (Iodophor 0.7% and isopropyl alcohol 74% w/w; 3M Healthcare,
      St. Paul, MN, USA)). Patients with allergies to either chlorhexidine or iodine will not be
      included in the study. These solutions are both the current gold standard of clinical care
      and are routinely used in the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center. No differences have been
      shown in infection rates for total hip arthroplasty between these solutions.

      The site marking will be performed by the surgeon in a standardized manner using the standard
      marker supplied at the hospital (Sharpie Fine Point Permanent Marker, Sanford Corporation,
      Oak Brook, IL, USA). All markings will be made in the pre-operative holding area per usual
      routine. The site marking will be made next to the site of the incision on the anterior
      thigh. The site marking will include the surgeon's three initials as per usual routine.
      Underneath the surgeon's initials, three random initials will be placed with a horizontal
      line drawn underneath. Twenty random three-letter combinations will be pre-generated using MS
      Excel® (Microsoft Office 2003, Microsoft Corporation, Seattle WA).

      After patient positioning and prior to skin preparation an extra surgical time-out and site
      identification will be performed. The preparation of the skin will then be conducted
      according to the manufacturer's specifications for each skin preparation solution. After skin
      preparation, the solution will be allowed to dry while the patient is draped. Prior to
      applying the impermeable drape to the skin, digital photographs will be taken. Specimens will
      be photographed using a digital still camera (Digital Rebel XTi, Canon U.S.A., Lake Success,
      NY) with a 100-mm macro lens (EF 100mm f/2.8 USM Macro Lens, Canon U.S.A.), and ring flash
      (MR-14EX TTL, Canon U.S.A). The camera captures data at 10.1 megapixels and will be set in
      RAW mode. The shutter speed will be set at 1/60s with an F-stop value of 4.0. The camera was
      placed at a fixed distance from the skin using a tripod. After photography the impervious
      drape will be placed and another surgical time-out will be performed. The surgeon,
      anesthesiologist and nurse must all agree on the surgical site and it must be confirmed with
      the consent form, the patient records and the radiographs.

      The study will make no changes in the clinic care of the patient besides the use of an
      additional time-out and the extra initials and the photograph of the site marking. The
      surgical procedure will not be altered in any way.

      Photographs of the three random initials will be de-identified. They will be cropped using
      Adobe Photoshop CS2® (Adobe, San Jose, CA) so that only the three random initials and the
      horizontal line are visible. The file will be identified by a study number only. The files
      will be placed into a digital presentation (Powerpoint, Microsoft Office 2003, Microsoft
      Corporation, Seattle, WA). Ten orthopaedic surgeons will then read the site markings in
      random order. The surgeons will be asked to identify the initials and to tell whether the
      mark looks appropriate for them to perform a surgical timeout. The horizontal line will be
      digitally analyzed using Adobe Photoshop CS2® to quantitatively measure the mean gray level
      of the horizontal line using the histogram tool.

      Regression analysis will be performed to examine the affect of the skin preparation solution
      on the ability of surgeons to correctly read the initials and their ability to identify the
      site marking.

      Drugs/Substances/Devices:

      Two skin preparation solutions will be used for this study. Both are considered gold
      standards for skin preparation and are routinely used at the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical
      Center. These include:

      Chlorhexidine based skin preparation solution

      Chloraprep® (chlorhexidine gluconate 2% w/v and isopropyl alcohol 70% v/v; Enturia Inc.,
      Leawood, KS, USA)

      Iodine based skin preparation solution

      Duraprep® (Iodophor 0.7% and isopropyl alcohol 74% w/w; 3M Healthcare, St. Paul, MN, USA)

      Study Statistics:

      Primary Variables:

      Identification of the random initials by the reviewing orthopaedic surgeons

      Judgment of reviewing orthopaedic surgeons that the site marking is identifiable for them to
      perform site identification

      The mean gray level of the horizontal line

      Risks:

      Surgical site infection: The skin preparation of the skin will be conducting using the two
      standard skin preparation solutions at the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center. The
      preparation will be performed according to manufacturer's directions for the skin preparation
      solutions. The risk of infection should not be changed by this study. This study is not meant
      to investigate the rates of infection using the two preparation solutions.

      Wrong site surgery: The standard protocol for site identification will be performed for all
      patients. The surgeon's initials will be identified during the time-out procedure. The time
      out will be performed by the nurse in the operating room according to the protocol of the
      Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center. The nurse will read the consent form, confirm the site
      identification mark with the surgeon and the anesthesiologist. The side will be confirmed
      with the radiographs and the consent form for the procedure. The time out will be performed
      two times to prevent any possibility of wrong site surgery. This is a technique used by the
      neurosurgical services where site marking is difficult. The site will be identified both
      before and after the skin preparation.

      Extra markings: The patient will have three extra initials and one horizontal line drawn
      underneath the standard site marking. Site markings are with permanent marker and do take
      several weeks of washing to be removed. All patients will be informed of the extra markings
      as part of the study consent form. If patients do not want to have these extra markings, they
      will not be included into the study.

      Confidentiality:

      The data from this study includes only the digital photographs of the site marking. The
      photographs will have no identifying information and will be only labeled with the study
      number (one to twenty). All information from this study will be de-identified data that
      should not pose any confidentiality risks to the patient.

      Benefits:

      The benefit of this study will be to give more information about the removal of site markings
      by skin preparation solutions. While the risk of wrong site surgery is currently low,
      everything possible must be done to eliminate any potential for this occurring. This study
      examines the marking used for total hip surgery; the risk of wrong site surgery is higher for
      those surgeries involving the digits or smaller areas of the body. In these areas, the
      marking must be perfect. Any elimination of the mark could result in catastrophe. If a mark
      is not well visible or partially erased, a culture is created where the mark is ignored,
      creating danger to the patient. If this is occurring with standard skin preparation solutions
      then either the solutions or the marking must be changed in the future. We hope that this
      study will help to eliminate any potential for wrong site surgery.
    
  