
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxicity, remission rate, event-free survival, and overall
      survival following induction with cytarabine/mitoxantrone (ARA-C/DHAD), intensification with
      ARA-C and etoposide (VP-16), and consolidation with cladribine (2-CdA) and VP-16 in patients
      with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) that is secondary, in first relapse, or has failed initial
      remission induction therapy. II. Compare the remission induction rate and event-free survival
      on this trial with prior second-line studies (i.e., protocols CCG-243, CCG-201, and
      CCG-261P). III. Compare survival of patients on this trial with the survival of patients
      relapsing or failing to achieve an initial complete remission (CR) on previous front-line AML
      trials (i.e., protocols CCG-251, CCG-213, CCG-2861, and CCG-2891). IV. Determine the
      frequency and prognostic significance of mdr1 gene expression and p53, topoisomerase II, and
      deoxycytidine kinase gene mutations in these patients. V. Determine the disease-free and
      overall survival of patients achieving a CR on this study in relation to the
      post-intensification therapy received (i.e., bone marrow transplantation, chemotherapy, or no
      further therapy). VI. Determine the frequency and degree of abnormal cardiac function on
      echocardiogram or MUGA at 1 and 5 years in patients treated with mitoxantrone following
      anthracycline therapy during initial treatment. VII. Provide a control arm evaluating the
      safety of using phase I or II agents in an "upfront window" approach planned for future CCG
      studies. VIII. Determine the toxicity, remission rate, event-free survival, and overall
      survival in patients who fail to achieve a CR with ARA-C/DHAD induction and are then treated
      with 2-CdA/VP-16. IX. Determine the biologic characteristics, toxicity, remission rate,
      event-free survival, and overall survival following this treatment regimen in patients who
      develop AML as a second malignancy.

      OUTLINE: Patients who do not achieve M1/M2a marrow following Induction proceed to Salvage
      Induction; all others proceed to Intensification. Patients receive Consolidation therapy on
      Regimen A, B, or C according to the investigator's choice. The following acronyms are used:
      ARA-C Cytarabine, NSC-63878 2-CdA Cladribine (2-Chlorodeoxyadenosine), NSC-105014 DHAD
      Mitoxantrone, NSC-301739 G-CSF Filgrastim, NSC-614629 HC Hydrocortisone, NSC-10483 HD High
      Dose MTX Methotrexate, NSC-740 PBSC Peripheral Blood Stem Cells TBI Total-Body Irradiation
      TIT Triple Intrathecal Therapy (IT ARA-C/IT HC/IT MTX) VP-16 Etoposide, NSC-141540 INDUCTION:
      2-Drug Combination Chemotherapy plus CNS Prophylaxis/Therapy. ARA-C/DHAD; G-CSF; plus IT
      ARA-C and, if CNS disease at entry, TIT. SALVAGE INDUCTION: 2-Drug Combination Chemotherapy.
      2-CdA/VP-16. INTENSIFICATION: 2-Drug Combination Chemotherapy followed, as indicated, by
      Radiotherapy. HD ARA-C/VP-16; followed, in patients with persistent CNS disease, CNS relapse,
      or chloromas, by irradiation using megavoltage equipment (minimum Co60 and maximum 6 MV
      x-rays or electrons). CONSOLIDATION: Regimen A: 2-Drug Combination Chemotherapy. 2-CdA/VP-16.
      Regimen B: Myeloablative Chemoradiotherapy followed by Hematopoietic Rescue. TBI (equipment
      unspecified) with electron boosts to the testes, chest, extramedullary sites, and, if
      indicated, craniospinal region; VP-16; followed by allogeneic or autologous bone marrow or
      PBSC. Regimen C: No further therapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 90 patients will be entered. The study may be closed if there
      are 7 or more deaths in the first 45 patients who complete Intensification.
    
  