
    
      This is a open-label and single arm study. We plan to recruit 10 patients with biopsy-proven
      IgA nephropathy will be recruited.

      Treatment regimen and dosage adjustment

      At week 0, all patients will receive calcitriol (oral capsule) at a fixed dose of 0.5 mcg
      twice weekly. If there is no adverse effect and corrected serum calcium remains < 2.55
      mmol/l, the dose of calcitriol will be maintained for 12 weeks.

      If corrected serum calcium is 2.55 to 2.62 mmol/l, the dose of calcitriol will be reduced to
      0.25 mcg twice weekly. Serum calcium will be rechecked after 2 weeks (or more frequently if
      indicated). If corrected serum calcium remains < 2.55 mmol/l, the dose of calcitriol will be
      maintained for the rest of the study period. If corrected serum calcium remains > 2.62 mmol/l
      for two consecutive measurements despite reducing the dose of calcitriol, the study
      medication will be stopped and the subject will be discontinued from the study.

      If corrected serum calcium is > 2.75 mmol/l at any time, hold calcitriol for one week and
      repeat laboratory test for calcium. If the subject's next serum calcium is < 2.62 mmol/l,
      calcitriol may be restarted at 0.25 mcg twice weekly. If the next serum calcium level is >
      2.62 mmol/l, the subject will be discontinued from the study.

      Concomitant therapy

      Prior to enrollment, all of the patients will be stable while receiving ACE inhibitor or
      angiotensin receptor blocker. Anti-hypertensive therapy will be titrated throughout the study
      period to maintain the blood pressure below 130 / 80 mmHg.

      Visit schedule

      Follow up visits will take place according to the following schedule:

        -  week -4 (screening)

        -  weeks 0 (start calcitriol), 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 (stop calcitriol) and 16

      During every visit, the following parameters will be measured: body weight, blood pressure,
      pulse, adverse effects of treatment, complete blood picture, differential white cell count,
      renal function test, liver enzymes, serum calcium, phosphate, and early morning urine
      collection for protein-to-creatinine ratio. Renal function is determined by the estimated
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR) according to a standardized formula [20]. Serum fasting
      glucose and lipid profile will be measured at 0 and 12 weeks.

      In order to examine the anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory action of calcitriol, serum
      level of C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and transforming growth factor-beta
      (TGF), and urinary levels of TGF, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), monocyte chemoattractant
      protein-1 (MCP-1) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) will be measured at 0, 4, 12 and 16 weeks by
      ELISA. The above panel of cytokine is chosen because of their documented relevance in IgA
      nephropathy and progressive renal failure [16,19,21-27].

      End points

      Primary end point of the study is the change in the degree of proteinuria. Secondary end
      points include the change in renal function and other serum inflammatory markers.

      Adverse events

      Information about every adverse event will be collected and recorded. An adverse event is any
      undesirable symptom or medical condition occurring after starting the study medication,
      whether considered drug-related or not.

      Patient withdrawal

      The patient will be withdrawn from the study for:

        -  death

        -  doubling of baseline serum creatinine level

        -  pregnancy

        -  hypercalcemia (serum calcium > 2.62 mmol/L for two consecutive measurements)

        -  any other intolerable adverse events

        -  significant non-compliance with the protocol

        -  the desire of the patient to withdraw from the study All female patients will be advised
           on taking effective contraceptive measures during the study period.
    
  