
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) positive
      mothers in developing countries exclusively breastfeed for the first months of the infant's
      life followed by early cessation, unless breast milk substitutes are acceptable, feasible,
      affordable, sustainable, and safe. The weaning period is high risk for such infants due to
      lack of adequate replacement feeds resulting in malnutrition, growth faltering and
      susceptibility to diarrheal and respiratory illness from loss of breast milk's immune
      protection and introduction of contaminated foods and water. In addition, risk of HIV
      transmission is increased if a mother breastfeeds during weaning due to higher breast milk
      viral load during this time. Appropriate infant feeding alternatives during and after the
      high-risk weaning period are urgently needed.

      Although heat-treating breast milk is listed by WHO as one method of modifying breast milk,
      it has not been fully explored. Our preliminary data demonstrate that Flash-heat, a
      low-technologic home pasteurization method, is capable of inactivating HIV in infected breast
      milk while maintaining most vitamins and immunoglobulins. This suggests Flash-heating breast
      milk could be a potential infant feeding option during and after weaning to decrease risk of
      infant illness and malnutrition.

      Clinical staffing shortages in much of Africa, however, limit the ability of doctors, nurses
      and counselors to provide comprehensive infant feeding counseling to each mother. In light of
      this, our study will investigate the use of enhanced peer-based infant feeding counseling as
      a practical approach to improving exclusive breastfeeding durations while we are
      investigating the feasibility of Flash-heating breast milk. We will collaborate with the US
      and Tanzania offices of the University Research Co, LLC (URC), who are at the forefront of
      implementing appropriate infant feeding counseling methods in Africa. We will work with URC,
      local investigators, and Anna Coutsoudis, who's Safer Breastfeeding Programme in South Africa
      is considered a model, to provide community health workers with comprehensive infant feeding
      counseling training. HIV positive mothers (and a small number of HIV negative/status unknown
      mothers to avoid stigmatizing home-based counseling) who are breastfeeding will be recruited
      at 1-2 months postpartum at hospitals in Tanzania and provided enhanced counseling to
      exclusively breastfeed. Trained community health workers will make weekly home visits to
      support the mothers and collect infant feeding and breast pathology data. When the HIV
      positive mothers anticipate introduction of complementary foods, the Flash-heat method will
      be further discussed as an option for during and after transition. Mothers who choose to
      Flash-heat will be provided home-based support by community health workers and followed for
      up to 3 months from the time they stop breastfeeding.

      This feasibility and pilot efficacy study of Flash-heating breast milk will be used to guide
      a full-scale efficacy trial in the near future. Specific aims include to: 1) Determine the
      impact of enhanced home-based training on infant feeding outcomes. Given clinical staffing
      shortages in Tanzania, the use of community health workers could provide support needed to
      exclusively breastfeed longer. Rates of initiation and duration of exclusive breastfeeding
      will be measured. These findings are important to explore effective methods of thoroughly
      educating the mothers about the risks and benefits of the various infant-feeding alternatives
      while not increasing the burden facing under-staffed health care workers. 2) Determine uptake
      of the Flash-heat method and protocol adherence by mothers in their homes. With enhanced
      support from community health workers, mothers may be able to correctly Flash-heat their
      milk, suggesting it could be a practical infant feeding method. Uptake of heat treatment and
      the duration of successful heat treatment will be measured. We will also interview mothers
      who opt to attempt the method to qualitatively assess the challenges mothers may face in a
      field setting. 3) Determine safety of Flash-heated breast milk in a field setting. Breast
      milk samples will be collected and assayed for HIV inactivation and bacterial counts to
      ensure method safety in field settings. 4) To pilot an efficacy trial of Flash-heat to
      improve infant health outcomes. Research personnel will monitor infant feeding, growth and
      morbidity during home visits twice monthly. If infants who receive heat-treated breast milk
      experience less morbidity and mortality than those fed complementary foods while continuing
      to breastfeed and those completely weaned to replacement foods, counselors in the future will
      be better able to inform mothers of risks and benefits of different feeding options.

      If this proposed study finds that HIV positive mothers can successfully heat-treat their
      breast milk, it could be viewed as an HIV-free, safe, nutritious, affordable and available
      complementary food during and after the weaning phase after EBF.
    
  