
    
      In patients with ovarian cancer, identifying the volume and exact locations of disease is of
      paramount importance prior to deciding on upfront surgery versus chemotherapy. Currently,
      most clinicians use CT scans to determine the extent of disease; however, this tool has
      limited sensitivity and specificity. 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (=FDG) PET scans have been
      previously assessed with only limited success; therefore, FDG PET scans have not been
      universally incorporated into the workup of patients with ovarian cancer. A further
      noninvasive tool that would accurately map disease extent is needed to better select therapy
      for ovarian cancer patients, reduce the rate of aborted surgery and associated complications,
      and hopefully improve overall outcome.

      "Glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP-II)" is a type of an enzyme on the surface of cells. It
      has additional names including prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA). It is expressed by
      normal tissues such as salivary glands, as well as by multiple malignant tumors, often in the
      abnormal blood vessels of these tumors. A recent study has examined the expression of this
      enzyme in gynecologic cancers including primary and metastatic ovarian cancer. The authors
      showed a high expression of this enzyme at special staining performed on surgical tumor
      samples. In other cancers, such as prostate cancer PET with GCP-II (=PSMA PET) has shown very
      high sensitivity and high specificity for the detection of tumor sites, even when CT is
      negative. In this study the investigators will be assessing the performance of this special
      PET scan using a PSMA tracer called "18F-DCFPyL". The investigators will investigate the
      ability of 18F-DCFPyL PET scans to detect sites of disease in patients with ovarian cancer.
      Disease sites seen on PET will be compared to what is seen on the standard CT scan, and to
      what is found at time of surgery (if surgery is performed).

      The rationale for this study is that there is a need for better noninvasive tools that will
      map disease extent in HG EOC. A recent study has shown that at immunohistochemistry GCP=II is
      overexpressed in ovarian cancer tumors, both primary and metastatic. GCP-II (=PSMA) has been
      used clinically to assess patients with prostate cancer and many other tumours have been
      shown to be PSMA-avid on PET (including renal cell carcinomas). The purpose of this study is
      to determine whether HG SOC are 18F-DCFPyL (=GCP-II)-avid and to compare the performance of
      this PET to CT and findings at time of surgery.

      Primary Objective

      To determine whether HG EOCs are 18F-DCFPyL avid on PET/CT.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To compare the sites of disease identified on PET/CT to contrast-enhanced CT (standard of
      care).

      To determine whether there is heterogeneity in 18F-DCFPyL-avidity at different tumor sites.
    
  