
    
      Myositis and haemophilia belong with a prevalence rate of 0.4-17.3 of 100'000 and 2-12 of
      100'000, respectively to the group of RDs. The fact that a RD affects only a small number of
      people, indicates that rehabilitation knowledge outside the specialised medical centers is
      rare. Thus, since many people with RD do not live nearby these institutions, they do not have
      direct acces to rehabilitation programmes. The University Hospital Zurich (USZ) offers
      medical treatment and Rehabilitation Support in such reference centers, among others for
      people with myositis (PWM) and for people with haemophilia (PWH).

      Although these two diseases differ strongly in their underlying cause, affected persons are
      confronted with similar problems: PWM and PWH suffer from musculoskeletal problems and
      therefore, a physically active lifestyle is essential to maintain good health. Nevertheless,
      PWM and PWH were previously discouraged from participating in physical exercise.
      Consequently, both groups are less physically active, have a lower fitness level and a higher
      risk for comorbidities, compared to healthy people. Nowadays, the beneficial effects of
      exercise in PWH and in PWM are well accepted and there is evidence that PWH and PWM profit
      from physical exercise programs.

      Despite the encouraging benefits of physical exercise in PWH and PWM, these may be challenged
      with more barriers to start and maintain an exercise program, compared to healthy persons,
      e.g. due to reduced accessibility of specialised physiotherapists.

      Telerehabilitation (TR), a subfield of telemedicine, may help to overcome some of the
      barriers to exercise regularly and connect PWH/PWM with specialised physiotherapists. TR is
      defined as the provision of rehabilitation services from a distance using telecommunication
      technologies as the delivery medium. This approach may optimize the timing, intensity and
      sequencing of interventions and provide opportunities for individuals to receive
      rehabilitation in their own social and professional environments from disease-specialised
      caregivers. An additional advantage of TR is the possibility to implement different
      persuasive technologies such as personalisation, self-monitoring, tailoring, goal setting,
      comparison and conditioning through positive and negative reinforcement in the development of
      exercise programmes. These technologies help to make exercise programmes more enjoyable and,
      therefore, enhance patients' motivation to exercise regularly.

      Furthermore, the importance of individual and social support has been emphasized in several
      reviews evaluating health behaviour change for example becoming more active. This kind of
      support can be integrated in the design of a TR program and it can further be enhanced by
      blending TR with face-to-face sessions. The so-called blended therapy is a promising approach
      combining the advantages from traditional rehabilitation and new technologies.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate feasibility of a blended therapy approach, combining a
      tablet-based exercise program, called "Dividat Fit" with face-to-face therapy sessions for
      PWH and PWM.
    
  