
    
      The present project will develop an automated machine learning approach using multi-modality
      data (imaging, laboratory, electrocardiography and questionnaire) to increase the
      understanding and prediction of arising heart failure in patients scheduled for cardio-toxic
      chemotherapy. This algorithmus will be developed by the technical cooperation partner Prof.
      Adam who leads the Technion, the institut for biomedical engineering.

      Specific aims:

        1. To collect all achievable data from patients scheduled for cardiotoxic chemotherapy at
           baseline, up to 6 months after ending therapy - regarding imaging (MRI, echocardiography
           with conventional and strain parameter), electrocardiography, biomedical markers (to
           define the function of liver, kidney, heart and hematopoietic bone marrow), clinical
           parameter and quality of life questionnaire:

        2. To optimize and evaluate a robust machine learning approach that integrate and assess
           all these data to detect early myocardial damage and to identify an optimal parameter
           (single or in combination) for prediction of subclinical left ventricular (LV)
           dysfunction (stage 1 of the current study).

        3. To perform a clinical study (stage 2 of the current study) of chemotherapy patients, and
           to identify subclinical LV dysfunction, which will be used to guide cardioprotective
           therapy using the new machine learning approach in comparison to the actual standard
           procedure using only echocardiographic left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate and optimize a machine learning approach to combine
      and integrate data from different imaging modalities with laboratory, electrocardiography and
      questionnaire information to define the value of all these parameter in patient management,
      by identification of subclinical LV dysfunction, which will be used to guide cardioprotective
      therapy in comparison to a standard approach using only conventional echocardiographic
      parameters.

      MRI, conventional echocardiographic parameters and echocardiographic myocardial deformation
      imaging are employing different modalities and approaches to obtain insight into myocardial
      tissue and deformation. We hypothesize that a new and optimized automated algorithm using
      these modalities and integrating laboratory, electrocardiography and questionnaire
      information will improve the detection of early LV dysfunctions, and will bring new insight
      to the potential response of chemo patients to cardiotoxic therapy. We expect that this
      algorithm leads to the use of adjunctive therapy that will limit the development of LV
      dysfunction, interruptions of chemotherapy and development of heart failure in follow-up and
      thus will reduce morbidity and costs.
    
  