
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Estimate the response rate to topotecan in children with newly diagnosed medulloblastoma
           or supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors who have measurable residual disease
           after surgery. (Topotecan window closed to accrual 9/10/2001)

        -  Determine the feasibility of four courses of high-dose chemotherapy (vincristine,
           cisplatin, and cyclophosphamide) with peripheral blood stem cell support after
           craniospinal irradiation (CSI) in these patients.

        -  Estimate the 5-year overall survival and progression-free survival in patients treated
           with risk-adapted CSI and high-dose chemotherapy.

        -  Compare changes in intellectual functioning in patients treated with reduced-dose vs
           standard-dose CSI.

        -  Estimate the incidence of ototoxicity associated with risk-adapted CSI and posterior
           fossa boost(s) given by 3-D conformal radiotherapy technique combined with amifostine
           and cisplatin.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups based
      on risk status.

        -  Group 1 (average-risk): Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV
           daily until peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested. PBSC are harvested when
           blood counts recover. Patients then receive craniospinal irradiation (CSI) 5 days a week
           for 6 weeks. Beginning 6 weeks after completion of CSI, patients receive high-dose
           chemotherapy comprising vincristine IV followed by cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day -4
           and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -3 and -2. Patients receive amifostine IV
           over 1 minute a maximum of 5 minutes prior to cisplatin infusion and then 3 hours into
           cisplatin infusion. PBSC are reinfused on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF SC beginning on
           day 1 and continuing for a minimum of 7 days or until blood counts recover. Vincristine
           IV is administered on day 6. G-CSF is stopped 48 hours prior to beginning subsequent
           courses of chemotherapy. High-dose chemotherapy repeats every 4 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Group 2 (high-risk): Patients receive topotecan IV over 4 hours on days 1-5 and G-CSF SC
           or IV beginning 24 hours after completion of the first course of topotecan and
           continuing until PBSC are harvested. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses. If
           an adequate number of PBSC are not harvested, the patient undergoes a second harvest of
           PBSC after the second course of topotecan. Patients then receive CSI, high-dose
           chemotherapy, amifostine, and PBSC support as in group 1. (Topotecan window closed to
           accrual 9/10/2001) Patients undergo neuropsychological testing prior to radiotherapy and
           chemotherapy and then at 1, 2, and 5 years.

      Patients are followed at 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 24 months and then every 6 months for
      3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-36 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  