
    
      Participants will be invited and recruited to the study from St Joseph's Hospice in Hackney
      (single centre study). Patients with cancer that are either attending the day centre service
      at St Joseph's or being visited at home by the community specialist palliative care
      nursing/medical team based at St Joseph's Hospice; will be approached by their direct
      clinical care staff. (Some of the direct clinical care team are National Health Service (NHS)
      staff and some care is commissioned by the NHS despite St Joseph's Hospice being a non-NHS
      site). Staff will initiate discussion about the project, and will assess for both mental and
      physical capacity to participate.

      Dr Emilie Green (EG) will then contact the potential participants by phone or in person (if
      they have previously given verbal consent for her to join their usual clinical staff on a
      home visit or when they are attending the day centre). The project will be discussed with
      each potential participant, and EG will answer any questions they may have, will assess for
      mental and physical capacity, and will arrange a mutually convenient time and location to
      meet for the interview.

      Before starting the interview, EG will again make time to clarify any questions each
      participant may have. She will ask each participant to date/sign three consent forms before
      starting the interview (one for EG, one for the participant, and one for their notes at St
      Joseph's Hospice). If a joint interview is undertaken with a patient and their carer; both
      parties will individually sign their own consent forms. She will then ask questions relating
      to sociodemographic data (recording this on the Personal Information Sheet) e.g. age, living
      situation and diagnosis before starting the interview. The interviews will each last at least
      30 minutes.

      If participants decide that they would like a telephone interview, the process will be
      slightly different. EG will send three consent forms to each prospective participant (one for
      them to keep, and two for them to date/sign and send back by post) in a stamped addressed
      envelope. If the forms are not received within 3 weeks, EG will follow up with a phone call
      to the prospective participant, to clarify whether they still wish to participate. Only after
      she receives the two dated/signed consent forms will EG arrange a time with them for the
      telephone interview. She will then phone the participant from a private location that she
      does not share with other colleagues. She will collect sociodemographic information (which
      will be recorded on the Personal Information Sheet) before starting the interview (which will
      last at least 30 minutes.)

      Qualitative data will be obtained through semi-structured interviews with adults with cancer
      and palliative care needs. Patients will be invited to bring their carer to the interview. EG
      will conduct and transcribe up to 30 audio-recorded semi-structured interviews, which will be
      carried out at the patient's preferred location (either at home, over the phone, or in a
      pre-booked room at St Joseph's Hospice). EG will ask questions relating to sociodemographic
      data (recording this on the Personal Information Sheet) prior to starting the interview.

      EG will transcribe all interviews verbatim. Data will be analysed thematically and will
      adhere to the principles of the Framework Analysis developed by Ritchie and Spencer.
      Recurring themes and concepts will be identified using a constant comparative approach. Any
      contributions made by carers will be included and analysed as 'added value' data.This will
      enable us to explore if and how carers' perspectives contribute to our understanding of
      patient experience of their GP's involvement in palliative care.
    
  