
    
      Study Procedures:

      Participants will be randomly assigned (like flipping a coin) to one of the following groups
      upon completion of collection of initial information about the participant's: current and
      prior health history, symptoms, and health-related quality of life, and take a 6-minute
      self-paced walking test to measure walking ability. This test will occur at Spectrum Health
      facility before surgery.

      Groups: 1) The Symptom Experience Group and the 2) Light Physical Activity Group

      Description of the Symptom Experience Group:

      In addition to receiving conventional treatment for your cancer, as prescribed by your health
      care providers, you will receive planned, structured, weekly telephone visits to report the
      experience of your symptoms and health-related quality of life questions.

      In the Symptom Experience Group you will:

        -  Provide information about your current and prior health history.

        -  Take a 6-minute self-paced walking test to measure your walking ability at Spectrum
           Health facility before surgery and at approximately 6-weeks after returning home from
           the hospital (prior to possible chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy).

        -  Wear a pedometer each day of the study and record the number of steps you take each day.

        -  Contact the nurse researcher if you have any study related questions.

        -  Record information and comments in a daily diary (takes approximately 2 minutes to
           complete each day) and answer research questions via a weekly telephone visit throughout
           the study.

      If you wish to take part in this study you will need to:

        -  Keep your study appointments.

        -  Tell your telephone research assistant about any medications you are taking.

        -  Tell your telephone research assistant about any side effects, doctor visits, or
           hospitalizations that you may have whether or not you think they are related to the
           study.

      In the Symptom Experience Group you will receive:

        -  Program education prior to surgery.

        -  A telephone visit within 3 days (24 hours is optimum) after being discharged from the
           hospital to ask questions about your health with the interview taking approximately 30
           minutes.

        -  The health interview can be rescheduled for completion within 3 days of hospital
           discharge should you not feel well enough to complete the interview.

        -  At the end of weeks 1-6, we will make a telephone visit to complete health
           questionnaires with most interviews taking 15 minutes except on weeks 3 and 6 taking
           approximately 30 minutes.

        -  Upon completion of your participation in the Symptom Experience Group, you will receive
           information regarding the light physical activity program.

        -  Upon completion of the study, you will be provided an overview of the results of the
           study.

      Description of the Light Physical Activity Group:

      In addition to receiving conventional treatment for cancer, as prescribed by your health care
      providers, you will receive a home-based light physical activity program to help you manage a
      specific symptom related to cancer and cancer treatment.

      In the Light Physical Activity Group you will:

        -  Provide information about your current and prior health history.

        -  Take a 6-minute self-paced walking test to measure your walking ability at a Spectrum
           Health facility before surgery and at approximately 6-weeks after returning home from
           the hospital (prior to possible chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy).

        -  Participate in a self-scheduled, home-based physical activity program to help you learn
           how to manage a specific symptom related to cancer and cancer treatment for a total of
           six weeks following your return home from the hospital.

        -  Participate in a time commitment starting at 5 minutes a day 5 days a week gradually
           increasing to 30 minutes a day 5 days a week as able by week 6.

        -  Wear a pedometer each day of the study and record the number of steps you take each day.

        -  Record information and comments in a daily diary (takes approximately 2 minutes to
           complete each day) and answer research questions via a weekly telephone visit throughout
           the study.

        -  Contact the nurse researcher if you have any study related questions. If you wish to
           take part in this study you will need to:

             -  Keep your study appointments.

             -  Tell your nurse about any medications you are taking.

             -  Tell your nurse about any side effects, doctor visits, or hospitalizations that you
                may have whether or not you think they are related to the study.

      In the Light Physical Activity Group you will receive:

        -  Program education prior to surgery.

        -  A telephone visit from a nurse within 3 days (24 hours is optimum) after being
           discharged from the hospital to:

        -  Ask questions about your symptoms to see if you are ready to start light physical
           activity program taking approximately 5 minutes.

             -  If you are ready, we will arrange a home visit within 4 days of discharge.

             -  If not ready, we will contact your surgeon to help you and call you each day to
                assess if you are ready to start.

        -  A telephone visit from a research assistant within 3 days (24 hours is optimum) after
           being discharged from the hospital to:

             -  Ask questions about your health with the interview taking approximately 30 minutes.

             -  The health interview can be rescheduled for completion within 3 days of hospital
                discharge should you not feel well enough to complete the interview.

        -  The first home visit from the nurse after surgery will take approximately 2 hours and
           the nurse will:

             -  Assemble and teach you how to operate the physical activity equipment.

             -  Assist you in completing your first physical activity on this day.

             -  Follow-up your first home visit with a telephone visit within 24 hours to answer
                any questions and concerns about the program.

        -  At the beginning of week two, the nurse will make one more home visit, and at the
           beginning of weeks 3-6 the nurse will make a telephone visit to collect and review your
           recorded information.

        -  The nurse will be available to make additional home and telephone visits should you need
           assistance.

        -  At the end of weeks 1-6, research staff will make a telephone visit to complete the
           health questionnaires with most interviews taking 15 minutes except on weeks 3 and 6
           taking approximately 30 minutes.

      We expect 86 persons, 21 years of age or older who are scheduled for surgery to treat lung
      cancer from the west Michigan area to participate in the study.

      The potential risks for the Symptom Experience and Light Physical Activity Groups Include:

      Risks associated with the six-minute walk test are considered low. The study may involve
      risks to you which are currently unknown or unforeseeable. Risks may include and are not
      limited to:

        -  You may stumble or fall, get short of breath, experience muscle cramps, nausea, chest
           pain, and abnormal blood pressure.

        -  The walk test is self-paced by the participant for six-minutes and will be stopped if
           you want it to be stopped.

      The potential risks of this study for the Light Physical activity Group Include:

        -  The light physical activity program as prescribed in this study corresponds to normal
           every day activities that are mildly exerting and pose no greater challenge than normal
           activities of daily living such as:

             -  Strolling slowly in your home or at work. Grocery shopping.

             -  Performing light work in the house such as making a bed, washing dishes, preparing
                food, dusting, and carrying out the trash.

             -  Riding a lawn mower to mow the lawn or walking applying seed or fertilizer to the
                lawn.

             -  Walking in the mall; Bird watching.

             -  The development or increase of activity-dependent symptoms such as fatigue or
                muscle or joint soreness.

        -  The reaction to the body to physical activity cannot always be predicted with accuracy
           and there is a risk of falling while walking and/or standing in place.

        -  As part of the program involves the use of your television, some people (1 in 4,000) may
           have seizures or blackouts triggered by light flashes or patterns while they are
           watching television or playing such things as video games even if they haven't had a
           seizure before.

        -  The reaction of the body to physical activity cannot always be predicted with accuracy
           so safety procedures are being provided to each participant prior to participation.
           Safety procedures include but are not limited to:

             -  Following your physical activity prescription and safety procedures.

             -  Using tools to monitor your heart rate such as through a heart rate wristwatch
                monitor.

             -  Telephone access available during light physical activity.

             -  Accessing your nurse researchers if you have a concern.

      Potential Benefits of the Study:

      We cannot promise any benefits to you or others from your taking part in this research. It is
      hoped that what is learned in this study may benefit other lung cancer patients in the
      future. If you agree to take part in this study you will receive results of this study in the
      future following study completion. We will notify you if any significant new findings develop
      during the course of the study which might affect your willingness to participate.

      The potential benefits of being in the Light Physical Activity Group may include:

        -  Increased ability to manage a symptom related to cancer and its treatment.

        -  Increased ability in performing day-to-day activities.

        -  Increased heart and lung (cardiorespiratory) fitness.

        -  Receiving symptom management help from professional registered nurses.

        -  Feeling more in control of your symptoms.
    
  