
    
      Rationale: Patients with advanced stage head and neck cancer, especially those with disease
      in the hypopharynx, oropharynx, or oral cavity, and poor performance status defined through
      clinical testing, are often not eligible for clinical trials and treated with best supportive
      care. The possibility of developing a well-tolerated chemotherapy regimen in these patients
      may lead to an equivalent benefit and better palliation. The current study offers the
      chemotherapy drug pemetrexed to patients with advanced head and neck cancer. Researchers
      consider this agent to have some anti-tumor efficacy against a variety of site-specific
      cancers, including head and neck cancer with a response rate that is similar to other single
      chemotherapy drugs. In addition, previous research indicates that toxicities associated with
      pemetrexed have been reduced when patients are given folic acid and B12 vitamin
      supplementation. Along with pemetrexed, the current study provides study participants with
      both folic acid and B12.

      Purpose: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate tumor response, including
      complete and partial remission, and toxicities from pemetrexed in patients with advanced head
      and neck cancer. Secondary objectives of this study include measurements of time to tumor
      progression, survival, and patient quality of life.

      Treatment: Study participants will be given pemetrexed through intravenous infusions.
      Pemetrexed will be administered once every three weeks. This schedule of pemetrexed once
      every three weeks will be repeated up to six times. Study participants will also be provided
      with both folic acid and B12 vitamin supplementation before, during, and after study
      treatments with pemetrexed. Vitamin supplementation is considered critical and compliance
      must be followed closely. Several tests and exams will be given throughout the study to
      monitor patients. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth and unacceptable side
      effects.
    
  