
    
      The experimental procedures were integrated into a health promotion and education program.

      Pre-manipulation education: Across the study groups, participants received a common healthy
      lifestyle education program, focusing on nutrition and physical activity, which was a part of
      the school curriculum. The combination of nutrition and PA interventions is in line with best
      practice guidelines for interventions promoting healthy body weight. The education program
      was delivered by teachers and a group format was used. The groups discussed food composition,
      safe food handling, food labeling, nutrient needs for age and gender groups, dietary
      guidelines, and clinical nutrition issues. The program did not include behavior change
      techniques and was not accompanied by changes in policies.

      The intervention conditions were delivered via a combination of printed forms with
      paper-and-pencil exercises and face-to-face sessions. All experimental conditions included an
      initial session (completing the forms individually in the groups + face-to-face component)
      and sets of handouts for three following weeks. The face-to-face component was delivered
      within three days of completing the initial forms. The initial session was followed by a
      booster session (group + face-to-face components), delivered at 2-month follow-up. Across the
      groups, completing the forms (individual component) took approximately 30 minutes and was
      conducted in classrooms. The face-to-face components took 45-60 minutes and were conducted in
      the offices of school nurses or school psychologists.

      Group intervention component. At the baseline participants completed the intervention
      materials individually, using self-copy paper; the copies were collected for fidelity
      analysis and originals were left for participants. The paper-and-pencil materials followed a
      similar format in four groups in terms of word count, visual format, and the number and
      length of sections requiring participants filling in the blanks.

      Face-to-face intervention component. During the face-to-face component (at the baseline and
      during the booster sessions) all participants received feedback on their body weight,
      information regarding their physical activity levels and energy expenditure based on
      participant's age, gender, body weight, followed by moderate-to-vigorous physical activity
      recommendations (body mass and body fat measured during the booster session was not
      recorded). Next, all participants and experimenters jointly reviewed the forms completed
      during the group component. Adolescents reported included plans and were prompted to provide
      even more detailed responses to questions included in the forms. Experimenters asked
      participants to read the content of the form loudly; looked for sections which were
      incomplete and encouraged adolescents to complete these sections; prompted participants to
      provide detailed responses.
    
  