
    
      The gold standard for measurement of implant fixation over time is radiostereometric analysis
      (RSA). At the time of surgery, 0.8-1.0 mm Tantalum beads (typically n = 6-8 per region of
      interest) are inserted into the bone surrounding the implant of interest, and occasionally
      also into the polyethylene liner or insert of the implant. RSA exams are then acquired within
      the first 2 weeks post-operation, and again at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 2
      years. Each exam involves a stereo x-ray acquisition with a calibration unit to reconstruct
      the 3D location of the implant relative to the marker beads. Across each exam, the migration
      of the implant relative to the marker beads is tracked compared to the baseline exam acquired
      within the first 2 weeks. RSA is extremely precise and accurate, and is able to track
      migrations on the order of 10's of microns. Large early migrations within the first 1-2 years
      post-operation are predictive of eventual implant loosening and failure. For acetabular cups,
      proximal migration of greater than 1.0 mm within the first 2 years post-operation is
      considered unacceptable, with cups migrating between 0.2 and 1.0 mm at risk of having a
      revision rate exceeding 5% at 10 years.

      An RSA study should be completed for any new implant under the principles of phased
      innovation in orthopaedics. This ensures the new device will achieve long-term, stable
      fixation prior to its widespread adoption. Many device manufacturers incorporate the results
      of the RSA migration study into their marketing material. The advantage of RSA is its high
      degree of accuracy and its well-established thresholds for implant migration, meaning a
      relatively small number of patients are required to provide meaningful results.

      Several joint replacement companies (Microport excluded) have previously released new
      products to the marketplace without RSA evaluation and these implants have later been
      identified as having ingrowth problems. The scientific aim of this study is to prove efficacy
      of ingrowth with a recently released implant.

      This study design will be a prospective cohort with a retrospective control group. The study
      will be conducted at a single centre (London Health Sciences Centre - University Hospital,
      London, Ontario, Canada) with all cases performed by a single, fellowship-trained high-volume
      surgeon.

      The study group will receive a Prime cementless acetabular cup (manufactured by Microport
      located in Arlington, Tennessee). All patients will also receive a cementless Profemur
      femoral stem with a 32 mm Cobalt Chromium femoral head, articulating on a highly crosslinked
      acetabular liner. The control group will be a previously published cohort that received the
      Reflection cementless acetabular cup with Roughcoat coating (Smith & Nephew, Memphis, TN).
      This is a well-established cup with long-term survivorship available in multiple registries,
      making it an ideal comparator.

      Demographic details will be recorded from each patient. Outcome scores will be collected
      pre-operatively and at each post-operative visit. Standard outcome scores at our centre are
      the Western and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Short Form 12 (SF-12),
      and Harris Hip Score. At the time of surgery, n = 8 of 1.0 mm Tantalum beads will be inserted
      into the pelvis surrounding the acetabular cup. Patients will undergo post-operative supine
      RSA exams within 0-2 weeks (baseline exam) and at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 2
      years, following standardized protocols. RSA exams will be conducted at Robarts with a member
      of the research team escorting participants over to Robarts for each required post-operative
      visit.
    
  