
    
      According to theories such as motivational interviewing and stages of change, individuals
      change health behaviors when the benefits (e.g., being less stressed) outweigh the risks
      (e.g., concerns about confidentiality of treatment). Prior research suggests that educational
      programming to promote the benefits and counter the perceived risks of counseling increases
      adults' motivation to get professional help. Distressed physicians' motivation to seek help
      following an educational intervention has not been evaluated but organizations such as the
      American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, Association for the Accreditation of Graduate
      Medical Education, and the American Medical Association have developed policies and
      programming to educate physicians about the importance of treating depression and reducing
      suicide risk in themselves and their colleagues.

      A "best practices" suicide prevention program in 50+ US universities, the American Foundation
      for Suicide Prevention's Interactive Screening Program (ISP), was identified by the Oregon
      Health and Science University (OHSU) Resident and Faculty Wellness Program (RFWP) clinicians
      as a possible avenue by which to reach distressed OHSU trainees and faculty and encourage
      them to get help. The "Stress and Depression Questionnaire" is an anonymous, online screening
      tool for stress, depression, substance abuse, eating disorders, and suicide risk. Responses
      are scored and ranked according to level of distress and risk with Tier 1 representing "high
      risk, high distress" and Tier 2 "moderate distress, less risk" and Tier 3 "low or no distress
      or risk". RFWP clinicians will monitor responses, provide prompt communication back to the
      participants with information about how they scored, resources available to them, address any
      questions/concerns they might have and invite them to set up an appointment at the RFWP (if
      distressed). Moutier and her colleagues at a similar size academic medical center to OHSU,
      University of California at San Diego (UCSD), administered this survey to all medical
      students, residents, fellows, and faculty (13% completed it) and the majority eventually seen
      by clinicians indicated that they never would have sought help if they had not received
      feedback on the ISP and been encouraged to come in for evaluation/treatment. Being able to
      anonymously dialogue with a clinician about their specific situation and questions appeared
      to persuade some participants to come in for an evaluation or accept a referral. This
      academic medical center did not have an in-house counseling program for residents and faculty
      like the OHSU RFWP-UCSD trainees received an initial evaluation from a clinician and then
      were provided with community referrals. Their participation rate of 13% is similar to rates
      of participation in the ISP in undergraduate populations. In the present study, it is
      hypothesized that a highly visible and utilized RFWP may lead to a higher ISP participation
      rate among the residents, fellows, and faculty.

      Although the ultimate goal is to save lives (i.e., reduce the rate of suicide among medical
      trainees and faculty), the low base rate of suicide in a population makes it difficult to
      evaluate whether the implementation of the ISP at OHSU will lead to a drop in suicide rates
      at this institution. Even using patient suicidal ideation and attempts as outcomes is
      problematic as this information can be difficult to gather unless the patient is actively
      involved in treatment at the time. Rather in the present study the effectiveness of this
      suicide prevention program will be measured by examining related variables to suicide
      risk-increases in protective factors and decreases in risk factors. Specifically, these
      researchers seek to decrease known risk factors (e.g., identify and intervene with untreated
      depression, substance abuse, high level of stress) and increase protective factors (e.g.,
      promote self-awareness, receipt of support and resources and delivery of mental health
      services if needed).

      Present study aims are to:

        -  reduce known risk factors of untreated psychological distress (e.g., depression, high
           stress level, substance abuse) by encouraging all residents, fellows, and School of
           Medicine (SOM) faculty to complete a self-assessment of their level of stress and risk
           using the ISP and then offer professional help through a personalized message/dialogue
           that directly addresses any concerns/barriers about seeking help at the RFWP and offers
           resources for better coping;

        -  increase self-awareness in mildly/moderately distressed trainees and faculty who fill
           out the ISP and offer preventive/early intervention educational resources via the ISP on
           topics that are relevant to them (based on their responses);

        -  evaluate whether all RFWP patients (ones who come to the program via ISP and other
           referral sources) report decreased psychological distress, burnout, and risk of suicide
           across treatment;

        -  assess level of satisfaction with the RFWP educational outreach workshops, consultation
           to department leaders (and referral of their trainees and/or faculty), and clinical
           services provided to distressed trainees and faculty.
    
  