
    
      The purpose of this study is to define the proportion of low and high expression Mif alleles
      in individuals with recurrent or chronic Cutaneous Leishmaniasis and compare it with that of
      individuals with asymptomatic infection and healthy donors (controls), in order to determine
      if these alleles are associated with outcome of infection. This study is part 2 of a project
      that includes DMID protocols 05-0139 and 06-0010. Specific objectives are to: determine the
      proportion of low expression (5-CATT) Mif alleles in individuals with recurrent or chronic
      cutaneous leishmaniasis, healthy donors (controls), and individuals with asymptomatic
      infection; determine the proportion of high expression (6,7,8-CATT) Mif alleles in
      individuals with recurrent or chronic cutaneous leishmaniasis, healthy donors (controls), and
      individuals with asymptomatic infection; and determine the Mif Genotype repertoire and
      frequency distribution in the endemic population of study. This study will be conducted in
      472 participants who will be enrolled into one of the following 4 groups: recurrent disease,
      chronic disease, asymptomatic infection, and healthy donors (controls). Patients (males and
      females) aged between 7-70 years with chronic or recurrent cutaneous leishmaniasis (historic
      or active) diagnosed in either Cali (CIDEIM) and Tumaco (San Andrés Hospital) on the
      Colombian Pacific Coast will be invited to participate in the study. Asymptomatic and healthy
      donors (controls) will also be enrolled. Pregnant women will not be enrolled. Consent and
      samples will be obtained during a single study visit of up to 1.5 hours. No further follow-up
      visits are planned for this study. Genetic material extracted and amplified from buccal swabs
      will be used to determine the proportion of low and high expression Mif alleles of each
      group. Expression in recurrent and chronic participants will be compared to that of
      asymptomatic participants and healthy donors (controls) in order to determine if expression
      frequencies are related to the outcome of infection. Blood samples obtained from asymptomatic
      and healthy donors will undergo in vitro blastogenesis testing to confirm
      asymptomatic/healthy donor status. Study outcome measures are: frequency of low expression
      (5-CATT) Mif alleles in participants with recurrent or chronic disease, individuals with
      asymptomatic infection and healthy donors (controls); frequency of high expression
      (6,7,8-CATT) Mif alleles in participants with recurrent or chronic disease individuals with
      asymptomatic infection and healthy donors (controls); and Mif Genotype repertoire and
      frequency distribution in the endemic population in the study site.
    
  