
    
      Lower urinary tract dysfunction (LUTD) has multiple causes including bladder outlet
      obstruction (BOO) as a result of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and neurological diseases
      including spinal cord injury (SCI). Manifestations of LUTD include storage symptoms such as
      increased daytime frequency, nocturia, urgency and urinary incontinence and voiding symptoms
      such as slow stream, hesitancy and incomplete emptying. The consequences of both BOO-induced
      (BLUTD) and neurogenic LUTD (NLUTD), leading to functional entities including the low
      compliance high pressure bladder as well as the acontractile high volume low pressure
      bladder, are believed to share some pathogenetic mechanisms.

      In a previous project, the investigators have established micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA) and
      messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression profiles of several urodynamically defined
      states of BLUTD. In this follow-up project, the investigators propose to extend these
      studies, undertaking a comparative miRNA and RNA profiling of BLUTD and NLUTD, and
      investigate the dynamic alteration of microRNA expression in different functional
      manifestations of disease. The investigators propose to validate primary gene targets of
      miRNAs differentially expressed in urodynamically defined states of BLUTD and identify
      signaling pathways, activated during the progression from hypertrophy to decompensation.
      Monitoring the reversal of changes in miRNA expression after relief of obstruction and
      restoration of normal bladder function will help delineate the key BOO-induced miRNAs with
      regulatory potential. Similarly, the dynamics of miRNA alteration, observed in SCI patients
      during the development and management of NLUTD should reveal the role of miRNA in gene
      expression regulation during neurogenic-induced organ remodelling.

      By uncovering the molecular similarities and differences between BLUTD and NLUTD, the
      investigators will elucidate some of the causative factors in the development of these
      disorders and highlight the impact of myogenic and neurogenic components postulated to be
      involved. The project involves close collaboration between clinical and basic research, and
      combines the analysis of human biopsy material with in vitro cell-based assays, creating a
      comprehensive platform for the dissection of molecular mechanisms of LUTD. This project will
      keep the momentum of the investigators' previous research and contribute to the basic and
      applied studies into bladder remodeling. It is a logical continuation of their on-going
      studies of the role of miRNAs in LUT disorders but represents a novel direction of research
      and has high diagnostic and therapeutic potential.
    
  