
    
      Percutaneous liver biopsy has been utilized for decades to assess the severity of chronic HCV
      liver disease. During this procedure a core sample of liver is obtained and examined
      histologically for the presence of inflammation, fibrosis and other features characteristic
      of specific liver disorders. Several grading systems have been developed over the past 2
      decades to quantify the overall severity of the liver biopsy specimen. Although liver biopsy
      is the gold standard by which to assess liver disease severity, the procedure has significant
      limitations. Liver biopsy is a costly, invasive procedure with risks for morbidity and
      mortality and may cause some discomfort to the patient. Percutaneous liver biopsy is
      associated with potential complications, including bleeding (1%-3%), pain (20%-30%), bile
      peritonitis (<1%), pneumothorax (<1%), punctured viscera (<1%), and death. In addition, liver
      biopsy and examination of liver histology is subject to sampling variation and the manner by
      which these findings are evaluated and reported by individual pathologists.

      Breath testing with 13C-labeled substrates provide a safe, non-invasive means for evaluating
      hepatic metabolism that is correlated with liver histology. 13C is a stable, non-radioactive
      isotope, which can by incorporated into a specific location within a test substrate so that
      it would be released when the compound is metabolized by the liver. Ideally, the 13C-compound
      would need to be administered orally, rapidly absorbed, exclusively metabolized by the liver
      metabolism and 13C would be measured in exhaled breath within 20-30 minutes. Hepatic
      metabolism of the compound is assessed by measuring the ratio of 13C/12C in exhaled breath.
      The ability to detect, differentiate and quantify 13C and 12C in exhaled CO2 has been greatly
      facilitated by the recent development of the BreathID® collection system and analyzer unit.

      The compound selected for this study will be 13C-methacetin. Methacetin meets all of the
      qualifications for an excellent substrate for liver breath tests. It is a non-toxic small
      molecule. 13C can be synthesized into a key location within this agent. It can be
      administered orally in solution. It is rapidly absorbed and metabolized by hepatic microsomes
      and this process releases CO2 as a by-product in exhaled breath. No reports of any
      complications or side effects using this substance have been reported.

      13C-methacetin is rapidly absorbed and metabolized by healthy liver cells into acetaminophen
      and 13CO2. The resultant CO2 can be measured in the exhaled breath. The amount of metabolized
      methacetin indicates the capability of the liver to accomplish one of its main physiological
      tasks and has been shown to correlate with liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.
    
  