
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      Study 1 - Open Label Pilot Day - 1 Hospice in-patients who are thought by a clinician to need
      subcutaneous strong opioids will be asked if they wish to take part in the study.

      They will be given a patient information leaflet and a 'cooling off period' (a minimum of 1
      day) to think about it. If the clinician feels that strong parenteral opioids are needed
      diamorphine will be commenced immediately (as standard practice).

      Day 0 If the patient agrees to take part in the trial they will be asked to complete a
      consent form and this will be stored with the patient's notes.

      The following assessments will be performed:

        1. McGill Pain Questionnaire Short Form(MPQ-SF)

        2. Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI-SF)These measures were recommended by an EAPC
           Expert Working Group for pain syndrome characterization

        3. Memorial Delirium Assessment Scale (MDAS). This has been validated in an advanced cancer
           population and used recently with hospice in-patients.

        4. Nausea Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)

        5. Nausea Duration over last 24 hours

        6. Number of vomits in previous 24 hours

      Randomisation Once baseline measures are completed the participant will be randomised using
      the next available of a series of numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes. These will be prepared
      remotely. Blocking will be used to prevent an imbalance in terms of the number allocated to
      each group. Block size will be appropriate to the size of the study and not be divulged to
      the investigators responsible for consent and revealing the allocation. This will reduce the
      risk of investigators anticipating the allocation for particular patients. A study log will
      be kept on site where participant details will be completed before the envelope is opened.

      Subsequent Days

      On each subsequent day the following assessments will be performed:

        1. BPI-SF

        2. MDAS

        3. Nausea VAS

        4. Number of vomits in previous 24 hours

           In addition the following measurements will be taken:

        5. Stool chart for previous 24 hours

        6. Breakthrough medication (number of doses and dosage) used

        7. Laxatives taken

        8. Other changes to medication

      Patients will cease participation after assessment on day 7.
    
  