
    
      Background: Falling is one of the common factors affecting the health in older people. It
      would cause severe consequences and result in decreasing mobility and independent activity of
      daily living. According to previous study, balance impairment is the frequent factor for fall
      in elderly. To maintain balance, reactive postural control ability is the key element from
      falling. It is suggested that perturbation-based balance training can improve reactive
      balance performance. However, few studies focus on multi-direction perturbation to mimic the
      perturbation experienced in daily living. Furthermore, the related cortical activity changes
      after perturbation-based balance training is not known.

      Purpose: The purpose of this study is to explore the effects of multi-directional
      perturbation-based balance training on posture control and brain modulation in elderly with
      fall risk.

      Methods: This is a single-blinded randomized controlled trial with pre- and post-
      measurements. Forty community-dwelling elderly (age> 65 y/o) with fall risk (defined as
      functional reach test≦25.4 cm) will be recruited and randomly assigned to experimental group
      or control group (n=20 for each group). Participants in the experimental group will receive
      the balance training under perturbation on Balance SystemTM SD, including limits of stability
      training, maze control training, random control training. The intervention is 40 min/session,
      3 sessions/week for 6 weeks. Participants in the control group will remain their regular
      activity without additional training. The primary outcomes include the limit of stability
      (LOS) of posture control by Balance Master® and brain modulation by Event-Related
      Desynchronization (ERD) collected by electroencephalogram (EEG). Secondary outcomes include
      the sensory organization test (SOT), Berg balance scale (BBS), and falls efficacy scale
      International (FES-I). Independent t test and Chi-square test are used for baseline
      characteristic analysis. All outcomes will be analyzed by repeated measures two-way ANOVA
      with Tukey post hoc test for within-group and between-group comparisons. Statistical
      significance is set at p<0.05.
    
  