
    
      The study will be designed to detect a significant increase in the radial artery diameter of
      healthy volunteers after the application of a warm heat pack in the palmar aspect of the hand
      compared to a control group without heat applied to the hand. Employees and students at OHSU
      will be considered for enrollment as volunteers for this minimal risk study. Informed consent
      will be obtained from healthy volunteers prior to enrollment. After enrollment, the healthy
      volunteers will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to the heat group (Group 1) or the
      control group (Group 2), respectively. A brief medical history will be obtained from all
      volunteers, including age, sex, medications, prior interventions, prior surgeries, previous
      medical diagnoses, allergies, and any history of prior transradial procedures. For protection
      of confidential health information, brief medical history will be obtained in a private area.
      The volunteers will then be seated and the left hand placed supinated in a comfortable
      position on a table. A limited ultrasound of the left radial artery will be performed using
      grayscale ultrasound. A skin mark will be made with a marker to identify the measurement
      site. All volunteers will then be given a commercially available warm heat pack and asked to
      hold gently in their left hand. For the control group (Group 2), the warm heat pack will not
      be activated. For the heat group (Group 1), the warm heat back will be activated prior to
      placing in the volunteer's hand. Two investigators will be present. One investigator will be
      measuring radial artery diameter and will not be aware if the heat pack is activated. The
      second investigator will be aware of the volunteer's randomly assigned group and will
      activate the heat pack for the volunteer if they are assigned to Group 1. Over a period of 20
      minutes, repeat ultrasound of the left radial artery will be performed in 5 minute intervals.
    
  