
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a treatable and preventable clinically
      heterogeneous syndrome with dominant respiratory symptoms and various systemic consequences.
      The incidence of COPD is increasing worldwide. In general, COPD is caused by a prolonged
      inflammatory reaction of a genetically predisposed individual exposed to long-term inhalation
      of air pollution, harmful particles and gases. This disease has a negative progression in
      time even after end of exposure. The pulmonary component is associated with expiratory
      airflow limitation, which is not fully reversible. The airflow limitation in COPD develops
      gradually as a result of chronic, primarily non-infectious inflammation of the airways and
      lung parenchyma. Systemic consequences are often found in cardiovascular, musculoskeletal and
      other systems. COPD can be considered a proven pre-cancerous condition.

      Up-to-date and precise clinical and epidemiological data describing the situation in the
      Czech Republic is currently unavailable. The Czech Republic still does not have any data on
      representation of different phenotypes among COPD patients.

      The COPD Register is a non-interventional multicenter observational prospective database
      focusing on the collection and analysis of data on real mortality and morbidity in an
      unselected (consecutive) population of patients with severe forms of COPD
      (post-bronchodilator FEV1≤ 60%). Monitoring is done at the occasion of regular check-ups,
      followed by retrospective search of data in the documentation, and a record into the registry
      subsequently.

      The main purposes of this study:

        -  Assessment of all-cause mortality

        -  Assessment of morbidity:

      (A) acute exacerbation of COPD (B) acute non-COPD respiratory events (C) acute
      non-respiratory events (D) cancers (E) ischemic heart disease (infarct, angina pectoris,
      congestive heart failure and arrhythmia)

      Other aims of this study:

        -  Monitoring of lung function decline (post-bronchodilator FEV1)

        -  Monitoring of prognostic indices

        -  COPD categories and quality of life

        -  Evaluation of activity of daily living

        -  Assessment of therapeutic compliance

             -  Note: MMAS-4 questionnaire by Prof. Donald E. Morisky will not be used as of
                September 2018

        -  Analysis of extra-pulmonary impairment during
    
  