
    
      Objective:

      The objective of this study is to investigate the potential efficacy and safety of vitamin A
      palmitate dosing in improving dark adaptation in participants with age-related macular
      degeneration (AMD) and abnormal dark adaptation.

      Study Population:

      The first cohort consists of five participants with AMD who meet the eligibility criteria.
      The second cohort will consist of five participants with AMD who meet the eligibility
      criteria. Up to five additional participants may be accrued in the second cohort to account
      for participants who withdraw from the study prior to receiving one month of study
      supplementation for a reason unrelated to an adverse reaction. Up to 18 participants may be
      enrolled in this study.

      Design:

      This is a prospective, uncontrolled, single center, pilot study to investigate the potential
      efficacy and safety of vitamin A palmitate dosing in improving dark adaptation in
      participants with AMD and abnormal dark adaptation. Participants in the first cohort were
      instructed to take 16,000 IU of vitamin A palmitate daily for two months. Enrollment for
      Cohort 1 ended on May 24, 2019. Participants in the second cohort will be instructed to take
      48,000 IU of vitamin A palmitate daily for one month. Participants in both cohorts will
      continue in the study for one month after ending Vitamin A supplementation. Participants in
      Cohort 1 may enroll into Cohort 2 as long as their last intake of vitamin A palmitate was
      greater than two months prior to their enrollment into Cohort 2.

      Outcome Measures:

      For each cohort, the primary outcome is the measurement of dark adaptation parameters
      (thresholds and kinetics) by the following: dark adaptation times as measured by the AdaptDx
      comparing before and after vitamin A palmitate supplementation and dark adaptation parameters
      as measured by the Medmont comparing before and after vitamin A palmitate supplementation.
      The primary outcome will be assessed at Month 2 in the first cohort and Month 1 in the second
      cohort. For both cohorts, the secondary outcomes include changes in low luminance visual
      acuity (LLVA) and changes in patient reported outcomes as measured by the low luminance
      questionnaire (LLQ). The secondary outcomes also include measurement of dark adaptation
      parameters (thresholds and kinetics) comparing baseline and one month after completing
      supplementation (Month 3 in Cohort 1 and Month 2 in Cohort 2).
    
  