
    
      The investigators selected hospitalized subjects with confirmed or suspected moderate or
      severe PCP: the diagnostic certainty will be based on the following criteria:

      Proved PCP. Defined as cases with presence of P. jirovecii cysts in bronchial alveolar lavage
      (BAL) exams or lung biopsy.

      Possible PCP. Defined by the following two criteria: 1) the presence of three of four items:
      cough, fever, dyspnea and compatible radiological or tomographic findings 2) associated
      clinical improvement after the onset of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP / SMX).

      Probable PCP. Defined as the presence of one of the two previous criteria, without other
      identified microorganisms.

      The radiological or tomographic findings compatible with PCP are: presence of bilateral
      reticular infiltrate, ground glass, crazy paving pattern and presence of bullae, cysts or
      spontaneous pneumothorax.

      The microbiological findings will be the identification of cysts in the Grocott stain or a
      positive immunofluorescence test (IFA).

      Patients will be classified as moderate PCP when the partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) is
      less than 70 mmHg and the alveolar arterial difference (Da-a) is greater than 35 mmHg and
      severe PCP when it is greater than 45 mmHg.

      The sample size was calculated for non-inferiority tests to a tail with an estimated
      mortality of 16% for both groups; using a Z alpha in 1.65 and Z beta in 1.645, with a
      non-inferiority margin of 0.6; resulting in 98 subjects per group.

      After obtaining the informed consent, patients will be randomized accordingly to their CD4+ T
      cell count (less or more than 50 cells/mm3 and assigned to each group:

        -  Group A or Conventional Steroids use (CoSt).patients will receive 21 days of steroid
           treatment.

        -  Group B or Shortened Steroids use (SSt). Subjects with moderate PCP will receive 8 days
           of steroids and subjects with severe PCP 14 days of steroids.

      The equivalent prednisone doses of systemic steroids will be recorded, as well as the
      duration of their administration since it could be modified according to the criteria of the
      treating physicians; demographic data, the start date of ART (Antiretroviral Therapy), and
      the presence of other opportunistic, nosocomial and co-infections will also be recorded.

      The laboratory data that will be recorded at the time of diagnostic suspicion of PCP will be:
      CD4+ T cell count, HIV viral load, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), C-reactive protein (PCRe),
      pAO2, Da-aO2.

      Once the patient has been discharged, the patient will be scheduled to continue ambulatory,
      conventional follow-up at 90, 180 and 360 days after starting the ART and to evaluate
      secondary outcomes.

      Once 50% of the sample size has completed 30 days of follow-up, a preliminary analysis will
      be conducted to assess safety and efficacy; if differences in the mortality are observed, the
      study will be terminated.
    
  