
    
      Therapeutic properties that target pathophysiologic impairments in PAD. These therapeutic
      properties include improved skeletal muscle mitochondrial function, increased skeletal muscle
      capillary density, and favorable changes in skeletal muscle levels of myostatin and
      follistatin that increase muscle mass and strength. Cocoa also protects against
      ischemia-reperfusion injury, improves endothelial function, and reduces oxidative stress. In
      summary, epicatechin-rich cocoa targets and reverses several pathophysiologic processes that
      are common in PAD and that are associated with functional impairment and functional decline
      in PAD. However, the effect of chronic daily cocoa consumption on functional decline has not
      been studied in older people with PAD.

      The COCOA-PAD trial is a pilot study of 44 PAD participants age 60 and older: a double-blind,
      randomized controlled pilot clinical trial to provide preliminary data to address the
      hypothesis that chronic daily epicatechin-rich cocoa improves lower extremity functioning in
      older people with PAD by improving mitochondrial oxidative metabolism, increasing calf muscle
      capillary density, promoting calf skeletal muscle mitochondrial biogenesis, and improving
      endothelial function.

      In the primary aim, the investigators will determine whether PAD participants randomized to
      an epicatechin-rich cocoa beverage have greater increases or smaller declines in six-minute
      walk performance at 6-month follow-up, compared to those randomized to an identical appearing
      placebo drink with comparable caloric composition. In the secondary aims, the investigators
      will determine whether PAD participants randomized to cocoa have improved treadmill walking
      performance, improved brachial artery flow-mediated dilation, favorable changes in calf
      muscle biopsy measures of mitochondrial function, mitochondrial biogenesis, follistatin,
      myostatin, and capillary density, increased calf skeletal muscle regeneration and reduced
      oxidative stress, and increased MRI-measured calf muscle perfusion. Outcome measures will be
      carefully timed relative to the last intervention dose to distinguish between the acute vs.
      chronic effects of cocoa-epicatechin.

      If the hypotheses are correct, results will be used to design a large, definitive randomized
      controlled trial of epicatechin-rich cocoa to improve lower extremity functioning and prevent
      mobility loss in the large and growing number of older people who are disabled by PAD.
    
  