
    
      Phase Ib trial: This single-arm dose escalation trial will determine the safety, tolerability
      and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) and therefore the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of repeat
      doses of nivolumab combined with CXD101. The incidence and severity of adverse events
      (evaluated according to CTCAE version 4.03), vital signs, ECG parameters, biochemistry,
      haematology and urinalysis will be recorded to determine tolerability.

      Dose escalation will proceed as follows:

      Dose Level 1 Nivolumab 240 mg iv q 2 weekly; with CXD101 30 mg (20mg mane, 10mg nocte) po for
      5 days q 3 weekly (n=3-6) with both drugs commencing on the same day in cycle 1.

      Dose Level 2 Nivolumab 240 mg iv q 2 weekly; with CXD101 40mg (20 mg bid) po for 5 days q 3
      weekly (n=6) with both drugs commencing on the same day in cycle 1.

      A maximum of 15 subjects will be required.

      Phase II trial: Following completion of the Phase Ib study, a Phase II CXD101/ nivolumab
      combination dose will be selected by the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee. Up to a
      further 40 subjects will then be treated at the selected Phase II CXD101/ nivolumab
      combination dose. Subjects may continue to receive CXD101/ nivolumab until complete response,
      disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or other medical problems
      supervene.

      Efficacy will be measured using Immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours
      (iRECIST) Imaging studies, typically CT scan of chest, abdomen & pelvis, supplemented by MRI
      of liver when required, will be performed at Baseline and after every 6 weeks, with objective
      confirmation of response 6 weeks (+/- 1 week) after observation. Safety parameters will be
      assessed as in the Phase I study. In addition there will be a series of translational
      analyses including correlation of tumour biomarker expression with response.
    
  