
    
      Aims and Hypotheses The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of theta burst
      stimulation (TBS) which is a relatively new paradigm of transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) on episodic memory (EM) in healthy older adults (hOA).

      Aim1: Evaluate the effect of theta burst stimulation (TBS) on episodic memory (EM) in healthy
      older adults. Hypothesis 1 - There will be significant improvement in EM compared to baseline
      with one session of TBS.

      Aim 2: Correlate white matter integrity to improvement in task retrieval with TBS. Hypothesis
      2- Stronger white matter (WM) tract connections correlate to greater improvement in retrieval
      performance.

      BACKGROUND Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects 5 million Americans, at a cost of over 200
      billion dollars. The first and most debilitating symptom of AD is a severe deficit in the
      ability to remembering personal past events, or episodic memory (EM), which eventually
      renders patients isolated from family and friends and unable to live independently. This EM
      deficit reflects primarily the deterioration of medial temporal lobe regions, particularly
      the hippocampus (HC). AD treatments must start very early in the disease progression, when
      brain damage is still small, and the earliest stage when AD can be diagnosed is known as mild
      cognitive impairment due to AD (MCI-AD).

      Recently, different forms of noninvasive brain stimulation techniques have been applied to
      healthy older adults, AD and MCI-AD to improve memory impairment. Most of these trials used
      high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) applied to the left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Although a small number of these studies have shown
      beneficial effects, considerable questions remain as to whether TMS has clinically relevant
      effects in elderly populations, as well as to what neuroscience-based mechanisms account for
      these effects. An obstacle for using TMS to enhance EM is that the brain region most critical
      for EM and most affected by early AD, the hippocampus (HC), is situated deep inside the
      brain, beyond TMS direct effects (~1" below the skull). One study attempted to target
      hippocampus and peri-hippocampal regions for stimulation via TMS. They stimulated the lateral
      parietal cortex and utilized functional connectivity between this region and
      hippocampus/peri-hippocampal regions (mainly entorhinal cortex) to enhance performance on an
      associative memory task. The inferior longitudinal fasciculus connects angular gyrus to
      hippocampus and para-hippocampal regions, and could propagate stimulation effects from
      cortical to subcortical structures, although studies on effect on TMS on white matter
      neuronal populations are limited as detailed below. The effect of TMS on neuronal populations
      in the white matter tracts was recently modeled using tractography and e-field calculations,
      and increasingly, these approaches need to account for what percentage of variance in motor
      threshold (MT) would be accounted for by white matter tracts.

      TBS is a potent paradigm of TMS. As detailed in a seminal paper by Huang et al, there are 2
      patterns for the paradigm: - continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) and intermittent theta
      burst stimulation (iTBS). The former produces suppression of MEP and the latter produces
      increase in MEP. iTBS delivers 50 Hz stimuli in packets of 10 lasting 2 seconds. Each
      stimulus burst delivered at 50 Hz is given every 200 milliseconds making the overall
      frequency of stimulus delivery 5 Hz. Hence the stimulation encompasses nested 50 Hz bursts
      (gamma frequency) given at 5 Hz (theta frequency). Most investigational studies which did not
      have treatment outcome measures have used either 40 second of cTBS or 190 seconds of iTBS.
      Both these paradigms have been shown to cause changes in MEP for 60 minutes. Variations in
      pattern of stimulation have also been effective, although there are limited studies to
      warrant its use. The investigators therefore propose to use stimulate the function of the
      hippocampal formation in healthy older adults (hOA) by targeting a cortical region directly
      connected to the hippocampal formation: the angular gyrus. To increase indirect effects on
      hippocampal formation, the investigators will use the most powerful TMS technique available,
      intermittent Theta Burst Stimulation (iTBS).

      METHODOLOGY The study is designed to be a pilot one evaluating the effect of TBS on EM in
      healthy older adults (hOA). The investigators plan to screen 30 participants to select 20
      subjects.

      Screening Potential participants will be in the age group of 60-80 years and encompasses
      subjects who have been recruited to previous studies at Cabeza Lab (Pro00005021), hence
      having brain imaging data already collected.

      Study procedure On day 1 of the study, subjects will have the National Institute of Health
      (NIH) Toolbox administered to them. The NIH toolbox is a comprehensive set of
      neuro-behavioral measurements that quickly assesses cognitive functions from the convenience
      of an iPad. Total time allotted for NIH toolbox administration is 45 minutes. Following this,
      subjects will have motor evoked potential (MEP) performed after which they will be
      administered intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS) to motor cortex. This will be
      followed by measurement of motor evoked potential (MEP) again. Subjects who do not show a 10
      % increase in motor evoked potential (MEP) with iTBS will be excluded from further parts of
      the study.

      Our study uses a specific kind of TMS, known as intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS).
      On day 1 of the study, subjects will be administered either left-sided iTBS to the motor
      cortex. The subject will be seated in a chair. Electromyogram (EMG) electrodes will be
      applied to the right hand for motor evoked potential (MEP) recording. For iTBS the active
      motor threshold would be 80 % as used in most theta burst studies detailed in this review.
      Subjects would receive iTBS comprising 50 Hz bursts given at 3 to 5 Hz for close to 3 minutes
      which comprises 19 trains and 600 pulses. The subject will be monitored until MEPs return to
      baseline. A side effects checklist will be completed at the beginning and at the end of the
      experimental session. All sessions will be performed by one of the protocol investigators, or
      by a trained and accredited research assistant supervised by the protocol investigators.

      If a 10 % increase is seen in the MEP, then subjects will receive a second session of iTBS or
      sham stimulation to the left angular gyrus one hour after the screening session. If they
      receive iTBS, this will comprise 6 minutes of stimulation equivalent to 1200 pulses and 38
      trains of the stimulus. The subject will be monitored until MEPs return to baseline. A side
      effects checklist will be completed at the beginning and at the end of the experimental
      session. Sham stimulation will use superficial electrodes to mimic the experience of
      receiving actual stimulation. All sessions will be performed by one of the protocol
      investigators, or by a trained and accredited research assistant supervised by the protocol
      investigators. Subjects will perform encoding trials of episodic memory task with stimulation
      and retrieval piece of the task after the stimulation.
    
  