
    
      Background:

        -  The response rates of recurrent, metastatic and unresectable adrenocortical cancer (ACC)
           to mitotane, doxorubicin, etoposide, and cisplatin are low and underscore the need for
           more effective systemic therapies.

        -  VEGF expression and evidence of angiogenesis has been found in many ACCs, so it is
           plausible that interfering with vascular endothelial growth factor(VEGF) signaling may
           result in anti-tumor activity in patients with ACC.

        -  Axitinib (AG-013736) is an oral, potent and selective inhibitor of vascular endothelial
           growth factor (VEGF) receptors 1, 2, and 3. Pre-clinical data suggests that the
           anti-tumor activity of axitinib may result from its anti-angiogenic activity and that
           this is reversible when treatment is discontinued.

        -  Given the known clinical safety and efficacy of axitinib, an assessment of its activity
           in ACC and its impact on the VEGF pathway in ACC could provide valuable information.

      Objectives:

        -  Determine the response rate of axitinib (AG-013736) in recurrent, metastatic, or primary
           unresectable ACC

        -  Determine the progression-free survival

        -  Explore the relationship of potential biological markers of axitinib activity with
           clinical outcomes.

        -  Explore the pharmacogenetic analyses of drug metabolism and transport proteins through
           germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) examination.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults with pathologic confirmation of ACC by the Laboratory of Pathology, National
           Cancer Institute (NCI)

        -  Diagnosis of recurrent, metastatic, or primary unresectable ACC

        -  Measurable disease at presentation

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status less than or equal to 2

        -  Patients must not have received prior therapy with a tyrosine kinase (TK) inhibitor

      Design:

        -  Phase II, open label, non-randomized trial

        -  Patients with recurrent, metastatic, or primary unresectable ACC will be given in eight
           weeks cycles with BID dosing of axitinib (AG-013736).

        -  Patients will be evaluated for response every eight weeks using Response Evaluation
           Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

        -  Tumor biopsies are not mandatory but every attempt will be made to obtain these from
           patients prior to starting axitinib and again 20-30 days after treatment has begun.

        -  Approximately 40 patients will be needed to achieve the objectives of the trial.
    
  