
    
      The primary objective of the present prospective randomized controlled trial is to
      investigate if the FES therapy would generate similar level of the improvement in hand
      function in chronic C4 to C7 incomplete and complete SCI individuals as compared to
      conventional occupational therapy. For the purpose of this study individuals with chronic SCI
      are those who sustained injury at least 24 months prior to enrolling in the study. The FES or
      conventional occupational therapy will be administered thrice-weekly for 13 weeks (i.e., 39
      sessions in total) to 60 individuals with SCI. Half of the participants will receive the FES
      therapy and the other half will receive conventional occupational therapy of equal intensity.
      The secondary objectives are to evaluate if the improvements in hand function will improve
      participants' activities of daily living skills and their satisfaction with life.

      Background and Significance The sudden onset of a traumatic SCI can result in severe
      impairments in the motor and/or sensory functions of the body and limbs. A significant part
      of the expenses incurred after SCI are associated with the need of many individuals with SCI
      to have a caregiver assist them with various daily tasks such as eating, grooming and
      ambulation. This dependence,besides being financially strenuous for the patients and their
      families, frequently precipitates psychological problems such as depression, social
      withdrawal and inactivity.For persons with quadriplegia, hand function is essential for
      achieving a high level of independence in their activities of daily living. In a recent
      survey, it was revealed that the majority of people with quadriplegia rate recovery of hand
      function as the highest priority.FES is one of the most promising approaches towards
      improving grasping function in SCI individuals with permanent hand impairment. A
      neuroprosthesis for grasping is a device that can improve or restore the grasping, holding,
      and releasing functions in persons with SCI [1]. The neuroprosthesis applies FES to
      artificially generate a muscle contraction by applying short current pulses to motor nerves
      innervating muscles. FES can be applied to individuals with SCI to help them restore
      functions such as walking and grasping by contracting groups of paralyzed muscles in an
      orchestrated manner.Despite the usefulness of neuroprostheses in improving functionality, SCI
      consumers, their therapists and psychiatrists remain hesitant to use the technology. For
      instance, Popovic et al. (not the principal investigator) reported that consumers who
      retained some dexterity without an FES-assisted system hesitated to use the surface FES
      device to manipulate small objects, even though they gained significant improvements in
      function when wearing it. Also, some neuroprostheses such as the Freehand system require
      invasive procedures for their implementation, which is often unappealing to SCI consumers.
      These issues with FES, along with the mindset that impairments in functionality are
      permanent, have led to the design of systems that SCI consumers have little interest in using
      over long periods of time. Our application of the neuroprosthesis for grasping in this
      proposal presents a departure from this standard and established approach of FES application.
      The Compex Motion neuroprosthesis, developed by Drs. Popovic (principal investigator) and
      Keller1,is a flexible device designed to improve grasping function in both SCI and stroke
      patients. This multi-channel surface stimulation system for grasping provides both palmar and
      lateral grasps, and holds a number of advantages over other existing neuroprostheses.Firstly,
      whereas most other systems were designed and used exclusively as permanent orthotic systems
      for SCI consumers in order to allow them to grasp, the Compex Motion was designed to help
      retrain voluntary grasping function. Hence, the device is meant to be used as part of the
      rehabilitation process towards improving functionality as opposed to merely substituting it.
      Secondly, the Compex Motion is a surface FES system that does not require implanted systems
      or possesses features that limit flexibility. These features make it a more suitable option
      for rehabilitation applications, which typically require portable, flexible, non-invasive,
      and multi-channel FES systems. Thirdly, although the Compex Motion, Handmaster, and Belgrade
      Grasping-Reaching System have been used to retrain voluntary grasping function in individuals
      with stroke, only the Compex Motion has been used for this purpose in individuals with SCI.
      The advantages of the Compex Motion system over other FES systems is its potential for
      retraining function in SCI patients and the fact that the system's application does not
      require the long-term support/commitment of clinical and engineering specialists. Recent
      innovative advances in FES applications, spearheaded by our team, clearly indicate that the
      short-term, therapeutic intervention of the neuroprosthesis for grasping can enhance
      voluntary function in individuals with SCI. These studies also suggest that this novel method
      of applying FES to augment functional improvement has the potential to improve overall
      physical and psychological well being of persons with SCI.
    
  