
    
      Background:

        -  Genetic sequence of drug-metabolizing enzymes, transporters/receptors, transcription
           factors, drug targets, and patient baseline characteristics often affect an individual s
           response to drug therapy. Expression of such genes is also influenced by the epigenome
           and regulation by a variety of other factors: RNA expression, protein expression,
           disease state, comorbidities, concomitant therapies, etc. Therefore, inter-patient
           variability in drug pharmacokinetics and outcome is often a function of these factors.

        -  Inter-individual differences in efficacy and toxicity of cancer chemotherapy are
           especially important given the narrow therapeutic index of these drugs.

        -  During analysis of investigational agents, inter-individual variability in
           pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, clinical outcome, and toxicity are often noted. Many
           of these differences are potentially clinically actionable and depend on the
           aforementioned markers.

      Objectives:

      - To screen patients for genomic markers, epigenomic markers, RNA markers, protein markers,
      and/or baseline characteristics that are used inform either enrollment in therapeutic
      clinical trials or dose selection of investigational anticancer agents.

      Eligibility:

      - All individuals seeking enrollment on National Cancer Institute clinical trials that
      include a priori assessment of a patients genome, epigenome, proteome, or baseline
      characteristics as eligibility criteria for enrollment or dose selection.

      Design:

        -  This study will be used as a screening protocol to enroll patients for a priori
           screening that is necessary for inclusion in IRB-approved clinical trials taking place
           at the NCI.

        -  As the rationale for ascertaining the status of a marker prior to study inclusion will
           be presented in the associated clinical trial, the present study will be amended on a
           case-by-case basis.

        -  The accrual ceiling for this study is 900 patients.
    
  