
    
      This trial was designed as a prospective, multi-center, randomized clinical trial of the
      FDA-cleared Vari-Lase Bright Tip Fiber compared to commercially available standard bare-tip
      laser fiber (control) to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of laser ablation for the
      treatment of varicose veins associated with reflux within the great saphenous vein (GSV) and
      to provide additional data concerning patient satisfaction. Subjects were pre-screened
      utilizing standard of care data (including documented evidence of reflux within the GSV) for
      the specified inclusion/exclusion criteria to ensure that they were eligible for treatment in
      the investigation. Prior to laser treatment and after signing an informed consent form, study
      eligibility assessments were completed including physical assessment of target limb(s),
      duplex ultrasound of GSV segment(s) targeted for treatment, symptom assessment, medical
      history, and digital photos of targeted limbs. Upon enrollment, targeted limbs were
      randomized at a 1:1 ratio to receive the Vari-lase Bright Tip Fiber or the control treatment.
      If the subject required treatment of two limbs, the first limb was randomized and the second
      limb was assigned the other treatment (the opposite treatment of the other limb). Immediately
      post procedure, subjects were assessed for adverse events and a physical assessment of the
      treated limb(s) was performed. Subjects were also asked to complete a subject pain and
      satisfaction questionnaire. Subjects were followed at one week, one month, and six months.
      Follow-up included a physical assessment of treated limb(s), symptom assessment, adverse
      event assessment, and completion of a subject pain and satisfaction questionnaire.
      Additionally, a duplex ultrasound assessment was conducted at one week and six months and
      digital photos were taken of the treated vein segment(s) at one week and one month. The data
      was analyzed by treated limb (versus treated subject). All study data were analyzed under the
      principles of intent-to-treat, in which data are analyzed according to the assigned
      randomized group regardless of the treatment actually delivered.
    
  