
    
      Basal cell carcinoma is a malignancy with significant prevalence that rarely metastasizes but
      can be locally destructive. Laser therapy for this type of lesion may be a superior option
      for patients who do not wish to or cannot tolerate other modalities such as topical
      chemotherapeutics or surgery.

      In this pilot study, we will preliminarily assess the efficacy and safety of the 595/1064 nm
      Multiplex laser when treating superficial and nodular basal cell carcinomas less than 1.5 cm
      in size. Eligible patients with biopsy-proven superficial or nodular BCCs less than 1.5 cm in
      size will have the opportunity to enroll in this study. This is an unblinded study in which
      patients will be randomized to either a treatment arm or a control arm. Patients in the
      treatment arm will receive three treatments with the 595/1064 nm multiplex laser spaced four
      weeks apart. In addition to assessing the presence of any adverse effects, photographs will
      be taken at each visit. One month after the last treatment session, patients in this group
      will return for evaluation of 1) clinical clearance and 2) histological clearance of their
      BCC. In order to assess clinical clearance, a dermatologist will grossly examine, measure,
      and document any residual lesion. Afterwards, a deep excisional biopsy encompassing the
      entire region will be taken and histological clearance will be determined by a microscopic
      examination for any residual tumor cells. Follow-up for wound care of the biopsy will occur
      one week later. Tumor burden will be calculated by change in surface area of the lesion.

      After standard diagnostic biopsy, patients in the control arm will be followed for three
      regular visits, spaced 4 weeks apart. One month after the third follow-up visit, control
      patients will return for final photography and evaluation of clinical and histological
      clearance, just as the treatment arm. Although extremely rare1, if any clinical signs of
      progression are visible during this period (what we will consider greater than 10% growth),
      the patient will be withdrawn from the study and will undergo standard of care treatment.
    
  