
    
      The participant will be involved in this project for approximately 3 - 4 weeks, depending on
      how long they usually come into hospital for, for clinical treatment. For 1 week they will
      wear a physical activity monitor before the first course of Aminophylline and Hydrocortisone,
      during the treatment, and for 1 more week post treatment. This monitor records how active the
      participants are and is a small monitor worn on the upper arm.

      Both study visits will happen while the patients are already in hospital, on admission and on
      discharge and will take approximately 2-3 hours to complete.

      Both study visits include:

      • 3 types of breathing tests: Impulse oscillometry in the asthma laboratory, which means they
      will breath through a mouth piece in and out at a comfortable, steady rate.

      Exhaled nitric oxide which measures gas produced by cells in the lungs. This is a
      comfortable, steady blow into a handheld machine.

      Spirometry which involves filling the lungs and blowing out hard into a machine.

        -  A blood test - Full Blood Count (FBC) including eosinophils, glucose, fibrinogen,
           C-Reactive Protein (CRP), total Immunoglobulin-E (IgE), citrate coagulation and platelet
           aggregation.

        -  3 short questionnaires which ask about symptoms, control of asthma, and how the patient
           feels asthma affects them.

        -  A 6 Minute Walk Test which involves walking up and down a ward corridor for 6 minutes to
           see distance covered in 6 minutes.

        -  Cardiovascular test:

      Arterial stiffness which is a series of blood pressures on the leg, arm and neck.

      Some of these tests will be performed as part of their usual hospital care. These include
      blood test, 6 Minute Walk Test, and spirometry.

      Blood samples will be done routinely as part of normal care. Blood will only be collected if
      they do not have a clinical blood test before the administration of IV Aminophylline and IV
      Hydrocortisone and after the final dose. The clinical trial is observing patients on a
      clinical treatment. All decisions regarding the treatment dose and duration will be made by
      the clinical team. All samples will go to the standard accredited hospital routine laboratory
      on the trial site. No samples will be stored, moved off site or leave the UK.
    
  