
    
      Study Design This will be an interventional prospective, randomized, double-blinded
      controlled trial performed at a single center. Prospective data will be collected of all
      consenting patients with a diagnosis of either initial or recurrent fulminant C. difficile
      colitis requiring surgical intervention. The data to be collected includes standard-of-care
      blood draws; no extra lab draws are planned for this trial. In the event labs are not drawn,
      the investigators will plan to obtain serum creatinine, total bilirubin, and platelet counts
      to continue SOFA score evaluations while the patient is in the surgical ICU. Consent will be
      obtained either from the patient or their legally authorized representative. Inclusion
      criteria will be all patients over the age of eighteen with diagnosed fulminant C. difficile
      colitis requiring surgical colectomy with end ileostomy. Surgical intervention will be
      determined by the operating surgeon at the time of initial consult assessment and during the
      follow-up assessments while the patient is hospitalized. Patients may be excluded on the
      account they are pregnant, prisoners/ incarcerated, have a history of congestive heart
      failure, or have received IVIG within 30 days of randomization to exclusion criteria.

      Randomization will be performed per best common practice guidelines with a computer-generated
      randomization process and hospital investigational pharmacy blinding processes into both a
      therapeutic arm (Bezlotoxumab) and a placebo (normal saline) arm of the study. All current
      standards of care will continue to be administered in these patients, regardless of their
      respective study arm. To control for the antibiotics administered, the patients will need to
      be stratified according to the standard-of-care antibiotics and balanced in regards to this
      variable. Current standard of care therapy at our institution for fulminant C. difficile
      colitis includes Vancomycin (both oral and rectal, if needed) and intravenous Metronidazole.
      Fulminant C. difficile colitis is defined, per our guidelines, as proven infection with
      hypotension/ shock, ileus, or megacolon.

      Upon conclusion of the surgical intervention, the Anesthesia or nursing team will administer
      the trial medication, Bezlotoxumab, or the placebo, normal saline. Dosing is planned to be
      ten milligrams per kilogram, which is standard dosing for therapeutic Bezlotoxumab approved
      for use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. This dose will be administered as a
      one-time single-infusion dose administered over the span of one hour. The placebo
      administration of normal saline will be at the same dosing with a single-infusion over one
      hour. The patient will receive standard of care post-operative management and the information
      obtained from standard-of-care lab draws will be assessed throughout their hospital stay. The
      patient will be seen and evaluated in clinic during the post-operative period at the
      one-month follow-up and either in clinic or via telephone at their three-month and six-month
      follow-up.
    
  