
    
      After Ethical Committee approval and written informed consent were obtained, sixty edentulous
      patients (American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status (ASA) grade I-III, aged over
      65 years) undergoing elective surgery were included into the study. Patients with dentures
      had to remove their dentures before surgery at the ward. The supraglottic airway device was
      inserted into each patient in a random order. A statistician independent of the clinical
      investigators generated the randomization sequence using a computerized program. Patients
      were excluded if they had a known or predicted difficult airway, a body mass index > 35
      kg/m2, or were at risk of aspiration. All cases were conducted by anesthetists who had
      experience over 5 years of LMA insertion.

      Demographic parameters, Mallampati classification and the duration of surgery were recorded.
      Patients were routinely monitored using ECG, non-invasive blood pressure measurement, pulse
      oximetry and end-tidal carbon dioxide tension. Depth of anesthesia was monitored with
      bispectral index (BIS).

      Patients were premedicated with midazolam 0.02 mg/kg when venous access was obtained. After 3
      min preoxygenation with 100 % oxygen via face mask, anesthesia was induced with fentanyl 1-2
      µg/kg and propofol 1-2 mg/kg. When the BIS value was 40-60 the predetermined supraglottic
      airway device was inserted according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The supraglottic
      airway devices were deflated fully before insertion. Size 4 LMA was used for those with a
      weight of 50-70 kg and size 5 LMA for those between 70-100 kg. After insertion, each device
      was inflated with a hand-held airway manometer (Rusch, Germany) to an intracuff pressure of
      60 cm H2O.

      An effective airway was defined as the presence of normal thoracoabdominal movement and a
      square-wave end-tidal carbon dioxide trace. General anesthesia was maintained with
      sevoflurane, O2 and N2O.

      Insertion time was defined as the time from picking up the airway device until connection to
      the airway circuit. Ease of insertion was graded by the attending anesthesiologist as easy,
      fair or difficult. If after three attempts insertion was still not successful, the other
      device was used. If insertion of the other device also failed the patient was endotracheally
      intubated.

      Before the oropharyngeal leak test was carried out, the face of the patient was covered so
      that the observer was blinded to the airway device. The oropharyngeal leak pressure was
      determined by transiently stopping ventilation and closing the adjustable pressure-limiting
      valve with a fresh gas flow of 3 L/min until airway pressure reached a steady state and a
      voice of leakage was heard. The airway pressure was not allowed to exceed 40 cm H2O.

      After successful placement of the LMA Supreme™, a 12 French gauge gastric catheter was
      inserted via the gastric channel.

      Any episode of hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90%), aspiration or regurgitation,bronchospasm and airway
      obstruction were documented. After removal of the LMA, it was examined for the presence of
      visible blood.

      In the postanesthesia care unit, a research assistant, who was blinded to the group
      allocation, interviewed the patients using a predetermined questionnaire to collect data on
      the postoperative pharyngolaryngeal adverse events. The presence or absence of sore throat,
      dysphonia and dysphagia was assessed at 1 and 24 h postoperatively.
    
  