
    
      High-risk drinking and the associated consequences continue to be significant problems among
      college students. Among the many consequences of this risky behavior are impaired driving and
      impaired passenger fatalities. These concerns are further magnified by reports showing: 1)
      younger drivers are overrepresented in fatal crashes involving impaired drivers; 2)~1 in 6
      fatalities are passengers (riders with the impaired drivers; RWID); and 3) although over 1.3
      million drivers in the U.S. are arrested for impaired driving annually, they only represent
      1% of the estimated 121 million self-reported episodes of impaired driving each year. Despite
      the benefits noted for the PBI, the investigators' recent NIAAA funded research examining
      parenting throughout college identified associations between specific parenting behaviors and
      risky drinking and consequences among students that are not adequately addressed. This
      research revealed several important trends: 1) many parents allow their teens to drink
      alcohol in an attempt to take the mystery away and provide opportunities to teach them safer
      drinking practices; 2) this "parental permissiveness" toward underage drinking, even though
      it was intended to be protective by parents, had the opposite effect and was significantly
      associated with increased risky drinking and consequences throughout college even when taking
      into account other critical factors (e.g., peer norms); 3) even small increases in parental
      permissiveness translated into students experiencing 4-5 more consequences per year; and 4)
      the effects of this parental permissiveness was not attenuated by other positive parenting
      behaviors (e.g., communication, monitoring, modeling). In response to these findings and the
      initial pilot study showing parents were initially reluctant to change their permissiveness
      when simply provided with the information about how it was associated with risky student
      drinking, the investigators embarked on a new endeavor in college student parent intervention
      research. The investigators developed a brief 15-20 minute intervention (P-Chat) that uses
      principles of Motivational Interviewing (MI) to reduce defensiveness and modify parents'
      motives (and behaviors) to change parental permissiveness, and in turn, reduce students'
      risky drinking and consequences. The investigators have also conducted a pilot randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) study to demonstrate ability to implement the P-Chat with fidelity;
      modify parents' willingness to change; and change parents' permissive behaviors. The pilot
      data provides evidence that the P-Chat intervention has the potential to substantially
      improve the public health impact of PBIs. The proposed research will examine the P-Chat as a
      stand-alone intervention and also as an add-on in combination with the original PBI to
      evaluate the best practice for implementation in a RCT using a rigorous study design.

      The design is a four-arm randomized control trial with 5 waves of data collection (P-Chat,
      P-Chat+, PBI Only, and assessment only control). The study will enroll an ethnically diverse
      sample of 900 parent-student dyads. Students will complete assessments of all the primary,
      secondary, and tertiary outcomes at five times: pre-intervention baseline and 3-month,
      6-month, 9-month, and 12-month follow-ups. To maximize the diversity of the sample, the
      investigators are oversampling for 30% racial/ethnic minorities, free of sample bias.
    
  