
    
      This is a prospective, non-randomised mechanistic study of 35 patients, including 5 control
      patients with normal atria and 30 patients with atrial fibrillation.

      The 5 control patients will be undergoing an elective catheter ablation for another
      arrhythmia (likely supraventricular tachycardia (SVT)) involving a trans-septal puncture for
      left atrial access.

      The 30 main study participants will only be patients who are already planning to undergo a
      catheter ablation procedure for atrial fibrillation. This will include 10 patients who are
      undergoing elective AcQMap guided procedures, in order to correlate non-contact propagation
      patterns with contact substrate mapping. These 10 patients will also undergo cardiac MRI
      imaging.

      Study participants will be identified by medical staff in the outpatient clinic at the time
      of listing for catheter ablation, or by review of patients electronically listed for this
      procedure. If patients are in the clinic and give consent then a member of the research team
      may approach them at this stage. If identified by medical staff through listing for the
      procedure, they will be approached by telephone. An information leaflet will then be provided
      by post or email (if this has not been provided in clinic) with contact details for the
      research team. If willing to participate then formal screening and recruitment will take
      place at the time of attendance for standard pre-procedure assessment appointments or when
      attending for the elective procedure. Information must have been provided with sufficient
      time for the potential participant to fully consider involvement prior to formal recruitment
      and consent (generally expected to be at least 24 hours). It will be clear that participation
      or choosing not to participate has no impact on proceeding with their planned procedure. As
      the baseline assessments required involve purely a review of a participants medical history
      and measurement of height and weight, this will be combined with the screening/recruitment
      visit, and providing information has been provided sufficiently in advance then may be
      undertaken at the time of attending for the study procedure.

      Study procedure:

      In line with standard practice in this institution, all AF ablation procedures will be
      undertaken under general anaesthesia. SVT ablation will be conducted under sedation. Venous
      access, trans-septal puncture and placement of standard electrophysiology catheters will be
      undertaken in accordance with standard clinical care. Anticoagulation will be administered
      following trans-septal puncture in line with standard protocols.

      All participants:

      All study participants will undergo electroanatomical voltage mapping (EAVM) using the Abbott
      Advisa HD Grid (SE) mapping catheter using the orthogonal wave setting (HD wave solution). If
      in AF at the start of the procedure then direct current cardioversion (DCCV) will be used to
      restore sinus rhythm. This can be repeated at the discretion of the operator if initially
      unsuccessful (including internal cardioversion if necessary). If unsuccessful then the
      patient will no longer be included in the study. Mapping will then be undertaken during
      bipolar pacing from the mid point of the coronary sinus catheter whilst pacing at 800ms for 4
      beats followed by a single beat at 300ms (or the shortest captured if longer). Ablation and
      the rest of the procedure can then be performed according to standard clinical practice.

      For the 30 patients undergoing AF ablation, once the initial study procedures above are
      complete, further mapping will be conducted using either an ablation catheter (20 patients)
      or the AcQMap system (10 patients).

      Ablation catheter mapping:

      This involves using a contact force guided bipolar irrigated ablation catheter (Abbott
      Tacticath) during the same pacing protocol. For patients presenting in sinus rhythm or AF,
      all required mapping should be completed in the presenting rhythm followed by either AF
      induction (using incremental burst atrial pacing) or DCCV respectively before completion of
      mapping procedures. Ablation in line with standard clinical care will be undertaken following
      completion of all mapping procedures.

      AcQMap guided mapping and ablation:

      10 patients with persistent AF who are undergoing AcQMap guided elective catheter ablation
      procedures will be included. All patients will undergo the same main study mapping procedure
      outlined above. In addition, AcQMap recordings will also be obtained. Recordings will be made
      during pacing with the same main study protocol and two 30second recordings will be
      undertaken during AF. HD grid contact recordings will then also be obtained in regions of
      prominent rotational and irregular conduction identified by AcQMap and ablation performed at
      the operator's discretion.

      Post procedure care including subsequent discharge will continue in line with standard
      clinical practice and no study follow up is required (excluding the repeat MRI referred to
      below).

      Cardiac MRI:

      The 10 participants undergoing elective AcQMap guided procedures will also undergo a cardiac
      MRI both prior to and after the procedure. The initial scan will be within the 6 weeks prior
      to the ablation procedure and the follow up scan will be within 3-6 months after the
      procedure. These will be planned whenever possible to take place alongside routine hospital
      visits.

      Patients will complete an MRI safety questionnaire (5 minutes) prior to the scan. An
      intravenous cannula will be inserted. Cardiac MRI will evaluate cardiac structure and
      function, with particular focus on the left atrium. For late gadolinium enhancement imaging,
      the total dose of gadolinium-based contrast will not exceed 0.2mmol/kg.

      The total duration of the MR protocol will be approximately 60 minutes, considering
      approximately 50 minutes of scanning time, plus approximately 10 minutes for pre/post-scan
      preparation.

      It is planned that a total of 35 patients will be recruited to this study. As this study is
      not evaluating clinical outcomes of a procedure, greater numbers are not needed. This number
      is thought to be enough to reveal any patterns in electrophysiological properties. Data
      analysis will occur offline using anonymised datasets. Results will be collated and a report
      compiled at the end of the study.
    
  