
    
      This is a Phase 1, single dose, open-label study comparing the plasma pharmacokinetics and
      safety of RX0041-002 between subjects with hepatic impairment and age/gender/BMI-matched
      subjects with normal hepatic function.

      DOSAGE

      All subjects will receive a single treatment consisting of four (4) ml of a 4% solution of
      RX0041-002 (corresponding to 160 mg cocaine HCl) applied for 20 minutes to both nostrils
      using cotton pledgets. RX0041-002 Topical Solution (4%) will be provided by the Sponsor,
      supplied in 4 mL bottles. RX0041-002 Topical Solution contains citric acid, D&C Yellow No.
      10, FD&C Green No. 3, sodium benzoate, and water.

      DURATION OF STUDY

      Total duration of study participation for each subject will be approximately 23 days not
      counting the variable 30 days for adverse event follow-up and resolution, if required. During
      that time, subjects will be screened for a maximum of 21 days and then confined to the study
      unit for approximately 45 hours for Day -1 evaluations, dosing (Day 1), blood sampling and
      safety assessments (Day 1-2).

      NUMBER OF SUBJECTS

      A sufficient number of subjects will be enrolled to complete 12 subjects with hepatic
      impairment, male or female volunteers ≥ 18 years of age. An additional 12 healthy,
      non-hepatically impaired, male or female volunteers will be enrolled as the comparator group.
      These subjects will be approximately age, body mass index (BMI) & gender-matched to the
      subjects with hepatic impairment. Hepatic impairment will be classified as moderate or severe
      and each grade/class will be defined according to Child-Pugh classification (Class B or C) .
      The liver impairment will be identified by a typical medical history, physical examination,
      coagulation and abnormal liver function tests (including bilirubin and albumin) at screening.

      SAFETY PARAMETERS

      Prior to enrollment (screening) and at the completion of the study, or at premature
      discontinuation, each subject will undergo a complete physical examination plus vital signs,
      clinical laboratory testing (serum chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis), and coagulation.
      In addition, subjects will be screened for inclusion with a 12-lead electrocardiogram, a
      urinary screen for drugs of abuse and blood tests for alcohol, serology tests for HIV
      antibody. Breath alcohol and urine drug screens will be repeated at check-in on Day -1 of the
      study. Females of child bearing potential will also be screened for inclusion with a serum
      pregnancy test. Urine pregnancy tests will also be performed at check-in on Day -1.

      Each subject will be queried for the occurrence of adverse experiences following dosing and
      during blood sampling. Vital sign monitoring and recordings, will be obtained at baseline
      (pre-dose) (Day 1). Blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and oral temperature will be
      taken and recorded every 15 minutes beginning immediately prior to dosing and for every 15
      minutes for the first 60 minutes following pledget insertion. For the next 120 minutes (up to
      180 minutes' post pledget insertion) vital sign recordings to include blood pressure, heart
      rate, respiratory rate and oral temperature measurements will be taken and recorded every 30
      minutes to the 180 minute (3 Hour) post pledget insertion time point. Vital sign recordings
      to include blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and oral temperature measurements
      will continue to be taken and recorded at hour 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28 and 32 hours
      from time of pledget insertion or if necessary until the patient is clinically stable.

      A nasal exam will be conducted, visually, pre-dose (Day 1) and at the end of study (Day 2) to
      determine if irritation is present at the application site following drug administration.

      PHARMACOKINETIC BLOOD SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS

      Pharmacokinetic blood samples will be drawn at the following times relative to the initiation
      of RX0041-002 dosing.

      Subjects will be dosed and blood pharmacokinetic sampling will be conducted at 0 hour
      (pre-dose), and post dose at: 7 minutes, 15 minutes, 20 minutes, (immediately after pledget
      removal) 30 minutes, 45 minutes, 60 minutes, 75 minutes, 90 minutes, 105 minutes, and 2, 3,
      4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, 28 and 32 hours, based upon the beginning of dose application. For each
      time point, a minimum of 8 ml of blood will be sampled.

      Total concentrations of cocaine and it major metabolites will be determined in all samples.
    
  