
    
      Nausea, vomiting and retching symptoms are among the most common adverse effects of
      chemotherapy and are defined with expressions like "the biggest problem including pain" by
      patients. Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV)' is reported leads to
      fluid-electrolyte imbalance, dehydration, loss of weight, physiological effects caused by
      poor drug absorption or decreased elimination from kidneys as well as negative effects in
      one's social life, work-life, activities of daily life and psychological status. Also,
      nausea-vomiting may cause some patients to refuse chemotherapy or to discontinue the
      treatment. Inadequate control of CINV leads patients to integrative health practices.

      The study was realized as a randomized controlled study in order to explore the effect of use
      of 3% peppermint oil applied on lips three times a day during the five days following
      chemotherapy upon incidence nausea, vomiting, and retching, nausea severity and quantity use
      of antiemetics in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.The study was initiated on the
      10.09.2017 and in this study were interviewed with 250 patients. 90 patients that met
      inclusion criteria were contacted. The study was completed with 36 intervention patients and
      with 44 control patients (See Fig. 1). For determine to sample size, while patients were
      being allocated to the study groups, post hoc power analysis was periodically done with the
      data obtained. The sample size for this study was calculated using the MedCalc (32-bit). The
      process continued until the necessary sample size was reached. According to power analysis, α
      = 0.05 and β =0.20, and the power of the study was 99.9%.

      Randomization In order to provide randomization was preferred ballot method. As a result of
      the ballot, the first patient who inclusion criteria of study was allocated to the
      intervention group while the next one to the control group. After participant enrollment,
      patients were assigned to the two groups in a 1:1 ratio according to this rule. Because of it
      is not known whether nausea/vomiting experience of patients who first time chemotherapy
      receiving, study groups included patients receiving two or more chemotherapy.

      Interventions 2.4.1. The control group The control group underwent only the routine
      treatment. The patients in the control group, Patient Watch Chart, Patient Nausea Severity
      Follow-up Form, and INVR, marked by patients and They were returned the duly completed these
      forms to the researcher when they came to hospital for the next chemotherapy treatment.
      Patient Watch Chart, and INVR skala of patients who illiterate were filled in by the
      pollster, according to expression of patient. In order to fill in Patient Watch Chart, and
      INVR phone interviews were made twice a day (morning-evening) by the pollster and the
      participants at a suitable time determined together.

      2.4.2. Intervention group The patients in the intervention group received routine medical
      treatment program and were asked to put one drop of peppermint oil upon lips following
      chemotherapy administration. Before peppermint oil application; the researcher theoretically
      and practically provided a training of 8-10 minutes about the use of peppermint oil and the
      patients were requested to apply this oil three times a day according to "Oil Practice Guide"
      (See Fig. 2) in the morning (09:00), at noon (15:00) and in the evening (21:00). The mobile
      phones of the participants were set to these hours and the alarm system continued in this
      manner for five days. The participants whose mobile phones were not set to these hours were
      called by the researcher in order to recall them of the protocol. Before peppermint oil
      application, Patient Opinion Form (pre-application) were asked to the participants and their
      answers were written down. Similarly; after peppermint oil application, same form
      (post-application) were asked and the answers were written down. Patient Watch Chart, Patient
      Nausea Severity Follow-up Form, and INVR, marked by patients and They were returned the duly
      completed these forms to the researcher when they came to hospital for the next chemotherapy
      treatment. Patient Watch Chart, and INVR skala of patients who illiterate were filled in by
      the pollster, according to expression of patient. In order to fill in Patient Watch Chart,
      and INVR phone interviews were made twice a day (morning-evening) by the pollster and the
      participants at a suitable time determined together.

      Patients in the intervention and control groups were allowed to take standard antiemetic
      medications and other drugs taken for different medical problems during and after the day of
      peppermint oil application. As a part of standard antiemetic treatment; patients were given "
      in isotonic solution 5-HT3 receptor antagonists (palonosetron, granisetron (Kytril))+
      steroids (dexamethazon (Decort)) + antihistaminic (Avil or Systral ampul) + Metpamid ampul"
      before chemotherapy.

      Onzyd 8 mg (ondansetron) + metpamid tb. has been prescribed by oncologist, for able to use at
      patient's home.
    
  