
    
      According to current practice, patients referred from a general practitioner (GP) to the
      Orthopaedic Outpatient Shoulder Clinic, Silkeborg Regional Hospital (SRH), Denmark, will be
      examined by either an orthopaedic surgeon (OS) or an extended scope physiotherapist (ESP), as
      these two groups of health professionals share this assignment. The decision on, which health
      professional is considered most appropriate to examine the patient, is done by a senior
      orthopaedic surgeon based on the available information in the referral letter from the GP.
      Three categories of appropriateness are used: most appropriate to be examined by an OS, most
      appropriate to be examined by an ESP and equally appropriate to be examined by an ESP or an
      OS.

      The overall purpose of this study is to evaluate the quality of the shared assignment
      investigated through both professional and organisational outcomes. The following three
      subsidiary objectives are used:

        1. To estimate the agreement between ESP's and OS's on diagnosis and treatment plan
           (primary subsidiary objective)

        2. To estimate direct hospital costs of an examination performed by an ESP and an OS,
           respectively, and to estimate the difference in costs.

        3. To describe the interdisciplinary collaborative practice including evaluation of the
           extent of relational coordination.

      Methods are described underneath related to each subsidiary objective.

        1. The study is conducted at the shoulder clinic, SRH. Eligibility criteria, intervention
           and outcomes are described elsewhere.

           Primary analysis:

           Agreement between ESP and OS in choice of treatment plan (three categories: 1) referral
           to physiotherapy, 2) need of further diagnostic examination, steroid injection or
           surgery and 3) no intervention) will be evaluated by estimating the proportion of
           agreement between

             -  The individual registrations of the ESP and OS

             -  The individual registration of the ESP and the common decision

             -  The individual registration of the OS and the common decision Furthermore,
                McNemar's test will be used to compare the individual registrations of the ESP and
                OS, respectively, against the common decision

           Secondary analyses:

           Agreement between ESP and OS in choice of treatment plan (five categories: as described
           in the outcome section) will be evaluated the same way as described above.

           Agreement between ESP and OS in diagnosis of the patient will be evaluated by estimating
           both the proportion of total agreement and partial agreement between the two health
           professionals. Total agreement is defined as ESP and OS having registered the same
           primary diagnosis. Partial agreement is defined as ESP and OS having registered the same
           diagnosis but one of them considers it the primary diagnosis while the other considers
           it a secondary diagnosis.

        2. Mean hospital costs of an examination of a shoulder patient will be estimated based on
           the cohort used to evaluate agreement on diagnosis and treatment plan. Mean hospital
           costs per patient in the cohort will be estimated separately for ESP's and OS's based on
           salaries for the health professionals and amount of ordered supplemental diagnostic
           examinations (X-ray, MR imaging, MR arthrography, CT imaging, ENG, EMG) in each group.
           Difference in costs will be estimated.

        3. Relational coordination in interdisciplinary collaborative practice will be described
           through separate semi-structured group interviews with ESP's and OS's, respectively.

      The Association of Danish Physiotherapists is partly funding the salary for the principal
      investigator.
    
  