
    
      Recent technical advances, especially the evolution of ultrasound technology, have helped to
      some extent in circumventing some of the limitations of epidural anesthesia. The efficacy of
      an epidural depends mainly on accurate placement of the catheter in the epidural space.
      Therefore, identification of the epidural space is the most vital part of the procedure.
      Obese patients represent are the most challenging group for the identification of anatomical
      landmarks, it is important to determine if ultrasound imaging is a useful technique in this
      population.

      All the patients will undergo ultrasound imaging of the lumbar spine just before epidural
      insertion. Ultrasound imaging will be performed by one of the investigators. A different
      anesthesiologist will perform the epidural procedure based on the US information provided by
      the investigator. The investigator will provide information to the epidural performer on the
      insertion point, the angle of needle insertion and safe approximate distance before reaching
      the epidural space to facilitate the epidural performance. To maintain blinding and to
      prevent performer bias, the exact depth of the epidural space from skin, as seen on the
      ultrasound will not be disclosed. The investigator, with the aid of an in-built caliper, will
      measure this distance at a later time before saving the image.

      The results of this study are expected to determine the clinical reliability of ultrasound
      imaging in visualizing the anatomical structures relevant to the technical performance of
      epidural analgesia in the obese population. Since technical difficulty in performing
      epidurals is more commonly encountered in obese patients, ultrasound visualization would
      improve the overall success of the technique by predicting the depth of the epidural needle
      to be inserted. In turn, the complication rate would be minimized.
    
  