
    
      Background: Positron Emission Tomography (PET) is a specialized nuclear medicine procedure
      that uses positron emitting radiolabeled tracer molecules to measure biological activity. The
      most common of these tracers, 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FGD), an analog of glucose, is
      used to determine abnormal glucose metabolism in tumours and other sites. FDG has general
      applications where abnormal glucose metabolism may be present such as differentiating tumour
      from scar tissue, evaluating the presence of tumour in light of rising tumour markers and
      normal morphological imaging, and assessing response to therapy.

      The Cross Cancer Institute has been funded to establish a PET centre and research program to
      prove the effectiveness of PET scanning in the Canadian health care environment and validate
      the data that have been developed in other jurisdictions in specific oncologic indications. A
      cyclotron has been installed at the Cross Cancer Institute which produces 18F-fluoride that
      is used in the automated synthesis of FDG. The three PET scanners in the Department of
      Oncologic Imaging will be used for this protocol.

      Objectives:

      Primary - establish the general utility and value of FDG-PET imaging in patients with known
      or suspected soft tissue sarcoma.

      Secondary - demonstrate the safety of FDG-PET imaging by documentation of adverse events;
      determine whether the number of subjects available for study at the Cross Cancer Institute is
      sufficient to achieve statistically significant results; determine the feasibility of
      extending this study to a larger multicenter design.

      Study Design: The proposed trial will be a Phase II, diagnostic imaging, open label, single
      site clinical trial. The patient population will consist of patients with known or suspected
      soft tissue sarcoma. This will also be a pilot study to test the feasibility of extending
      this trial to a larger multicenter design in view of increasing sample size and strengthening
      conclusions about safety and effectiveness of FDG-PET imaging in this population.

      With each scan, the patient will receive a single IV injection of FDG. Initial imaging will
      be conducted 60 minutes after an average injection of 200-300 MBq of FDG (dose is dependent
      on which scanner is used and patients' weight). The images will then be examined by an
      experienced nuclear medicine physician and the location and intensity of abnormal FDG uptake
      will be reported. The referring physician will then correlate the findings with the results
      of clinical examinations and conventional imaging.

      Statistical Analysis: The investigators will calculate the positive predictive value (PPV) of
      the FDG scans. They also intend to evaluate the percentage of patients in which the FDG scan
      outcome affected patient management.

      Stopping Rules: The subject is free to withdraw at any time. The investigator also has the
      right to withdraw a subject from the study in the event of intercurrent illness or other
      reasons concerning the health or well being of the subject, or in case of lack of
      cooperation. Should a subject decide to withdraw or the investigator decide to withdraw the
      subject after administration of FDG, all efforts will be made to complete and report
      follow-up observations as thoroughly as possible providing consent is still valid. A complete
      final evaluation at the time of the subject's withdrawal is to be made with an explanation of
      why the subject is withdrawing or being withdrawn from the study. If the reason for
      withdrawing a subject from the study is a specific event or an abnormal laboratory test
      result, the event or test result must be recorded as an adverse event and entered into the
      Case Report Form.

      Data Safety Monitoring Committee: Preliminary data will be analyzed for safety and
      effectiveness on a yearly basis until the study ends.
    
  