
    
      The acute coronary syndromes (ACS), which encompass unstable angina (UA) and both ST
      elevation and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI and non-STEMI), are the leading
      cause of death in the United States. In addition, they account for a significant number of
      hospital admissions (300,000 per year for STEMI, >1,000,000 per year for non-ST elevation
      ACS). Differentiation of patients with ACS from those with chest pain due to other causes, as
      well as risk stratification of those within the ACS group, are critically important.

      In the Emergency Department(ED), the ECG is initially used to distinguish patients with STEMI
      from those with non-STEMI and other ACS. Subsequent workup in non-STEMI patients is aimed at
      rapidly distinguishing those who require admission and possible intervention or intensive
      medical therapy, from those who can be safely discharged. However, because of the frequent
      inability to determine whether symptoms are related to an ACS during this initial ED visit,
      further evaluation is often needed, resulting in an estimated 5,000,000 admissions per year.

      Currently, a variety of modalities are used in this process of risk stratification, with
      resting myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) often assuming a central role. This modality has
      an overall sensitivity of 80% and an excellent negative predictive value (95-97%). Resting
      MPI therefore enables clinicians to safely triage low risk patients to delayed stress testing
      or discharge. However, as with any test, this technique has limitations, including an
      increased incidence of equivocal findings in obese patients, lower sensitivity in patients
      without ongoing symptoms, and unsuitability in patients with previous myocardial damage.
      Perhaps most importantly, alternative diagnoses such as aortic dissection or pulmonary
      embolism cannot be evaluated with myocardial perfusion imaging.

      If coronary Computed Tomographic angiography (CTA) could be shown to be a robust technique in
      the clinical setting, it could become a powerful tool in the triage of patients with ACS.
      Computed Tomography (CT) of the chest is currently considered the gold standard for
      evaluation of the two most common serious alternative chest pain diagnoses - aortic
      dissection and pulmonary embolism. A single, rapid comprehensive imaging study that could
      reliably diagnose or exclude coronary artery disease, aortic dissection, and pulmonary
      embolism would allow quicker and more appropriate triage of this acutely ill population.

      However, in keeping with the principles of evidence-based medicine, before comprehensive
      gated chest CT angiography can be recommended in preference to existing techniques,
      systematic comparative studies should be performed. In this study, the results of the CTA
      will be compared with those of the resting MPI, which is part of the standard ED evaluation
      of chest pain at this institution. In addition, a majority of these patients subsequently
      undergo stress MPI. It is therefore anticipated that the stress MPI results will also be
      compared with the CTA findings.
    
  