
    
      Calcific tendinopathy of the shoulder is caused by unknown etiology characterized by the
      formation of calcific deposits in on or several tendons of the rotator cuff muscles:
      supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles. The calcific deposits
      is often composed of poorly crystallized hydroxyapatite, an inorganic component of bone
      tissue, but the pathogenesis of rotator cuff disorders is still incomplete.

      The clinical presentations of calcific tendinopathy typically involve shoulder pain similar
      to that experienced by patients with rotator cuff tendinopathy or shoulder impingement
      syndrome. Pain is the cardinal symptom and is localized on the top or lateral aspect of the
      shoulder or both, often with radiation towards the insertion of the deltoid. The onset of
      pain is gradual and unassociated with trauma. Daily activities involving overhead motions,
      such as putting on a shirt or brushing hair, can be painful, thus decreasing quality of life
      immensely.

      Calcific tendinopathy of the shoulder is often self-limited with a relatively benign clinical
      course. Therefore, first-line therapy should be conservative and focused on symptom relief.
      However, some remain ineffective to the initial treatment. For those refractory cases,
      extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) is introduced and shows resolution of symptoms and
      improvement in shoulder function in approximately 70 percent of patients.

      ESWT uses acoustic waves to fragment calcific deposits. Variables of the settings include
      dose (low or high energy), duration (impulses), and the interval of administration. However,
      an optimum value for the total cumulative dose of energy that should be administered has not
      yet been defined. Our study thus aim to find out the dosage effect of ESWT on the calcific
      debris sizes, pain, daily living functions, and shoulder range of motions in the calcific
      tendinitis patients.

      The study will be a prospective assessor-blinded randomized controlled trial. Patients who
      have calcific tendinitis diagnosed by shoulder sonography or X-ray, fail to improve despite
      appropriate conservative treatment for three months will be recruited. The subjects will be
      randomized distributed in 3 groups: High Energy, Low Energy, and Sham groups, and each group
      has 30 patients.

      Upon completion of the study, the result will show whether different dosage of ESWT has
      different therapeutic effects on shoulder calcific tendinitis. In the future, the study may
      be the foundation of the ESWT treatment guideline for rotator calcific tendinitis.
    
  