
    
      Initially, 48 patients were recruited from new referrals to the Lab of Preventive Dentistry,
      Periodontology and Implant Biology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (AUTh) for surgical
      placement of at least one implant located in the upper/lower jaw in the anterior/posterior
      segment.

      Study design An initial screening visit included full-mouth periodontal assessment,
      radiographic examination, fulfillment of inclusion/exclusion criteria and suitable patients
      (n=48) were randomised into either treatment Group; in the control Group (Group-A), a
      conventional surgical protocol was followed for implant placement, while in the test Group
      (Group-B) implants were placed in conjunction with an autologous CTG. Each Group was further
      categorized as having thin mucosa (≤2.5mm for Subgroups-AI/-BI) or thick mucosa (>2.5mm for
      Subgroups-AII/-BII) at the implantation site before implant placement (baseline=T0). Implants
      were exposed 3-4 months later (T1).

      Surgical procedures A single implant system (Osseotite, Certain, parallel wall, Biomet 3i,
      Florida, USA; implants of 3.25/4.0 mm in diameter) was used in all cases. At T0, following
      local anaesthesia (lidocaine hydrochloride 2%, epinephrine 1:100000, Lignospan standard,
      Septodont, France), crestal incisions were performed and full-thickness flaps were raised for
      implant placement. Implants were placed at the level of the alveolar crest following the
      manufacturer's surgical guidelines and a two-stage protocol. Flaps were repositioned using
      absorbable sutures (polygalactic acid 5/0 sutures; PGA, medipac, Greece). In Group-B, a
      similar protocol was followed as in Group-A, with the exception that following implant
      placement a CTG was harvested from the palate, between the maxillary canine and the first
      molar (Liu & Weisgold, 2002) and was stabilised onto the lingual flap using a horizontal
      mattress suture. Standardised dimensions of the CTG (11×6×1.5mm) were sought to cover the
      implant's shoulder and extend 3-5 mm on the buccal and the lingual aspect of the alveolar
      ridge (Fig. 1). Scoring of the periosteum for coronal advancement of the flaps was mainly
      performed in Group-B (16 of 23 cases).

      Post-operative care Post-operative pain and oedema were controlled by Ibuprofen, 600 mg. All
      participants were prescribed antibiotics (Amoxicillin, 500 mg per 8 hours for 5 days) and
      were instructed to rinse twice daily with chlorhexidine digluconate (0.12%) and to abstain
      from oral hygiene in the test area for one week. Any post-operative adverse events (i.e.
      swelling, suppuration, flap dehiscence, persistent pain) were recorded upon suture removal
      ten days after surgery.

      Clinical assessments

      The following clinical assessments were performed at the implant site at T0 and were repeated
      at T1:

      A periodontal probe (Hu-Friedy XP-23/QW) that had an endo-stop attached on it was used to
      determine the distances which were finally measured in millimetres by a digital calliper
      (Mitutoyo Europe GmbH) for precision.

      Mucosa thickness (mm) was measured by bone sounding on the alveolar crest and at 2- and 4 mm
      apically, both on the buccal and the lingual aspects.

      The WKT (mm) was measured on the mid-buccal aspect of the implant site. The Implant to Bone
      Crest (I-BC) distance (mm) was measured at four sites, mid-buccally, mid-lingually, mesially
      and distally and was determined as the distance of the osseous crest from the implant
      platform.

      The Thickness of the buccal and lingual bone (mm) was measured at the level of the implant
      shoulder and at 3- and 6 mm apically, using a customised metallic calliper (Ustomed,
      Tuttlingen, Germany). The inner part of one jaw firmly touched the periphery of the screw
      hole within the implant fixture and the opposing jaw firmly touched the osseous surface of
      the alveolar ridge at the predetermined depth.

      Radiographic assessment Intraoral digital radiography and the VixWin™ Platinum Gendex
      software (Hatfield, PA, USA) was utilised to linearly assess the I-BC distance on the
      mesial/distal aspect at T0 and T1. The long-cone paralleling technique was used at a distance
      of 10 cm between the x-ray head and the digital sensor which was attached to a custom-made
      silicone bite block for reproducible radiographs.
    
  