
    
      There are 85,000 fractures of the upper extremity in France each year. This is a frequent
      pathology in fragile patients. The characteristics in terms of comorbidities, age, sex and
      survival are well known from the literature. While secondary mechanical complications to
      surgery, hovering around 6 to 8%, mortality at one year is very high (around 25%).

      Postoperative infection after a fracture of the upper end of the femur ranges from 2 to 8%
      depending on the series. This complication is responsible for morbidity and excess mortality
      linked to the need for revision surgery, prolongation of hospitalization and antibiotic
      treatment.

      In elective surgery, detection of Staphylococcus aureus resistant to methicillin is
      systematic and recommended in many countries, preoperative level of the nasal cavity. Parvizi
      then Goya believe that this port increased from four to nine times the occurrence of
      infection at the surgical site.

      Various epidemiological studies have shown the presence of Staphylococcus aureus in over 30%
      of patients. This prevalence is lower in the French population. An estimated 70% the
      proportion of Staphylococcus aureus in the periprosthetic infections, and 30% related
      specifically to the methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

      Today there is no consensus on what to have vis-à-vis the detection of a hand and the other
      hand treatment of patients.

      The healthy carrier in the population overtake admitted to the trauma unit is unclear.

      It is therefore necessary to know these effects among patients with multiple pathologies.

      For methods of detection, the usual system and directed by swabbing and cultured with 90%
      sensitivity specificity of 100%. The demoyens existence of early detection as GeneXpert®
      Cepheid® lets get this result is in an hour with a specificity of 98% and a sensitivity of
      100%.
    
  