
    
      The additional platelet inhibition with clopidogrel, a thienopyridine inhibitor of the
      platelet P2Y12 adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor, has reduced the risk of ischemic events
      after coronary stent implantation. Because of inter-individual variability in platelet
      response to clopidogrel, a significant proportion of suboptimal platelet inhibition has been
      reported. In addition, persistent residual platelet reactivity measured with platelet
      function testing has shown the association with the cardiovascular outcomes after
      percutaneous coronary intervention(PCI).

      Various clinical factors and genetic polymorphisms have been studied to predict the degree of
      antiplatelet response to clopidogrel. Interestingly, recent studies found that carriers of
      the loss-of-function hepatic cytochrome (CYP) 2C19 allele had significantly lower levels of
      the active metabolite of clopidogrel, diminished platelet inhibition, and a higher rate of
      major adverse cardiovascular events than did non-carriers, in the setting of PCI and acute
      coronary syndrome(ACS). These findings raise the need of solutions to overcome enhanced
      post-clopidogrel platelet reactivity by the influence of the loss-of-function CYP2C19 allele.
      Increasing the dose of clopidogrel and new potent P2Y12 antagonists(such as prasugrel) may be
      alternative antiplatelet regimens in patients with the loss-of-function CYP variant.

      Cilostazol reversibly induces platelet inhibition via its blockade of phosphodiesterase (PDE)
      type 3 and is catalysed mainly by CYP3A. A recent study demonstrated that adjunctive
      cilostazol to dual antiplatelet therapy (triple antiplatelet therapy) intensified platelet
      inhibition as compared with a high maintenance-dose (MD) of 150 mg/day. Therefore, triple
      antiplatelet therapy could also be an alternative antiplatelet therapy to improve platelet
      inhibition and clinical outcomes in carriers of CYP2C19 mutant allele.
    
  