
    
      In industrialized countries the average life expectancy has continuously increased during the
      last decades and this trend is expected to continue. In Switzerland, a sexagenarian now has a
      50% chance, if male, and 70% if female of reaching the age of 80. By 2050, the population of
      over 80 year-olds will have multiplied 2.7 times in Switzerland. Age is considered the
      greatest single risk factor for developing cancer, bladder cancer is no exception and
      typically affects old patients with a median age at the time of diagnosis of around 70. In
      the US 32% of patients diagnosed with bladder cancer are between 75 and 84. In addition, the
      prevalence of comorbidities in this old population is very high as hypertension is present in
      50-60%, coronary artery disease in 15%, cardiac failure in 15%, dementia in 30%, diabetes in
      10-20%, hearing and vision loss in 20-30%. The presence of advanced age, several
      comorbidities, new acute medical condition (i.e. fracture or newly diagnosed cancer) define
      the clinical condition of frailty. This medical condition is a consequence of age-related
      decline in many physiological systems, with defects accumulating with the passage of time
      (age) resulting in an increased risk of death (ageing).

      So surgery and the perioperative period can be exceptionally challenging in old and frail
      patients due to the presence of comorbidities and age-related physiological changes. In these
      patients treatment goals should focus on maintaining a good quality of life for the remaining
      time span by aiming for excellent functional results and if possible long term remission. The
      gold standard of care today for muscle invasive bladder cancer is pelvic lymph node
      dissection, cystectomy and urinary diversion which is associated with a high postoperative
      complication rate (50%). This is probably why today younger age, high stage or grade disease
      and lower comorbidity are associated with higher odds of receiving radical cystectomy.
      However, elderly alone should not preclude the indication for radical cystectomy and urinary
      diversion. In addition there is evidence that the type of anesthesia may impact cognition in
      old patients. Major cardiac and non-cardiac surgical procedures are known to affect cognitive
      function. The incidence of postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) varies greatly (4% to
      41% after major surgery). POCD may persist being a risk factor for long-term cognitive
      deterioration.

      There is evidence that a multimodal prehabilitation program including optimization of
      nutrition and mobilisation can improve functional recovery after surgery, resulting in less
      complications and short length of stay. Optimizing the nutritional status of the frail
      patients before cystectomy and avoiding general anesthesia could be an alternative to
      conventional pre- and intraoperative approaches to improve outcome and quality of life,
      including pain early return of gastrointestinal function cognition and functional activities.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the implementation of a multimodal prehabilitation
      program including optimization of nutrition (protein and carbohydrate) and hydration combined
      with the use of regional anesthesia (spinal-epidural anesthesia) during cystectomy in a
      series old frail patients and compared/matched them to a historical series of similar frail
      patients in terms of early return of quality of life using the Convalescence and Recovery
      Evaluation (CARE) instrument, cognition (CERAD test), and postoperative morbidity. As there
      is a need for a shift in the emphasis towards more patient and recovery-centric measures such
      as quality of life, the investigators decide to assess the early return of quality of life
      using the CARE instrument as the primary endpoint. The CARE instrument is a robust
      multi-dimensional measure of convalescence after major abdominal and pelvic surgery. It has
      been specifically designed and validated for patients undergoing abdominal and pelvic surgery
      (like cystectomy) with a high test retest reliability. The CARE instrument covers 4 domains
      (pain, gastrointestinal, cognition and activity). The importance of patient-reported health
      status is well recognized and is a facet of healthcare quality. In addition it is a valuable
      means for quantitatively measuring the implication of technology adoption for the patient,
      who typically judges the efficacy of a surgical procedure by whether it improves quality of
      life. The Consortium of Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) test is a widely
      validated test packet for evaluation of old patients with dementia. However this CERAD test
      has also been validated in the perioperative setting. It consists of a test battery,
      including verbal fluency, Boston naming test, word list learning, constructional praxis, word
      list recall, word list recognition, and mini mental state examination, which can detect
      subtle changes in cognition. It is easy applicable and the investigators have expertise using
      this test in a similar cystectomy population.

      The investigators will, in a first step, start with a pilot study including 20 patients in
      order to assess the feasibility of the multimodal approach in the urologic clinic and this
      population. The sample size for the feasibility endpoint is based on convenience and no a
      priori calculation was conducted. This number of patients is comparable to published case
      series illustrating the feasibility of this anesthetic technique for cystectomy patients.

      Secondly, the investigators will add 11 patients in the intervention group and then compare
      this series with a historical series of 31 similar frail and old cystectomy patients. This is
      based on the CARE results of the historical series (mean CARE score on POD 7 of 50.68 with a
      SD ± 6.43 and considering a difference of 7 points as clinically relevant with an effect size
      of 0.7).
    
  