
    
      This study characterize the clinical history of the disease (age and start mode of visual
      disturbances, rate and mode of progress of disease), careful assessment of retina function
      and finally, in search of the mutations responsible for this condition.

      A full ophthalmic check-up, one at the inclusion and 24 months :

        1. - A genetic consultation taking account of family history and establishment of family
           tree with precision of geographical origin of birth of ascendants.

        2. - A thorough ophthalmologic examination by a referring medical ophthalmologist,
           including:

           2.1 - An interrogation on the development of the visual awakening since the birth and
           its possible disturbances.

           2.2 - The search for abnormal movements of the eyeballs, and difficulties with regard to
           different lighting.

           2.3 - Visual field evaluation Survey.

           2.4 - The study of color vision.

           2.5 - The search for a refractive disorder with the automatic refractometer.

           2.6 - Measurement of Visual acuity for near and distance.

           2.7 - Examination of the eyeball as a whole, examination of the anterior chamber of the
           eye by the slit lamp.

           2.8 - Taking pictures of the fundus of the eye after pupillary dilation.

           2.9 - An autofluorescence search using a Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscopy (SLO).

           2.10 - Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) which used to assess the thickness of each of
           retinal layers.

           2.11 - Electrophysiological examination, Electroretinogram (ERG) that allows to record
           the functional value of the retina.

           These two latter examinations last on average 10 minutes after dilation of the pupil.

        3. - A blood sample of 10 milliliters to carry out genetic studies to identify the gene
           responsible for this condition and genetic counseling refined by taking account the
           results of this study.

      Intermediate visit M12: only for patients younger than 6 years of age on inclusion.
    
  