
    
      The goal of the study is identification, development and operational definition and then
      validation of phlebotomy performance Metrics which will be used to characterize the optimal
      performance of healthcare practitioner's execution of phlebotomy. These validated Metrics
      will serve as an educational and training tool to improve and quality assure phlebotomy
      training. The validated metrics will be used to produce validated metric-based simulations
      which will be used to establish a training benchmark based on experienced clinicians'
      performance. It will also be used to underpin deliberate practice in simulated training.

      By introducing proficiency-based progression training supported by technology enhanced
      learning we aim for reductions in the error rates of wrong blood in tube of 40 to 69%.

      Objective 1 To characterize the process of taking a blood sample correctly and the correct
      process for labelling a blood sample bottle and laboratory request form to reduce the
      incidence of wrong blood in tube.

      This will involve metric development and metric validation of the process of taking a blood
      sample correctly and the correct process for labelling a blood sample bottle and laboratory
      request form - as a result of a consultative process, including qualitative analysis of WBIT
      errors.

      Objective 2 To quantitatively define a proficiency benchmark and then to design training to
      the proficiency standard and assessment of proficiency up to and including real time feedback
      to the doctor and patient in the clinical arena.

      Objective 3 Design a new approach to training including assessment using technology enhanced
      learning, incorporating online learning and simulation based training of taking a blood
      sample to a proficiency standard.

      Objective 4 To implement the training and assessment in the highest risk groups and document
      the effectiveness of the intervention.

      The training will be delivered to all interns commencing work at Cork University Hospital on
      July 10th 2017 as proficiency based progression simulation training with additional
      systematic proximate feedback.

      Data from each training group will be identified using the laboratory tracking quality system
      and using comparison with the historical data from the previous year(s).

      Objective 5 To use the research data generated to recommend an evidence based training and
      competency assessment approach to health care providers in Ireland, together with evidence
      based individual feedback for any residual errors. This will allow us to internationally
      address the universal problem of sample mislabeling and WBIT.
    
  