
    
      Research suggests that satiation processes in obese patients may be impaired, possibly
      resulting in excessive energy intake and poorer weight loss outcomes. One factor that may
      contribute to disruption of satiation processes and related overconsumption is dietary
      variety. Additionally, food cravings for restricted foods are believed to contribute to poor
      compliance to diets, and in controlled feeding studies, food cravings are the most frequently
      provided reason for poor dietary adherence. Interestingly, several investigations have found
      that cravings decrease when individuals follow a very-low-calorie or monotonous diet (9-11).
      Thus, reductions in the variety of the diet may also reduce food cravings, and assist in
      dietary adherence. It is also possible that the type of surgical procedure performed may
      influence changes in dietary variety, and consequently food cravings. To date, few studies
      have analyzed bariatric surgery patients' selection of foods within specific food groups and
      no study has examined the variety of foods consumed within food groups. Changes in food group
      variety which facilitate improvements in regulation of energy intake and body weight among
      obese individuals after behavioral weight loss may have a similar impact in patients who
      undergo bariatric surgery. Additionally, no studies have examined the relationship between
      changes in dietary variety and food cravings, and how these factors may be related to weight
      loss outcomes in any population.

      Primary Objectives:

      To examine by surgery type(Roux-En-Y gastric bypass [RYGB], laparoscopic adjustable gastric
      banding [LAGB], vertical sleeve gastrectomy [VSG])

        1. changes in dietary variety from pre- to post-bariatric surgery at 3, 6, and 12-months

        2. changes in variety of high-energy-dense foods and changes in cravings of
           high-energy-dense foods at 3, 6, and 12 months and

        3. changes in variety of high-energy-dense and low-energy-dense foods and changes in energy
           intake and weight loss at 3, 6, and 12 months.
    
  