
    
      Functional urinary disorders are common as more than 15% of children are diagnosed. During
      the normal course of urinary tract development, bladder and urinary sphincter develop by 2 to
      4 years old, and by five years old, the tract is completely developed. The underdevelopment
      of the urinary tract may lead to complications of the bladder and kidneys along with social
      impairment. Therefore, the diagnosis is critical as an early diagnosis can prevent long term
      complications. To diagnose, newborns undergo basic urinalysis, urine culture examination,
      blood creatinine analysis, and kidney and bladder ultrasound. If any abnormalities are
      present at the under the age of five, it is recommended that they are followed up on a
      regular basis. Also, urodynamic studies should be performed every year along with others for
      early identification and intervention. Studies have shown that UDS (urodynamic studies)
      significantly reduce the deterioration of the bladder and kidney and the need for operation
      such as bladder dilation.

      As a part of the urodynamic studies, urinary catheterization is inserted to measure residual
      urine, however, it has shown to be an invasive procedure, which can cause urinary tract
      infection. The bladder scanner is an ultrasonic imaging device that has been developed for
      non-invasive measurement of residual volume in the bladder. The images and measurements are
      obtained by applying a probe onto the abdomen. It constructs 12 cross-sectional images at 15
      degree interval using the reflection signals from urine in the bladder and extracts the
      position of the bladder wall.

      The objective of the study is to assess the validity of existing pediatric algorithms for
      diagnosing neurogenic bladder and evaluate the accuracy of measuring the post-void residual
      volume between the ages of 0 to 6 years old.

      It hypothesizes that when the portable bladder scanner (Bladder Scanner, Biocon-900) is used
      in pediatric population between the ages of 0 to 3 years old will show greater difference in
      infused and scanned volume than 4 to 6 years old.
    
  