
    
      Twenty subjects will be accrued in three groups based on smoking habit: 10-20, 20-30 and >30
      cigarettes/day. Eligibility criteria include male and female cigarette smokers ≥19 years of
      age, who are able to give informed consent, able to exhale into Eco Screen instrument for
      15-20 minutes. All must be willing to make a serious quit attempt and be willing to use
      nicotine replacement therapy.

      Subjects will be excluded if any of the following are present: regular use of
      anti-inflammatory medication; presence of any inflammatory disease of the respiratory tract
      including moderate or worse COPD (FEV1 < 80% predicted and FEV1/FVC ratio < 0.7). Subjects
      with normal lung function who meet criteria for diagnosis of chronic bronchitis will be
      excluded. Subjects with stable medical conditions, excluding inflammatory lung disease, will
      be permitted to participate, providing anti-inflammatory therapies are not used regularly and
      providing there has been no change in their clinical status in the two months prior to
      beginning the study.

      Upon entering into the study, subjects will establish a quit date and will be treated with
      nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) products based on individual preference and will receive
      smoking cessation counseling. They will then be seen at 12 visits over the course of 25
      weeks.

      Evaluations will include vital signs, interval smoking history, food frequency questionnaire,
      exhaled carbon monoxide, blood drawn for chemistry and CBC, peripheral blood harvested and
      serum aliquoted and saved for future biochemical analysis, urine sample for isoprostane,
      pregnancy test for females, and exhaled breath condensate. Some visits may also include
      spirometry with and with out bronchodilators, 24 hour urine collections for NNAL and NNAL-glc
      quantification, health status assessed using St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire, the
      Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue, the Leicester Cough
      Questionnaire, the Clinical COPD Questionnaire and smoking related symptoms assessed using
      the Breathlessness, Cough, and Sputum Scale.
    
  