
    
      BACKGROUND: Singing is a highly stimulating and versatile activity for the brain, combining
      vocal-motor, auditory, linguistic, cognitive, emotional, and social brain processes, both in
      the left and right hemisphere. The capacity to sing is often preserved in aphasia after
      stroke, and singing-based methods, such as Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT), can be effective
      in rehabilitating speech production in aphasics. Also emotionally and socially, singing could
      provide a powerful alternative channel for aphasic patients to express their emotions and
      interact with others, but the communal or group-level use of singing in aphasia
      rehabilitation has not been systematically studied.

      AIMS: The purpose of the study is to determine the clinical and neural efficacy of a novel
      choir singing intervention in subacute/chronic aphasia. Specifically, the targeted outcomes
      are (i) verbal and vocal-motor skills, (ii) cognitive skills, (iii) emotional functioning and
      quality of life, (iv) caregiver psychological well-being, and (v) structural and functional
      neuroplasticity. In addition, the capacity of singing and music learning in aphasia is
      explored.

      METHODS: Subjects are 60 stroke patients with at least minor aphasia (≥ 6 months post-stroke)
      and their family members (FMs, N = 60) from Helsinki area recruited to a cross-over RCT
      study. Participants are randomized to two groups [N = 60 in both (30 patients, 30 FMs)],
      which receive a 16-week choir intervention either during the first (AB group) or second (BA
      group) half of the follow-up. The intervention is a combination of group training, which
      utilizes a novel combination of traditional senior choir singing and MIT-like speech training
      protocols, and home training in which the choir material is trained with a tablet computer.
      All patients are evaluated at baseline, 5-month, and 9-month stages with language, cognitive,
      and auditory-music tests and questionnaires. Half of the patients (N = 30) also undergo
      electroencephalography (EEG) and structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging
      (s/fMRI). FMs are evaluated with questionnaires.
    
  