
    
      The purpose of this protocol is to study the natural history of spondyloarthritis (SpA) in
      children and adults. Spondyloarthritis encompasses a spectrum of immune-mediated inflammatory
      diseases that exhibit overlapping features, but differ from other types of inflammatory
      arthritis in genetic predisposition, pathogenesis, and outcome. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS),
      the most common form of SpA, frequently begins in an undifferentiated form with back pain and
      stiffness in adults, and leads to aberrant ossification and ankylosis (fusion) of the spine.
      In children, SpA rarely presents with back pain, but instead often begins with pain and
      stiffness in the hips and knees due to arthritis. Enthesitis, or inflammation where tendons
      and ligaments connect to bones, is more common in children. Our ability to recognize early
      forms of AS involving the axial skeleton, particularly in children, and our understanding of
      the cause and progression of this disease, is limited.

      The goals of this natural history protocol are to establish a cohort of pediatric and adult
      patients with SpA to prospectively evaluate the signs and symptoms, magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) and X-ray findings, and bone and inflammatory biomarkers associated with axial
      disease. We will study pathogenic mechanisms including the role of AS susceptibility genes
      and their variants in causing disease, and will identify patients for possible entry into
      future treatment studies.

      Patients enrolled in this protocol will undergo a history, physical examination, imaging
      studies, and laboratory evaluation. When clinically indicated, patients may also be evaluated
      for extra-articular manifestations such as acute anterior uveitis, psoriasis or other skin
      problems, and inflammatory bowel disease. Peripheral blood samples will be collected from
      affected patients, unrelated healthy volunteers, and in some cases unaffected family members
      to help identify and study the genes involved in SpA and their functions. We may ask some
      subjects to undergo skin biopsy or bone marrow aspiration for research purposes, or to
      provide a stool

      sample for analysis of microbiota. For some patients and family members, we may ask
      permission to perform whole genome or exome sequencing. Fibroblasts and/or peripheral blood
      cells obtained from patients will be induced to become pluripotent stem cells that can be
      maintained indefinitely in culture and differentiated into cell types that are relevant to
      pathogenesis. Successful completion of these studies will allow rheumatologists to better
      recognize early SpA with axial involvement, particularly in children, and will improve our
      understanding of disease pathogenesis.
    
  