
    
      This will be a randomized control trial. Patients undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy
      (TLH) for benign conditions will be invited and consented to participate in the study prior
      to the day of their surgery. Each patient will be contacted by one of the study investigators
      and presented with the study including the risks, benefits, and follow up requirements. She
      will be given the option to participate and if agrees, she will sign a consent form. All
      enrolled participants will have a post-void residual (PVR) checked and recorded in the clinic
      using the bladder scanner that is available to us. The enrolled participants will also be
      asked to complete the Patient Perception of Bladder Condition (PPBC) and the Incontinence
      Impact Questionnaire-Short Form (IIQ-7) and the completed forms will be collected by the
      research team (see attached "Preoperative participant questionnaire").9,10 Each consented
      participant will be randomized to receive a post-operative backfill void trial or an autofill
      void trial on the day of her surgery. The participant will not be told of her randomization
      group pre-operatively; however, the surgical team will be aware of the randomization.

      On the surgical day, all enrolled participants will undergo standard registration and
      preoperative preparation by the staff pre-operative nurse, including placement of intravenous
      access line and administration of standard preoperative medications. Preoperative medications
      (unless contraindicated due to allergy or other medication interaction) include single dose
      prophylactic antibiotics given prior to surgical incision, Tylenol 1,000 mg PO, Dexamethasone
      10 mg IV (unless the participant has diabetes), Celebrex 200 mg PO (unless patient has a
      sulfa allergy, is ≥ 65 years old, weighs ≥ 50 kg, or has a CCl >50ml/min), Ondansetron 4 mg
      IV, and Gabapentin 600 mg PO (300 mg PO if participant is ≥ 65 years old) given in the
      preoperative area.11,12 Participants with a preoperative Caprini score of 5 or greater will
      also receive Heparin 5000 units subcutaneously for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis.13
      The participant will be taken to the operating room. Induction, intubation, and anesthesia
      will be administered according to standard practice by a dedicated group of anesthesia
      providers. Prior to surgical incision, preoperative prophylactic antibiotics will be
      administered. The participant will be positioned in the dorsal lithotomy position with the
      lower extremities in the Allen stirrups bilaterally and the bilateral upper extremities in a
      tucked position. Surgical sterile preparation and draping will be performed per usual
      technique. Vaginal antiseptic preparation will be performed with 10% Povidone-Iodine
      solution. A Foley catheter will be placed prior to the start of the surgical procedure. The
      hysterectomy will then proceed in the usual manner. After the specimen is removed from the
      pelvis and the vaginal cuff is closed, a cystoscopy may be performed at the discretion of
      each surgeon. At this time, the randomization envelope will be opened. Participants who
      randomize to the backfill void trial will remain with a Foley catheter in place or will have
      the Foley catheter replaced, in the case that a cystoscopy is performed. Patients who
      randomize to the autofill void trial will be given a 500 cc bolus of crystalloid by the
      anesthesia team prior to leaving the operating room. All skin incisions will be closed in a
      subcuticular fashion and sealed with skin adhesive.

      The participant will emerge from anesthesia under routine monitoring and will be transferred
      to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) when meeting appropriate criteria per anesthesia
      discretion. A staff PACU nurse will care for the participant in the PACU administer narcotic
      medications as necessary and/or per participant request. Once the participants are awake and
      meeting criteria for discharge, the patients in the backfill group will undergo a void trial
      by a PACU nurse or by a doctor if the nurse is unavailable. About 300 mL of fluid will be
      instilled into the bladder and the Foley will then be removed. The participant will be given
      up to 1 hour to urinate and the amount urinated will be recorded using a commode specimen
      collection measurer. The PVR will be measured using a bladder scanner. If the PVR is greater
      than 100 mL or if the patient is unable to void within the hour, the void trial will be
      considered "failed" and a Foley catheter will be replaced.

      The participants in the autofill void trial group will be allowed to urinate at any time
      within the first 3 hours after surgery. The amount urinated will be recorded using a commode
      specimen collection measurer. The PVR will be measured using a bladder scanner. If the PVR is
      greater than 100 mL, the void trial will be considered "failed" and a Foley catheter will be
      replaced. We anticipate that most of these patients will void spontaneously within 2 hours of
      arrival to the PACU. At two hours post-operatively, any patient who cannot void or does not
      have the urge to void will have a bladder scan. If the patient has more than 300 cc in the
      bladder, she will be allowed 1 more hour to void. If she cannot, a Foley catheter will be
      placed and she will be considered to have failed the void trial. If the patient has less than
      300 cc in the bladder, another 500 cc of crystalloid bolus will be given and we will await
      void for another hour. At 3 hours post-operatively, these patients will undergo another
      bladder scan. Those with greater than 300 cc of urine in the bladder will receive a Foley
      catheter. Those with less than 300 cc of urine in the bladder will have a backfill void trial
      by placing the remaining amount of fluid into the bladder for a total volume of 300 cc. The
      rest of the void trial will be completed as per normal backfill void trial protocol.

      The participants who have a replaced Foley catheter will receive education regarding usage of
      a leg bag and will be discharged home to return to the office the following business day
      where a repeat void trial will be performed using the backfill method as previously outlined.
      If participants are unable to be discharged home, they will be admitted overnight in the
      hospital with documented rationale. A backfill void trial will then be performed the
      following day. If participants fail the 2nd void trial, a Foley catheter will be replaced and
      will remain in place for 1 week, at which time a backfill void trial will be repeated once
      again in the office. If this void trial is failed as well, participants will be educated
      about and asked to perform self-catheterization at home and will follow up with
      Urogynecology.

      All participants will be discharged home with uniform medication prescriptions and
      instructions for usage. The medications will include Ondansetron 4mg PO every 8 hours as
      needed for nausea/vomiting (quantity 12), Colace 100mg PO twice daily (quantity 60),
      scheduled Ibuprofen 600mg PO every 6 hours (quantity 30), scheduled Acetaminophen 650mg PO
      every 6 hours (quantity 30), and Oxycodone 5mg PO every 4 hours as needed for breakthrough
      pain (quantity 30). These prescriptions are based on recent anesthesia practice
      guidelines.14,15

      At the post-operative visit 10-14 days after the surgery, the participants will be evaluated
      and examined in the office. They will be asked to complete a questionnaire which includes the
      IIQ-7, the PPBC, and a void trial satisfaction question (see attached "post-operative
      participant questionnaire"). Participants will also be asked if they obtained a Foley
      catheter outside of the hospital at any urgent care centers, other doctors' offices, or
      emergency rooms. Additionally, participants will be asked if they have any urinary problems
      including dysuria, hematuria, frequency, hesitancy, urgency, or incomplete emptying. If any
      urinary complaints exist, participants will be asked to provide a urine sample for testing by
      urinalysis and urine culture. Participants will be treated per physician preference. After
      treatment, participation in the study will be considered completed.
    
  