
    
      Both hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia in the hospital are associated with various adverse
      outcomes, including increased complications, length of stay, cost, and mortality. To address
      this issue, Johns Hopkins Hospital (JHH) established an Inpatient Glucose Management Program
      in 2006 to address hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia and to ensure safe, standardized care
      delivery for hospitalized patients with diabetes. To support nursing education and compliance
      with JHH glucose management policies, the diabetes nursing "superuser" program was initiated
      in January 2007 and was critical to implementing the hypoglycemia policy nursing
      interventions. Following the establishment of hospital-wide glucose management policies and
      order sets for hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia, the nursing diabetes "superuser" education
      program, and clinical decision support tools for prescribers, there was a significant and
      sustained reduction in the incidence of hypoglycemia (~20%) over a 3-year time period.
      However, the incidence of severe hyperglycemia was not significantly reduced by these
      interventions, indicating a differential impact of the program on hyperglycemia compared to
      hypoglycemia. The investigators believe this disparity is due to the hypoglycemia policy
      being implemented by the nursing staff, whereas the hyperglycemia policy and order set are
      implemented by prescribers (e.g., housestaff and hospitalists). Given the success of the
      investigators nursing program's in contributing to sustained reduction in hypoglycemia, the
      investigators hypothesize that an analogous diabetes prescriber superuser program, targeting
      physicians, will be an effective educational approach to addressing persistent hyperglycemia.
      The investigators proposal (1) it seeks to improve diabetes treatment in the hospital, a
      routine and relevant healthcare setting and (2) it utilizes existing healthcare
      infrastructure integrated into all hospitals-nursing staff and physicians-making it
      practical, scalable, and sustainable in other health systems. The investigators have the
      following specific aims: (1) to develop the diabetes prescriber superuser educational
      curriculum through Johns Hopkins Health System (JHHS) stakeholder community engagement; (2)
      to refine and package the JHH diabetes nursing and prescriber superuser educational curricula
      into an electronic tool kit and disseminate it locally to the 3 JHHS hospitals, based on
      stakeholder feedback; and (3) to evaluate the impact of implementing the JHH diabetes nursing
      and prescriber superuser programs at 3 JHHS hospitals on glycemic clinical outcome measures
      (primary). The investigators will secondarily assess the program's impact on glycemic process
      and economic measures.
    
  