
    
      Background and study aims People with memory problems can struggle with everyday activities
      and may stop doing things they want to do. They are more prone to accidents and have a higher
      risk of falling. Occupational therapists can advise how to do daily activities more easily
      and safely. Physiotherapists can teach exercises which increase activity and improve balance,
      and may help maintain memory. There is little research on how to make these interventions
      work for with people with memory problems. The aim of this study is to compare an activity
      and exercise programme developed for people with memory problems to standard falls prevention
      assessment and advice.

      Who can participate? Patients aged 65 or over with early dementia or memory problems,
      recruited from memory clinics or the 'Join Dementia Research' register

      What does the study involve? Participants are randomly allocated to either the control group
      or the intervention group. The control group receive standard brief falls assessment and
      advice, and up to two further visits if required. The intervention group receive an
      assessment, tailored strength and balance exercise programme, activity analysis and risk
      enablement advice, and assessment for environmental hazards. The intervention is delivered
      over 1 year in participants' own homes, and is tailored to individual interests, abilities
      and need for supervision. Participants are encouraged to exercise by themselves or with
      family members between visits, and once the programme ends. Researchers visit at the start of
      the study and after 12 months to measure ability in activities of daily living, activity,
      quality of life, memory and health service use. Participants complete monthly falls diaries
      over 15 months. The researchers conduct interviews and video record some therapy sessions to
      help understand how the programme works in practice.

      What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? Some participants may benefit from
      taking part in the intervention, as exercise is generally known to be beneficial to health
      and well-being, including benefits to heart, blood pressure, diabetes, joints, mood and daily
      life. These participants may find that they are better able to do their daily activities. All
      participants and their relatives may enjoy having the researchers coming to visit them in
      their house. Some people appreciate having the opportunity to contribute to the well-being of
      others through research.
    
  