
    
      -Background and study aims

      ABO-incompatible living donor kidney transplantation (ABOi-KTX) offers the possibility to
      expand the donor pool by approximately 30%. A variety of different desensitization protocols
      were shown to enable successful transplantation across major ABO barriers. In this context,
      apheresis for antibody depletion represents the therapeutic mainstay. Two distinct technical
      principles, plasmapheresis and ABO antigen-specific immunoadsorption, were shown to allow for
      excellent short- and intermediate-term outcomes. A particular technical advantage of
      immunoadsorption may be its high selectivity regarding antibody depletion, which precludes
      major losses of essential plasma constituents, including coagulation factors and albumin,
      even after treatment of large plasma volumes. Nevertheless, high treatment costs associated
      with the use of ABO-specific columns (that are not approved for reuse) and may limit their
      widespread clinical application.

      The efficiency of semi-selective immunoadsorption technologies regarding ABO antibody
      depletion and recipient desensitization is less well established. Theoretically,
      non-antigen-specific immunoglobulin depletion using protein A-, GAM peptide-, or anti-Ig
      antibody-based adsorbers, could bring about several advantages, such as lower treatment costs
      associated with the use of reusable twin columns, and the potential to simultaneously deplete
      antibodies also against HLA antigens. In a randomized controlled crossover study including
      patients with autoimmune disease, we could demonstrate that the combination of semi-selective
      immunoadsorption together with membrane filtration can efficiently deplete both ABO-specific
      IgM and IgG and also has a significant impact on complement levels and functionality
      (Eskandary et al. 2014, Nephrology Dialysis Transplantation; www.clinicaltrials.gov,
      NCT01698736). In this non-randomized, open, uncontrolled phase II multi center (N=10) pilot
      study, we will investigate whether our novel concept of combined apheresis can be safely and
      efficiently applied in the context of ABOi-KTX.

      - Recipient desensitization

      Four weeks before scheduled transplantation, patients will receive CD20 antibody rituximab
      (357mg/m2). Two weeks before ABOi-KTX baseline triple immunosuppression with tacrolimus
      (trough level 12-15 ng/mL), mycophenolate-mofetil (2g daily) and steroids (25mg daily) will
      be started. IL-2 receptor antibody basiliximab (20 mg) will be administered directly before
      and four days after KTX. Combined apheresis treatments (6-9) will be started 1-2 weeks before
      transplantation (One week if initial ABO-antibody titers are below 1:512, two weeks if
      initial ABO-antibody titers are ≥1:512). Instead of ABO-specific immunoadsorption columns
      (Glycosorb® AB-columns, Glycorex®, Lund, Sweden) we will use GAM-146 synthetic peptide
      columns (Globaffin®, Fresenius Medical Care, Bad Homburg, Germany). To optimize antibody and
      complement elimination a membrane filter will be connected to the circuit (MONET®, Fresenius
      Medical Care, Bad Homburg, Germany) during every second treatment [targeted pre-transplant
      antibody titers: <1:16 (IgG); <1:8 (IgM)].

      Whenever reaching target titers is not possible, the treatment can be pursued by using
      antigen-specific immunoadsorption (Five to nine serial treatments including one immediately
      pre-transplant). If this treatment also fails to reach sufficiently low antibody titers,
      transplantation will not be carried out. In case of hypofibrinogenemia (<100 mg/dL) 2-4 units
      of fresh frozen plasma (pooled or single donor) will be administered.

      - Post transplantation management

      Postoperative management will adhere to center standard. ABO-antibody titers will be
      determined thrice weekly during the first weeks post KTX, after four weeks, three months and
      after six months. On-demand combined apheresis will only be performed if postoperative titers
      rise to >1:16 during the first week or >1:32 during the second week post KTX, or in case of
      an antibody-mediated rejection. A protocol biopsy will be performed on the 7th-10th day after
      transplantation. Prophylactic treatment with valacyclovir and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole
      will be carried out for six months. Patients will be regularly seen in our outpatient clinic
      according to center standard.
    
  