
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a life-long neurodevelopmental disorder with recognizable
      symptoms often beginning between one and two years of age and an estimated prevalence of
      about 0.6%. Both social communication deficits, and restrictive and repetitive behavior
      depict the core symptoms of ASD.

      ESDM is an evidence-based treatment for ASD. A recent meta-analysis comprising 12 studies
      show favorable effects of ESDM on cognition and language with a moderate effect size, in
      contrast to control groups. ESDM showed to become cost-efficient within a few years after
      treatment as a result of less use of other health care services in the years following the
      intervention.

      Children with ASD often show disruptive behaviors such as angry outbursts, irritability,
      aggressive and oppositional behaviors. However, interventions that were specifically designed
      to improve these symptoms have not been sufficiently investigated, especially in children
      with level 1 to level 3 ASD. PCIT has large effects on externalizing behavior problems in
      children with disruptive behavior disorders. Recently, PCIT was adapted for children with
      autism spectrum disorder (PCIT-A).

      As primary aims of the so-called TAFF (Tagesklinik für Autismus und Frühförderung [Day Clinic
      for Autism and Early Intervention]) pilot study, the investigators assess a) the effect of
      PCIT-A on disruptive behavior and b) the effect of ESDM on autism symptoms in toddlers and
      preschool children with ASD level 1 to 3. As secondary aims, the investigators evaluate a)
      the maintenance of the effect of PCIT-A one year after the end of intervention and b) the
      effect of both interventions on secondary outcomes (developmental level, intelligence,
      adaptive behavior, and parenting stress), c) the combined intervention effect of PCIT-A and
      ESDM depending on intervention overlap periods.
    
  