
    
      BACKGROUND:

      During infancy, environmental factors may affect immune system development and lead to the
      development of asthma. The hygiene hypothesis suggests that the absence of endotoxin exposure
      leads to an unfavorable Th1/Th2 balance. Thus, a controlled antigen exposure during infancy
      may establish a Th1/Th2 balance that blocks the onset of asthma or slows the progression of
      the disease.

      Lactobacillus is a bacterium commonly found in many foods (e.g., yogurt) in the typical
      childhood diet. It is also used as a probiotic supplement to prevent the development of
      diarrhea. Due to its safety and availability, Lactobacillus is an ideal bacterium to use as
      an antigen exposure to test the hygiene hypothesis.

      Consistent with the hygiene hypothesis, observational studies suggest that early
      Lactobacillus exposure leads to decreased risk of developing atopic dermatitis, which has
      been associated with asthma in later years. The investigators are aware of no study that has
      examined the effect of Lactobacillus on the development of early markers of asthma in
      children at risk for developing the disease. They hypothesize that Lactobacillus can be used
      as an antigen exposure to establish a Th1/Th2 balance that blocks the development of early
      markers of asthma.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The hygiene hypothesis suggests that the absence of endotoxin exposure leads to an
      unfavorable Th1/Th2 balance. A controlled antigen exposure during infancy may help establish
      a Th1/ Th2 balance that blocks the onset or progression of asthma. Lactobacillus is a
      bacterium found in many foods in the typical pediatric diet, and is used as a supplement to
      prevent diarrhea. Due to the safety, feasibility, and early promising results in preventing
      atopic dermatitis, Lactobacillus is an ideal bacterium to use as an exposure to test the
      hygiene hypothesis. The investigators hypothesize that such an exposure may block or delay
      development of early markers of asthma.

      The study will use a randomized placebo-controlled trial design to measure the effect of a
      6-month daily exposure of Lactobacillus, as an infant supplement, on immune system and asthma
      development during the first 3 years of life.

      The study will measure the effect of the antigen exposure on the presence and time to
      presentation of: (1) early clinical markers for asthma development (frequent wheezing,
      wheezing without colds, rhinitis, and atopic dermatitis); (2) early immunologic markers for
      asthma development (eosinophilia, immunoglobulin E); and (3) development of a T-helper
      phenotype (Th-1 vs Th-2). Investigators will characterize the Th phenotype by measuring the
      whole blood lymphocyte response to stimulants, focusing on Th1 (IFN-gamma, interleukin
      (IL)-12) and Th2 cytokines (IL-10, IL-4, IL-13), as well as real-time reverse transcriptase
      polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with PCR amplification (TaqMan) to quantify RNA
      transcripts. Clinical and immunologic markers will be measured up to 3 years of age.

      Adherence will be assessed using diaries, pill count, and Lactobacillus stool cultures.

      The study will use intention-to-treat analysis and will control for the impact of family,
      environmental, diet, and demographic factors on outcomes using multivariate regression and
      survival analysis techniques. Investigators expect that when compared to controls, subjects
      receiving Lactobacillus will have decreased and delayed development of markers for asthma,
      and a greater likelihood of developing a Th1 phenotype.
    
  