
    
      Spine surgery is associated with large amount of perioperative blood loss. Factors
      influencing blood loss include surgical technique, operative time, number of vertebral levels
      arthrodesed, and others. Significant blood loss is associated with complications such as
      hypotension, end organ damage, or coagulopathy. Blood transfusions can increase risks of
      infection, blood incompatibility, and allergic reactions. Due to the significant risks and
      complications associated with blood loss and allogenic transfusions, efforts to identify safe
      and effective ways of lowering blood loss during spine surgery are crucial. Many methods have
      been utilized to reduce allogenic blood transfusions, such as autologous blood predonation,
      antifibrinolytic drugs, acute normovolemic hemodilution, intraoperative blood salvage, and
      others. Furthermore, the administration of antifibrinolytics, such as tranexamic acid (TXA)
      and epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA), has been shown to reduce bleeding in cardiac,
      gynecological, urologic and total joint replacement surgeries. There have been many published
      studies investigating various antifibrinolytic agents such as TXA, EACA, and aprotinin. While
      aprotinin was shown to increase mortality rate in patients following cardiac surgery, TXA and
      EACA have not been shown to cause any substantial morbidity or to increase rate of
      thromboembolic events. Although IV TXA has been shown to be effective in reducing blood loss
      and transfusions in patients undergoing spine surgery, no studies in the literature have
      investigated the efficacy of PO TXA in decreasing blood loss and transfusions. The
      investigators believe that PO TXA will be just as efficacious and more cost-effective in
      reducing blood loss and transfusion needs in patients undergoing lumbar spine surgery.

      The ultimate goal is identifying the most cost-effective protocol to decrease blood loss and
      need for transfusion. If oral TXA is found to be as efficacious as IV TXA in reducing blood
      loss and need for transfusion, significant cost savings can be achieved for the patient and
      the health care system in general.
    
  