
    
      Background: Life time prevalence of Low Back Pain among Children and Adolescent ranges from
      32% to 66%. This prevalence gets higher with age and among 17 years old it's equal to
      prevalence among adults. Previous episode of Low Back pain is a predicting risk factor to the
      next one, hence we should do preventative care at a young age, even before the first attack
      occur. Poor posture was found as one of the risk factors for Low Back Pain in children.
      Adolescence with neutral posture had less prevalence of Low Back Pain then those with poor
      posture. Prolong slouch sitting was associated with Low Back Pain. Prevention education
      programs, focusing on knowledge, did not show effective change in posture behavior. Hence,
      the researchers concluded that it's better if they focus on exercise.

      Research Goal: comparison between physical therapy treatment for good posture once a week
      versus once a month, on postural behavior, thorax curve angle and Low Back Pain.

      Research type: randomize, Interventional, blinded. Methods and Procedures Population: the
      study will include 50 children and adolescents age 10-18 years suffering from poor back
      posture, with or without Low Back Pain.

      Procedure: The study will consist of two groups: both groups will get personal meeting once a
      month and a program of exercising at home every day. Treatment group will have in addition
      group meeting once a week and control group not. The intervention program will include
      physical awareness and practice for good posture, and exercises for flexibility, strength and
      muscle endurance.

      Measurement tools:Digital Inclinometer for measuring thorax curve angle. Postural observation
      for measuring postural habits. Back pain and postural habits questionnaire for measuring LBP
      on VAS SCALE, postural knowledge and habits of participant, including demographic data.
      Parents' questionnaire for measuring parents' knowledge and ideas.

      Research hypothesis: postural behavior, thorax curve angle and Low Back Pain will get better
      in both groups but more in the treatment group.
    
  