
    
      In Mexico City, the registration of a new mifepristone product signals a new wave in the
      SSDF's program for terminating pregnancies up to 70 days. This study evaluates the efficacy
      of the product Zacafemyl for the termination of pregnancy up to 70 days LMP. It also
      evaluates the incidence and acceptability of side effects of the medication and regimen.
      Participants are women of reproductive age with a gestational age of less than or equal to 70
      days who want and are eligible for medical abortion, are willing and able to provide all
      follow up information, and have no contraindications.

      Women who are eligible and consent to enroll in the study will be given 200 mg of
      mifepristone orally in the clinic. The participants will then be given 800 mcg of misoprostol
      (four 200 mcg tablets) to take home and instructed to take two tablets bucally 24-48 hours
      after the mifepristone and the remaining tablets within 30 minutes. They will be warned of
      the side effects they may experience.

      All participants will be informed that they can call the clinic in case they have questions
      about the symptoms or side effects or if they have other concerns. They will also be told
      that they can return to the clinic in case of severe or persistent bleeding, or if they
      decide at any point that they want surgical intervention. Participants will also be informed
      as to the signs of pregnancy termination.

      Seven days after taking the mifepristone (the eighth day of the study) the woman should
      return to the clinic for follow up. Information will be collected on a series of six
      semi-structured forms that are filled out by members of the study team in accordance with the
      responses of the participants to the interview questions and the results of physical exams,
      ultrasounds, etc. Analyses of the data will focus on efficacy, acceptability, side effects,
      and adverse events.
    
  