
    
      Introduction:

      PRX-00023 is a selective 5HT1A agonist being developed as an oral therapeutic treatment for
      epilepsy.

      Objective:

      To initiate a pilot clinical trial assessing the safety, tolerability and efficacy of the
      5HT1A receptor agonist PRX-00023 in patients with localization-related epilepsy. PRX-00023 is
      a 5HT1A receptor agonist that has shown promise in clinical trials of depression. Patients
      with localization-related epilepsy have reduced 5HT1A receptor binding on 18FCWAY positron
      emission tomography (PET). Increasing neurotransmitter activity at 5HT1A receptor sites might
      ameliorate seizures. Moreover, depression is a common co-morbidity in people with epilepsy.
      Altered 5HT1A receptor binding has been found in depression.

      Study Population:

      Thirty adults with localization-related epilepsy.

      Design:

      A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over, phase II clinical trial. Subjects
      will be screened under protocol 01-N-0139 and will undergo medical and epilepsy history and
      physical examination, vital signs, ECG, clinical laboratory studies including standard
      clinical chemistry and hematology studies, urinalysis, pregnancy test for females of
      childbearing potential, and MRI scan and eo EEG monitoring will be performed if not
      previously completed successfully, and measurement of plasma AED levels (for those AEDs in
      which an assay is available at NIH).

      The trial will have a baseline phase, which will last up to 6 weeks. Baseline may occur
      concurrent with screening procedures. The baseline phase will include measurement of seizure
      frequency (patient will record via seizure calendar). In addition the following will be
      administered, unless previously completed: Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale,
      neuropsychological and mood evaluations, FCWAY PET (if not already performed), EEG,
      measurement of plasma AED levels (if assay available), and pregnancy test (for women of child
      bearing potential), saliva samples will be obtained for genetic testing (if not previously
      obtained) and blood samples will be obtained during the PET procedure for cortisol and ACTH
      levels.

      Following baseline, patients will begin the treatment phase (consisting of Period 1 and
      Period 2). Patients will be randomized to PRX-00023 (120mg BID) or matching placebo. After
      completion of the first treatment period, patients will undergo a washout period after which
      patients will be crossed over to the alternate treatment period.

      Outcome measures:

        1. Seizure frequency counts during the 3-month placebo and active treatment phases

        2. Neuropsychological and mood indices

        3. Safety assessment will include adverse events, vital signs, laboratory signs and
           physical examination.
    
  