
    
      The movement and posture abnormalities that are characteristic of cerebral palsy are
      associated with underlying abnormalities of muscle tone, including dystonia, spasticity, and
      rigidity. The subtypes of cerebral palsy are defined according to the predominant muscle tone
      abnormality, its distribution and severity. There is widespread agreement that CP subtypes
      should be divided into the following groups. Spastic subtypes (hemiplegia: unilateral
      asymmetric spasticity; diplegia: bilateral symmetric spasticity, lower limbs more affected
      than upper limbs; quadriplegia: bilateral symmetric spasticity, upper and lower limbs
      affected equally), dystonic or athetotic type; and other miscellaneous types: hypotonic,
      mixed types, etc. These descriptive definitions are not useful when forming homogeneous
      cohorts of CP subtypes in rehabilitation research studies. Even when a preceding training
      session establishes precise criteria for each subtype based on these definitions and uses a
      "four limb" approach (defining the dominant muscle tone abnormality and its severity in each
      limb) the interobserver agreement in the classification of CP subtypes remains poor. This may
      be because there are no widely accepted definitions for the most common muscle tone
      abnormalities in cerebral palsy (spasticity, rigidity, dystonia) and examination methods vary
      widely. Recently, an interdisciplinary group of clinicians published a consensus document in
      which they set forth clear definitions for these disorders of muscle tone and recommendations
      on how to examine for them. Since the CP subtypes are defined according to the dominant
      muscle tone abnormality, we hypothesize that it may be possible to achieve acceptable
      interobserver agreement in the classification of the CP subtypes if these definitions and
      standard examination techniques are incorporated into the preceding training session with the
      other accepted elements. To test this hypothesis we will train clinicians from three
      different areas of expertise: child neurology, physiatry, physical therapy to classify
      subtypes of CP using accepted methods (establishing precise criteria for the subtypes and
      using a four limb approach) and will also train them to identify muscle tone abnormalities
      using the definitions and standard examination techniques in the consensus document.
      Following this training, we will ask the same clinicians to classify subtypes of cerebral
      palsy in a group of CP children. We will then measure interobserver agreement for the
      classification of CP using the kappa statistic. Achieving acceptable interobserver agreement
      in the classification of CP subtypes may facilitate the formation of homogeneous cohorts in
      research studies.
    
  