
    
      The proposed study is a multicentre, non-inferiority, double blind, randomized
      placebo-controlled trial of treatment duration for male urinary tract infection (UTI) due to
      fluoroquinolones susceptible bacteria. Specifically, 284 men with a UTI will be randomized to
      7 vs. 14 days of antimicrobial treatment. The primary outcome is resolution of fever, sterile
      urine analysis 4 weeks after completion of antimicrobial therapy and no antibiotic therapy
      active against the bacterial strain responsible for the UTI within the 4 week period
      following antimicrobial therapy. Secondary outcomes include the intestinal carriage of
      antimicrobial-resistant Gram-negative bacilli at the end of treatment, the incidence and
      severity of adverse drug events and the recurrent UTI within the treatment period and 4 weeks
      and 12 weeks of completing active study medication.

      Currently, the optimal treatment duration for male UTI is unknown. Only one randomized study
      showed no difference in outcomes, in patients treated with ciprofloxacin during 14 vs. 28
      days. However, this study was underpowered and included patient in a single center. Current
      treatment guidelines are not consensual and recommend treating men with UTI for 7 to 4 or 6
      weeks. Shorter durations may expose patients to recurrence when longer duration may be
      associated with increase in Clostridium difficile infection and antimicrobial resistance.
      Longer-duration treatment is also more costly and inconvenient to patients. Thus, since
      longer-duration treatment is associated with some adverse outcomes, in order to justify
      longer-duration treatment thee must be some clinically significant benefit to the extended
      treatment.

      The proposed randomized placebo-controlled trial will test the hypothesis that 7 days of
      antimicrobial treatment is non-inferior for the resolution of fever and microbiological
      success when compared to 14 days of treatment.
    
  