
    
      The incidence of von Willebrand disease in the Netherlands is unknown, but the occurrence of
      all types of von Willebrand disease together is estimated at 1:100-1:200 individuals. Most
      patients have mild von Willebrand disease, mostly type 1. For the more severe forms of von
      Willebrand disease the incidence in unclear, but the expectation is, that there are at least
      500-1500 patients. In the Netherlands, an unique situation exists for the treatment of
      patients with hemophilia and related coagulation disorders. In 2000 a hemophilia management
      policy was set up by the Ministry of Health, which stated that the care for these patients
      should be concentrated in 13 Hemophilia Treatment Centers (HTC). The representatives of the
      attending centers, the hemophilia specialists, are organized in the NVHB, the Dutch society
      of Hemophilia treaters. In the hemophilia management policy is stated that all patients with
      a coagulation disorder dependent of replacement products must be treated in a HTC or under
      responsibility of a HTC. These patients are seen in a HTC at least once a year.

      Because all moderate and severe von Willebrand patients in the Netherlands are known in HTC,
      it is possible to register and study this population. This is imperative to the research of
      von Willebrand disease. Because the moderate and severe forms of von Willebrand disease are
      rare, it is impossible for an individual center to perform research of moderate severe and
      severe von Willebrand disease. Therefore a national approach is necessary.

      For optimal care of patients with the moderate and severe form of von Willebrand disease a
      better understanding of symptoms, diagnostics, treatment and complications of treatment is
      necessary. The present study aims to register and investigate all patients in the Netherlands
      with moderate and severe von Willebrand disease to gain understanding of the clinical
      presentation, the treatment and the complications of treatment in moderate and severe von
      Willebrand disease. Another goal is to investigate the influence of von Willebrand disease on
      quality of life.

      To answer these questions a questionnaire is developed, which will be sent to the study
      population. In addition, blood will be drawn for von Willebrand factor measurement and plasma
      and DNA will be stored. The relationship between laboratory parameters, (including von
      Willebrand factor, FVIII and prothrombotic coagulation disorders) and the clinical phenotype
      in patients with moderate and severe von Willebrand disease will be studied. We will assess
      the effect of the laboratory parameters on both the severity of bleeding tendency, and the
      possible protecting effect on the risk of arterial thrombosis. In the future mutation
      analysis of the VWF gene will be performed in patients with moderate and severe von
      Willebrand disease in the Netherlands.
    
  