
    
      Hyperbilirubinemia occurs in 60 - 80 % of newborns during the first days of life, among
      others because of immaturity of the enzyme uridin-glukuronosyl-transferase (UGT1A1) in the
      liver. In seldom cases with very high total serum bilirubin concentration (TsB), bilirubin
      can cross the blood-brain barrier and the deposition of unconjugated bilirubin in the central
      nervous system may cause acute bilirubin encephalopathy (ABE). This can progress to chronic
      bilirubin encephalopathy (CBE), a devastating condition, which unfortunately still occurs,
      even in industrialised countries.

      Hyperbilirubinemia gets severe for 2 - 6 % of infants born at term or late preterm, which
      means, they need treatment to prevent ABE and the treatment of choice is phototherapy due to
      its efficacy and safety. Hereby bilirubin in the skin and plasma is converted to
      photobilirubins; they are water-soluble and can be excreted through the liver without
      conjugation. They are presumably non-toxic. In most departments, single phototherapy is first
      choice. To avoid the above-mentioned damaging condition, it is very important to optimize
      phototherapy.

      Former fluorescent tubes were used as light source, but now light emission diodes (LED) are
      used.

      This study investigates whether double phototherapy reduces total serum bilirubin faster than
      single light during intensive phototherapy, using LED, and whether there is an upper limit
      for the efficacy of phototherapy.

      It is a prospective, randomised controlled study. The infants will be randomized to either 1:
      Conventional phototherapy with blue LED light from above and a distance from light source to
      mattress of 30 cm, giving a light irradiance of 66 µW/cm2/nm or 2: Conventional phototherapy
      combined with a light blanket (Bilisoft) with a light irradiance by the skin of 39 µW/cm2/nm.
      TsB will be measured at start and after 12 - and 24 h of treatment. Based on the calculation
      of strength 72 infants will be needed in this study. As statistical methods t-tests will be
      used and multiple linear regression models will be used to adjust for confounding.
    
  