
    
      The administration of analgesia and sedation is common practice for patients receiving
      mechanical ventilation with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Maintaining patient
      comfort and safety, while not oversedating and thereby risking prolonged mechanical
      ventilation and delirium, is an ongoing balancing act which presents a daily challenge for
      Intensive Care Unit (ICU) clinicians. Medication selection should be based on the patient's
      needs with titration to a predetermined goal in accordance with published guidelines.

      However, there are major pharmacokinetic changes that occur with the use of ECMO, including
      sequestration of medications within the circuit, increased volume of distribution, and in
      some cases decreased clearance. As a result patient's receiving ECMO often require very high
      doses of both analgesics and sedatives in order to provide comfort and ventilator synchrony.
      In patients not receiving ECMO, excess sedative exposure, especially with benzodiazepines,
      leads to increased mechanical ventilation time, prolonged ICU stay, short and long term
      neurocognitive impairments, and increased mortality. No studies address these outcomes in
      patients receiving ECMO.

      Ketamine, a non-barbiturate phencyclidine derivative, provides analgesia with relative
      hemodynamic stability and maintained airway reflexes. However, its popularity waned because
      of an undesirable side effect profile: Hallucinations, delirium, lacrimation, tachycardia,
      and potential for an increase in intracranial pressure (ICP) and coronary ischemia. Recent
      research, however, suggests that low doses of ketamine infusions in combination with opiates
      may not be associated with adverse sequelae and may improve outcomes in the critically ill
      population. To date, there are no studies that have compared clinical outcomes in ICU
      patients sedated with ketamine as compared with other sedative agents.

      Supplemental sedation with intravenous ketamine infusion may decrease opioid and sedative
      requirements for patients receiving mechanical ventilation and ECMO. The benefits of
      decreased opioid and sedative requirements may translate to fewer gastrointestinal side
      effects, decreased withdrawal syndromes, and a reduced rate of delirium.

      Deep levels of sedation are often required at the commencement of ECMO for acute respiratory
      failure, which correlates to a Richmond Agitation Sedation Score (RASS) of -5. Supplemental
      low doses of ketamine infusions may help the prescriber achieve this goal without having to
      use very high doses of fentanyl or hydromorphone and midazolam.
    
  