
    
      Study design: This was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      multi-centered trial carried out at two university hospitals. This clinical trial was
      approved by the Korea Food and Drug Administration and the Institutional Review Boards of the
      two hospitals.

      Study process:

      All patients gave informed written consent after being informed of the details of the study.
      Participants were randomized into either the LLLT or placebo control groups at the third
      visit. All participants underwent demographic and history taking, a physical examination,
      bladder examination and laboratory tests. All participants were educated on how to use the
      device by demonstration and a picture-guided user manual.

      During the second visit, the participants conducted a self-evaluation of frequency of urgency
      urinary incontinence episode using the OABSS scale and underwent urine examination
      (pre-treatment measurement). The third visit occurred 7 days from the date of the second
      visit, and a clinical primary nurse described how to use the medical equipment and devices
      when they were at home. All subjects filled out self-reported diary and filled out UDI-6 and
      IIQ-7 questionnaires in each visit. Subjects carried out the self-treatment in the same way
      at home 3 times a day for 12 weeks and then visited the hospital at week 4 and 12 to undergo
      examination and filled out OABSS, UDI-6 and IIQ-7 questionnaires (post-treatment
      measurement).

      Statistical analysis:

      All data are summarized as means ± standard deviation or as numbers with proportions. A p <
      0.05 was considered to indicate significance. The investigator decided that the therapeutic
      effect would be a > 20% reduction in the frequency of urgency urinary incontinence episodes
      after treatment. The statistical analysis was conducted using the self-reported micturition
      diary after the 12 week visit as the primary endpoint. The investigator used an independent
      t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test depending on the normality of the data to evaluate
      differences in each group between frequency of urgency urinary incontinence episodes measured
      after the 12 week visit and baseline values. To test for normality, the investigator
      performed Shapiro-Wilk's test. The examination of the ratio difference in nominal variable
      was carried out using chi-square test or Fisher's exact test. A per-protocol (PP) and intent
      to treat (ITT) analyses were used in our clinical trial to assess efficacy and safety. A Last
      observation carried forward (LOCF) method was used for ITT analysis missing data.
    
  