
    
      Spironolactone The starting dose of spironolactone is 1 mg/kg/day. After two weeks this dose
      will be doubled to the same maximum dose (2/mg/kg/day) as in RALES. If side effects occur or
      plasma urea and electrolytes became deranged the dose will be halved. Patients unable to
      tolerate the minimum dose will be withdrawn. Measurement of serum electrolytes will occur at
      baseline, at two weeks, and at time of repeat evaluation.

      Endothelial Function

      Subjects with single ventricle will have an evaluation of endothelial function:

        1. At baseline

        2. On spironolactone- 4-5 weeks after initial study.

      Imaging protocol:

      The diameter of the brachial artery will be measured from two-dimensional ultrasound images,
      using a 12 MHz linear array transducer and an Accuson Sequoia system (Accuson, Mountainview,
      California). Measurements of the brachial artery will be obtained:

        1. In a resting state

        2. During limb ischemia

        3. In response to reactive hyperemia

        4. At rest

      Reactive hyperemia will be induced by inflating a standard blood pressure cuff to 50 mm Hg
      above the systolic blood pressure for 4.5 minutes and then deflating the cuff.

      After data collection, the DICOM-formatted images will be transferred to a PC for
      investigator-blinded measurement of brachial artery diameter using image analysis software
      (Brachial Tools 3.1, Medical Imaging Applications, Iowa).

      Measurement of prognostic markers:

      Blood samples

      Plasma beta-type natriuretic peptide, form assay, TNF alpha and a Cytokine panel will be
      drawn at base line and at the final 4-5 week visit for this study.

      Samples will be collected between 11 am and 1 pm after 30 minutes' supine rest. The samples
      will be centrifuged and plasma stored at -70°C (peptides) or -20°C (other samples). Plasma
      [beta]-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) samples will be collected into EDTA and aprotonin and
      measured by radioimmunoassay 6-minute walk test.

      A 6-minute walk test will be performed at the first visit and the last visit. During this
      test, signs and symptoms will be recorded (i.e. chest pain and shortness of breath) to
      determine toleration of daily activity. A doctor or nurse will conduct this test and the
      patient will be provided the opportunity to stop or rest if symptoms become severe.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure will be the change in flow mediated dilation (during reactive
      hyperemia). This will be expressed as a percentage.

      Secondary outcome measures will include changes in BNP, Form assay, TNF alpha, Cytokine
      panels and the 6-minute walk test.

      Statistical analysis

      We and others have previously shown that asymptomatic patients with the Fontan operation have
      a mean flow-mediated dilation of approximately 4% compared to 8-9% in controls. In order to
      detect a 25% change in FMD, with a power of 0.80, the current study would require a patient
      population of 13 cases. There are currently over 40 patients with single ventricle who are
      followed in the adult congenital clinic at Emory University.

      We plan on enrolling 20 patients into this study.
    
  