
    
      Fuerte is a new prevention program that is being introduced into the mental health system of
      California in order to reduce behavioral health disparities among Latinx newcomer youth.
      School- based, preventative programming has been proposed to be the frontline for reducing
      behavioral health access disparities among Latinx newcomer youth. However, very few
      evidence-based, selective prevention programs exist that have been tailored to ensure
      cultural relevance for newcomer Latinx youth with limited English proficiency and low health
      literacy in under-resourced school settings. Like many urban school districts in California,
      San Francisco Unified School District is an especially relevant setting for the Fuerte
      program. The district has a high number of newcomer adolescents, with an average of over 500
      newcomer adolescents coming into the school district per year, most from Central America and
      Mexico.

      The Fuerte program promotes interagency and community collaboration with the explicit goals
      of increasing mental health literacy and service access, as it has been largely enacted
      through a unique collaboration between the San Francisco Unified School District, the San
      Francisco Department of Public Health, and the Departments of Psychiatry and Pediatrics at
      the University of California, San Francisco due to their common need for prevention
      programming for this high-needs population. Much of the curriculum of Fuerte was developed
      and adapted through feedback from newcomer immigrant youth and their families, as well as
      providers of the program. In addition, Fuerte's system of care facilitates the transition to
      services for youth to improve their overall functioning, including behavioral health care,
      medical care, educational, legal, and other services.

      The Fuerte program is designed for youth ages 12 to 18 in the San Francisco Unified School
      District (SFUSD). In order to optimize the exposure of large number of immigrant youth with
      limited healthcare providers, Fuerte is designed as a group format, each group comprised of
      4-8 participants. This has the additional benefit of fostering a sense of community and
      normalizing the therapeutic process in a supportive group setting. Participants are recruited
      through referrals from educators and staff in the Wellness Initiative, health centers that
      are co-located in schools throughout the district. Group leaders are bilingual behavioral
      health providers from both the school district and community-based organizations with
      experience working with newcomer Latinx youth.

      Students will be randomized into either the Fuerte program or a delayed waitlist control
      group (DWC) once they are identified. In addition, focus groups will be held at the end of
      each group with the group participants, as well as with the group, and other newcomer
      immigrant students. These focus groups will assess positive aspects of Fuerte and areas of
      improvement as well as procedures for the implementation, sustainment, and adaptation of the
      program.

      Additionally, we will be holding focus groups with Arabic-speaking, Middle Eastern/North
      African youth and community providers to help inform the adaptation of the current Fuerte
      curriculum for these populations. Youth will participate in a one-time focus group in order
      to assess the mental health and immigration-related social needs of Arabic-speaking youth.
      The focus groups will be held at the school and a number of questions will be posed to the
      group based on a framework for cultural adaptations of evidence-based programs. Additionally,
      focus groups will be held with adults who provide services to Middle Eastern/North African
      families residing in San Francisco County. Focus group questions will focus on barriers and
      facilitators to treatment access to these youth, and get feedback on the current Fuerte
      curriculum to get considerations on adaptation. The themes collected from both the youth and
      community provider groups will inform a future adaptation of the Fuerte program for this
      particular population.
    
  