
    
      CD44 is a cell surface receptor for the extracellular matrix hyaluronan. It mediates adhesion
      of cells to the extracellular matrix. Its ability to organize extracellular matrix into a
      medium is also used by cancer cells in their becoming metastatic. Invasive tumor cells are
      frequently observed to bind hyaluronate.

      CD44 gene is made up of 20 exons, at least 10 of which are variably expressed due to
      alternative splicing of the mRNA. The standard form, CD44s, has a coding sequence of exons
      1-5 and 16-20. Variant isoforms (CD44v), all larger, arise from alternative splicing of
      combinations of exons 6-15 (v1-10). A variant isoform CD44 can induce metastasis of a rat
      pancreatic carcinoma. Studies in human tumors, however, have produced variable results. Some
      breast cancers demonstrate positive correlation between CD44v expression and tumor
      progression, while others lack any correlation. Some colorectal tumors even show an inverse
      correlation. CD44 has also been demonstrated to be a metastasis suppressor gene for prostate
      cancer. Thus, CD44 may be a marker for metastasis for some tumors, but not for others, and it
      may actually be a metastasis suppressor gene for yet another groups of tumors.

      For primary lung cancer, the correlation between CD44 expression and tumor metastasis has not
      been established. The metastasis-prone small cell lung cancer rarely showed any
      immunohistochemical staining for CD44s or CD44v. For non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), some
      studies showed positive correlation between immunohistochemical CD44v expression and tumor
      progression, while others showed no correlation. Our own study using RT-PCR, sequencing and
      immunohistochemical staining showed that in pulmonary adenocarcinoma, CD44v6 expression is
      down-regulated as the disease progressed. Based on our finding, and the observation that
      CD44s and CD44v expression are low in metastasis-prone small cell lung cancer, we assue that
      CD44 is a metastasis suppressor gene which is inactivated in lung cancers. Because in
      prostate cancer DNA hypermethylation has been shown to be related to the down-regulation of
      CD44 gene, we plan to study the methylation status of the transcriptional regulatory region
      of CD44 gene in primary lung cancer. We'll study CD44 expression by immunohistochemistry, the
      methylation status of CD44 regulatory region by sequencing of the bisulfite-modified genomic
      DNA, and correlate these two findings with each other, and with histologic type, tumor
      staging and survival.
    
  