
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response rates of combination nilotinib, cytarabine, and
      daunorubicin (daunorubicin hydrochloride) in patients newly diagnosed with acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) and v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (Kit)
      overexpression.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the 2-year overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) rates.

      II. Determine the complete response duration in patients treated with this regimen.

      III. Assess the safety and toxicity of this regimen based on National Cancer Institute (NCI)
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the prognostic and predictive factors (Kit mutation/expression level, fms-related
      tyrosine kinase 3 [Flt3] mutation) for patients treated with this regimen.

      II. Assess the patterns of molecular response and relapse for Kit. III. Assess the effect on
      minimal residual disease (MRD) by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or flow cytometry.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 10
      minutes on days 1-3, cytarabine IV continuously on days 1-7, and nilotinib orally (PO) twice
      daily (BID) on days 4-14. Patients achieving complete remission (CR) or complete remission
      with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) proceed to consolidation therapy. Patients not
      achieving a significant decrease in bone marrow recovery or CR/CRi upon bone marrow recovery
      receive another course of induction therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive cytarabine IV every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5, and
      nilotinib PO BID on days 4-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving CR or CRi proceed to
      maintenance therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive nilotinib PO BID on days 1-84. Treatment repeats every
      84 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  