
    
      Anxiety disorders are characterized by excessive and irrational fears of common situations
      that impair normal functioning. Neuroimaging allows researchers to examine brain functioning
      as people are presented with tasks that provoke or model anxiety. Neuroimaging research
      suggests that anxiety is moderated by a neural circuit involving three parts of the brain:
      the amygdala, the insula, and the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Increased activation of the
      amygdala and insula is associated with high anxiety, although activation of the PFC is
      thought to reduce anxiety. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the only type of
      psychotherapy with strong evidence for effectively treating panic disorder (PD) and
      generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), but it only works about half the time. This study will
      use neuroimaging to examine when and how CBT affects brain functioning in people with PD and
      GAD. The long-term goals of the research are to develop neuroimaging as a diagnostic tool, to
      use neuroimaging to predict treatment response, and to understand which changes in brain
      functioning are related to successful treatment.

      Participation in this study will last approximately 3 months. Four groups of participants
      will be recruited: healthy controls and people with PD, GAD, or social phobia (SP). All
      participants will undergo functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning-a measure of
      brain functioning-at the first visit. During the fMRI scan, participants will be asked to
      perform computerized tasks that involve responding to images. This will be the only visit
      that the healthy controls and people with SP complete; their inclusion in the study
      establishes a comparison point for the brain scans of the other participants. People with PD
      and GAD will then be asked to complete 10 sessions of CBT over a 10- to 14-week period. After
      3 months, these participants will again undergo fMRI scanning. At 3 and 6 months after the
      completion of CBT, these participants will be asked to complete follow-up questionnaires
      about their anxiety.
    
  