
    
      STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS The research shall be carried out at the Department of Anaesthetics
      and Surgical Intensive Care/Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the University Medical Centre
      Ljubljana and will begin once it is approved by the Slovenian National Medical Ethics
      Committee. Patients will be included in the research once the informed consent form is signed
      by their relatives or their legal guardian.

      Patients and the course of the study The research study will focus on 60 consecutive patients
      with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) hospitalised at the emergency unit's ICU, who will
      be treated according to the Advanced Trauma Life Support guidelines, will undergo a
      computerized tomography (CT) scan of the head, and will have been implanted with an electrode
      for monitoring intracranial pressure (ICP). Both female and male patients, age 18 to 80, with
      Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) ≤ 8 and Head Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) ≥ 3 shall be included in
      the study. Patients with any kind of extracranial injury, patients receiving anticoagulation
      or anti aggregation therapy, patients with a known neurological, haematological, malign or
      liver disease, patients with an infection and after a cardiac arrest, after craniotomy,
      patients that have received transfusion of concentrated erythrocytes (> 1 bag) and/or fresh
      frozen plasma, thrombocyte plasma, patients with a body temperature of < 35°C and pregnant
      women will all be excluded from the study, as will be those cases where it will be impossible
      to perform targeted tests in the expected time frame.

      At the ICU, patients will receive treatment according to the guidelines for the treatment of
      severe traumatic brain injury. All patients will be sedated with midazolam, they will receive
      analgesia with fentanyl, and when required considering the level of ICP, will also receive a
      2% propofol infusion. They will all be mechanically ventilated. A non-heparinized central
      venous catheter and an artery catheter will both be routinely inserted in all cases. Blood
      samples for the study will be taken from the internal jugular vein with a singular puncture.

      Systemic blood pressure, heart rate, central body temperature, peripheral blood oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), ICP, cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) and bispectral index (BIS) of the
      depth of anaesthesia will be monitored at all times. Pupillary response and depth of sedation
      using the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS) will be performed once per hour. Hydration
      will be estimated with stroke volume variation (SVV) one or twice per day. Patients whose CPP
      will not meet the desired value (70 mmHg) will receive systemic intravenous infusion of NA
      solution (0.16 mg/ml) in the dosage required to meet the target CPP. Another CT scan will be
      performed 12 to 24 hours after injury and after sudden deterioration in health condition, if
      necessary.

      Blood samples will be taken daily from the artery catheter to determine the values of
      electrolytes, glucose, number of leukocytes and haemogram, number of thrombocytes all of
      which are routinely performed on a daily basis.

      In the periods of 1-3, 6, 12 and 24 hours after injury, a member of the research staff will
      collect a blood sample from the patient with a severe TBI via an arterial catheter in order
      to determine: the level of endogenous NA or of total, endogenous and exogenous NA, if the
      patient will have received continuous NA infusion, the number of thrombocytes, prothrombin
      time/international normalized ration (PT/INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT),
      fibrinogen, antithrombin (AT), D-dimer, rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) test results,
      platelet function with aggregometry (Multiplate), lactate level, pH balance, gas analysis
      (PaO2, PaCO2), HCO3, base deficit and arterial blood oxygen saturation (SaO2). Venipuncture
      shall be performed on patients with severe TBI in the periods of 1-3, 6, 12 and 24 hours
      after injury by a member of the research staff to collect a blood sample from the jugular
      vein in order to determine: the level of endogenous NA or of total, endogenous and exogenous
      NA, if the patient will have received continuous NA infusion, number of thrombocytes, PT/INR,
      aPTT, fibrinogen, tissue factor (TF), AT, thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT); D-dimer,
      tissue-plasminogen activator antigen (t-PAAg), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 antigen
      (PAI-1Ag), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 activity (PAI-1Act), plasmin-antiplasmin complex
      (PAP), plasminogen activity; protein C antigen (PCAg), syndecan-1 (SDC-1), rotational
      thromboelastometry (ROTEM) test results, platelet function with aggregometry (Multiplate). In
      patients who will require an infusion of NA within 1-3 hours after hemostasis tests have
      already been taken, the NA level will be determine again 30 minutes after the infusion set,
      and all mentioned hemostasis tests from the internal jugular vein and arterial catheter will
      be re-controlled. CT will be repeated 12 and 24 hours after the injury and if necessary in
      the case of a sudden worsening of the clinical condition.

      Patients with severe TBI will be divided into two groups. Group A for patients that will need
      an infusion of NA solution to meet the desired CPP, and Group B for patients that will not
      receive NA infusion. Group A will be further divided into three sub-groups: A1 for patients
      that will receive NA in the dose of 0.06-0.12 μg/kg/min, A2 for patients that will receive a
      dose of 0.13-0.2 μg/kg/min, and A3 for patients that will receive a dose of NA > 0.2
      μg/kg/min. Absolute values of individual laboratory variables in different time intervals
      (1-3, 6, 12, 24 hours after injury) will be compared between Groups A and B, between
      sub-group A1 and B, A2 and B, and A3 and B; and between sub-groups A1, A2 and A3.
    
  