
    
      Interproximal carious lesions are challenging to control and arrest due to difficulty
      reaching the contact area (in between teeth), limited salivary access, and poor flossing
      compliance in children and adolescents when flossing themselves. The vast majority of caries
      observed in children ages 5 to 10 are on interproximal surfaces.

      Silver diamine fluoride (SDF) is a topical medicament touted as a very safe and noninvasive
      alternative and/or adjunct to topical fluoride treatment or restorative treatment to halt the
      progress ("arrest") of caries. SDF has been shown to remineralize ("reverse") demineralized
      enamel or dentin, inhibit collagenases to protect dentin collagen from destruction, and have
      bactericidal properties to cariogenic bacteria including streptococcus mutans. Normally, SDF
      is applied with a microbrush directly on an exposed carious lesion, but due to difficulty
      reaching interproximal carious lesions, an absorbent type of floss such as Super Floss has
      been proposed as a delivery method for SDF application.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate whether 1) SDF application using Super Floss can
      arrest and/or reverse initial interproximal caries on primary molars and 2) whether SDF
      applied with Super Floss is more effective in arresting or remineralizing initial
      interproximal lesion in comparison to SDF applied without Super Floss or Fluoride varnish
      applied alone.

      The study population includes healthy children, aged 3-12, with initial interproximal decay
      on deciduous molars identified by radiographs. In this study, initial decay is defined as
      radiographic decay within enamel or extending to the dentin-enamel junction based on
      International Caries Classification and Management System (ICCMS). Any eligible participant
      will be randomly allocated to one of three treatments: Fluoride varnish (Control) application
      alone versus SDF application without Super Floss (Control) versus SDF application with Super
      Floss (Intervention), which will be applied at the initial visit. At 3, 6, and 12 months, the
      participants will return for reapplication of their respective treatments. At the 6 month and
      12 month mark, bitewing radiographs will be taken to determine status of the interested
      lesion(s). If a lesion progresses beyond the outer 1/3 of dentin, then the patient will be
      withdrawn and recommended routine restorative dental treatment. If a lesion arrests or
      reverses, then the current treatment will continue until end of study duration (12 months)
      and re-evaluated.

      A statistician will be assisting us with descriptive statistics, cluster-adjusted chi-squared
      test, and other statistics to determine if any correlation exists.
    
  