
    
      Background:

        -  Alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS) is a rare, highly vascular tumor accounting for less
           than 1% of soft tissue sarcomas. There is no effective systemic treatment for patients
           with metastatic ASPS. Little is known with regards to relevant molecular markers as
           potential therapeutic targets.

        -  Cediranib (AZD2171) and sunitinib (SU011248), oral small molecule inhibitors of VEGF
           receptor tyrosine kinases, are showing preliminary evidence of activity in patients with
           ASPS.

      Objectives:

        -  Part I: Determine the objective response rate (ORR) of single-agent cediranib and
           single-agent sunitinib malate in patients with advanced ASPS.

        -  Part II: Determine the ORR of cediranib in patients who progress on the sunitinib arm,
           and determine the ORR of sunitinib in patients who progress on the cediranib arm.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival (PFS) at 24 weeks for single-agent cediranib and

      single-agent sunitinib malate in patients with advanced ASPS.

      Eligibility:

      Status Update: Patients enrolled after Amendment G (version dated 08/16/2013), will be

      evaluated and compared to the first 13 patients by the study statistician and the Principal

      Investigator. Patients with newly diagnosed ASPS with clinical evidence of disease
      progression will also be assessed separately.

        -  Patients aged greater than or equal to 16 years with histologically or cytologically
           confirmed metastatic ASPS.

        -  Patients must show evidence of objective disease progression per RECIST 1 on scans
           within the 3-month period immediately preceding enrollment. Both scans used to determine
           disease progression should have been obtained within this 6-month period.

        -  Patients with newly diagnosed, unresectable, measurable, metastatic ASPS who show
           clinical evidence of disease progression will be eligible.

        -  Patients must not have received treatment with any VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase
           inhibitor (e.g., cediranib, sunitinib, pazopanib, sorafenib); however, prior treatment
           with bevacizumab is allowed.

      Design:

        -  Two sets of patients will be enrolled and assessed in separate cohorts: a) patients with
           non-newly diagnosed ASPS and b) patients with newly diagnosed ASPS

        -  Part I: Patients will be randomized to receive cediranib (30 mg) or sunitinib malate
           (37.5 mg) orally, once a day in 28-day cycles. As of May 6, 2019, we have closed the
           cediranib arm of the newly diagnosed ASPS cohort due to inadequate activity per the
           statistical plan; all newly diagnosed ASPS patients will be assigned to the sunitinib
           malate treatment arm.

        -  Part II: At the time of disease progression, patients will cross over to the other
           treatment arm after a 2-week wash-out period. As of May 6, 2019, patients in the newly
           diagnosed ASPS cohort are not eligible to cross over to the cediranib treatment arm,
           which was closed due to inadequate activity.

        -  Appropriate anatomic imaging studies will be performed at baseline and every 2 cycles
           for restaging.

        -  The study will be conducted using an optimal two-stage design to rule out an
           unacceptably low 15% clinical response rate (PR+CR) in favor of a modestly high response
           rate of 40%.

      The study will initially enroll 10 evaluable patients in each arm. If 0 or 1 of the 10
      patients has a clinical response, then no further patients will be accrued. If 2 or more the
      first 10 patients have a response, then accrual continues to a total of 22 patients in each
      arm.
    
  