
    
      How did the study come about? The Tzu Chi Health Study (TCHS) began in 2007 with the goal of
      investigating the role of a vegetarian diet on health outcomes.

      Founded in 1966, the Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation is a leading humanitarian organization with
      a worldwide base of more than 5 million supporters and volunteers. Tzu means "compassion" and
      Chi means "relief". The organization has chapters in 47 countries on six continents, which
      carry out the missions of Charity, Medicine, Education, and Humanistic Culture, and delivered
      aid to 67 countries, to date. Today in Taiwan, there are six Tzu Chi hospitals: four large
      teaching hospitals (in Hualien, Dalin, Taipei, and Taichung), and two small community
      hospitals (in Kuanshan and Yuli). Tzu Chi has established in Taiwan a comprehensive
      educational system from pre-school to graduate school, including Tzu Chi University (housing
      now a leading medical school in Taiwan) and operates Da Ai (Great Love) TV, a global
      satellite television station that runs in part on proceeds from its on-going recycling
      program.

      For reasons of compassion and environmental conservation, a vegetarian diet is suggested, but
      not required, for Tzu Chi Commissioners. This population of Commissioners is a non-smoking,
      non-drinking population, with a wide range of dietary practice: about 30% are vegetarians,
      38% partial vegetarians, and 32% omnivores. A free comprehensive health examination is
      available for Tzu Chi commissioners at Tzu Chi hospitals every two years. TCHS was
      established at Dalin Tzu Chi Hospital, where both Commissioners and patients coming for
      health examinations have been invited to participate in the study.

      This study provides a unique opportunity to examine the health of East Asian Vegetarians.
      Much evidence for the health effects of a vegetarian diet are currently from western
      populations, namely the Seventh Day Adventists and the British vegetarians, while there is
      very little evidence on East Asian vegetarians who consume a different vegetarian diet.

      Who is in the sample? A total of 6002 subjects have enrolled in the study. More than 70% of
      the participants are Tzu Chi Commissioners. The female-to-male ratio is about 2:1.

      How are the study subjects followed up? Participants are followed through several methods:
      (1) every three years, participants were invited back for detailed health examination. (2)
      Follow-up questionnaire sent to participants who did not return for health examination. (3)
      Linkages to the National Health Insurance Database and death registry.

      What has been measured? Dietary, lifestyle and medical and family histories on diseases were
      obtained through a questionnaire, administered by interviewers. Biochemical and
      anthropometric data was collected through physical exams.

        -  Dietary questionnaire: A dietary questionnaire has been administered, with trained
           research dietitians as interviewers. The questionnaire was adopted from the National
           Nutrition Survey in Taiwan.

        -  Biochemical variables: CBC, fasting glucose, lipid profile (TCH, LDL, HDL, TG), BUN, Cr,
           ALT, AST, and UA. In addition, homocysteine, serum vitamin B12, folate, and C-reactive
           protein (CRP) are available for 1500 subjects.

        -  Blood: Extra blood samples have been obtained and stored for 3500 subjects and will be
           available for future investigation.

        -  Anthropometric variables: body weight, height, waist circumference, % body fat (with
           BIA), blood pressure, pulse wave velocity, bone mineral density through DXA (at spine
           for female and hip for male), lung function test (spirometric), abdominal sonography,
           colonoscopy, esophageal-gastro-duodenal-scopy, chest X-ray, KUB.
    
  