
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of using pembrolizumab-recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein
      (sEphB4-HSA) combination in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma.

      II. To measure the overall survival (OS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure the progression-free survival (PFS). II. To measure the objective response rate
      (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1),
      programmed cell death 1 ligand 2 (PD-L2) and EPH receptor B4 (EphB4) expression by tumor
      cells (TC) as well as immune cells (IC)- macrophages and T cells- in tumor tissue and
      correlate them with ORR, PFS and OS.

      II. To examine the tumor tissue T cell frequency (counts), tumor tissue T cell clonality
      using T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing, and peripheral blood T cell clonality, pre-treatment
      and post-treatment and correlate these with ORR, PFS and OS.

      III. To measure the phenotype of lymphocytes and myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC), in
      pre and post-treatment blood samples and correlate these with ORR, PFS and OS; an extra blood
      sample for future studies will also be collected and banked.

      IV. To examine peripheral blood circulating tumor cells (CTCs) for enumeration and molecular
      analysis in pre and post-treatment blood samples, and correlate these with ORR, PFS and OS.

      V. To collect and bank tumor tissue. VI. To examine the role of adding positron emission
      tomography (PET) to a contrast computed tomography (CT) for evaluation of response to
      treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on
      days 1, 8, and 15 and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6-12
      weeks.
    
  