
    
      This is a prospective controlled trial, conducted between January 2005 and December 2007.
      Three centres specialized in hepatobiliary surgery (Cochin hospital (Paris, France), BEAUJON
      hospital (Clichy, France) and PONTCHAILLOU Hospital (Rennes, France)) participated to this
      study, which has been initiated by the department of hepatobiliary surgery and liver
      transplantation of the Cochin hospital. The protocol was approved by ethics committees of
      each participating centres and an informed consent was obtained from each patients before
      they were enrolled. Eighty seven patients were randomized to either receive ischemic
      preconditioning prior to liver resection under intermittent pedicular clamping or not.
      Ischemic preconditioning was performed through a sequence of 10 minutes vascular inflow
      occlusion and 10 minutes of reperfusion prior to intermittent pedicular clamping.
      Intermittent pedicular clamping was conducted through a sequence of 15 minutes of vascular
      inflow occlusion and 5 minutes of reperfusion. The randomization process which was
      centralized was held in the operating room after inclusion criteria had been check and
      exclusion criteria ruled out. Inclusion criteria were: patients' age (≥ 18 years old), liver
      resection of 3 segments (as described by Couinaud) or more, posterior lesionectomy (segment
      VI and VII), liver resection only or associated with a primary digestive or biliary tumor.
      Exclusion criteria : Patients with cirrhosis, synchronous radiofrequency or cryotherapy
      ablation, undergoing segmentectomy, left lateral lesionectomy or laparoscopic liver resection
      were excluded from further analysis as well as pregnant women.

      Anaesthetic protocol:

      Patients' status was evaluated by the ASA (American Society of Anaesthesiology) scoring
      system. Surgical procedure was conducted under low central venous pressure (5cm H2O) to avoid
      excessive bleeding from suprahepatic veins backflow.13 Patients' anaesthesia was performed
      using a single protocol that was common to all participating centres. Patients in whom this
      protocol was contraindicated due to medical reasons were excluded. A standardized general
      anesthesia using thiopental, sufentanil, atracurium and sevoflurane was applied throughout
      the study period. Mechanical ventilation was carried out using 50 % oxygen in nitrous oxide
      and was adjusted to keep end-tidal PCO2 between 4.7 and 6.0 kPA. Intra-venous cefazolin
      (Cephazolin, PANPHARMA laboratory, FOUGERES, France) was administered for antibioprophylaxy.
      An arterial line was inserted for arterial pressure monitoring and blood sampling. Central
      venous pressure was not consistently maintained below a predetermined level. Intraoperative
      Ringer lactate infusion was limited to the minimum, practically below 500 mL, until
      parenchymal resection was completed. Following liver resection, hydroxyethyl starch 130
      (Voluven, Fresenius laboratory, SEVRES, France), 20 mL/kg, was infused in one hour.
      Thereafter, additional hydroxyethyl starch, fresh frozen plasma, red blood cell packs were
      administered as indicated by urinary output, hemodynamics, and biological data. Thresholds
      for blood transfusion were a hemoglobin level of 7g/dL for healthy patients 64 years of age
      or under, and 9 g/dL for patients 65 years of age or over and/or with preexisting
      cardiopulmonary disease (1).

      Surgical protocol:

      All of the patients included in this study were operated in high volume centres by senior
      surgeons specialized in hepatobiliary surgery. Major resection was defined as resection of 3
      or more liver segment as described by Couinaud. Ischemic preconditioning was performed
      through a sequence of 10 minutes vascular inflow occlusion and 10 minutes of reperfusion
      prior to intermittent pedicular clamping. Intermittent pedicle clamping was conducted through
      a sequence of 15 minutes of vascular inflow occlusion and 5 minutes of reperfusion.
      Intermittent clamping was used during the whole parenchyma transection process. During
      ischemic preconditioning the liver left in native position to avoid ischemic process due to
      compression. Surgical liver biopsies were performed before after interruption of the vascular
      inflow. The samples were all collected in the same centre (Cochin Hospital) for histological
      and molecular biological analysis. The device used for clamping was left to the surgeon's
      discretion (Tourniquet or vascular clamp) but had to be the same for both preconditioning and
      clamping. The technique used for parenchymal liver transection was left to the surgeon's
      discretion as well as haemostasis and BILIOSTASIS techniques which were performed using
      bipolar forceps, metallic clips or ligation depending on vessels or bile ducts size. Devices
      used for parenchymal transection and haemostasis/BILIOSTASIS techniques were recorded in the
      preoperative data collection form. Postoperative drainage of the abdominal cavity was left to
      the surgeon's discretion but was collected in the data sheet. All complications occurring
      during surgery were collected as well as blood loss, blood transfusion and fluid infusion.

      Patient's follow-up and data collection:

      Patients' follow-up was 3 months and was initiated the day before surgery (Di). Given that
      primary hypothesis was a 50% reduction of transaminases (AST, ALT) level on postoperative day
      1 in the preconditioning group, blood samples were collected on all patients on Di and POD1
      for transaminases measurement. All of these samples were collected in a unique biochemistry
      laboratory (Hospital Cochin) to avoid inter laboratory variations. Besides these two samples,
      each centres conducted a regular biological follow-up of patients on a previously established
      schedule which was common to all centres. Biological assessment was performed on blood
      samples collected on Di and POD 1, 3, 5, 7, 14 and 28. Blood samples were tested for liver
      biochemistry (AST, ALT, PAL, GGT, BT and BC), prothrombin time, factor V, blood cells count
      (red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets) and albumine. Clinical examination was
      performed every day by the senior surgeon in charge of the patients until they were discharge
      from hospital, as well as on POD 15, POD 30 (5 days) and POD 90 (10 days). All impaired
      outcomes were noted in the data sheets. Surgical complications collected were: Intra
      abdominal bleeding, biliary fistula, vascular complication, intra abdominal abscess, wound
      infection and reintervention. Medical complication collected were: Infection (urinary tract,
      lung, catheter) liver dysfunction, liver failure, ascitis, pleural fluid effusion
      necessitating a drainage or not. Postoperative morbidity and mortality were defined as any
      impaired surgical or medical outcome or death occurring within POD 90, respectively. When
      hospital readmission was required patients where hospitalised in the surgical department.
      Finally histological analysis of the liver samples collected at surgery was reviewed by a
      single pathologist who was unaware of any clinical data.

      Statistical analysis:

      The analysis was performed in intention-to-treat. The sample size calculation was based on
      the primary endpoint postoperative (POD1) aspartate aminotransferase (ALT). According to
      previous data (ref 4-7,9,10 protocol), the sample size calculation was performed with the
      expectation of a 50% difference in postoperative serum ALT level with a level of statistical
      significance of 0.05 and a power of 0.80, using a two-tailed t-test. This calculation
      indicated to include 38 patients in each group. Modification of ALT was also quantified as
      the difference between Di and POD 1. Demographic data, baseline characteristics, and surgical
      data are summarized by groups using descriptive statistic. Categorical variables are
      expressed as numbers (percentages) and comparisons between groups were performed by the
      chi-square test or Fisher exact test, when needed. Continuous variables are expressed as mean
      (standard deviation of the mean (sd)) and were compared using two-tailed t-test. Analyses
      were performed using SAS software, version 9.1, SAS institute inc, Cary, North Carolina.
    
  