
    
      A literature review on telemedicine in primary care indicated that tele-monitoring can
      enhance primary care management of hypertension (HT) by improving patient outcomes and
      reducing health costs. In addition, technology-enabled blood pressure (BP) self-monitoring
      interventions have even better BP control outcomes if (i) nurse led tele-support and (ii)
      medication review (i.e. tele-treatment) are added.

      This study comprises 2 phases:

      Phase 1: Intervention phase This will be an open label (unblinded), parallel, non-randomized,
      quasi-experimental study conducted within 1 study site. Patients who are under the care of 2
      clinical teams, called teamlets (comprising 2 family physicians, a care coordinator and a
      care manager who is a nurse), will be recruited into the study.

      Patients under the care of 1 teamlet will be allocated to the intervention group, while those
      under the care of the other teamlet will be allocated to the usual care group.

      One key modality for this study will be the use of a network-based home blood pressure
      monitor to provide patient-led tele-monitoring for BP levels for patients in the intervention
      group. The monitor will be loaned to patients in the intervention group, who will be asked to
      monitor their blood pressure at least once every week using the network based home blood
      pressure monitor, which automatically uploads measured blood pressure readings to the
      MyHealthSentinel (MHS) portal for care managers (CM) in the teamlet to review blood pressure
      readings.

      The network-based home blood pressure monitor will be used to enhance nurse-led tele-support
      in the following ways:

        1. the CM will access the MHS portal to review the patient's blood pressure and provide
           updates to the patient on blood pressure control.

        2. If a patient's blood pressure is elevated, using the established protocols, the CM can
           titrate medications over the phone and provide follow up tele-consultation and necessary
           treatment in 2 to 4 weeks to assess subsequent blood pressure levels and side effects.
           The titration of medication is part of usual care and is managed by the ordering
           physician. Patients will be contacted after dose titration to see whether his or her
           blood pressure has improved. The care manager will also use the same phone call to check
           whether patients followed the titrated medication dosage.

      Patients in the usual care group will continue to be followed up and managed as per usual,
      there will be no additional clinical intervention provided to patients in this group.

      At 6 months after recruitment into the study, the patients' clinical outcomes will be
      measured. Specific outcome variables are as follows:

      (i) blood pressure after 6 months, (ii) Proportion of HT patients with controlled BP at each
      month and (iii) Time to BP control (only if medications review is done). The above variables
      will be extracted from Electronic Medical Records database, as well as the MHS portal to
      derive the above mentioned outcome variables along with additional variables to be extracted.

      A questionnaire will be administered to both groups at the first study visit and at the visit
      after 6 months to survey patients on their sodium intake, quality of life, beliefs about
      medication, medication adherence, and satisfaction with the care provided.

      Patients in both arms will receive reimbursement at the end of study participation.

      Phase 2: Qualitative phase A sub-group of patients (control group and intervention group) and
      teamlet staff, will be invited to participate in one-to-one semi-structured in-depth
      interviews and/or focus group discussions (FGDs), to find out their experience with the
      managing blood pressure via telemonitoring or physical clinic visit. All interviews and FGDs
      will be audio-recorded and later transcribed. Transcripts will not contain any personal data.
      Field notes will be taken during the interviews and memos written after the completion of
      interview. Both deductive and inductive approaches will be adopted to analyze the collected
      data using elements of thematic analysis and constant comparison approaches.
    
  