
    
      Objective

      This protocol is being performed collect prospective data on patients who receive standard
      care therapy for drug resistant epilepsy and to follow the therapeutic course of patients
      from pre-operative evaluation, through surgery, and post-operatively, and to collect
      prospective data on seizure outcomes following surgery to add to the body of knowledge in
      this field. Primary outcome measures will be used to assess efficacy of

      surgery for clinical care purposes. Any treatment under this protocol will be based on the
      current standard of care for epilepsy surgery. The secondary goals of this protocol will be
      to investigate neurophysiological correlates of human cognitive function and to provide
      invasive monitoring for patients with tumor related epilepsy.

      Study Population

      Patients 8 years and older whose seizures are uncontrollable with medication may participate
      in this study as well as patients with tumor related epilepsy in whom invasive monitoring is
      indicated.

      Study Design

      Patients will be screened by study neurologists to confirm their diagnosis of drug resistant
      epilepsy. Patients that do not have a confirmed diagnosis of drug resistant epilepsy will be
      offered further evaluation in protocol 18-N-0066, Investigating Epilepsy:
      Screening,Evaluation and Treatment. Patients confirmed to have drug resistant epilepsy will
      be offered standard invasive and non-invasive diagnostic and surgical procedures. Diagnostic
      invasive monitoring with intracranial electrodes for further localization of their seizure
      focus may be required. The ultimate goal is to surgically remove or modify the epileptic
      focus. Standard procedures to be performed are 1) anterior temporal lobectomy or 2)
      amygdalohippocampectomy for temporal lobe epilepsy, 3) focal cortical resection for epilepsy
      that arises outside the temporal lobe, 4) removal of brain lesions causing epilepsy, and 5)
      multiple subpial transection.

      In patients in whom invasive monitoring is medically necessary, neurophysiologic activity
      during cognitive tasks will be captured from intracranial surface and depth electrodes.
      Analysis will focus on the role of neuronal firing and aggregate neural activity 1) during
      cognitive function, 2) in other states such as wakefulness and sleep, and 3) during periods
      of time surrounding seizure activity.

      Drug Resistant Epilepsy

      Patients with drug resistant epilepsy will be followed for two years after the surgical
      procedure and will receive standard neurological examinations and MRI evaluation of the
      brain. Patients who do not have surgical resection of epileptogenic tissue will complete
      participation after the three-month post-op visit. Participants in this protocol will be
      evaluated for potential eligibility for other NINDS clinical trials.

      Tumor Related epilepsy

      Patients with tumor related epilepsy will be enrolled in this protocol because of clinical
      indications arising from participation in a seperate protocol, 16-N-0041 Tumor Related
      Epilepsy. Patients will complete participation after the three-month post-op visit.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary goal of this protocol is to collect prospective data on patients who receive
      standard care therapy for drug resistant epilepsy, and to determine the efficacy of surgery
      for treatment while collecting physiology, tissue, and behavioral data for research.The
      primary outcome measure for patients with drug resistant epilepsy is the change in seizure
      frequency, as measured by the Engel scale before and 1 year after treatment. Secondary
      outcome measures include 1) percentage of patients who are able to be completely withdrawn
      from anti-epileptic medication; 2) percentage of patients who are seizure-free (Engel Class
      I); 3) mean Engel Class one year after surgery stratified by the type of surgical procedure;
      4) percentage of patients with permanent neurological side-effects from surgical treatment;
      and 5) neurophysiological correlates of cognitive function. Outcomes for patients with tumor
      related epilepsy will be assessed under a seperate protocol, 16-N-0041, Tumor Related
      Epilepsy.
    
  