
    
      Study design: Prospective, controlled, single-center, cross-over design study. The study
      protocol was approved by the local ethical committee.

      Study setting/participants: The study is performed in a highly specialized secondary care
      vein center. Patients with chronic foot and leg ulcer disease that are scheduled for
      repetitive ulcer debridement are eligible for the study and included into the study provided
      that written informed consent is obtained and no exclusion criteria are present.

      Debridement procedure: For debridement, disposable sterile scalpel blades, ring curettes, and
      sterilized reusable scissors and forceps are used. The intended sharp mechanical debridement
      is proceeded as long as it is tolerated by the patient or terminated as planned. It will
      immediately be discontinued if the patient asks for it due to intolerable pain or discomfort.

      Analgesia methods: For analgesia during debridement, either a topically administered eutectic
      mixture of 5% lidocaine/prilocaine (EMLA®) or an inhaled premix of 50% nitrous oxide/50%
      oxygen (Kalinox®) are used. The 5% lidocaine/prilocaine cream is administered as a thick
      layer directly onto the wound with a scoop and the wound is sealed with a polyurethane foil.
      After 30 minutes of exposure time, the foil is removed and debridement is started
      immediately. For analgesia with the inhaled 50% nitrous oxide/50% oxygen premix, the patient
      is asked to hold an inhalation rebreather mask with on-demand-valve tightly placed onto the
      face after being instructed on how to inhale the gas premix. After 3 minutes of exposure time
      to the gas premix, debridement is started immediately. Gas inhalation is sustained until
      final wound dressing is applied. During the entire procedure with each analgesia method,
      vital signs such as non-invasive blood pressure, heart rate and peripheral oxygen saturation
      (SpO2) are be recorded.

      Allocation of the analgesia regimen: After study enrollment, patients are consecutively
      numbered starting at one. Even numbered patients have the first debridement done with topical
      administration of lidocaine/prilocaine cream, followed by inhaled nitrous oxide/oxygen premix
      for the second debridement, and again followed in an alternating way by both tested analgesia
      methods up to a maximum of 4 interventions. Uneven numbered patients receive inhaled nitrous
      oxide/oxygen premix first, followed by topical lidocaine/prilocaine cream. After 4
      debridement in total with 2 sets of each analgesia method, the study period for each single
      patient will be secluded. A maximum of 4 data sets per patient will be brought to data
      analysis.

      Outcome measures: Primary outcome is the change of pain perception from baseline (1 minute
      before debridement) to time point of maximum debridement/wound profoundness (up to 10 minutes
      after start of debridement) as measured by the visual analogue scale (VAS). Secondary
      outcomes are change of pain perception from time point of maximum debridement/wound
      profoundness to 5 minutes after debridement as measured by the visual analogue scale (VAS),
      duration of treatment session, duration of debridement, achievement of treatment goal
      (completion), subjective general perception of analgesia quality during debridement (patient
      comfort). Baseline characteristics are gender, age, ulcer etiology, time passed between
      initial ulcer diagnosis and first debridement, wound emergence in terms of suspected trigger
      for ulcer development, and wound size.
    
  