
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory and neurodegenerative
      disease that affects central nervous system. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the main
      paraclinical examination used to monitor disease activity and response to treatment. However,
      there is only limited correlation between the clinical symptoms and findings seen on the
      conventional MRI - a phenomena called clinical-radiological paradox. Measuring whole and
      regional brain atrophy provides additional information to MRI and seems to correlate better
      with clinical course and prognosis. In the last two decades, brain atrophy in MS has been
      exten sively studied, cut-offs for brain volume loss over time has been established and it is
      likely that it will become an important outcome measure in both clinical studies and routine
      practice.

      Compared to brain atrophy, spinal cord (SC) atrophy and its relation to MS-related disability
      has been given less attention. This is partly due to technical challenges such as
      inhomogeneous magnetic field in this region, small physical dimensions of SC and artefacts
      caused by motion of the SC within the spinal canal together with the flow of cerebrospinal
      fluid and periodic motion due to respiratory and cardiac cycles. Moreover, focal spinal cord
      MS lesions may cause both swelling and shrinking of SC that influence its absolute volume,
      resulting in problems with interpretation of absolute SC volume in MS. Despite all these
      challenges, it is possible to identify SC lesions and reliably measure SC volume, but there
      is no "gold standard" (standardized) software for SC volume measurement and no agreement on
      the SC level (segments) that is most suitable for SC volume loss measurement.

      During 2016 we have developed an in-house semiautomatic pipeline for measurement of cervical
      spinal cord volume that is a part of Scanview program. The segmentation is performed on
      T2-weighted images. In the first step, a marker is manually placed in a center of an
      intervertebral disc C3-4 (sagittal plane). Subsequently a cord straightening (manual rotation
      of the cord to achieve a perpendicular orientation of spinal cord to dorsal part of C3
      vertebral body), that enable to reduce partial volume due to the cord orientation. After this
      centering and straightening,transformation matrix is saved and all subsequent steps are fully
      automatized. These steps include: 1. Sub-pixel division, 2. Reversing the contrast of
      T2-weighted images and smoothing by applying a set of median, Gaussian and edge-enhancing
      filters and 4. Cubic spline interpolation to find a curve that represents a border of a
      spinal cord with highest probability. Finally, a sum of mean areas of 21 1-mm slices is
      calculated (1 center slice fixed at center of a intervertebral disc C3-4 and 2 x 10 slices in
      cranial and caudal direction. Using this new software we have assessed 1,036 MS patients
      during 2016 and 2017. The intra- and inter-rater variability of SC volume assessment was done
      by using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) with a two-way mixed absolute agreement
      and single-measures design. The analysis confirmed very good consistency (> 98%) of the
      method. The preliminary results showed a significant correlation between spinal cord volume
      and different clinical phenotypes.
    
  