
    
      The study design is to include 90 subjects. All subjects are treated with the common
      chemotherapy treatment. 50 percent will be treated with Iscador as combination with their
      common chemotherapy regimen. Common chemotherapy regimen used for NSCLC: Carboplatin and
      Gemcitabine. All study participants will receive this same chemotherapy regimen. This
      chemotherapy treatment is given every 3 weeks for up to 6 treatment cycles. The first day of
      the first treatment cycle, the combination of both Carboplatin and Gemcitabine will be
      administered. After a week (day 8 of treatment cycle) only Gemcitabine will be administered.
      Drugs would be calculated according to patient's body mass, renal function and general
      appearance. Once the patient signed Informed Consent he is assigned randomly to be treated
      with/without the injections of Mistletoe (called "Iscador"). Patient will receive the study
      medication (Iscador) as an intravenous injection that can be self injected or injected by any
      other of the family. Injections would be administered with low dose at the first week of the
      first treatment cycle and then, dose would be escalated, so as to check high sensitivity to
      the drug. Dosage would include: 2 injections of 0.1 mg, 2 injections of 0.1 mg and 2
      injections of 1 mg. After that, treatment would continue with dosage of 10 g once every 2
      days.

      Patients from both treatment arms would be asked to fill-out QOL questionnaires at every
      treatment cycle and at follow-up visit after.

      Study Primary Objectives:

        1. Improvement in QOL

        2. Improvement in the toxicity profile of the chemotherapy treatment

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Improvement in time to tumor progression (TTP) and survival.

        2. Safety profile of mistletoe extract with combination of chemotherapy treatment

      This is a single center study, randomized phase II, with patients with advanced NSCLC treated
      with carboplatin/gemcitabine chemotherapy combination.
    
  