
    
      Parental history of major depressive disorder poses a particularly high risk for later-life
      MDD. In adults, MDD involves dysfunction in subcortical brain regions related to emotional
      responsiveness, such as the amygdala, and in cortical brain regions that interface cognitive
      and emotional processes. These abnormalities: i) have been found primarily in adults with
      specific familial forms of MDD; ii) persist after recovery from MDD, and iii) relate to
      anxiety. These findings raise the possibility that risk for MDD is tied to dysfunction in
      emotional circuits themselves or in prefrontal regions involved in regulation of emotion. If
      this possibility were confirmed in never-depressed adolescents at high risk for MDD, the
      findings would provide key insights into the developmental neurobiology of MDD. The goal of
      this protocol is to study the neural substrate of risk for MDD in young people. This protocol
      tests the hypothesis that adolescents at high risk for MDD by virtue of parental history of
      MDD exhibit dysfunction in prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and other subcortical regions
      involved in emotion and emotion regulation. This goal will be accomplished through fMRI
      studies of edmotion provocation in high and low-risk adolescents.

      For this research, at-risk adolescents will be recruited from participants in NIMH-funded
      extramural studies at New York University, Brown University, and Columbia University
      examining the biology of risk for anxiety and depressive disorders. Over a three-year period,
      data on each measure of interest will be obtained in 100 high-risk probands and 100 low-risk
      comparisons. In addition, a sub-set of parents of these adolescents (n=100) also will be
      studied using identical procedures. In the present protocol, to be conducted at NIH, subjects
      will undergo volumetric MRI scans to assess structural abnormalities in the prefrontal cortex
      and medial temporal lobe. They will complete a series of out-of-scanner cognitive tasks and
      fMRI-based cognitive tasks. Two of these tasks measure modulation of attention to emotional
      stimuli; the third task measures engagement of temporal and prefrontal regions during social
      interactions. For these types of tasks, prior studies in adolescents with ongoing mood and
      anxiety disorders demonstrate hypothesized abnormalities in brain engagement. The current
      study is designed to examine the degree to which comparable findings emerge in unaffected
      adolescents at risk for mood and anxiety disorders.
    
  