
    
      100 women suffering post-menopausal bleeding (occurred after at least 12 months of
      amenorrhea) will be included in the study.

      After obtaining an informed consent entailing the explanation of the study and its aim, all
      participants will undergo the following; full history taking (including full menstrual
      history and the date of menopause), complete physical examination, laboratory investigations
      (complete blood count, liver function tests, kidney function tests and a coagulation
      profile). Baseline 2D transvaginal ultrasound will be done to measure endometrial thickness
      and to detect presence of any endometrial and myometrial focal lesions. 3D-transvaginal
      ultrasonography will be done to acquire multi-planner view of the uterine cavity and detect
      presence or absence of any cavitary or myometrial lesions and acquire endometrial volumes.
      This will be followed by 3D Power Doppler Ultrasound assessment of the vascular indices
      namely; vascularization index (VI), flow index (FI) and vascularization-flow index (VFI).

      Transvaginal sonography will be performed for all patients using Voluson 730 PRO V
      transvaginal volumetric probe transducer with frequency range of 5-8 MHz equipped with color,
      power and pulsed Doppler capabilities. First, conventional gray-scale sonography will be
      performed to obtain longitudinal and transverse sections of the uterus. Maximum endometrial
      thickness (double-layer) will be measured in the longitudinal plane with the detection of any
      focal lesions.

      For Three-Dimensional Ultrasound: Once the B - mode had been completed, three-dimensional
      images will be recorded. The volumes will be generated by the automatic rotation of the
      mechanical transducer 360 degrees. The probe will be kept steady, the patient will be asked
      to hold breath and volume mode will be switched on. With the use of the medium line density,
      the typical acquisition time will be between 4 and 10 seconds. Visualization of the
      endometrium in the three planes will be done to detect endometrial cavity. Endometrial
      margin, echogenicity and presence of intrauterine fluid will be examined to notice the
      presence of any heterogenic pattern, irregularity, asymmetry in the margin or local
      thickening denoting the presence of polyp, endometrial hyperplasia, or carcinoma. The
      myometrium will be also examined in the three planes to detect any other focal lesion e.g.
      Fibroid or Adenomyosis.

      For Power Doppler Study, the power Doppler gate will be activated for blood flow mapping of
      the endometrium and endometrial-myometrial interface (sub-endometrial area). Power Doppler
      settings will be set to achieve maximum sensitivity for detecting low velocity flow without
      noise. Once the vessels have been identified, the pulsed Doppler sample volume will be
      activated to obtain a flow velocity waveform (FVW). Vascularization index (VI), flow index
      (FI) and vascularization-flow index (VFI) will be automatically calculated from three
      consecutive FVWs. Only endometrial and endometrial-myometrial interface vessels were
      included.

      The patient will then be admitted for either a D and C operation (Endometrial curettage) or
      for Total Abdominal Hysterectomy. All removed tissues will be sent for histopathological
      examination of the endometrium or of any pathological uterine lesion. Pathological
      examination results will be correlated to ultrasound (2D and 3D) and Doppler findings,
    
  