
    
      You will receive the drug sirolimus in addition to standard chemotherapy drugs.

      Just like your original cancer treatment, relapsed leukemia/lymphoma treatment is divided
      into different parts. You will get sirolimus during the first two parts:

        1. Re-induction: We give chemotherapy drugs to try to put your cancer back into remission,
           meaning that no cancer cells are found in the bone marrow samples (if you have leukemia)
           or on imaging studies (if you have lymphoma). From start to finish, this part of therapy
           lasts 35 days. On this study, you will take the drug sirolimus daily in addition to the
           normal re-induction chemotherapy drugs. You will swallow liquid sirolimus and you must
           take it with food. You will take sirolimus three times on the first day and two times
           each day after that during re-induction.

           Altogether, this is the schedule for re-induction:

             -  Sirolimus by mouth starting 7 days before standard re-induction starts, and
                continuing every day through day 28

             -  Mitoxantrone by vein on days 1 and 2

             -  Vincristine by vein on days 3, 10, 17 and 24

             -  Dexamethasone by vein or by mouth on days 1-5 and 15-19

             -  PEG-asparaginase* on days 3 and 17

             -  IT Methotrexate given in spinal fluid on day 1 (all patients) day 8,29 (if no
                cancer found in spinal fluid)

             -  IT Triples given in spinal fluid on days 8,15,22,29 (if cancer found in spinal
                fluid)

           (If you have an allergic reaction to PEG-asparaginase, you may be given 6 doses of
           Erwinia L-asparaginase instead)

        2. Consolidation: We give drugs to continue to kill cancer cells in your body and prevent
           them from coming back. From start to finish, this part of therapy will last 63 days (it
           could be longer if we have to interrupt your treatment because you have low blood
           counts, and you need to wait for them to come up). On this study, you will take the drug
           sirolimus daily in addition to the normal consolidation chemotherapy drugs. You will
           take sirolimus three times on the first day and two times each day after that during
           consolidation.

           Altogether, this is the schedule for consolidation:

             -  Sirolimus by mouth starting 7 days before consolidation starts, and continuing
                every day through day 56.

             -  Cyclophosphamide by vein on days 1 and 29

             -  Cytarabine by vein or under skin on days 1-4, 8-11, 29-32, 36-39

             -  6-mercaptopurine by mouth on days 1-14, 29-42

             -  PEG-asparaginase* by vein on days 15 and 43

             -  Vincristine by vein on days 15 and 43

             -  It Methotrexate in spinal fluid on Days 1 and 29

        3. After you complete re-induction and consolidation, your doctor will determine the next
           steps of your treatment. This will depend on how you are doing and it will be up to you
           and your doctor. It will not be part of this study.

      This research only includes the re-induction and consolidation portions of treatment (1 and
      2, above). If you have already done re-induction, you can enter the study for consolidation
      only.

      In addition to all the regular tests and procedures done to check on your cancer during this
      study, we will also take additional blood samples to monitor the levels of sirolimus in your
      blood (in order to adjust your dose) and we will also take blood samples to find certain
      markers in your blood that might indicate that the sirolimus is doing what it is supposed to
      do.
    
  