
    
      The following procedures will be followed. The research subjects will participate online.

        1. Doctors from MGH who express interest in participating will record messages according to
           our scripts (US Doctors Script African American, US Doctors Script Latinx). They will be
           instructed to film several different versions each.

        2. We will recruit a sample of Latinx and African American study participants from across
           the country through Lucid, an online survey firm that has access to a large subject
           pool.

        3. Participants will first read a consent script and give us their informed consent (US
           Doctors Messaging Consent)

        4. Participants will then navigate through the following steps

             1. Brief demographics survey questions (US Doctors Messaging Survey)

             2. Videos 1 and 2: Introduction, Acknowledgement, Social Distancing (US Doctors Script
                African American, US Doctors Script Latinx). Individuals in the control group will
                not see videos.

             3. Beliefs survey questions (US Doctors Messaging Survey)

             4. Video 3: Masks (US Doctors Script African American, US Doctors Script Latinx).
                Again, individuals in the control group will not see a video here.

             5. Main outcomes survey (US Doctors Messaging Survey)

             6. Control group is shown a version of all 3 videos at end (US Doctors Script African
                American, US Doctors Script Latinx).

        5. The video messages each participant in one of the treatment groups sees will be
           randomized on the following dimensions. The different versions are clearly demarcated in
           the US Doctors Scripts document.

             1. Racial or ethnic identity of the doctor delivering the messages: concordant vs.
                discordant identity to the subject.

             2. Whether the message includes an acknowledgment of "elephant in the room" issues for
                each target group: trust in the medical system or fear of deportation.

             3. Whether the social distancing component of the message is delivered by Dr. Birx of
                the CDC or recorded by the MGH physicians.

             4. Whether individuals are given information about how representative individuals
                perceive mask wearers of color. This information comes from results of our
                nationally representative pilot survey.

             5. Some individuals in a control group will only see messages after all surveying has
                been completed.
    
  