
    
      Recipe 4 Success, the product of a university-community engagement collaboration, uses 10
      tightly sequenced, structured, and scripted food preparation lessons, delivered as part of
      Early Head Start home visits, to help low-income parents learn to sensitively scaffold their
      toddler's self-regulation skills and establish more healthy eating habits. The intervention
      relies on an active coaching therapeutic approach to deliver content. Recipe 4 Success is
      focused on parents because their feeding practices influence children's diet, and
      interventions to prevent childhood obesity are most likely to have long-term effects when
      they emphasize positive parenting practices. Parents' sensitivity and constructive
      scaffolding behaviors are related to children's self-regulation skills, which are robust
      predictors of healthy eating habits and body mass index (BMI). For example, children who have
      difficulty with self-regulation by age 3 have a higher BMI through age 12. Importantly, these
      relations may be causal: Adults who are taught self-regulation skills appear more successful
      in maintaining healthy eating habits over time. As a preventive intervention, Recipe 4
      Success is implemented when children are 2, the point at which deliberate self-regulation
      skills are starting to emerge and develop rapidly and taste preferences are being formed.
      Recipe 4 Success is designed for families living in poverty because parents are less likely
      to provide sensitive scaffolding and children are less likely to display well-developed
      self-regulation skills and healthy eating habits under conditions of economic adversity.
      Finally, Recipe 4 Success was created to be integrated into Early Head Start to expedite
      wide-spread dissemination and easy sustainability and to enhance the efficacy of this
      nation-wide home visit program. If successful, this will be one of the first preventive
      interventions to improve either toddler's self-regulation skills or their healthy eating
      habits and BMI.
    
  