
    
      Recruitment: participants will be recruited by a study coordinator during their regular
      hemodialysis shift. This is a quaternary outpatient dialysis unit serving approximately 110
      patients.

      Randomization and allocation: we will use a permuted block design with randomly varied block
      sizes of eight and twelve. The randomization sequence will be computer generated and
      randomization to one of the 4 groups will be on a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Allocation is concealed in
      serially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes.

      Data collection: demographic data, length of time of hemodialysis, cause of ESRD, access
      type, comorbidities, number of medications, functional status, comorbidities, and dialysis
      prescription will be collected. The laboratory values and dialysis prescription will be
      collected from the dialysis unit chart using the most recent monthly blood-work and from the
      provincial laboratory repository. The amount and intensity of exercise that was performed as
      well as the participant's heart rate and blood pressure during the exercise session will be
      recorded at each exercise session. The exercise forms from each participant's dialysis
      session will be reviewed weekly for missing data. Forms with any empty field will be
      classified as incomplete and where possible, the appropriate staff will be asked to verify
      the query.

      The occurrence of adverse events will be collected from all four randomization groups.The
      hemodialysis run-sheet, nursing notes, and exercise data collection form will be reviewed
      weekly for the occurence of adverse events. Hemodialysis unit staff and the exercise trainer
      have been instructed to report adverse events (defined a priori) as they occur. In addition,
      prior to each exercise session, participants will be asked if they have had any new health
      problems or symptoms since their last exercise session.

      Missing data: conditional on the participant's consent, outcome data will be collected from
      all participants who drop out. For those participants who do not wish to be followed or who
      have missing data, baseline data will be carried forward.

      Safety: due to the short duration and small size of this study, a formal safety and trial
      management board will not be established. A nephrologist who is not affiliated with the study
      will review all SAEs as they occur. The nephrologist will then determine if the SAE was
      associated with the intervention and whether the individual's participation requires
      modification or discontinuation.

      Statistical analysis plan: descriptive statistics will be used to compare the clinical
      characteristics of the four groups at baseline. All analyses will follow the intention to
      treat principle.

      Safety: in a primary analysis, adverse events will be reported as the number of events
      directly related to the intervention compared to control, by randomization group. In a
      secondary analysis, all adverse events that occurred during the study will be analyzed. The
      frequency of events will be compared using ANOVA or Kruskal-Wallis where appropriate, and
      with appropriate post-hoc tests to detect differences between randomization groups.

      To explore the effect of aerobic and resistance exercise on components of HRQOL we will
      estimate the absolute change in score at 12 weeks relative to baseline in the physical
      component summary score (PCS), the mental component summary score (MCS), and the
      kidney-disease specific score (KDCS). We will report the absolute change in sub-scores for
      each of the component summary scores. We will use the same method to estimate the difference
      in scores on the tests of physical performance and strength. Assuming there is no statistical
      interaction (no indication in the literature), we will estimate the efficacy of the aerobic
      intervention by comparing all participants who received aerobic exercise with all groups that
      did not (aerobic and combined exercise groups versus resistance and control exercise groups)
      and similarly for the resistance-training group. Final scores will be compared using analysis
      of covariance (ANCOVA) adjusting for the baseline scores and both main effect terms. The
      final score will be presented as the adjusted difference in the means. To correct for
      multiple comparisons in the combined exercise group, based on the Bonferroni procedure a
      significance level of less than 0.025 will be considered significant. The same method will be
      used to analyze differences in the tests of physical functioning and strength. The
      interaction will be estimated in a secondary analysis. Due to the small sample size, no
      subgroup analysis will be performed.
    
  