
    
      Obesity affects one-third of the adult U.S. population and is a major risk factor for the
      development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Mouse models and human data
      suggest that obesity-induced chronic inflammation is one mechanism promoting
      obesity-associated comorbid conditions. In obesity, innate immunity is activated by
      circulating molecules such as fatty acids and cholesterol crystals bind to nucleotide-binding
      oligomerization (NOD)-like receptor family, pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) receptors in
      adipocyte tissue macrophages (ATMs). This binding stimulates NLRP3 oligomerization,
      inflammasome formation, and proinflammatory cytokine activation. The resultant inflammatory
      cascade leads to insulin resistance and decreased pancreatic beta-cell reserve. It has been
      proposed that the suppression of this chronic low-level inflammatory state may impede the
      onset of diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

      Recent studies have shown colchicine, a potent microtubule inhibitor commonly used for the
      treatment of gout and some rare inflammatory conditions, disrupts intracellular localization
      of NLRP3, thereby blocking inflammasome assembly. As there are limited medical therapies
      proven effective to improve obesity-related metabolic dysregulation, we propose to determine
      the efficacy of colchicine 0.6 mg twice daily in non-diabetic obese adults with metabolic
      syndrome. We will conduct a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled pilot trial of
      colchicine in forty subjects. We will study changes in insulin resistance, beta-cell reserve,
      and systemic inflammation. Using adipose tissue obtained from biopsies, we will also study
      colchicine s local effects on inflammation and insulin resistance. Should results prove
      promising, this pilot study will allow determination of the sample size needed for an
      adequately powered study of the effects of colchicine in obese adults with metabolic
      syndrome.

      Seven patients with diet-controlled type 2 diabetes will be given open-label colchicine and
      followed as described above. We also plan to perform baseline evaluations on 40 subjects who
      are not eligible for the treatment protocol. This group will consist of non-obese adults,
      obese adults who are not insulin-resistant, and adults with diet-controlled type 2 diabetes.
    
  