
    
      Purpose: Controlled, intervention trials suggest that exercise may be a useful strategy to
      manage symptoms and side effects associated with cancer treatment. However, practical
      programs that facilitate exercise engagement among cancer patients are few and have been
      insufficiently studied. Medical providers may be best suited to deliver exercise information
      because of their frequent patient contact and the trust that patients place in their advice;
      however, unless sufficient resources are supplied in conjunction with verbal advice, patients
      may be less likely to successfully follow their physician's advice. The addition of an
      easy-to-follow, cancer specific exercise instructional video (DVD) to a provider's
      recommendation to exercise may provide patients with the motivation and ability to increase
      physical activity. We propose a feasibility study that will 1) determine acceptance and use
      of a provider-disseminated instructional home-exercise DVD among female cancer patients
      treated at OHSU and 2) determine if this cancer specific home-based DVD exercise program
      leads to greater decreases in fatigue, increases in exercise motivation and in physical
      activity compared to a standard exercise recommendation only among breast cancer patients
      treated at OHSU (N=100).

      Methods: Medical providers who see female cancer patients during routine clinical visits will
      be approached to participate in the study. Willing providers will be enlisted to consent
      patients to receive a brief conversation (2-3 minutes) about the importance of exercise in
      their cancer care and then ask whether or not patients are willing to receive more
      information about the study from study staff. Providers will inform study staff about
      consenting participants who will then be randomized to one of two groups in the order that
      they enrolled. Study staff will then contact participants by phone to further explain the
      study and confirm eligibility then ask questions about their treatment, symptoms, and
      physical activity history. Based on their randomly assigned group, participants will receive
      either a control packet of standard exercise information based on guidelines from the
      American Cancer Society or standard exercise information plus a cancer specific home-based
      exercise DVD program. Fatigue, motivation for exercise, physical activity and use /
      acceptability of exercise information (+/- DVD) will be reassessed at 4 and 8 weeks following
      enrollment.
    
  