
    
      Method:

      The study was designed as a randomised controlled study with the control group in order to
      determine the effect of simulation-based training applied to the caregivers of burn patients
      on their preparedness for care and caregiving burden. The research will be conducted in the
      Burn Unit of Hacettepe University Adult Hospital and Burn Center of Gulhane Training and
      Research Hospital. The population of the research includes caregivers of adult patients
      admitted to Hacettepe University Adult Hospital Burn Unit and Burn Center of Gulhane Training
      and Research Hospital after 02.02.2021 and have treatment in inpatient or outpatient clinics.
      Since there is no similar research in the literature, sample size was not calculated. At the
      end of the study, power analysis will be done to evaluate the adequacy of the sample size. In
      the study, participants in the intervention group and control group will be assigned by block
      randomization method and each block will consist of 4 caregivers and 6 blocks will be formed.
      The data sheets of the research are Caregivers Information Form, Preparedness for Caregiving
      Scale, Caregiving Burden Scale and Post-Discharge Assessment Form for Burn patients. In
      addition, the Questionnaire for the Burn patients will be used to obtain information about
      the burn patients.

      Implementation of study:

      The control group will receive only the standard discharge education. Simulation based
      education will be performed after the standard discharge training with the intervention
      group. The preparedness of caregivers before and after both training will be assessed. The
      burden of caregiving will be assessed during the first and third months of care.

      Collection of Data:

      In order to test the understandability of standard discharge training, training will be
      provided to 3 patient relatives. The presentation of the training will be organized according
      to the feedback received.

      After the pre-application of the simulation scenario in the laboratory environment 3 times,
      the necessary changes will be made on the scenario and the final version will be given.

      Data collection tools will be applied on the both group, unrecognized questions and
      corrections will be made on missing items. Individuals participating in these preliminary
      studies will not be included in the study.

      Percentage, mean, standard deviation will be used in the evaluation of the data. Chi-square,
      Fisher's exact test, independent paired T-test and Mann-Whitney U test will be used for
      comparison between groups and within groups. p <0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  