
    
      Prematurity is a major Public Health concern in developed countries, since it is the first
      cause of perinatal morbi-mortality and of cerebral palsy in early childhood. Premature birth
      rate has risen by 36 percent over the last 25 years to reach 7.2% in 2010 in France.
      Antenatal corticosteroids administration before 34 weeks and in utero transfer in
      high-qualified maternity wards are ones of the rare antenatal therapies recommended to
      improve neonatal complications of preterm delivery. Early identification of women with high
      risk of preterm birth should be helpful to implement those prophylactic measures. Moreover
      discriminating true preterm labor (PTL) vs. symptoms of PTL in women, who will finally
      deliver at term, would reduce unnecessary hospitalizations and prescriptions.

      During human gestation, fetal membranes (the "water bag") encompass the amnion, facing the
      amniotic cavity, and the chorion, lining the maternal decidua and comprising trophoblast
      cells. Membranes usually remain intact until their spontaneous rupture, close to the first
      stage of labor at term. Often seen as a simple inert shell, with a role of "airbag" for the
      developing fetus, the membranes provide yet a large surface of interaction between maternal
      and fetal tissues and function as a transient endocrine organ with immune properties.

      Specific remodelling of the membranes is observed at term prior to delivery. During this
      remodelling, drastic changes in extracellular matrix occur, with the secretion of specific
      molecules. The investigators hypothesize that premature fetal membranes remodelling occurs
      weeks prior to actual birth and may be able to be detected in women at risk for preterm
      birth, i.e. presenting signs of PTL. This study investigates if the detection of fetal
      membranes remodelling in cervico-vaginal fluids can accurately identify those women at
      greatest risk for preterm birth. A prospective cohort of pregnant women will before 32 weeks
      of gestation with symptoms of preterm labor be enrolled. As negative controls, healthy
      pregnant women at 12-15 or 35-36 weeks of gestation or non-pregnant women will be recruited.
      As positive controls, healthy pregnant woman at term (over 38 weeks of gestation) will be
      enrolled. The main outcome assessed is preterm delivery.
    
  