
    
      In an era of rapidly growing healthcare costs, due to in large part to the increasing burden
      and complexity of chronic disease management, targeting outreach to patients who are most
      likely to benefit from them and tailoring interventions to individual patient needs,
      represent important opportunities to maximize healthcare value. The Targeted Adherence
      intervention to Reach Glycemic control with Insulin Therapy for patients with Diabetes
      (TARGIT-DM) trial is a pragmatic, intention-to-treat, randomized-controlled study that will
      evaluate the impact of three equivalently-priced strategies to improve insulin persistence
      and glycosylated hemoglobin [HbA1c] control among patients with diabetes on insulin.

      The interventions in each of the three study arms will consist of educational mailings and
      telephonic pharmacist outreach. The pharmacists will assess and address potential barriers to
      insulin adherence and optimal glycemic control. The three study arms will employ differ both
      in regards to which patients are targeted and the intensity of the engagement strategy used.
      The low intensity intervention in arm 1 will be deployed to all subjects randomized to that
      arm. The moderate and high intensity interventions will be delivered to focused populations
      within arms 2 and 3, respectively, as defined by poor disease control and/or predicted risk
      of non-adherence. The interventions provided in the moderate and high intensity arms will
      also include feedback to the patient's provider, as needed, and potential enrollment in a
      text messaging program. Patients in these two arms who are not targeted will receive usual
      care.

      The study population for this trial will consist of members enrolled in commercial insurance
      provided by Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey. Insurance claims data will be used
      to apply the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible patients will be randomized into one
      of three arms, stratified by baseline availability of HbA1c and a valid telephone number.
    
  