
    
      This study is designed to be an interventional, prospective, randomized, double-blinded
      case-control clinical trial. Procedures will be done in the Center for Liver Diseases, 9'Th
      floor of Kaufmann medical building, UPMC, USA. This study will also be carried out in
      National Liver Institute, Egypt.

      For treatment-naïve patients, we are targeting 32 subjects for each group; however, we are
      going to include 37 in each group to allow for estimated drop-outs rate of 15%. Subjects will
      be randomly assigned to 4 groups as follows: Group 1 includes non-obese controls (BMI < 25).
      They will receive one session of dietary and behavioral education. Groups 2, 3 and 4 include
      obese subjects (BMI ≥ 30). Group 2 includes obese controls who will receive one session of
      dietary and behavioral education. Groups 3 and 4 will receive up to 6 weekly sessions
      followed by 12 monthly sessions of dietary and behavioral education. Orlistat and placebo
      will be prescribed for Groups 3 and 4 respectively.

      For non-responders and releasers to previous anti-hepatitis C therapy who have BMI ≥ 25
      (overweight or obese), subjects will be randomized to groups 5 and 6 and will receive same
      treatment as groups 3 and 4, respectively. Their results will be compared to the historic
      controls results.

      Screening procedures:

      Verifying the eligibility of patients for participation in the study will be done through
      reviewing data in medical history, physical examination and investigations included in the
      patients' medical records. Acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome (AIDS) status of the
      participating subject will be determined by reviewing HIV ELISA screening test, reported in
      the subject's medical records as well. Measurements of weight and height (for BMI
      calculation) will be taken and recorded during the initial clinic visit at the center for
      liver diseases for all patients who agree to participate and fulfill the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Weight measure will be taken while patient is in light underwear and
      without shoes, while standing with his arms lying alongside the body, and in apnea fixed at
      midexpiratory phase while height measure will be taken by a wall-mounted stadiometer and
      recorded to the nearest cm.

      Experimental procedures:

      Subjects will be randomly grouped into groups by simple randomization method. One of the
      investigators will pick one folded paper out of a plastic bag that contains folded papers
      labeled on the folded side with the number of the group.

      Further randomization will be done in the pharmacy by the same way to include treatment naïve
      candidates to groups 3 and 4 and to include treatment non naïve candidates to groups 5 and 6.
      Therefore, study team will be blinded from type of drug which the candidate will receive,
      whether Orlistat or placebo, respectively.

      Groups 1 and 2 as control groups will receive one session of dietary and physical education,
      and then they will start receiving standard hepatitis C treatment.

      Groups 3, 4, 5 and 6 as interventional groups will receive up to 6 sessions of dietary and
      physical education after which they will start receiving their standard hepatitis C
      treatment. Groups 3 and 4 will be encouraged to attend up to 12 monthly meetings (along side
      the monthly visits for their standard viral hepatitis therapy) at the health education room
      of center for liver diseases, to check dietary diaries and patient records of physical
      activity, discuss any related issues, reinforce and encourage compliance to dietary and
      physical exercise recommendations. The dietary and physical education (given through up to 6
      weekly sessions and subsequently up to 12 monthly follow-up meetings) will be presented. It
      will be based on previously reported (Kelley et al. 2004) lifestyle modifications and dietary
      regulation program that includes healthy food selections, emphasizing reduced fat consumption
      (<=30% of daily calories) and restriction of portions to create a daily negative energy
      balance of ~500 kcal/day. Participants will be encouraged to start with 10 minutes of
      physical activity such as walking or cycling then gradually increase the activity duration up
      to 30 minutes. The dietitian will provide each subject with diary for daily recording of
      dietary intake.

      Orlistat (60 mg capsules, three times daily, before meals)will be prescribed for groups 3 and
      5. Placebo will be administered for groups 4 and 6. Orlistat or Placebo will be given for 3
      to 6 weeks prior to and during the 48 weeks of the standard anti-viral therapy. Pill counts
      will be obtained monthly to monitor medication compliance.

      Stress assessment will be done for the study candidates through a stress specific
      questionnaire before the start of the study and every 12 weeks afterwards.

      Stool samples will be taken from all patients before they start Interferon therapy and every
      12 weeks on therapy. Stool samples will be stored at -80 degree Celsius for future PCR study
      of fecal micro flora.

      Follow-up procedures:

      Virological and biochemical responses will be followed as clinically indicated by clinical
      provider. Anthropometric measures of obesity such as measurements of weight, height (for BMI
      calculation), waist circumference, hip circumference, skin fold thickness and mid-arm
      circumference will be monthly followed and recorded. Midarm circumference and triceps skin
      fold thickness will be measured on the left arm midway between the tip of the acromion and
      the tip of olecranon and was recorded to the nearest 5 cm. Skin fold thickness will be
      measured at triceps. Waist circumference will be measured midway between iliac crest and
      lowest rib margin, and hip circumference at the level of the greater trochanters (Han et al.
      2001).
    
  