
    
      Around one-half of older adults take one or more medications that are inappropriate or
      medically unnecessary. These medications can cause side effects that are unacceptable to
      patients. Several studies provide guidance to clinicians about the process of stopping
      specific types of medications (e.g., steps that clinicians can take to reduce and stop a
      medication for anxiety or difficulty sleeping). However, these approaches are not always
      successful. A critical gap with these approaches is they tend to focus on the medication,
      rather than the patient, and their individual needs.

      Our research team seeks to learn more about factors that are important to patients when they
      consider reducing or stopping a medication. The investigators will do this by conducting two
      surveys each with 4,800 older adults across four countries (United States, United Kingdom,
      Netherlands, and Australia). Each participant will be asked to give their opinions on a
      hypothetical patient scenario that has been developed by our diverse team in partnership with
      our stakeholder organizations. In the first survey, the investigators will examine how the
      reason for using the medication (e.g. preventing a disease or treating symptoms of a disease)
      as well as the reason for a recommendation to stop the medication (e.g. lack of benefit vs.
      potential for harm) influence older adults' willingness to stop medications. In the second
      survey, the investigators will examine how the type of medication (e.g. addictive or
      non-addictive medication) and whether the participant is making a recommendation about
      oneself (as if they were the patient in the case) or on behalf of the patient in the case
      (e.g., if it was their friend) influence their willingness to stop medications. The
      investigators will work with Qualtrics, an international company that distributes surveys, to
      collect this data that does not include any identifying information.

      The investigators anticipate that once the survey is designed and show that it is successful
      for studying patient perspectives about stopping medicines, it can then apply the same study
      approach to test the effect of other relevant factor that may influence the decision to stop
      or reduce a medication. The investigators anticipate that our research will significantly
      contribute to our understanding of how older adults make decisions about stopping
      medications. This information will be helpful to researchers and clinicians to ensure future
      services can be developed to best support patients to make decisions about stopping or
      reducing inappropriate or unnecessary medication.
    
  