
    
      The Wegener's Granulomatosis Etanercept Trial (WGET) is a randomized, placebo-controlled
      clinical trial. A primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      etanercept (Enbrel; Immunex Corporation, Seattle, WA) for the induction and maintenance of
      disease remissions for people with Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) when used in conjunction
      with standard medications. A secondary objective is to develop a specimen bank of serum,
      plasma, whole blood, and tissue biopsy samples that may be used to address basic questions
      regarding the etiology, pathophysiology, and monitoring of WG.

      The trial is a phase II/III randomized, double-masked, multicenter trial with a parallel
      treatment design. We will assign patients randomly to either etanercept or placebo in an
      assignment ratio of 1:1. In addition to either etanercept or placebo, we will treat all
      patients with standard drug regimens for WG according to the severity of their disease. We
      will treat those with limited WG with methotrexate and corticosteroids, and those with severe
      WG with cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids. After the patients' disease is controlled with
      therapy (i.e., the standard treatment regimen plus either etanercept or placebo), we will
      taper the standard medications according to regimens designed to ensure patient safety,
      diminish morbidity associated with the standard medications, and test the efficacy of
      etanercept in sustaining disease remissions.

      The principal outcome measure in this trial is the number of patients in the two treatment
      arms who achieve sustained remissions measured by the Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score
      for WG (BVAS). The sample size is 181 patients recruited at eight clinical centers in the
      United States. We will stratify randomization by clinic and disease severity (limited versus
      severe). Every patient enrolled will have a BVAS of at least three, insuring unequivocally
      active disease.

      We will follow all randomized patients, regardless of whether or not they remain on their
      assigned treatments, until the common closing date of the trial, defined as 12 months after
      enrollment of the last patient. We will perform the primary analyses on an intention-to-treat
      basis.
    
  