
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Identify surrogate markers of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy by contrast-enhanced
           magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that are predictive of pathologic remissions and
           survival in women with stage III breast cancer.

        -  Identify two groups of patients who have statistically different 3-year disease-free
           survival using MRI measurements of tumor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Determine whether MRI measurements of tumor response after the first course of
           neoadjuvant chemotherapy can predict which of these patients will ultimately have poor
           clinical response to chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the accuracy of MRI vs mammography in predicting the extent of residual disease
           as determined by histopathology in these patients.

        -  Determine whether initial MRI tumor characteristics (morphologic and vascular patterns)
           predict pathological response and/or survival in these patients.

        -  Estimate the conditional probability of response to paclitaxel based on MRI measurements
           of response to doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive an injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine and undergo magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the breast within 4 weeks before
      beginning neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 20-28 hours or 48-96 hours after the first course of
      doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (Type 1 chemotherapy), between Type 1 chemotherapy and
      paclitaxel chemotherapy regimens (Type 2 chemotherapy) (MRI only) if the patient continues to
      Type 2 chemotherapy, and 3-4 weeks after final neoadjuvant chemotherapy treatment (1-2 weeks
      before surgery).

      Patients also undergo mammograms and possibly ultrasounds that coincide with the first and
      last MRI. Core or needle biopsy is performed after the first MRI but before the first course
      of Type 1 chemotherapy and between Type 1 chemotherapy and Type 2 chemotherapy (if the
      patient continues to Type 2 chemotherapy).

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 7-10 years.
    
  