
    
      This study is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) to be done at ART center of Women's Health
      Hospital, Assiut university, Egypt.

      All steps for IVF/ICSI procedure, from the beginning of the induction for controlled ovarian
      stimulation until just before the procedure of ET, will be done for all enrolled patients as
      routinely decided according to the local protocol of the ART center in Women Health Hospital,
      Assiut University. In the day of ET, number and quality of Embryos will be decided according
      to the routine practice guided by the local protocol.

      The intervention preparation will be prepared by adding one vial of hCG containing 5000 IU to
      1mL of tissue culture medium (Continuous Single Culture, IrvineScientific). To obtain 500 IU
      of hCG, 0.1 milliLiter (mL) of the preparation will be injected inside the uterus before ET
      in the study group. For the control group, 0.1 mL of the tissue culture medium without hCG
      will be injected inside the uterus before the ET. For both groups we will use Intra-Uterine
      Insemination (IUI) catheter (Sperm Trans, Sperm Processor) to inject the solution inside the
      uterine cavity 4 minutes before ET.

      We will standardize the procedure of ET for all women apart from the intervention versus
      control step. All women participating in the study will be put in lithotomy position. Cusco's
      speculum will be introduced to visualize the cervix. Guided by transabdominal ultrasound with
      a full bladder, the ET catheter (Cook Sydney IVF Catheter) will be introduced through the
      cervical os into the uterine cavity. After introduction of the catheter into the uterine
      cavity loaded embryos will be injected inside the cavity 0.5 cm from the fundus.

      Biochemical pregnancy test will be done 14 days after ET by measuring hCG in the woman's
      serum. If the test result is positive (according to the standard values that is used in the
      laboratory), a transvaginal ultrasound will be done 3 weeks following the positive
      biochemical test, to document the visualization of gestational sac, fetal pole and cardiac
      pulsation.

      Pregnancy rate (PR) is calculated by the number of women with positive biochemical pregnancy
      test to the number of women enrolled in each group. The clinical pregnancy was defined as a
      viable pregnancy when there is evidence of a gestational sac, embryo and fetal heart rate at
      the time of ultrasound evaluation. Clinical Pregnancy Rate (cPR) is calculated by the
      percentage of detected clinical pregnancies using ultrasound to the IVF/ICSI cycles in each
      group. Implantation rate (IR) is calculated by the number of visualized embryos by
      transvaginal ultrasound to the number of transferred embryos. While Live Birth Rate (LBR) is
      calculated by the number of live births to the number of transferred embryos. Miscarriage
      rate (MR) is calculated by the ratio of miscarriages to the number of confirmed pregnancies.
    
  