
    
      Objective:

      To date, available pharmacological treatments for major depressive disorder (MDD) have proven
      to be only modestly effective during the acute phase. We have been systematically testing
      different glutamatergic modulators in patients with mood disorders in order to develop
      improved therapeutics. A recent report found that the (beta)-lactam antibiotic ceftriaxone
      increased glutamate uptake by increasing GLT1(EAAT2) function and had antidepressant-like
      effects in animal models. Using the learned helplessness model of depression we developed
      outbred lines, defined a new anatomy of helplessness, and determined that synaptic loss due
      to excess extracellular glutamate appears to be involved in the pathophysiology of
      helplessness; these animals show a 40% decrease in EAAT2 astrocytic transporter expression.
      Together, these data suggest that astrocytic glutamate reuptake systems may be central to the
      pathophysiology and treatment of depression, and that agents that directly increase
      astrocytic glutamate uptake may represent a novel class of antidepressants.

      With this protocol, we propose to test a specific new mechanism that uses diazoxide to
      chronically increase expression of the glutamate transporter EAAT2, resulting in removal of
      glutamate from the synaptic cleft. Diazoxide enhances glutamate uptake in glia by activating
      ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels. We expect that this effect will reduce excessive
      glutamate transmission and be associated with acute antidepressant effects. The model
      presented here is a clinically testable one. If successful, it may lead to the development of
      a group of novel pharmacological treatments for major depressive disorder.

      Study Population:

      24 individuals with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder.

      Design:

      Male and female patients diagnosed with MDD, ages 18 to 65 years, currently experiencing a
      major depressive episode, will be recruited for this study. The study will comprise the
      double-blind crossover administration of either diazoxide (200-400 mg/day given orally) or
      placebo. The study will assess the efficacy of three weeks of a glutamate transporter
      enhancer (diazoxide, 200-400 mg/day given orally) compared with placebo in improving overall
      depressive symptomatology in patients with treatment-resistant MDD. Other aims of the study
      include: 1) determining whether changes in brain neurochemicals (glutamate) correlate with
      antidepressant response (as measured by decreases in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating
      Scale (MADRS) total scores) in response to diazoxide in patients with treatment-resistant
      MDD; and 2) examining other potential biomarkers of response.

      Outcome Measures:

      Primary: MADRS total score. Secondary outcome measures: proportion of subjects achieving
      remission (MADRS score less than or equal to 10) and response (more <50% reduction from
      baseline in MADRS total score); change from baseline in Beck Depression Inventory (BDI),
      Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D), Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS), and the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS) total scores.
    
  