
    
      Maintaining optimal embryo development during in vitro culture is a key element in assisted
      reproduction treatments. Whether the concept of mimicking in vivo environment is a 'must' in
      order not to compromise outcome is a matter of debate since 'let the embryo choose' strategy
      has been shown to perform at least as good as the 'back to nature' in several studies.'Let
      the embryo choose" approach utilizes a milieu with relatively constant concentration of
      ingredients (single culture system) as compared to the latter, in which demands of the
      embryos are supported according to their passage from the Fallopian tubes to the uterus in a
      sequential culture media. Basic differences between these ingredients are; presence of (1)
      glucose instead of pyruvate, and (2) essential aminoacids in early embryo stages (until day
      3) in single step media, and (3) presence of EDTA in sequential media.

      Vast majority of these results were obtained from studies where patients have been randomized
      into groups instead of employing a sibling (oocyte/embryo) model which could have enabled
      each patient to serve as her own control. In fact, it has been claimed that introducing a
      sibling oocyte study design could give a methodological problem at the time of fertilization
      since different type of culture media vary in osmolarity. Likewise the only study that
      employed a sibling oocyte model utilized two different media (home-made versus G1.2/G1.2)
      although the osmolarity of the former had been adjusted to 280-285 mOsm). This study reported
      no significant differences in day3/5 embryo development as well as pregnancy/implantation
      rates between groups.

      Subsequent studies, however, favoured single step media, as they found higher proportion of
      compacted embryos to zygotes at day3, morula at 4, a higher blastocyst yield, an overall
      higher utilization rate after day5 and an improved implantation rate when compared to
      sequential media. Yet, besides potential variation of gamete qualities between patients
      allocated to groups (as described above), differences in static observation times of embryos
      between laboratories could have affected the results in these studies. Current introduction
      of time-lapse equipment into human assisted reproduction technology enabled a more distinct
      definition of embryo development and it is now possible to quantify pace of embryo cleavage
      in various media. Such a definition is also useful to determine the predictive value of
      embryo development in pre-defined time points will be applicable to all embryology
      laboratories using various culture systems.
    
  