
    
      Chronic hepatitis B is the commonest cause of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma in
      Hong Kong. Persistent high viraemia and necro-inflammation is associated with higher risk of
      liver-related complications.

      Lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil are the two anti-viral agents that can suppress the
      replication of the virus. However, these drugs using either alone or in combination only
      induce HBeAg seroconversion in less than 20% of patients. Most patients therefore required
      long-term treatment, which has a risk of development of drug resistance. Premature cessation
      of these anti-viral agents is usually accompanied by relapse of viraemia and hepatitis.

      Pegylated interferon-alfa-2a is modified form of interferon with a 40 kDa polyethylene glycol
      strand attached to a recombinant interferon. This formulation increases the product's
      half-life from 7-10 hours to 77 hours. Therefore it can be administered on a more convenient
      once weekly basis. Pegylated interferon-alfa-2a monotherapy for 24 weeks has been shown to
      induce sustained HBeAg seroconversion in 35% of patients at the optimal dose of 180 mcg
      weekly. This drug has been found to be more effective than conventional interferon-alfa in
      the treatment of chronic hepatitis B as well as chronic hepatitis C.

      Data on interferon-based treatment among chronic hepatitis B patients who have failed
      previous anti-viral treatment is scanty. It is uncertain whether pegylated interferon-alfa-2a
      treatment will be effective in this group of patients. This is a single-center, pilot study
      on the virological response of chronic HBV infection to pegylated interferon-alfa-2a among
      patients who have failed anti-viral treatment in the past. This study will investigate the
      HBV DNA suppression (and HBeAg seroconversion among HBeAg positive patients) pegylated
      interferon treatment at 24 weeks after end of treatment.
    
  