
    
      Bipolar Disorder (BD) is a serious medical illness that causes drastic shifts in a person's
      mood, energy, and ability to function. BD symptoms alternate from increased energy,
      restlessness, and overly good mood to a lasting sad, anxious, or empty mood and feelings of
      hopelessness or pessimism. Research suggests that children of parents with BD are at risk for
      developing mood disorders because of predisposing genetic factors and stressful life events,
      many of which may be related to their parents' unstable clinical state. Adolescent children
      of parents with BD must deal simultaneously with the difficult task of negotiating their own
      developmental transitions, as well as living with a parent with BD. It may be possible to
      detect symptoms of BD or other mood disorders early in adolescence and prevent the disorder
      from further interfering with someone's life. This study will develop and refine strategies
      for early detection and primary prevention of mood disorders and associated impairment in
      adolescent children of parents with BD.

      Participants in this single-blind study will be randomly assigned to receive either
      interpersonal psychotherapy with adolescents (IPT-PA) or a control intervention, educational
      clinical monitoring (ECM), for 12 weeks. Participants assigned to IPT-PA will attend twelve
      sessions. The first four sessions will last 90 minutes each, and will include both family
      psychoeducation and individual psychotherapy with the adolescent. The remaining sessions will
      be 45 minutes each, and will include only individual psychotherapy with the adolescent.
      Participants assigned to ECM will each be assigned to a therapist. During the initial two
      sessions, which will take place over 2 consecutive weeks, the therapist will focus on mood
      disorder psychoeducation and participants will receive related written educational material.
      Participants will then meet with their therapists monthly for 30-minute sessions. Symptoms
      and functioning will be assessed, but no assistance on building interpersonal skills will be
      provided. A participant may request a second session each month, but if more than two monthly
      sessions are required, the participant will be referred for therapy. Mood episodes and
      symptoms, symptom severity, and functioning will be assessed for all participants at Weeks 6
      and 12 and Months 6, 12, and 18 post-treatment.
    
  