
    
      This will be a Phase II trial (stage 1 and 2). This study will initially accrue 3 evaluable
      patients to assess the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of combination of Gemcitabine (4 weeks at
      100 mg/m2, given intravenously once weekly, 2-4 hours before radiation therapy) plus IMRT (50
      Gy/20 fractions. 2.5 Gy per fraction - 5 times per week for 4 weeks) and Atezolizumab (1200
      mg intravenous on day 1 of 3 week cycle. Once the first 3 patients are accrued, the trial
      will be placed on hold for 3 months until acute toxicity has been assessed and the
      combination is felt to be safe according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE,v. 4.03). DLT will be defined as: (1) Grade 3 or
      higher immune related Adverse Events (irAEs), (e.g. inflammatory ocular toxicities,
      pneumonitis, hepatitis, colitis), (2) Grade 3 or higher treatment-related AEs (TRAE) that
      delay EBRT by > 21 days. For the safety run-in component of the study, 3 patients will
      receive Atezolizumab at a dose of 1200 mg every 3 weeks, as described above. After the third
      patient has been accrued, the trial will be placed on hold for 3 months for an assessment of
      acute toxicity. Acute toxicity is defined as any toxicity occurring within 90 days from the
      end of the combined treatment of IMRT and gemcitabine. If no grade 3 or higher acute toxicity
      is detected, Atezolizumab 1200 mg will be chosen for the rest of the trial. If one patient
      develops grade 3 toxicity, 3 further patients will be entered at 1200 mg. . If no further
      grade 3 toxicity is observed, this dose level will be considered safe. In case that one
      additional patient develop a grade 3 toxicity, then 3 patients will be enrolled at the
      reduced dose of 840mg. If no grade 3 or higher acute toxicity is detected, Atezolizumab 840mg
      will be chosen for the rest of the trial. If one patient develops grade 3 toxicity at the
      reduced dose, then 3 further patients will be entered at 840 mg. If no further grade 3
      toxicity is observed, this reduced dose level will be considered safe. In case that one
      additional patient develop a grade 3 toxicity at the reduced dose level, it will be
      considered too toxic and the combination will be judged too toxic for the population and
      regimen, and the study will be terminated.

      If treatment is well tolerated, this will be considered the final dose for the study. No
      further de-escalation beyond this level will be considered. For the Stage 2 of this study,,
      up to 22 other patients will be accrued (total of 25 evaluable patients). Atezolizumab will
      be given during combination treatment, and every 3 weeks for 16 cycles or until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  