
    
      S100B is a low molecular weight calcium binding protein found predominantly in the central
      nervous system (CNS), specifically astroglial cells.[1] S100B plays a role in
      calcium-dependent information processing and intracellulary is involved in the regulation of
      cytoskeleton and cell morphology.[1] S100B is secreted by astrocytes and exhibits dose
      dependent extracellular cytokine functions. In tissue culture at nanomolar concentration,
      S100B stimulates neuronal growth, development, and regeneration and protects against
      degeneration. At micromolar concentration, S100B is neurotoxic [2] and stimulates apoptosis
      potentially through interaction with RAGE receptor, by induction of NO synthase, and through
      the caspase cascade.

      The evidence to support the S100B's role in development and maturation of the CNS is that
      S100B is differentially distributed in different cortical regions of the brain during fetal
      development and increases in concentration during gestation.[3] It is postulated that early
      in development, S100B stimulates glial cell proliferation while later it leads to extension
      of neurites, regulation of fiber sprouting, formation/maintenance of synapses, and maturation
      of glial cells.[1] Cord blood concentration of S100B has been shown to be inversely related
      to gestational age between 27 to 42 weeks gestation.[4] Thirty term infants (37-42 weeks) had
      mean cord blood S100B concentration of 0.47 ug/L (range 0-1.5ug/L) while 28 preterm infants
      (27-36 weeks) had a mean cord blood concentration of 1.14ug/L (range 0.5 and 2.7 ug/L).
      Higher serum concentration of S100B in preterm infants may be due the physiologic increase
      noted during development and/or lack of integrity of the blood-brain barrier.

      S100B is released from damaged astroglial cells and may reflect neuronal damage.[5,6]
      Concentration of S100B is elevated in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of adult patients within 48
      hours after infarction and remains elevated for at least 7 days after the event.[6] S100B is
      also elevated in CSF for the first 3 days after traumatic brain injury [7] and subarachnoid
      hemorrhage.[8] Due to its low molecular weight, S100B readily crosses a dysfunctional
      blood-brain barrier and serum concentration of S100B is significantly increased in adult
      patients after traumatic brain injury [9], stroke [10], or cardiac arrest.[5] Serum S100B
      rises for 2-4 days after brain trauma or infarct and its concentration correlates with size
      of damage as identified by CT scan. [9,10] After cardiac arrest, serum S100B concentration
      was statistically elevated by 30 minutes after initiation of CPR and continued to be
      significantly elevated in those patients who later exhibited brain damage by CT scan or
      neurological exam.[5] This significant elevation in serum S100B lasted for at least 7 days.
      In addition, serum S100B concentration correlated with morbidity [9] and neurological
      outcome.[10] While the t1/2 of S100B is ~2 hours in adults, persistently increased
      concentration of S100B in serum indicates continuous release from damaged cells.

      The most common CNS trauma for preterm infants is intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH).[11] IVH
      originates in the microcirculation/capillary network of the germinal matrix. Altered cerebral
      blood flow secondary to poor cerebral autoregulation or systemic hypo- or hypertension,
      platelet and coagulation disturbances, infection, and decreased capillary integrity and
      vascular support have been implicated in the pathogenesis of IVH. IVH is graded (1-4) by
      extent of hemorrhage seen by ultrasound. In grade I IVH, the blood is confined to the
      germinal matrix. In Grade II IVH, blood is present in the germinal matrix and a small of
      blood is present in the ventricles. Grade III IVH occurs when the ventricles are filled with
      blood and dilated. In Grade IV IVH, blood extends into the brain parenchyma due to venous
      congestion of the terminal veins that border the lateral ventricles which leads to white
      matter necrosis. Grades I and II IVH are not associated with an increase in developmental
      abnormalities, but do not insure normalcy. Grades III and IV IVH (severe IVH) are highly
      associated with developmental delay, specifically spastic hemiplegia affecting the lower
      extremities more than the upper extremities due to the proximity of the hemorrhage to the
      descending motor fibers, and may also affect intellect. IVH, both mild (grade 1-2) and severe
      (grade 3-4) are rarely seen in infants with gestational age > 28 weeks due to the
      developmental involution of vessels in the germinal matrix which is the source of this
      hemorrhage.[11]

      Due to its low molecular weight (10.5 kD) and high degree of solubility, S100B is excreted
      through the kidneys. It has been detected in the first void urine of infants between 26-42
      weeks gestation with the most preterm infant exhibiting the highest concentration of S100B
      (3.17 ug/L).[12] Mean urine S100B concentration in term infants (n=60) was 0.07 ug/L. This
      study is confounded by no mention of intracranial pathology, insufficient number of preterm
      infants, and actual data was not shown. In another study, S100B was elevated in urine in
      preterm infants (29-35 weeks gestation) with IVH (grade 2-4) at birth and continued to
      increase over the subsequent 3 days when compared to control preterm infants.[13] The
      severity of IVH significantly correlated with the concentration of S100B in the urine. The
      highest level of S100B was seen in the five infants who died. An important limitation of the
      above cited study is insufficient patient enrollment to allow for correlation of both
      gestational age and presence of severe IVH on urine S100B concentration. Recently, we have
      shown that urine concentration of S100B is not elevated in very preterm infants (23-28 weeks
      gestation) without intracranial pathology.[pas abstract] However, very preterm infants with
      severe IVH (grade 3-4) had significantly elevated urine concentration of S100B on day 1.[14]

      The specific aims of this study are to establish baseline S100B concentration in the urine of
      infants with gestational age > 28 weeks. In addition, the impact of intracranial pathology,
      that is IVH in preterm infants, will be further investigated. In the previous study, infants
      who developed necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) had extremely high levels of S100B in the first
      week of life. NEC affects preterm infants, mostly 26-32 weeks gestation, and can result in
      death or markedly increased complications and prolonged length of stay. Secondary analysis of
      infants in this study will investigate if the development of NEC is significantly associated
      with a high concentration S100B in the urine. If this is true, one theory to explain this
      finding is that infants who develop NEC had an event around the time of birth that caused
      decrease intestinal perfusion allowing increased susceptibility to development of NEC.
    
  