
    
      Objective: To determine the effect of co-administration of virgin coconut oil (VCO) oral
      supplementation and standard Multi-Drug Therapy (MDT) on malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide
      dismutase (SOD), and glutathione (GSH) blood levels and to determine and compare treatment
      response between leprosy cases treated with MDT alone and cases treated with MDT with VCO
      supplementation.

      Design: This is an open label, controlled clinical trial and a preliminary/phase 1 trial.

      Setting: Patients seen in the out-patient clinic of the Section of Dermatology, Philippine
      General Hospital, a tertiary government hospital.

      Participants: Twenty-six previously untreated Hansen's Disease (HD) patients, 18 years old
      and above, diagnosed clinically and confirmed histologically with HD.

      Intervention: The 26 HD patients will be divided into two groups: group 1 will receive only
      MDT and group 2 will receive MDT with VCO supplementation. Both groups 1 and 2 will consist
      of 6 or 7 Paucibacillary (PB) patients and 6 or 7 Multibacillary (MB) patients. All
      participants will have MDA, SOD, and GSH blood levels taken on initial consult and on the
      third and sixth months. Treatment response will be measured by a clinical response score,
      which will be graded by a blinded investigator based on cutaneous manifestations (no change,
      moderate improvement, definite improvement, worse) and neurologic manifestations (no change,
      improvement, worse).

      Main Outcome Measures: The mean and inter-quartile range of MDA, SOD, and GSH blood levels;
      bacterial index (BI) and morphological index (MI) from slit skin-smears; and treatment
      response based on the clinical response score. Frequency and severity of lepra reactions will
      also be noted.

      Data Analysis: The following statistical tests will be used: Mann-Whitney test to compare the
      difference between median values of group 1 and group 2; Kruskal-Wallis Test for multiple
      comparisons; Wilcoxon signed ranks test for comparing differences in median values within
      groups; Fisher's exact test to compare the frequency of categorical data of treatment
      response (cutaneous manifestations); and T test for the quantitative data (neurologic
      manifestations) will be used. Values of p<0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  