
    
      Background. Although the success rate of PCI for CTO is yet to reach a satisfactory level,
      prognoses have been improved in successful cases. The greatest challenge is the passage of
      the guidewire and a variety of new approaches including a parallel wire technique and a
      retrograde approach have been reported. However, the fundamental question of what type of
      guidewire is the most appropriate as a first-choice guidewire has not been answered.Tapered
      guidewires have recently been reported to be useful for CTO lesions. In addition, a
      multicenter prospective registry indicates the effectiveness of 0.010-inch guidewires
      (PIKACHU registry, personal communication). Its mechanism is associated with micro-channels
      ranging from 100 to 300 μm in size in CTO lesions. If 250 μm micro-channels are present in
      60% of CTO lesions, a 0.010-inch (equivalent to 250 μm) guidewire theoretically can pass
      through the lesion at the probability of 60%, and this assumption consists with the findings
      of the PIKACHU study. This idea also suggests that a 0.014-inch (350 μm) guidewire is
      unlikely to pass through lesions.

      Based on the above, a hypothesis has been formulated that a guidewire with a small tip should
      be selected as a first-choice guidewire for CTO lesions. In this study, patients will be
      prospectively randomized to slender guidewires or standard 0.014-inch guidewires to determine
      appropriate first-choice guidewires.

      Objective. To determine appropriate first-choice guidewires.

      Design. Prospective multicenter randomized controlled trial

      Methods. The first choice guidewire to treat CTO lesion was randomly assigned to normal group
      (distal tip size 0.014 inch) or slender group (distal tip size 0.010 inch or less). The
      primary passage must be performed with antegrade approach.

      Primary endpoint. Lesion penetration rate of a first-choice guidewire

      Power calculation. The PIKACHU registry indicates a 0.010 guidewire passes through a lesion
      with a success rate of 60%. Assuming the penetration rate of a 0.014 guidewire is 40%, a
      necessary number of patients would be 260 for a two-sided test with 90% power and
      significance level of 0.05. Assuming the dropout rate is approximately 10%, the target sample
      size would be 290 patients.
    
  