
    
      Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is defined as "repetitive bouts of lateral ankle instability
      due to the sprain of the lateral collateral ligament of the ankle, resulting in numerous
      ankle sprains, episodes of giving way and decreased physical activity.

      Individuals with chronic ankle instability often complain of repeated turning of the ankle
      especially on uneven surfaces, self-reported feelings of the ankle feeling wobbly way and a
      past history of at least one severe lateral ankle sprain.

      The recurrence of ankle sprains can be attributed to the proprioceptive deficits that occur
      due to joint deafferentation. Freeman et al originally proposed that joint deafferentation is
      the loss of sensory input from the articular mechanoreceptors located in the capsule and
      ligaments of the affected joint. Proprioceptive deficits manifest in the form of impaired
      balance and postural control.

      The objective of the study is to determine the effectiveness of fascial manipulation on
      improving ankle instability by measuring pre- and post-intervention measures of postural sway
      and ankle range of motion.

      Luigi Stecco's biomechanical model acts as the foundation for describing the framework of the
      fascial system. This model describes a myofascial unit (MFU) as the functional unit of this
      system. A myofascial unit consists of unidirectional muscle fibers, fascia, nerve structures
      and other retinacular structures such as joint capsules and ligaments. Two crucial points can
      be identified along a myofascial unit. These points are known as the centre of perception
      (CP) and centre of coordination (CC). A total of six myofascial units have been established
      for each body segment and it is in these myofascial units that dysfunction will be seen. The
      indication or exhibition of these dysfunctions varies from one individual to the next.
      However, the etiology remains universal i.e. densification of the CC due to abnormal tensile
      and mechanical stresses. Movement and palpation assessments are carried out to identify the
      involved CCs which are focused on during treatment using fascial manipulation.
    
  