
    
      1. Twelve patients will be enrolled. Each subject will first serve as their own control and
           then serve in the treatment group. Subjects will be required to sign informed consent
           prior to any study procedure.

        2. The exercise program will be structured as follows:

           At the time of enrollment, patients will undergo an exercise treadmill test to measure
           cardiac hemodynamics, including VO2max (measured non-invasively using gas exchange) and
           maximal heart rate. Average heart rate over 24 hours will also be measured by a 24-hour
           Holter monitor before and after the exercise program. The maximal exercise testing will
           be performed on a treadmill using an incremental protocol based on the estimated fitness
           level established during a warm up.

           For the first 8-weeks of their participation, patients will act as their own control and
           not exercise. When the 8 week period is complete, they will return for another exercise
           treadmill test and 24-hour Holter monitor.

           For the second 8-weeks of their participation, patients will participate in exercise
           training. The initial 2 weeks of exercise will be supervised at the St. Paul University
           Hospital exercise facility for twenty minutes a day, four times a week. Exercise will be
           done by walking or use of aerobic exercise equipment, which include a treadmill,
           elliptical machine, cycle ergometer or rowing machine according to patient preference
           and availability of exercise facilities at home.

           During this period the patients will commence training at an intermediate effort based
           on perceived exertion (Borg Scale 11-13). The intensity will be gradually increased to a
           level corresponding to 70-75% VO2max or 15 on the Borg Scale, whichever represents the
           least effort.

           For the remaining six weeks, the patients will continue the exercise program at the
           perceived intensity learned during the first two weeks of training. During these six
           weeks, the patients will be asked to exercise for 30 minutes, five times per week.

           Participants can exercise at home if they wish, but they will be required to undergo
           supervised exercise at least once per week during this six week period and will be
           required to keep an exercise log for monitoring their unsupervised efforts.

           At the end of this 8-week program of exercise training, patients will return for a third
           exercise treadmill test and 24-hour Holter monitor.

        3. The Quality of Life survey will be assessed with two forms, the Short Form 36 (SF 36)
           and the Arrhythmia Related Symptom Severity Check List (SSCL). Patients will be asked to
           fill out both the SF 36 QOL and SSCL QOL survey and submit to a Physical Activity Recall
           (PAR) interview each time they have the exercise treadmill test and 24-hour Holter.
    
  