
    
      PRI-724 is a new investigational drug being studied to treat subjects with cancer who have
      advanced myeloid malignancies. PRI-724 is thought to work by blocking the Wnt signaling
      pathway that cancer cells need to grow and spread (metastasize).

      Purpose:

        -  To test the safety of PRI-724 when taken intravenously (through the vein).

        -  To observe whether PRI-724 can slow or stop the progression of leukemia.

        -  To find the Maximum Tolerated Dose (highest safe dose) in the first two parts of the
           study.

        -  To find the dose of PRI-724 that should be used in the third part of the study and
           possible future clinical trials that will study effectiveness and additional safety.

        -  To test the safety of combining PRI-724 with an approved cancer drug called dasatinib in
           treating chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).

        -  To evaluate whether the combination of PRI-724 with the approved cancer drug dasatinib
           slows or stops the progression of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).

        -  To test the safety of combining PRI-724 with an approved cancer drug called Cytarabine
           in treating acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

        -  To evaluate whether the combination of PRI-724 with the approved cancer drug Cytarabine
           slows or stops the progression of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

        -  To measure how much PRI-724 appears and remains in the blood after infusion.

        -  To measure several signals called biomarkers associated with cancer in the blood to see
           if PRI-724 affects those signals.

      Study Design:

      This will be a single center, open-label escalating-dose cohort study with 3 parts: Part I
      during which the MTD will be determined in acute group patients; Part II during which the MTD
      will be determined in non-acute group patients; and Part III during which safety and
      tolerability of escalating doses of PRI-724 will be assessed in combination with dasatinib
      for CML patients or low dose ara-C therapy for AML patients ≥ 65 years of age.
    
  