
    
      Subjects will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to one of two groups differing in the sequence of
      NIPPV settings ((a) standard, Bi-level NIPPV followed by IPAP-only NIPPV or (b) IPAP-only
      NIPPV followed by standard, Bi-level, NIPPV). Subjects will then spend 6 weeks using the
      first NIPPV set-up before crossing over to the other NIPPV treatment for 6 weeks. At the
      beginning of the study, subjects will undergo approximately two hours of training and
      education by a respiratory therapist regarding proper use of the Viasys® Healthcare,
      Pulmonetic Systems, lap-top ventilators (LTV machine). They will be fitted with the
      appropriate NIPPV set-up. The patients will use the same mask interface with the study NIPPV
      machine that they were using with their NIPPV (bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP))
      machine prior to study entry.

      The patients will have two additional study visits after the consent/training session: one at
      the end of 6 weeks, after the first NIPPV treatment period (prior to crossing over to the
      second NIPPV treatment), and the second at the end of 12 weeks, after the second NIPPV
      treatment period.

      NIPPV usage will be recorded as hours of use as measured objectively by the NIPPV machine
      hour meter. When the patient returns for his/her first study visit at the end of week six,
      the NIPPV machine hour meter will be recorded by the study investigator. By subtracting the
      hours recorded at the beginning of week two from the hours recorded at the end of week six,
      the NIPPV hours of usage for weeks two, three, four, five and six will be obtained. This same
      procedure will be repeated to record NIPPV hours of usage for the beginning of week eight and
      the end of week twelve to measure the hours of usage with the second NIPPV set-up for weeks
      eight, nine, ten, eleven and twelve. This allows study subjects one week to adjust to the new
      pressure settings of each treatment arm.

      Dyspnea as measured by the transition dyspnea index (TDI), and quality of life as measured by
      the EuroQol Visual analogue scale(VAS) will be re-administered at both 6 and 12 week study
      visits by study personnel. Lastly, patient preference of NIPPV treatment will be subjectively
      assessed at the 12 week study visit on a Likert scale (definitely first treatment, probably
      first treatment, no preference, probably second treatment, definitely second treatment).
    
  