
    
      In recent decades, demographic and socioeconomic factors have resulted in marked changes in
      human society that include postponement of child bearing and a subsequent rise in mean age at
      first childbirth. Aged women have more reproductive problems (including menstrual
      irregulation and decreased ovarian reserve as reflected by reduced anti-mullerian hormone
      (AMH)) and their oocytes are often of lower quality when compared to younger women.

      Folliculogenesis involves the recruitment of primordial follicles into a group of growing
      follicles in which eventually one follicle is selected, matured and ovulated. Complex
      endocrine and intra-ovarian paracrine interactions occur to create a changing
      intra-follicular hormonal milieu suitable for oocyte development. However, this oocyte
      developmental competence, defined as the ability of the oocyte to complete follicular
      development, and to undergo fertilization and embryogenesis is impaired in aged women.
      Age-related decline in female fertility is mainly driven by ovarian aging, or diminished
      ovarian function associated with age. Diminished ovarian function is generally attributed to
      decreased quantity and quality of oocytes and their surrounding granulosa cells during
      ovarian aging, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Transcription studies have
      suggested indirectly that some age-related changes in oocyte gene expression and cell to cell
      communication may involve epigenetic machinery.

      Ovarian follicle may be one of the best models in human for exosome study considering the
      role of the granulosa cells and follicular fluid for oocyte maturation. In the ovarian
      follicle, follicular fluid (FF) exosome may play an important mediated communication role
      between the oocyte and surrounding granulosa cells.

      The aim of the study is to investigate the miRNA in (follicular fluid) FF exosome in young
      and aged women and their relationship to egg maturation.
    
  