
    
      Postural-suprapostural task is defined as postural control takes place while another
      concurrent task is being performed, belonging to dual-task paradigms. Effective dual-task
      training is important to patients with Parkinson disease (PD), because they often lose
      balance and fall in dual-task conditions. Attentional strategy includes 1) task-priority
      between postural and suprapostural tasks and 2) internal and external focus for the postural
      task, which is the critical factor for both dual-task control and motor learning. However,
      the appropriateness of attentional strategy has not been investigated in dual-task training
      in patients with PD. Besides, there is lack of neural evidence of brain plasticity for
      previous studies about dual-task training in patients with PD. With the uses of EEG, EMG and
      behavioral measures, the purpose of this 3-year research project is to investigate the
      differences in performance quality and intrinsic neural mechanisms of dual-task training in
      PD, by adopting task-priority strategy and internal/external strategy during weight-shifting
      and walking. In the first year, the investigators will characterize task-priority effect
      (posture-priority vs. supraposture-priority) on dual-task training, with a special focus on
      modulation of brain plasticity and muscle activity patterns in weight-shifting posture for
      patients with PD. In the second and third years, the learning effects of walking
      internal/external focus on walking automaticity and brain plasticity will be investigated in
      dual-task walking training for PD patients with/without freezing of gait. Besides, the
      transfer effects of dual-task learning will be also investigated on medication "off" state.
      The present project is expected to have significant contributions not only to gain a better
      insight to neural correlates of dual-task training with different attentional strategies
      under weight-shifting and walking, but to optimize treatment strategy for PD patients with
      balance or dual-tasking disturbances.
    
  