
    
      Skeletal metastases are the most common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with
      malignancy, especially in patients with breast cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer and head
      & neck cancer. In patients with lung cancer, bone metastases are present in 20-30% of patient
      at initial diagnosis (1-2). Accuracy staging bone metastases can lead to modification of
      following treatment and evaluation of prognosis.

      The planar whole-body 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate (MDP) radionuclide bone scintigraphy is
      the most widely used technique in detecting metastatic bone lesions at present. Abnormal
      tracer accumulation may occur at any skeletal site with an elevated rate of bone turnover.
      However, conventional planar bone scintigraphy was reported to be less sensitive than MRI in
      detecting spinal metastases (3-7).

      18F ion is a positron emitting bone radiopharmaceuticals. The skeletal uptake of 18F relies
      on the exchange of hydroxyl ions in the hydroxyapatit crystal which is an indicator of bone
      metabolic activity (8). It has good soft tissue clearance and high affinity of to the bone
      matrix. It is able to perform a highly sensitive whole-body screening for bone metastases
      using a high resolution PET scanner.

      To the best of our knowledge, there are only limited studies evaluating the clinical
      utilization of 18F-NaF PET for detection of bone metastases (10-12). Therefore, we would like
      to conduct a prospective study to evaluate the accuracy and clinical value of 18F PET in
      staging bone metastases by

        1. Comparing the sensitivity of 18F-NaF PET with that of 99mTc-MDP scintigraphy;

        2. Determining the clinical impact of PET results on subsequent patient management.

      99mTc-MDP scintigraphy and 18F PET will be performed in 2 weeks for all patients.
      Interpretation of 99mTc-MDP scintigraphy and 18F PET will be performed following the criteria
      described by Crasnow et all (13). The accuracy of 99mTc-MDP scintigraphy and 18F PET
      detection of bone metastases for each patient will be determined by the histopathological
      results, MRI results, or other clinical evidences afterward.
    
  