
    
      Intracranial atherosclerosis accounts for 10 to 40%, depending on ethnicity, of the 700,000
      ischemic strokes in the United States every year.The annual rate of recurrent stroke in
      patients with optimally treated Intracranial atherosclerosis remains more than twice the
      average of other stroke etiologies (12.5% vs. 5%).Intracranial aneurysm ruptured affects up
      to 30,000 Americans every year and 50% of patients die within a month of intracranial
      aneurysm rupture.7 A robust literature has established that vessel wall MRI of extracranial
      carotid vessel wall enhancement can predict stroke, independent of stenosis. Vessel wall
      enhancement has been reported in symptomatic Intracranial atherosclerosis and intracranial
      aneurysm but the role of local and systemic inflammation is unknown. Inflammatory biomarkers
      are elevated in symptomatic extracranial atherosclerosis and in unstable intracranial
      aneurysm, but the association with vessel wall MRI findings in Intracranial atherosclerosis
      and intracranial aneurysm has not yet been explored.Vessel wall enhancement is typically
      demonstrated by the uptake of gadolinium MRI contrast into the aneurysm wall or
      atherosclerotic plaque. A novel MRI contrast agent, ferumoxytol, allows multicontrast
      weighting on T1w and T2w images and provides important insight into the role of local vessel
      wall inflammation by accumulating in macrophages on delayed T2* sequences.

      To identify effective prevention and treatment strategies for cerebrovascular disease, the
      investigator(s) need to critically evaluate vessel wall MRI techniques, determine vessel wall
      enhancement prevalence, and explore the link between vessel wall enhancement and
      inflammation. The investigator(s) hypothesize that vessel wall enhancement is reliable,
      associated with symptomatic Intracranial atherosclerosis/intracranial aneurysm and higher
      levels of inflammatory biomarkers. In order to answer our hypotheses, the investigator(s)
      propose a pilot study on 80 participants. The investigator(s) will opportunistically enroll
      participants who receive standard of care vessel wall MRI with gadolinium contrast or perform
      a baseline vessel wall MRI with gadolinium if needed. Intracranial atherosclerosis
      participants will have a total of 2-3 study vessel wall MRIs. Study MRI #1 will be performed
      with gadolinium, if a standard of care MRI has not already been performed. Study MRI #2 will
      be performed 72-78 hours post- using ferumoxytol contrast infusion. Study MRI #3 is a
      follow-up vessel wall MRI with gadolinium in 1 year. Intracranial aneurysm participants will
      have 1-2 MRIs depending on if they have already had a baseline MRI.Study MRI #2 will be
      performed 72-78 hours post- using ferumoxytol contrast infusion. The investigator(s) will
      analyze two groups of participants 60 with intracranial atherosclerosis and 20 with
      intracranial aneurysms.
    
  