
    
      This will be a randomized, double-blinded prospective trial. Group A patients will be
      randomized to receive a TAP block with local anesthetic on the right, sham block on the left.
      Group B be will randomized to receive the reverse. The study population will be limited to
      healthy parturients undergoing elective caesarian section with spinal anesthesia (SAB) or
      combined spinal-epidural anesthesia (CSE) placed in the operating room at time of surgery.

      Patient recruitment:

      Prior to enrollment into the study informed consent will be obtained. Consent will be
      obtained by a study investigator blinded to the group into which the patient will be
      randomized. After preanesthetic counseling and patient agreement for a SAB or CSE for
      cesarean delivery will counsel the patient regarding study participation. Pre-operative
      instruction of the VAS scale shall be given by the investigator. Routine pre-operative
      preparations per current protocols will occur.

      Intra-operative Anesthetic Regimen:

      Anesthetic techniques will be per current protocols. A single intravenous infusion will be
      used for both intraoperative infusion of intravenous fluids during anesthetic maintenance
      infusion and for blood sampling for ropivicaine levels following TAP block placement.

      SAB and CSE utilizing 12 mg hyperbaric bupivacaine, and 0.15mg intrathecal morphine shall be
      used as spinal anesthetic for all study patients. Intra-operative conduct of anesthesia will
      be left to the discretion of anesthesiologist caring for the parturient.

      TAP Block Protocol:

      At the end of the surgical procedure, if there are no new exclusion criteria, the subject
      will be randomized to receive bilateral TAP blocks using 30 mL containing 300 mg ropivicaine
      (1%) with addition of 1:300,000 epinephrine on one side (Group A on the right), and sham
      needle placement on the other (Group B on the right). During the procedure the study subject
      shall be blinded to the group assignment by surgical drapes.. The investigator who records
      the patient assessments will not be present at block placement. The un-blinded anesthesia
      provider will remove and open 1 of 22 opaque envelopes containing a card identifying the
      group to which the patient has been assigned by computer generated randomization. The
      provider will then prepare the injection syringes, labeling the ropivicaine syringe with
      RIGHT or LEFT according to randomization. The envelope will then be sealed and placed in the
      patient's study packet. An unblinded investigator trained in the block technique using
      ultrasound guidance will perform the block.

      The TAP block shall be performed in the fashion described by Carney et. al (5). in the region
      of the triangle of Petit located at the superior aspect of the iliac crest, using a 22g
      regional block needle, utilizing the 2 pop technique(2) and needle tip position verified by
      ultrasound imaging. The investigator will confirm placement of the injectate in the fascial
      plane by initial injection of a small amount of the local anesthetic drug followed by
      injection of the rest of the dose with ultrasound verification of anesthetic deposition
      between the internal oblique and transversus abdominis. The ultrasound image will be printed
      and included with the study data.. The other side will receive a sham needle placement
      without medication injection. Because this block is performed before regression of spinal
      anesthesia, it causes no pain to the subject.

      Post-Block Care:

      Following the placement of the block, all parturients will receive a standard post-operative
      analgesic regimen that represents our routine practice:

        -  Toradol 15mg IV upon completion of surgery.

        -  Percocet 5/325mg q 4 hrs PRN (pain)

        -  Motrin 600mg q 6 hours PRN (pain)

      The time to first analgesic request and administration will be recorded. The total amounts of
      supplemental analgesics administered will be recorded for the first 48 hours.

      Following block placement, venous blood shall be drawn at set intervals described below from
      the indwelling venous catheter to assess ropivicaine levels.
    
  