
    
      Objective

      The goals of this pilot study are:

        1. To assess the degree to which subacute changes in clinical, electrophysiological, and
           imaging measures can robustly predict retinal neuronal loss 12 months after acute optic
           neuritis.

        2. To construct a composite score that integrates these subacute changes, can itself
           robustly predict retinal neuronal loss 12 months after acute optic neuritis, can be
           validated in future trials, and is likely to be modulated by drugs that promote tissue
           repair and neuroprotection in multiple sclerosis (MS).

        3. To evaluate the usefulness of specialized magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of
           the optic nerve in future clinical trials of drugs designed to promote tissue repair and
           neuroprotection. The primary hypothesis of the study is that peripapillary retinal nerve
           fiber layer (RNFL) thickness, which is generally agreed to reflect the integrity of
           optic nerve axons following optic neuritis, and which can be measured using
           spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) in the affected eye 12 months
           following optic neuritis, can be robustly predicted by changes in RNFL thickness between
           1 and 3 months following symptom onset.

      Study Population

      The following cohorts will be recruited at each of the three study sites:

        -  Up to 30 participants with acute optic neuritis.

        -  Up to 15 healthy volunteers who are group-wise age- and sex-matched to the participants
           with unilateral optic neuritis.

      Design

      This is a one-year, prospective, multi-cohort, multi-site, pilot natural history study. Data
      obtained at NIH will be compared and aggregated with data obtained at other study sites,
      specifically the University of Utah-Moran Eye Center (in Salt Lake City) and Hebrew
      University-Hadassah Medical Center (in Jerusalem, Israel). Data will be gathered at baseline
      (optional) and at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months in the patient cohort, and at 1, 3, and 12 months
      in the healthy volunteers.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure is the RNFL thickness in the affected eye 12 months after optic
      neuritis.

      Secondary outcome measures, all measured at 12 months, include:

        -  Measures of optic nerve structure: mean cross-sectional optic-nerve area; mean,
           parallel, and perpendicular diffusivity; and MTR all within the optic nerve lesion as
           visualized at baseline.

        -  Measures of brain structure: ventricular volume; T2 lesion volume along the visual
           pathway both sides considered together.

        -  Measures of retinal structure: ganglion cell layer + inner plexiform layer thickness in
           the affected eye.

        -  Measures of visual function: low-contrast letter acuity; high-contrast letter acuity;
           Pelli-Robson contrast sensitivity; object-from-motion detection; visual fields; and
           critical flicker-fusion frequency all in the affected eye.

        -  Measures of visual physiology: VEP amplitude; VEP latency all in the effected eye.
    
  