
    
      Knee osteoarthritis is a severe debilitating condition that greatly impacts patient quality
      of life, function, emotional well-being and everyday pain levels. Total knee arthroplasty
      (TKA) is performed as a means of alleviating these symptoms in the long term however short
      term muscle weakness following surgery can elicit its own detrimental effect on performance
      and activities of daily living. This underlines the importance of mitigating strength loss in
      the immediate post-operative period.

      Recent reviews suggest that Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) of the quadriceps
      femoris muscle can be beneficial in the rehabilitation period following knee surgery. It
      appears that early use of NMES can help to recover exercise capacity in the muscle, thus
      allowing the patient to benefit more from volitional exercise therapy later in the
      rehabilitation period1. This in turn can lead to accelerated recovery and improved outcomes.
      A recent and as yet unpublished study of 96 patients following ACL reconstruction has
      demonstrated a clear benefit to the use of Kneehab. The benefit seemed to accrue in the
      six-week post-operative period.

      A recent pilot study by Walls 2 also suggests that NMES applied in the immediate
      pre-operative period before TKA leads to increased muscle strength and improved functional
      abilities. Previously, Mizner (2005) has shown pre operative strength to be a good predictor
      of functional outcome 1 year after surgery3. This proposed study aims to examine whether NMES
      applied in the peri-operative timeframe, 6 weeks before and 6 weeks after, can improve
      outcomes for patients undergoing total knee replacement. The rationale for this approach is
      that NMES can help prepare the quadriceps muscle for the rehabilitation phase by building
      exercise capacity before the operation. The immediate deficit, which normally follows knee
      surgery, would therefore be compensated to some extent and the post-operative NMES treatment
      would be expected to counteract the activation inhibition that is thought to occur in the
      early weeks following surgery. Overall, the patient would be in a better position to benefit
      from conventional rehabilitation exercises aimed at improved co-ordination and functional
      performance.
    
  