
    
      As the population ages, the prevalence of peritrochanteric femur fractures continues to
      increase each year. An increase in the use of intramedullary devices as treatment has
      accompanied this increase in peritrochanteric femur fractures. Intramedullary devices are now
      used more frequently than plate and screw constructs nationwide to treat peritrochanteric
      femur fractures1. While the prognosis following intramedullary device placement remains
      favorable compared to other treatment options, there are still complications that exist.
      Cut-out of the cephalomedullary implant through the femoral head has long been one of the
      more prevalent complications when using an intramedullary device.2 To address the
      shortcomings that cause lag screw cut-out, the helical blade was designed. In theory, it
      provides improved fixation over the lag screw by compacting cancellous bone as it is inserted
      and may also be more effective at supporting torsional loading.3 Additionally, the helical
      blade has been shown to require less operation time and less fluoroscopy time during
      implantation.4

      Currently, there is a lack of a randomized prospective study comparing the rates of cut-out
      in lag screw fixation and helical blade fixation of peritrochanteric femur fractures using
      third generation cephalomedullary femoral nails. A recent retrospective study by Stern et al
      analyzed the rate of cut-out of helical blades and lag screws in peritrochanteric femur
      fractures treated with cephalomedullary nails and found that the helical blade was much more
      prone to cut-out than the lag screw. Cut-out rates were 15.1% and 3.0% for the implants
      respectively.5 While this study seems to suggest that, in terms of cutout, the helical blade
      is inferior to the lag screw, there are many factors that limit its validity and
      applicability. First, the study was a retrospective study which inherently induces some level
      of bias. Next, the study recorded a cut-out rate for the helical blade that is much higher
      than and not consistent with studies that have been previously reported. Flores et al
      reported a cut-out rate of 3.4% in 258 patients treated with the helical blade, Gardner et al
      reported a cut-out rate of 5.15% in 97 patients treated with the helical blade, and Liu et al
      reported a cut-out rate of 6.7% in 223 patients treated with the helical blade.6,7,8 These
      numbers are all drastically lower than the rates of cut-out reported by Stern et al. Another
      limitation to their study was that 26 surgeons operated on the 362 patients that were
      included in the study. This large number of surgeons introduced a significant amount of
      variability that could not be controlled for. While this study provides some evidence that
      the helical blade may be inferior to the lag screw in terms of cut-out, it is not definitive
      and a prospective study is needed to truly validate this claim. Additionally, factors such as
      tip-apex distance, time to cut-out, direction of cut-out reduction quality, and fracture
      pattern must be analyzed to accurately assess the usefulness of the helical blade compared to
      the lag screw and determine predictors for cut-out.

      While the primary purpose of this study will be to analyze rates of cut-out between the two
      fixation devices, we are also interested in determining a threshold tip-apex distance that is
      predictive of cut-out. While Stern et al reported data that supported the hypothesis that
      increased tip-apex distance is predictive of cut-out, they did not identify a threshold that,
      itself, is predictive of cut-out.5 It was previously thought that a tip-apex distance greater
      than 25mm is predictive of cut-out.4 Other studies, however, have shown that tip-apex
      distances that are too small are also predictive of cutout.8 It will be our goal to measure
      tip-apex distance in all patients and attempt to determine if there is a threshold that is
      predictive of cut-out.

      Another factor of importance that we will investigate is the direction of cut-out of the two
      implants. Previous comparisons have found that while the lag screw tends to cutout
      superiorly, the helical blade is much more likely to cutout medially.5,8 This is thought to
      be due to the compaction of bone that occurs when the helical blade is inserted and also why
      there appears to be greater rates of cut-out with smaller tip-apex distances.8 By gaining a
      further understanding of the direction that these implants typically fail we hope to have
      another predictor of cut-out.

      Finally, it will be our goal to attempt to assess reduction quality and fracture pattern to
      determine each factor's predictive value of cut-out. It has already been suggested that
      non-anatomical reduction and complex fracture patterns increase the likelihood of cut-out.9
    
  