
    
      McArdle disease (myophosphorylase deficiency, glycogen storage disease type 5, GSD5, OMIM #
      232600) is an inherited metabolic disorder of skeletal muscle. Affected patients suffer from
      genetically determined lack of the enzyme muscle glycogen phosphorylase, which is essential
      for glycogen metabolism. The condition is caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous
      mutations in the muscle glycogen phosphorylase gene (PYGM) located at chromosome 11q13. Many
      pathogenic mutations have been identified in the gene, which spans 20 exons, and many are
      population specific. The most common mutation in Northern Europe and North America is a
      nonsense mutation at Arg50stop (R50X) in exon 1 (previously referred to as R49X). A second
      frequent mutation in this population, and in Spanish patients, is Gly205Ser (G205S). McArdle
      disease is a rare disorder with an estimated incidence of 1:100,000.

      Complete absence of muscle phosphorylase results in the inability to mobilize muscle glycogen
      stores, which are normally required as substrate for energy generation during anaerobic
      metabolism, which occurs during start of exercise and high-intensity efforts. In affected
      people, symptoms of fatigue and discomfort therefore occur within minutes of initiating any
      activity and during strenuous activity such as lifting heavy weights or walking uphill. If
      the activity is continued despite symptoms, a severe cramp (which is called a contracture in
      GSD5, because the muscle contraction is not caused by neural stimulation) occurs, which leads
      to muscle damage. If the damage is substantial, acute rhabdomyolysis may occur, which in turn
      can result in dark brown/black discoloration of urine (myoglobinuria). When rhabdomyolysis is
      severe, myoglobinuria can lead to acute renal failure, requiring treatment with dialysis.

      In patients with GSD5, aerobic metabolism is limited and varies as a function of the
      availability of alternative fuels as a function of exercise and diet. The second wind
      phenomenon is illustrative. The phenomenon is characterized by the ability to increase work
      output after about 7-8 minutes of exercise. The second wind occurs as a consequence of
      increased availability and metabolism of alternative fuel substrates, preferentially glucose
      supplied from the liver, but also free fatty acids metabolized through oxidative
      phosphorylation and ketones produced by the liver. Despite these compensatory fuels, which
      can substitute for the absent glycogen breakdown in muscle, the capacity for oxidative
      phosphorylation is impaired in GSD5, because of an almost complete absence of pyruvate, a
      by-product of glycolysis.

      Reduced oxidative phosphorylation in untrained patients with GSD5 in turn reduces oxygen
      consumption to approximately 35% of normal and there is a disproportionate increase in heart
      rate during exercise in patients with GSD5 compared with healthy controls. Thus,
      unconditioned people with GSD5 have very limited exercise capacity, which affects quality of
      life.

      Most patients present in the second or third decade, although symptoms are often reported
      retrospectively from childhood. With advancing age a 20-25% proportion of patients develop
      fixed muscle weakness predominantly affecting the shoulder girdle. No clear cut
      genotype-phenotype correlation has been found to explain the clinical variation in severity
      observed even within families, but the influence of polymorphisms in other genes has been
      hypothesized.

      Currently, there is no treatment for the condition. There have been a small number of
      randomized controlled treatment trials, however the largest number of participants in any
      previous study was 19.

      Taking glucose prior to exercise alleviates muscle symptoms by inducing a 'second wind' at
      the onset of exercise, but has detrimental effects on weight if used too frequently. A
      Cochrane systematic review of training in GSD5 identified a few non-randomized trials of
      aerobic training or dietary manipulation either with supplements such as creatine or with
      shift towards lipid sources, which showed no harmful effect and suggest benefit over a number
      of months however long-tern results and confirmation on larger cohorts are warranted.

      In spite of these indications, controlled training and dietary habits are seldom followed by
      patients, who experience significant limitations in activity of daily living and restriction
      in their participation.

      A key limitation to exercise in GSD5 is the bottleneck in fuel flow through the Tri
      Carboxylic Acid (TCA) cycle, which is imposed by the minimal supply of glucosyl units from
      muscle glycogen and thus glycolytic flux to feed the TCA cycle.

      Dietary manipulation has been identified since the eighties as a potential strategy to
      improve functioning in GSD5. In spite of initial indications for high protein regimens, later
      experimental comparison of high protein vs high carbohydrate diets indicated a superiority
      for the latter. Particular interest was also focussed on diets with predominant lipid energy
      source (ketogenic or low carbohydrate ketogenic LCKD) with the assumption that ketones are
      easily taken up by mitochondria and can substitute for the missing acyl-CoA moieties not
      provided by the staggering glycolysis blocked upstream for the inaccessibility of muscle
      glycogen. LCKD has a long history as a therapeutic strategy for several conditions (epilepsy,
      PDH defect, GLUT1 defect) with a good record of safety and efficacy and a poorer record of
      tolerability. Isolated experiences of LCKD have been carried out in GSD5 patients (maximum 4
      patients) with promising results.
    
  