
    
      Radiofrequency ablation and cryoablation for treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) using
      percutaneous venous access at the groin is one of the most common procedures performed by
      cardiac electrophysiologists. However, compared to other catheter-based interventions,
      patients undergoing AF ablation pose a unique set of challenges. First, AF ablation requires
      multiple points of transfemoral venous access with large diameter sheaths, ranging in size
      from 8 French gauge (F) to 14F for cryoablation procedures. Second, operators are forced to
      balance the competing risk of thrombosis and bleeding in these patients. In order to minimize
      the risk of intraprocedural thrombosis, anticoagulation with heparin with a goal
      anticoagulation time (ACT) >300-350 seconds is necessary. However, operators typically
      require ACTs to normalize prior to removal of sheaths and manual compression, which
      significantly delays hemostasis and ambulation. While reversal agents are an option, there is
      currently clinical equipoise on their role and safety in this setting and they require
      additional time to exert their full effect. Lastly, patients require at least 1-2 months of
      therapeutic oral anticoagulation after the procedure to mitigate ongoing stroke risk. These
      factors culminate in longer times to hemostasis and ambulation and raise concerns for
      post-procedure access related complications for patients undergoing AF ablation. PerClose
      Proglide has recently gained FDA approval for closure of percutaneous venous access sites for
      catheter-based interventions and remains the only commercially available solution for access
      sites >14F inner diameter. Percutaneous closure of venotomy sites may facilitate rapid
      hemostasis without the need for reversal of anticoagulation, potentially attenuating bleeding
      risk. Additionally, typical bedrest times after percutaneous closure are based on data
      derived from arterial closure. Prior limited data, as well as frequent anecdotal reports,
      have suggested that earlier ambulation may be feasible. Because the venous circulation is a
      lower pressure system, it is possible that earlier than standard ambulation times after
      PerClose is both safe and feasible. However, a rigorous prospective investigation of the
      PerClose Proglide device in the context of AF ablation has not been performed.
    
  