
    
      Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in
      tuberous sclerosis complex 1 (TSC1) or TSC2 tumor suppressor genes. TSC is characterized by
      tumors in a wide range of tissues, seizures, mental retardation, autism, and organ failure.
      Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), the major pulmonary manifestation in women with TSC, is a
      progressive lung disease characterized by infiltration of atypical smooth muscle like cells
      (TSC-/- LAM cells) and formation of parenchymal cysts. Sporadic LAM can develop in women who
      do not meet the criteria for the diagnosis of TSC, owing to somatic mutations in the TSC2
      gene.

      The long term goal of this research is to devise novel therapeutic strategies for patients
      with LAM. The observed behavior of LAM cells with respect to their infiltrative growth
      pattern, metastatic potential, and altered cell differentiation is reminiscent of cells
      undergoing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Src kinases are key regulators of
      cellular proliferation, motility, invasiveness and EMT. Recent results have shown that
      autophagy promotes degradation of active Src. Thereby, decreased autophagy due to mTOR
      activation known to occur in LAM cells, may play a significant role in accumulation of active
      Src in these cells. Src suppresses transcription of E-cadherin by upregulating its
      transcriptional repressors. The preliminary data reveal an increase in active Src in lung
      tissues of patients with LAM as well as in cultured TSC2-/- cells. Further, in TSC2-/- cells,
      E-cadherin is considerably reduced and does not localize to the plasma membrane, as it does
      in wild-type cells.

      The focus of this study is to examine if Src inhibition represents a potential therapeutic
      strategy in LAM. It is proposed that Src activation in TSC2-/- cells results in the reduction
      of E-cadherin, loss of cell-cell adhesion and elevation of oncogenic and metastatic potential
      of these cells. The increased Src activity in TSC2-/- cells is likely caused by inhibition of
      autophagy associated with hyper-activation of mTOR. Therefore, the use of Src inhibitors may
      lead to a reduction in tumor growth and prevent dissemination of TSC2-/- cells. In this
      study, the investigators will evaluate the safety and efficacy of Src inhibition in subjects
      with LAM.

      A number of inhibitors of Src are now in clinical trials in patients with a range of
      different tumors. Dasatinib, an oral adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-competitive Src inhibitor,
      is now approved for clinical use in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia or acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia. However, dasatinib has wider 'off target' inhibitory activity than
      saracatinib including potent activity against Abl, ephrin receptor kinases, platelet-derived
      growth factor receptor and c-KIT (type of receptor tyrosine kinase and a type of tumor
      marker. Also called CD117 and stem cell factor receptor.) In contrast, saracatinib has a
      >10-fold preference for Src over Abl kinases and has very little activity against other
      tyrosine and serine/threonine kinases. Saracatinib has been already characterized in multiple
      clinical trials in terms of safety and pharmacokinetics.

      The investigators have conducted a Phase1b study to test the safety of various doses of
      Saracatinib in LAM subjects. The purpose of the Phase1b trial was to determine the optimal
      dose in terms of safety and tolerability in LAM population. Three escalating doses of
      saracatinib; 50, 125 and 175 mg were studied. Saracatinib was given orally once a day.
      Overall, subjects tolerated Saracatinib well. The investigators chose the dose of 125 mg to
      conduct further testing of both safety and efficacy in this Phase 2a trial.
    
  