
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the 5-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate in patients with newly
           diagnosed limited-stage diffuse, large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) using positron emission
           tomography (PET)/CT scan to direct therapy after 3 courses of rituximab,
           cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and prednisone
           (R-CHOP).

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate PFS within the PET-positive (+) and PET-negative (-) subgroups of patients
           with newly diagnosed limited-stage DLBCL.

        -  To evaluate toxicity of the protocol treatments in this patient population.

        -  To evaluate the response probability in this patient population.

        -  To evaluate overall survival in the overall population, and within the PET+ and PET-
           subgroups.

        -  To estimate the rate of upstaging at baseline by PET/CT at baseline among patients newly
           diagnosed with limited-stage DLBCL by CT imaging and to describe outcomes in patients
           upstaged by PET/CT at baseline to advanced DLBCL.

        -  To describe outcomes in the subgroup of patients upstaged by PET/CT.

        -  To evaluate the association of germinal center B-cell subtype (GCB) vs stromal-1 vs
           stromal-2 gene expression signatures with PFS or overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to whether the
      patient was upstaged to advanced stage DLBCL, based on local review of the baseline PET/CT
      (yes vs no).

      Chemotherapy: Patients receive R-CHOP comprising rituximab IV, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60
      minutes, vincristine sulfate IV, and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1, and prednisone
      orally on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3* courses. NOTE: *Patients found to
      have advanced stage DLBCL based on local review of the baseline PET scan receive 6 courses of
      R-CHOP.

      FDG/PET - Radiotherapy: Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography
      (FDG-PET)/CT scan at baseline, on days 15-18 of course 3, and at 12 weeks after completion of
      course 3. Patients with complete response (PET scan negative) receive one additional course
      of R-CHOP as above. Patients with partial response (PET scan positive) undergo involved-field
      radiotherapy (IFRT) 5 days a week for approximately 4-5 weeks.

      Monoclonal antibody: Beginning 3-6 weeks after completion of IFRT, patients receive yttrium Y
      90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes and rituximab IV on day 1 and on day 7, 8, or 9.

      Patients may undergo blood sample collection at baseline for correlative studies. Bone marrow
      tissue samples may be also collected for correlative studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then yearly for 5 years.
    
  