
    
      Background. ManNAc (N-acetyl D-mannosamine) is an uncharged monosaccharide that is the
      biologic precursor of N-acetyl neuraminic acid (Neu5Ac, sialic acid). Sialic acids are the
      negatively charged, terminal monosaccharides of carbohydrate chains that are attached to
      glycoproteins and glycolipids (glycans). Most glycans serve cellular signaling functions, and
      frequently appear on the cell surface or are secreted into the circulation. ManNAc is
      currently in development as a therapy for the rare muscular dystrophy, GNE Myopathy (also
      called HIBM, hereditary inclusion body myopathy), caused by deficiency of GNE, the key enzyme
      in sialic acid synthesis (clinicaltrials.gov; NCT01634750).

      A Phase 1a trial was completed and a Phase 2 trial for ManNAc for GNE myopathy subjects has
      been initiated through efforts of NCATS (TRND program; PI: Dr. Carrillo-Carrasco) and NHGRI
      (Dr. Huizing, Dr. Malicdan; Sponsor: Dr. Gahl), most of whom are Associate Investigators on
      this protocol. The NHGRI basic research group has documented podocytopathy, glomerular
      protein hyposialylation and severe proteinuria in mice deficient in GNE and found that their
      podocyte ultrastructure improved, sialylation increased and proteinuria decreased with oral
      ManNAc therapy. Human kidney biopsy tissue from subjects with various primary podocyte
      diseases, including minimal change disease (MCD), focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS)
      and membranous nephropathy (MN), also showed glomerular hyposialylation (manuscript in
      preparation).

      Purpose. We propose to carry out a Phase 1 escalating dose study to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of ManNAc in nephrotic subjects with primary podocyte
      diseases.

      Subjects. We propose to enroll 12 subjects with MCD, FSGS or MN. Up to 24 total subjects may
      be enrolled to accomodate screening failures and withdrawals, for a total of 12 subjects
      receiving at least one dose of the study drug. We will recruit subjects in 4 groups (2-3
      subjects each) grouped by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR).

      Intervention. This dose escalation study will involve two progressive ManNAc dose cohorts
      (each with N= 6) of 3,000 mg/day and 6,000 mg/day. Drug exposure will occur in a single dose
      phase, involving one dose of oral ManNAc followed by a 72 hour pharmacokinetics and safety
      study, and a multiple dose phase, involving ManNAc administered two times/day for 5 days.
      Dose escalation will occur when the lower dose is assessed safe in all subjects by a Safety
      Review Committee.

      Outcomes. We will assess safety by self-reported symptoms and by standard laboratory testing.
      Pharmacokinetics will be analyzed using plasma ManNAc and Neu5Ac (sialic acid) levels. The
      effects of reduced eGFR on these parameters will be assessed. While the study duration is
      short and there is no placebo control, the effect of ManNAc therapy on proteinuria, from the
      baseline to the end of the extension phase, will be examined on a research basis.
    
  