
    
      Heart failure is defined as the inability of the heart to offer blood supply required to meet
      metabolic demand of the tissues and thus exercise adequately its role as a pump. According to
      data collected from the single health system (DATASUS), approximately 6.4 million Brazilians
      have heart failure. This large contingent of patients will require multi-professional
      treatment, in particular, careful with dental health heart failure is regarded as the final
      common pathway of most cardiovascular diseases and, after installation of symptoms (mainly in
      the stages of functional class NYHA III and IV) have poor prognosis with average survival of
      1.7 years 3.2 years for men and for women. Dental treatment often requires application of
      local anesthetic. The adrenaline, agent vasoconstrictor, is widely used in dental treatment
      and aims to extend the effect of local anesthetic. Specifically in people with heart failure,
      there shortcomings of evidence in the literature, the harmful effects of adrenaline 1:100,000
      added to the local anaesthetic lidocaine. Among the potential complications, we can
      highlight: arrhythmias, systemic blood pressure elevation and elevation of heart rate. The
      main objective of this work will investigate the occurrence of arrhythmias by evaluating of
      electrocardiographic parameters. Our secondary objectives will be assessing: variations of
      blood pressure by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, cardiac frequency and chest pain. We
      will study 70 patients between 18 and 75 years with a diagnosis of congestive heart failure
      functional class NYHA III and IV and restorative dental treatment indication. A random
      picture in double-blind study, patients are divided into two groups, one group receives as
      local anesthetic lidocaine 2% with adrenaline 1 in comparison with the second group that will
      receive 2% lidocaine with vasoconstrictor.
    
  