
    
      This clinical trial is designed on the basis of an unmet clinical need, as well as other
      factors including: 1) the ability to identify subjects at high risk of dying early from their
      disease, 2) the fact that hormonal therapy has already been shown to improve survival when
      applied early in the natural history, 3) the availability of chemotherapy such as cabazitaxel
      that can improve survival in subjects with advanced disease and 4) that chemotherapy
      (docetaxel) given concomitant with hormone treatment has proven to prolong time to
      progression.

      It is the investigators hypothesis that a more appropriate group of patients who may benefit
      from the curative potential of systemic chemo-hormonal modality is that with minimal, but
      detectable disease who have a high probability of developing metastatic disease, clinical
      symptoms and eventually death from prostate cancer in a defined time frame. The investigators
      hypothesize further that the approach is likely to be more effective at a time of minimal
      tumour burden, resulting in minimization of the overall burden of therapy and better quality
      of life while on treatment.

      This trial will determine whether any benefit is gained by adding chemotherapy before
      hormonal therapy to hormonal therapy alone in the population of subjects with metastatic or
      high risk disease. Two therapeutic approaches will be compared in this two-arm randomized
      clinical trial. The control Arm A provides hormonal therapy alone. The experimental Arm B
      involves treatment with hormone therapy + Cabazitaxel 25 mg / m² / day on day 1 every 3 weeks
      continued if the patient has stable or responding disease up to 10 cycles. For the schematic
      representation of study design please see Section 7.3.1.

      Subjects with primary metastatic or N+ or high risk disease (PSA>100) will be eligible. The
      primary endpoint of the trial is overall survival.

      Based on the yearly number of prostate cancer patients who are diagnosed with metastatic or
      high risk disease, approximately 1200 men per year (if +15% improvement)are potential
      candidates for this approach in the Scandinavian countries .
    
  