
    
      Cystoscopy is a simple, effective and reliable method in current urological practice for the
      diagnosis and treatment of urethral and bladder pathologies.

      Procedure is frequently used for the placement and replacement (removal) of double J stent in
      patients with ureteral stones .

      Cystoscopy may be used for the investigation of hematuria and dysuria and if needed for
      diagnostic biopsy as well as for therapeutic purpose in patients with bladder and prostate
      tumor.

      Anesthesia may be required in cystoscopy for therapeutic purpose, however it may not be
      necessary for diagnostic cystoscopy. General anesthesia, spinal anesthesia, epidural
      anesthesia and senile block methods may be performed in therapeutic systoscopy. Diagnostic
      cystoscopies may be performed via sedoanalgesia, local anesthetic spray administration,
      penile block or without any type of anesthesia. Female patients having short urethra are more
      compatible for local techniques or for the procedures without anesthesia.

      Pain is main reason of failed cystoscopy. Sedoanalgesia and LMA are generally used for
      diagnostic cystoscopies. LMA is mostly placed under general anesthesia with the combination
      of propofol-fentanyl and volatile anesthetics. There is no need for muscle relaxant
      administration in LMA placement, as it is necessary for intubation. However if muscle
      relaxant is not used, side effects like hiccup, straining, cough, undesirable muscle
      movement, hypoxia and laryngeal spasm may be observed. Placement of LMA may be difficult or
      sometimes impossible in some patients with limited mouth opening. These patients may
      experience complications like pain and burning in the mouth, pain in the ear, hoarse voice,
      swallowing difficulty because of difficult LMA placement in postoperative period.

      For the improvement of the patient comfort the use of effective muscle relaxants are
      described in several studies in literature. This study aimed to reveal the quality of
      anesthesia, hemodynamics, surgical comfort, extra propofol need and recovery time while low
      dose of muscle relaxant rocuronium was added to propofol-fentanyl combination for LMA
      placement.
    
  