
    
      Aging usually results in a decline of motor function. However, elderly tends to refuse the
      regular health examination because of travel issues or lack of self-health awareness.
      Examination unit also has difficulty to intensively track and instantly feedback the health
      status of elderly due to insufficient manpower. If elderly goes to the hospital only when the
      health problem is getting worse, his/her health is often irreversible and the cost of medical
      care would be increased. It is therefore an essential issue for the early detection of
      functional changes in elderly to prevent the deterioration of the health and function.
      Currently, the telemedicine cares provided by hospitals are not universal due to the
      out-of-date legislation and non-successful business model. The wearing and operation issues
      of the wearable devices used for health management are still a gap affecting the acceptance
      of elderly. Accordingly, the objective of this project is to develop a handy and easy-to-use
      smart physical examination system targeted on the unmet need of the elderly. With the use of
      motion-sensing and big data analysis technology, the non-contact professional and intelligent
      assessment could simplify the general health checkup procedures to promote the health
      management and to reduce the manpower cost of health care. Following the principle of
      commercialization, this project aims at working out the product prototype, finalize the
      assessment tools/algorithm, and put it into the clinical trials. The project research team
      comprising the physicians, therapists, hardware and software systems engineering experts,
      with the early manufacturing involvement from the industry partner. The team members will
      work closely to solve the clinical, engineering, and market demand issues during the
      development process. The project will build a platform to deepen the bilateral understanding
      and research cooperation to solve the aging society problem. The ultimate goal is to realize
      a commercial product aiming at the silver hair market with functional advantages to meet the
      unmet needs of health management in elderly.
    
  