
    
      In 1931, Stern and McCarthy created the first practical cut-out resectoscope, allowing
      endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of bladder tumors for the first time in history. From now
      on, TURB has been the cornerstone of the management of bladder tumors. Histological
      evaluation is essential for the precise classification and staging of this cancer, as well as
      the therapeutic modality of choice for most patients with bladder cancer

      Epidemiology Bladder cancer is the most common malignancy of the urinary tract, being the
      seventh most common cancer in men and number 17 in women. The worldwide incidence is 9 per
      100,000 men and 2 per 100,000 women. More than 75,000 new cases of bladder cancer are
      diagnosed in the United States of America annually, making bladder cancer the ninth most
      common malignancy of the urinary tract. In addition, bladder cancer is responsible for 15,000
      annual deaths in the United States of America, which makes it the thirteenth cause of death
      in general and the second most common cause of death among genitourinary tumors

      In Latin America, bladder cancer has an incidence of 5.6 per 100,000 inhabitants. Mexico
      lacks reliable records of cancer epidemiology, however, in Mexico it corresponds to 14.4% of
      genitourinary cancers, ranking as the fourth most frequent. Mortality in men is 3 per 100,000
      and in women 1 per 100,000 with very high geographical variation due to unequal access to
      health services. In a second level hospital in Mexico City were reported 861 cases of
      genitourinary cancer, bladder cancer was accounted for 13%.

      Urinary tract infection as a postoperative complication In urology, the act of
      instrumentation is a potential contributor of infection risk.

      Before finalizing the TURB, a urethral catheter is placed to irrigate and wash the bladder
      three times with 100 mL of saline. At the end of the procedure, the bladder is completely
      drained and the function of the catheter is guaranteed to assess a subsequent irrigation in
      the postoperative period, for complications that may occur, such as haematuria or urinary
      retention due to obstruction of a clot and / or irrigation of intravesical chemotherapy. In
      the absence of complications, the catheter can be removed after 24 hours.

      The risk of urinary tract infection is directly proportional to the duration of the
      catheterization, measured in days (catheter days) and the surgical time. It is reported a
      mean catheter day of 1.9 +/- 1.7 in 130 post-TURB patients. It is well known that urinary
      tract infection (UTI) associated with catheter use is the most common healthcare related
      infection in the world and is the result of widespread use of urinary catheterization. The
      incidence reported of UTI in the literature after surgery is 5-10%. Antimicrobial prophylaxis
      in TURB decreases the risk of UTI from 10.1% to 2.9%. In a series of 10,559 patients in the
      United States of America the incidence of UTI in post-TURB patients was 3 to 5%, being the
      most observed complication. The investigators concluded that as surgery time increased,
      urinary tract infection increased (2.8% in 0-30min to 5.4% in> 90 min, P <0.001).

      In addition, a patient with cancer is a host with increased susceptibility to acquire
      infections. In the last 50 years the epidemiology of bacterial infections in cancer patients
      has presented a continuous change influenced by the nature and intensity of chemotherapeutic
      and immunosuppressive regimes and the widespread use of empirical and prophylactic
      antibiotics

      Antimicrobial prophylaxis in TURB Surgical antimicrobial prophylaxis is the systemic
      administration of an antibiotic before, during and / or shortly after a urological procedure
      aimed to reduce the risk of local and systemic postoperative infections, such as urinary
      tract infection or surgical site infection. The optimal antimicrobial drug should be a
      microbiologically active agent against the most frequent potential pathogens and must have
      good pharmacological properties.

      Antibiotics The antibiotics used for prophylaxis must be effective against the characteristic
      bacterial microbiota of the surgical site and relevant to the disease. In addition, it must
      be considered the properties of the antimicrobial agent, such as cost, convenience and
      safety. It should reach tissue serum levels that exceed the minimum inhibitory concentration
      for microorganisms characteristic of the surgical site, in this case Enterobacteriaceae and
      Enterococci. Moreover, it must have a long half-life to maintain sufficient serum and tissue
      concentrations throughout the procedure without the need to administer another dose. It must
      be safe, cheap and unlikely to promote bacterial resistance.

      For the urinary tract, cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones and aminoglycosides are generally
      effective, have a long half-life, are cheap (when used as a single dose) and are rarely
      associated with allergic reactions. In addition, fluoroquinolones and aminoglycosides can be
      used in patients with a beta-lactam allergy. These antimicrobials can effectively cover the
      expected organisms and meet the criteria indicated above.

      Current recommendations and the context in Mexico The American Urological Association (AUA)
      and the Japanese guidelines recommend the use of fluoroquinolones, trimethoprim-
      sulfamethoxazole, penicillins, first or second generation cephalosporins or aminoglycosides
      before the start of TURB as an antimicrobial prophylaxis. According to the guidelines of the
      Canadian Urology Association (CUA), any randomized clinical trials of antimicrobial
      prophylaxis in TURB were found, so the recommendations about antibiotic prophylaxis are based
      on other endoscopic urological procedures. Use of fluoroquinolone are recommended for
      prophylaxis before surgical procedure, also trimethoprim- sulfamethoxazole or third
      generation cephalosporins can be used.

      In a study of TURB in 2006, the investigators used oral levofloxacin 200mg as prophylactic
      antibiotic, which was given 30-60 minutes before the procedure. However, in this context it
      would not be convenient to use this regime, because in a study conducted in 2015 specified
      that countries with poor control of the use of antimicrobials such as Mexico, there is a
      trend towards bacterial resistance, placing fluoroquinolones as the second line of treatment
      in urinary tract infection . An important cause of the emergence of these resistant strains
      is the excessive use (treatment when it is not needed and prolonged exposure to therapy) of
      antimicrobial agents for all indications.

      Fluoroquinolone-based regimens, a pillar of prophylaxis guidelines, are increasingly
      ineffective due to a constant increase in multidrug-resistant gram-negative bacteria (MDR).
      The same concerns apply with second and third generation cephalosporins, which have
      resistance problems and, if administered orally, do not have a good penetration in tissues
      such as prostate.

      Problem definition Since 2000 a serious global public health problem has arisen in relation
      to the increase in antimicrobial resistance, particularly among the pathogens of the ESKAPE
      group (Enterococcus faecium, Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium difficile, Acinetobacter
      species, Pseudomona aeruginosa and Enterobacteriaceae), which are microorganisms that cause
      urinary tract infection. In addition to the increase in multidrug resistance to antibiotics
      and their misuse, this has been associated with an increased rate of morbidity and mortality,
      prolonged hospital stay and increased care costs.That's why antimicrobial prophylaxis is of
      such magnitude and importance that it needs to be updated to its reasoned use in order to
      improve its performance.

      In the case of TURB, there is little evidence in the literature that recommends the use of
      preoperative antimicrobial prophylaxis in TURB, due to the lack of studies on this subject.
      The incidence of UTI in TURB has been reported between 2 to 39% and risk of infection in TURB
      from 18 to 75%.

      Justification Nosocomial infection has been associated with an increased length of
      postoperative stays, rate of hospital readmission and the outpatient use of antimicrobial
      agents, which significantly increases the costs and use of medical resources.

      Optimally, the specific prophylactic regimen should be supported by clinical trials evidence.
      In many cases, randomized clinical trials are not available. Such lack of data does not
      impede the adequacy of some antibiotic regimes based on the efficacy of the drugs, the cost,
      safety and knowledge of the microbiota of the surgical site. When selecting the antimicrobial
      for prophylaxis, the clinician should be aware of the different resistance patterns in the
      local community. Specifically, resistance to fluoroquinolones, which has increased their
      prevalence, therefore, should be considered due to the high use of these agents for
      antimicrobial prophylaxis in urological surgery.

      Regarding the premise, "surgical antimicrobial prophylaxis is recommended only when the
      potential benefit exceeds the risks and anticipated costs," information on the costs
      associated with the prophylactic use of antimicrobials specifically for urological surgery
      cannot be easily obtained, however, data from other surgical disciplines can guide us in
      making decisions. For example, the use of prophylaxis in transurethral resection of the
      prostate, where there are multiple clinical trials and it is recommended the use of
      prophylaxis with pre-procedure third-generation cephalosporins. On the contrary, excessive
      and / or inappropriate antimicrobial prophylaxis increases costs, which can be reduced with
      measures to improve commitment with evidence-based recommendations. In general, the financial
      costs of prophylaxis are controlled using the least expensive and safest effective agent for
      the shortest time that is compatible with good clinical practice.

      There are currently few randomized clinical studies (conducted more than 25 years ago) on the
      subject. In 1988 a randomized clinical trial was conducted with 243 patients undergoing TURB,
      three perioperative doses of cefradine were compared with placebo, observing a significant
      reduction in the rate of bacteriuria. However, no similar randomized clinical trials have
      been performed, as well as for other cystoscopic procedures that involve transurethral
      manipulation (bladder biopsy, ureteral catheterization, laser prostatectomy, etc.). For this
      reason, updated and available evidence is required for this widely used procedure.

      The American Urological Association and the Japanese guidelines recommend the use of
      fluoroquinolones, trimethoprim, penicillins, first or second generation cephalosporins or
      aminoglycosides before the start of TURB as an antimicrobial prophylaxis In countries with
      poor control of the use of antimicrobials such as Mexico, there is a tendency towards
      bacterial resistance, placing fluoroquinolones as the second line of treatment for urinary
      tract infection. Therefore, the use of fluoroquinolone-based regimens, a pillar of
      prophylaxis guidelines, is increasingly ineffective due to a constant increase in resistant
      multidrug gram negative bacteria. The same applies with second and third generation
      cephalosporins, which also have resistance problems.

      In 2007 a randomized clinical trial was performed and the effectiveness of fosfomycin against
      cefotiam to prevent infections associated with urological surgery was compared ,the response
      rates reported were 92.9% for fosfomycin and 94.9% for cefotiam in patients with
      transurethral surgery. Therefore, fosfomycin trometamol may be a potential option for
      urological procedures, due to its high effectiveness against resistant multidrug gram
      negative bacteria and its favorable pharmacokinetic parameters.

      The aim of the study is to provide evidence to help clarify the usefulness and feasibility of
      antimicrobial prophylaxis, being fosfomycin trometamol an antibiotic that meets the necessary
      characteristics for this intervention. Therefore it will contribute to the characterization
      of the population that undergoes this procedure, which includes the description of risk
      factors and microbiological characteristics, such as the identification of emerging resistant
      strains. The results obtained will contribute towards the decision-making of this and other
      cytoscopic procedures due to the similarities in terms of invasiveness and possible tissue
      trauma, suggesting that the data regarding transurethral bladder resection can reasonably be
      extrapolated to other cystoscopic procedures with manipulation. The above will be compared
      with the antimicrobial prophylaxis that usually occurs in the Instituto Nacional de Ciencias
      Medicas y Nutricion Salvador Zubiran which is based on aminoglycosides (Amikacin)
      administered in anesthetic induction before the surgical procedure.
    
  