
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat pediatric suspension
      administered daily 4 times per week orally for two weeks, in combination with twice daily
      13-cis-retinoic acid ([cisRA], isotretinoin) orally for 14 days to children with refractory
      or recurrent neuroblastoma.

      II. To define the toxicities of vorinostat administered in combination with cisRA.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacokinetics of vorinostat given as a pediatric suspension.

      II. To describe the relationship of vorinostat pharmacokinetics to the occurrence of systemic
      toxicity.

      III. To determine the pharmacokinetics of cisRA given in combination with vorinostat.

      IV. To describe histone acetylation levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells after
      different doses of vorinostat.

      V. To describe, within the context of a Phase I study, the response rate of vorinostat
      combined with cisRA in patients with recurrent/refractory neuroblastoma.

      VI. To describe the toxicity and response rate of vorinostat at the determined maximal
      tolerated dose combined with cisRA in patients ages 22-30 years of age at study entry with
      recurrent/refractory neuroblastoma.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vorinostat.

      Patients receive isotretinoin orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14, PO suspension* of
      vorinostat once daily (QD) on days 1-4 of course 1, and capsules of vorinostat PO QD on days
      1-4 and 8-11 of course 2 and subsequent courses. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      EXPANSION COHORT 1 (=< 21 years of age): Once the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) has been
      determined, patients are treated at that dose level as above.

      EXPANSION COHORT 2 (22-30 years of age): Patients receive isotretinoin as above and
      vorinostat at the MTD on days 1-3 and 8-10.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically.

      NOTE: *Patients less than 10 years of age are encouraged to continue to use oral suspension
      beyond course 1.
    
  