
    
      Introduction and context :

      Glomerulonephritis and auto-immune diseases are often associated. Lupus nephritis (LN) is one
      of the major clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) which have a
      severe impact on prognosis. This complication is a real challenge for clinicians because of
      insidious-onset and no predictable relapses. Biomarker use is therefore essential, but
      conventional biomarkers such as proteinuria, glomerular filtration rate, urine sediments,
      anti-dsDNA antibodies and complement levels, have poor sensivity and low specificity to
      predict LN occurrence, and new more reliable biomarkers (such as genetic, epigenetic or
      protein biomarkers) are difficult to use for daily medical practice , .

      Anti-glomerular membrane basement disease (anti-GBM disease) is a rare (0.5 to 1/millions of
      inhabitants , ) and severe illness , , characterised by rapidly progressive
      glomerulonephritis, pulmonary haemorrhage and the presence of anti-GBM antibodies, which are
      highly sensible (100%) and specific (92-100%) of this condition .

      In our department of internal medicine, one case of Goodpasture glomerulonephritis associated
      to an active SLE has been reported , and after searching data in literature, we note the
      following studies:

        -  some similar cases were reported such as a case of pulmonary hemorrhage and positive
           anti-GBM in SLE , or a case of anti-GBM disease and LN presenting as pulmonary-renal
           syndrome .

        -  In 2006, a Chinese cohort study highlighted an elevated prevalence of anti-GBM
           antibodies, in serum samples from patients with SLE (14 positives/157patients (8.9%)
           with ELISA method). Moreover, every patient with positive anti-GMB antibodies had LN and
           a severer SLE (with more anemias, pulmonary hemorrhage). They also suffered from more
           important kidney disease. In fact, in histological criteria's, 10/14 had necrotizing
           crescentic glomerulonephritis lesions and 5/14 had a real diagnosis of Goodpasture
           disease.

        -  We also note that some authors have already studied pathogenesis of this association
           (whether immunological explanations , genetics links , ).

           3. Main Hypothesis: Based on these findings, we suspect that detection of positive
           circulating anti-GBM antibodies may be more frequently positive in SLE followed patients
           (than in general population) and that it could be an interesting screening biomarker for
           LN.

           4. Objectives First objective: based on 2 SLE patient groups (one having lupus nephritis
           and another without it) we would like to compare the ratio of positive anti-GBM
           antibodies in each group, expecting a higher rate in SLE patients with LN.

      Second objective: to study positive anti-GBM patients in their clinical aspects, serological
      features and renal characteristics, in this SLE population.

      5. Materials and methods We suggest a retrospective analytic transversal controlled study,
      based on serum samples from the Lupus Biobank of Upper Rhine (LBBR project), and on serum
      samples from healthy voluntary blood donors (control group).

      Regarding the use of LBBR Lupus Biobank, our project has already been accepted by scientific
      committee.

      After group randomization, Cryo-conserved SLE serum samples will be transferred by
      specialized transporter service, from Strasbourg biobank, to the immunology laboratory
      department in Reims University Hospital center, to perform anti-GBM tests.

      Concerning healthy serum sample recruitment, Regional blood center of Reims will
      systematically suggest to voluntary blood donors to participate. If they agree, they will
      receive an extended information about the study, and after written consent, a tube sample
      will be collected.

      6. Population The statistic calculation led to the need of 200 SLE sera (100 patients in each
      group). Thus, we will use : 100 serum samples coming from lupus biobank LBBR patients without
      lupus nephritis, and 100 serum samples of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and
      lupus nephritis.

      We will also use 100 serum samples of voluntary blood donors.

      7. Experimental project Anti-GBM antibodies detection in serums will be performed by an
      automatized chemiluminescent method, using a commercial test kit. In case of positivity, same
      serum will be tested second time to confirm the result, and then controlled by another method
      using indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) in frozen sections of primate kidney, covering the
      reaction areas of a BIOCHIP slide (reference method).

      According to our immunology laboratory department, we need 600μl of serum per patient to be
      able to perform all the tests. According to the manufacturer's instruction, the optimum
      cut-off value for positivity in chemiluminescence method will be set at 20CU/mL.

      8. Data analysis Primary endpoint: proportion of positive anti-MBG antibodies, will be
      estimated in each group (with and without lupus nephritis) by a Chi-2 test or an exact test
      of Fisher (depending on test validity conditions).

      Secondary endpoint: clinical, serological and renal features of anti-GBM positives patients,
      will be compared to negatives, using tests adapted to the distribution of each variable.

      9. Expected results and future prospects

        -  We expect a higher frequency of positive circulating anti-GBM antibodies in patients
           with LN compared to the SLE control group and to healthy control group.

        -  Whether this research was positive, another larger study could show the interest of
           anti-GBM antibodies as a predictive biomarker of LN, and as a prognostic biomarker of
           SLE.
    
  