
    
      The regular practice of physical exercises promotes anti-inflammatory effects, which reduces
      the mortality from all causes, especially by cardiovascular diseases. On the other hand,
      physical exercise induces acute inflammatory responses. Acute resistance exercises provoke
      mechanical and metabolic stress which may vary depending on the intensity, specificity,
      volume and workload. During these exercises, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS) are
      formed and, when its production exceeds the antioxidant enzymatic capacity (Superoxide
      dismutase, Catalase and Glutathione peroxidase) and non-enzymatic capacity (vitamins A, C, E
      and uric acid) results in oxidation of cell constituents. This state of oxidative stress
      promotes one inflammatory response, activation and mobilization of circulating white blood
      cells and induce a transitory leukocytosis, that are observed during and immediately after
      resistance exercises. The local neutrophilia induces the amplification of inflammatory
      response by feedback resulting in activation and/or mobilization of the more white blood
      cells. This sequence of physiological events leads to muscular remodeling although, during
      such process, occur functional insufficiency and the sensation of pain and/or delayed onset
      muscular soreness (DOMS), which deserves special attention, once may lead to interruption or
      abandonment of exercises, especially concerning beginners in this practice.

      Numerous preventive approaches have been studied intending to minimize the inflammatory
      response caused by resistance exercises, including the supplementation with vitamins C
      (ascorbic acid) and E (alfa-tocopherol). These vitamins are exogenous antioxidants which are
      able to prevent damages caused by RONS and consequently attenuate the oxidative damage
      induced by resistance exercises. Cryotherapy is defined as the therapeutic application of any
      substance that removes heat from the body, thus lowering the temperature of tissues.
      Immersion in cold water (≤ 15ºC) is a common method of heat reduction. Cryotherapy attenuates
      microvascular dysfunction, and decreases temperature, metabolism and oxygen demand in the
      electron transport chain. As a consequence, lower amounts of RONS are produced less damage
      was caused to adjacent molecules. The aim of the present research are to investigate the
      effects of the concomitant supplementation of vitamins (C and E) and cryotherapy (immersion
      in water at 15ºC) on leukocytosis, inflammatory markers, oxidative stress parameters and pain
      in untrained individuals submitted to a resistance exercise session.
    
  