
    
      In German hospitals disease related malnutrition is a major problem. Malnutrition is known to
      be associated with decreased quality of life, altered body composition as well as increased
      length of hospital stay. Guidelines recommend the installation of Nutrition Support Teams
      (NST) to combat this situation. However, the majority of German hospitals lacks a NST.

      In the present study, we want to examine the effectiveness and efficiency of a Nutrition
      Support Team (NST) in an University hospital with 1500 beds. To do this we investigate the
      nutritional management, its economic impact and patient related data before and after
      NST-implementation. Examinations include a structural analysis of the hospital with regard to
      nutritional procedures and a patient-based analysis.

      Patients are recruited from three representative normal wards and two intensive care units.
      Here we identify patients with risk for malnutrition with the help of nutritional screening
      tools (NRS 2002 [Nutritional Risk Screening]; NUTRIC [Nutritional Risk in the critically ill]
      Score).This is performed within the first three days after admittance. The patients with risk
      for malnutrition (NRS 2002 of 3 or more than 3, NUTRIC Score of 4 or more than 4) are
      included for further investigations. These include anthropometric measurements , assessment
      of body composition, evaluation of nosocomial infection and decubitus rate, quality of life
      (SF-12 questionnaire), length of hospital stay, evaluation of mortality risk, organ function
      and severity of illness as well as economic factors. Most examinations are repeated weekly
      depending from the length of stay in hospital.

      All this examinations and evaluations will be collected at two time points. Before and after
      the implementation of a nutritional support team. That means we have two groups: group A-
      before NST-implementation (n=420) and group B - after NST-implementation (n=420).

      After the whole data collection we want to compare the results of the two groups.
    
  