
    
      This is a prospective, single-center, randomized, double blind, double arm, comparative
      clinical trial to compare the safety and efficacy between ranibizumab monotherapy and
      ranibizumab combined with Selective Retina Therapy (SRT) in clinically significant diabetic
      macular edema (a pilot study).

      Screening visit should be conducted within 30 days before the baseline visit. After assigning
      a screening number (SN) to the participants who voluntarily agreed in writing to participate
      in the clinical trial, conduct a screening test to determine whether the subject meet the
      inclusion/ exclusion criteria.

      Proceed with the clinical trial with the appropriate subjects determined based on the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. Random allocation numbers (AN) are assigned.

      Participants are randomly assigned to study group or control group. Combination therapy of
      SRT and ranibizumab is performed in the study group and sham SRT and ranibizumab monotherapy
      is performed in the control group. (Sham) SRT and ranibizumab (re-performance) is performed
      by the institution's investigator other than the independent evaluator.

      In the study group and control group, after the completion of 5 ranibizumab injections during
      the loading period, if the independent evaluator judges the following criteria apply based on
      Best Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) findings at each
      visit from the 5th month, ranibizumab is re-administered by an investigator other than the
      independent evaluator, within 14 days of the visit or on the day of visit; If the independent
      evaluator judges that CMT on the OCT is equal to or greater than the baseline; or if the
      independent evaluator judges that BCVA is equal to or worse than the baseline.

      The study group and the control group visit the hospital at the time of (Sham) SRT and
      ranibizumab performance from the baseline until 5 months and make a visit every month from 6
      months to 12 months.

      From 13 months ± 14 days after the baseline, the schedule of visits can be determined at
      intervals of 1 month ± 14 days to 3 months ± 14 days at the discretion of the investigator
      other than the independent evaluator. However, at the time of 24 months, both the study group
      and the control group should visit the hospital for efficacy and safety evaluation.
    
  