
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To establish superiority of consolidative radiation therapy over continuation of systemic
      therapy alone in patients with oligometastatic esophageal and gastric adenocarcinoma (EGA)
      that does not progress on first-line therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      STEP 1 (INDUCTION PHASE): Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 1.5 hours, leucovorin IV over 1.5
      hours, and 5-fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and capecitabine orally (PO)
      twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      STEP 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

      ARM C: One week post induction of patients in ARM A, patients undergo radiation therapy for
      up to 15 days. Within 2-4 weeks post radiation therapy, patients receive oxaliplatin,
      leucovorin, and 5-fluorouracil as in Arm A for 2 years in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D: Post induction of patients in ARM A, patients continue oxaliplatin, leucovorin, and
      5-fluorouracil as in Arm A for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM E: One week post induction of patients in ARM B, patients undergo radiation therapy for
      up to 15 days. Within 2-4 weeks post radiation therapy, patients receive oxaliplatin and
      capecitabine as in Arm B for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM F: Post induction of patients in ARM B, patients continue oxaliplatin and capecitabine as
      in Arm B for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years
      from study entry. Patients experiencing disease progression are followed up every 3 months in
      years 1-2, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years from study entry.
    
  