
    
      The Part I (Phase I) will evaluate the safety of the MB-CART19.1 and determine the
      recommended dose levels for the Part II (Phase II) efficacy evaluation in each of the three
      disease cohorts.

      Dose evaluation will start in Cohorts 1 and 2 with Dose Level 1 and in Cohort 3 with Dose
      Level 2, sparing Dose Level 1 (see figure 1). Each of the cohorts will evaluate the safety of
      MB-CART19.1.

      In each dose level of each of the three cohorts three 3 + 3 patients will be treated. A
      particular dose level will be expanded to 6 patients if one patient out of 3 patients treated
      at that particular dose level develops DLT. Once this occurs, further dose-escalations are
      halted until the dose has proven to be safe in the expanded cohort. If 2 or more in a cohort
      of 6 patients develop DLT no further dose escalation is allowed, and the next lower dose
      level will be expanded to 6 patients in total. The highest dose among the dose levels tested
      at which no more than one out of six patients experiences DLT will be considered the MTD. In
      Dose Level 3, three additional patients will be treated, if no DLT occurred. Dose Level 0
      will be tested only if Dose Level 1 is not tolerable.

      Cohort 3 will Start with Dose Level 2. If Dose Level 2 is not tolerated, Dose Level 1 will be
      tested. DLT will be evaluated within 4 weeks after the infusion of MB-CART19.1. An interval
      of at least 28 days between the treatment of the first and the second patient in each dose
      level (and in each cohort) is mandatory.

      Part II (Phase II) will evaluate the efficacy and safety in patients treated with the
      recommended dose in Cohorts 1 to 3, respectively. After review of completed day 28 safety and
      efficacy data within Part I (Phase I) by the SMB, the design of Phase II, specifically the
      number and types of Phase II cohorts and the recommended dose level(s) for Phase II will be
      determined and thus, the number of patients to be treated will be calculated.
    
  