
    
      People that develop ARDS due to COVID-19 and requiring admission to ICU (both invasive and
      non-invasive mechanical ventilation) will be enrolled. Two tertiary referral centers, part of
      the same region (Veneto) but located in different cities, will recruit participants. ICU
      standard of care is the same as defined by regional and national guidelines; rehabilitation
      in ICU COVID-19 subjects is provided only in one center due to local technical and
      organizational limitations. Non contamination between centers is possible due to restrictions
      of mobility and strict admission criteria based on catchment area.

      Early physiotherapy treatment will start from the day of admission. Baseline measurement of
      physical function will performed using the Physical Function in ICU Test (PFIT). The PFIT is
      a submaximal exercise test that was developed for patients in the ICU who may not be able to
      mobilize away from the bedside.

      Participants will start rehabilitation if they will not experiment one of the following
      conditions or should cease exercise because of the following (see exclusion criteria).

      Rehabilitation Intervention

      Rehabilitation program will start at admission in ICU. The program is based on the clinical
      characteristics of the individual to be treated. Participants will commence a hierarchical,
      standardized protocol that includes functional, respiratory and strength training. If
      participants will be unable to sit out of bed, assisted active exercises will be performed in
      bed. Exercise training will be provided for 15 minutes 3 times/day, 6 days per week.

      Intensity of strength training: Until fatigue (Borg Scale) Type of strength training: >Grade
      3 Medical Research Council (MRC) strength, active to resisted; <Grade 3 MRC strength, active
      assist to active Repetitions for strength training: Start 5 repetitions each limb, Progress
      to 3 sets of 10 repetitions as able Functional retraining: Sit-to-stand (using tilt table or
      standing walker if unable), rolling, supine to sitting, trunk control/balance

      Motor program

        -  Intubated patient Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) >8: passive mobilisation; postural
           positioning Glasgow Coma Scale < 8 (weaning): passive and active-assist mobilisation;
           postural positioning

        -  Weaned off patient Non-invasively ventilated/O2 high fluxes

             -  If strength < 3 MRC: passive and/or active-assist; tentative functional retraining

             -  If strength ≥3 MRC: active-assist and active; strength training; functional
                retraining Pulmonary Rehabilitation

        -  Intubated patient Glasgow Coma Scale >8: postural positioning Glasgow Coma Scale < 8
           (weaning): postural positioning, cautious inspiratory muscle training

        -  Weaned off patient Non-invasively ventilated/O2 high fluxes

             -  If strength < 3 MRC: postural positioning, positive pressure expiration exercise,
                cautious inspiratory muscle training

             -  If strength ≥3 MRC: postural positioning, positive pressure expiration exercise,
                inspiratory muscle training

      The intensity of exercise will prescribed based on the results of the PFIT. Rehabilitation
      programs will individualized for each patient. Programs will progressed using rates of
      perceived exertion (RPE) of the modified Borg Scale.

      Total session time composition:15 min to complete:

        -  Whole-body bed exercises + strength + functional retraining

        -  respiratory rehabilitation Frequency of sessions: 3×15 min/day
    
  