
    
      Serious mental illness encompasses a large range of symptoms varying in severity, but
      generally includes symptoms described as both positive and negative. Positive symptoms
      include confused thinking, delusions, and hallucinations, while negative symptoms include
      lack of emotion and depression. Because novel or atypical antipsychotic medications target
      both positive and negative symptoms and have fewer side effects than other medications, they
      make up the current standard of care for the treatment of many mental illnesses. However,
      there is growing concern that the psychiatric benefits associated with atypical antipsychotic
      medications are offset by serious negative medical consequences, including weight gain,
      obesity-related cardiovascular risk, insulin resistance, and diabetes. Behavioral
      interventions that aim to help people coping with serious mental illness to reduce weight,
      sustain weight loss, and achieve better fitness may improve the risk/benefit ratio of
      atypical antipsychotic medications. A small-group cognitive behavioral intervention that
      provides peer and structural risk-reduction support may be the most beneficial means of
      promoting healthy eating and exercise habits in people with serious mental illness who are
      living in group homes. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a small-group cognitive
      behavioral intervention conducted in group homes for reducing significant medical risk
      factors often associated with people who have a serious mental illness and are taking
      atypical antipsychotic medications.

      Participation in this study will last about 18 months through follow-up. All participants
      will undergo baseline assessments that will include the following: measurements of diet and
      exercise patterns, using self-report and observational methods; measurements of weight, body
      mass index, body fat distribution, pulse rate, and blood pressure; blood draws; and questions
      about psychological well-being and quality of life. Group homes will then be assigned
      randomly to provide participating residents with either the cognitive behavioral intervention
      or the time-matched attention control program. Participants in both groups will receive 26
      weekly 1-hour small-group sessions and 26 weekly 30-minute individual sessions with a study
      facilitator. The cognitive behavioral sessions will focus on promoting healthy behaviors,
      dieting, and exercise. The time-matched attention control sessions will focus on improving
      communications, developing healthy techniques for coping with stress, and resolving
      conflicts. After completing treatment, all participants will receive 6 monthly 1-hour booster
      sessions of their assigned treatments. They will also repeat the baseline assessments 3 times
      over the following 12 months.
    
  