
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in Canada with annual direct and
      indirect costs estimated at $22 billion. Fasting lipid levels are associated with elevated
      risk of cardiovascular disease; however, postprandial lipids - the level of TG after a meal,
      are very potent predictors of cardiovascular disease risk because most of an individual's day
      is spent in the postprandial state. This problem is especially evident in obese individuals,
      who have an elevated postprandial TG response. An acute session of exercise is beneficial for
      reducing postprandial TG; however, caloric consumption immediately after exercise can
      attenuate this beneficial effect.

      Carbohydrate quality may influence postprandial lipid response. Carbohydrates can be
      classified by their glycemic index (GI), where high GI carbohydrates are rapidly digested and
      result in large elevations in blood glucose. Low GI carbohydrates are digested slowly and
      result in a smaller, more gradual rise in blood glucose. High GI carbohydrates are associated
      with an elevated risk of cardiovascular disease and increased weight gain; whereas low GI
      carbohydrates are associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and decreased
      weight gain. As mentioned above, one of the main benefits of an acute session of exercise is
      to reduce TG levels after a subsequent meal. For example, an evening exercise session reduces
      the blood TG response after a high-fat breakfast provided the next day. This effect is
      negated if high GI beverages (i.e. sugar-sweetened drinks) are consumed immediately after
      exercise. Sports drinks such as Gatorade, and skim milk or chocolate milk are the leading
      beverages promoted for consumption during recovery after exercise. Gatorade has a high GI
      (i.e. GI=89) due to the inclusion of high amounts of simple sugars, whereas milk has a low GI
      (i.e. GI=34). Milk may therefore be a healthier choice for consumption after exercise.

      No study has determined the effects of consuming low GI milk after an exercise session on
      next-day postprandial TG. Considering that consuming beverages after exercise is common
      practice and can influence blood lipid profiles, investigation into effects of low GI milk
      versus high GI recovery beverages is required.

      The aim of this proposal is to determine if replacing calories expended during an evening
      session of endurance exercise with low GI milk can improve postprandial TG after a meal the
      next morning. We propose to look at the effects of consuming skim milk compared to Gatorade
      after endurance exercise on the blood TG, other lipids, glucose levels, and blood pressure
      responses after a high-fat meal consumed the morning after the exercise.

      Our objective is to determine the effect of consuming milk after an evening exercise session
      on blood triglyceride response to a high fat meal the next morning. This will be compared to:
      A condition where exercise is performed followed by consumption of a high glycemic index
      Gatorade beverage; a condition where only exercise is performed with no after-exercise
      caloric consumption; a condition where neither exercise nor beverage is consumed in the
      evening. After each of these conditions, a high fat breakfast will be consumed the following
      morning (about 10 hours after the end of the exercise session). Blood will be collected
      before the breakfast and for 6 hours after the breakfast to determine postprandial metabolic
      response.

      Our secondary objectives are to determine the effect of each condition on postprandial
      insulin, high density lipoprotein, apolipoprotein B, total cholesterol, and free fatty acids,
      and muscle fat oxidation. Blood pressure will also be assessed immediately after the evening
      exercise session and beverage consumption and continue throughout the night and throughout
      the postprandial period the next day.

      Our primary hypothesis is that consuming low glycemic index milk after the evening exercise
      session will be superior to consuming Gatorade for reducing postprandial triglycerides the
      next morning.

      Our secondary hypotheses are that consuming low glycemic index milk after the evening
      exercise session will be superior to consuming Gatorade for improving other metabolic
      measures (i.e. increasing high density lipoproteins, plasma free fatty acids, and fat
      oxidation, and reducing apolipoprotein B, low density lipoproteins, total cholesterol, and
      blood pressure) during the postprandial period after a high-fat meal.
    
  