
    
      Lung cancer remains the most common cancer worldwide with non-small cell lung cancer
      accounting for 85% of cases. Cytotoxic chemotherapy has been the mainstay of patients with
      NSCLC; however, survival rates remain low and toxicity is significant. Molecularly targeted
      therapies have proven to be superior to chemotherapy for NSCLC patients whose tumors have
      mutations in EGFR. Recent studies have established tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) as the
      gold standard for treating EGFR-mutation-positive NCSLC. However, patients on TKIs eventually
      progress, and in approximately 50% of cases, progression is due to development of an
      additional mutation called T790M. There are currently no approved therapies for patients who
      progress on TKIs. Rociletinib may provide an effective therapy for a patient population with
      few alternative treatment options. Nonclinical data demonstrate that rociletinib inhibits
      T790M. It is anticipated that rociletinib may promote cell death in tumor cells with the
      T790M mutation, thus providing possible therapeutic benefit in patients who have developed
      T790M-mediated resistance to first generation TKIs.

      This is a two-part, open-label study of oral rociletinib administered daily in previously
      treated NSCLC patients who have documented evidence of an activating mutation in the EGFR
      gene and have failed treatment with an EGFR inhibitor such as erlotinib, gefitinib or
      afatinib.

      This study will include 2 parts:

      Phase 1: Dose-escalation Period with 21-day cycles; optional Treatment Extension Period
      starting on Day 22

      Phase 2: Evaluation of activity and safety in patients with the T790M EGFR mutation who have:

      Cohort A - Progressed on EGFR directed therapy (irrespective of the number and order of
      previous lines of NSCLC therapy) or Cohort B - Progression on the first single agent EGFR
      directed therapy received and also had no more than one previous line of chemotherapy or
      Cohort C - Patients with discordance between local (T790M positive) and central (T790M
      negative) T790M results, or had no central test result due to inadequacy of the tissue
      specimen and known to be T790M positive by local test
    
  