
    
      Patients with lower peak oxygen uptake have higher mortality and morbidity when undergoing
      major surgery. Aerobic fitness is a potentially modifiable risk factor for postoperative
      complications.

      Traditional pre-operative exercise interventions to improve fitness involve high time and
      supervision-demands, often resulting in poor compliance. High-intensity interval training
      (HIT) is a time-efficient, feasible method to improve pre-operative fitness, however current
      studies only involve exercise in the laboratory setting.

      Study Design Thirty-six healthy volunteers aged 55y and over will be randomly allocated to
      one of three groups: 1) Laboratory-HIT; 2) Home-HIT; 3) No intervention. All HIT sessions
      will involve a brief warm-up, followed by five 1-minute bouts of high-intensity (body-weight
      based) exercise, interspersed with 90-seconds recovery, concluding with a brief cool-down.
      The primary endpoint of the study is change in VO2 peak with secondary endpoints of changes
      in: anaerobic threshold, insulin sensitivity and muscle mass.

      Subjects will be expected to perform up to a maximum of 16 HIT sessions (maximum 5 sessions
      per week) within a period of 31 days. Aerobic fitness will be assessed prior to and following
      the exercise, as will body composition, muscle structure, physical function and insulin
      sensitivity.

      For the age comparison, 24 young individuals will be recruited to either a control or
      home-HIT arm.

      In addition, the efficacy of time-matched 'static' interventions for improving cardiovascular
      parameters in 24 middle-aged females will also be assessed as exploratory work for these
      interventions.

      The efficacy of the static interventions in older adults at home will also be explored.

      Power calculation: The investigators performed a power calculation for the primary outcome of
      VO2 max in older adults using data from a previous study at our centre on home versus
      laboratory HIIT. Assuming an effect size F of 0.6 for three groups and a within group SD of
      5, the alpha level was set at 0.05 and the 1-beta at 0.80. This concluded that 30
      participants would be required. To allow for potential non-completion and missing data 36
      older participants will be enrolled to the study (12 to each group).
    
  