
    
      Acne vulgaris is a highly prevalent dermatologic disorder that affects up to 90% percent of
      the population at some point in their lives to varying degrees. Acne scarring is an
      unfortunate complication of the inflammation that results if acne is not sufficiently
      treated. Classically, acne scarring has been described as either atrophic, hypertrophic,
      keloidal, or pigmented. Atrophic is by far the most common type of acne scarring and is
      subdivided into boxcar, rolling, and icepick subtypes. The presence of acne scarring has been
      associated with a significant decrease in patient well-being and has many psychosocial
      implications. Although the understanding of the pathogenesis, prevention, and treatment of
      acne scarring has come a long way, there are limitations to the current treatment options and
      the search for a cure continues.

      One of the greatest advances in the treatment of acne scarring came with the advent of
      non-ablative fractional lasers, which work through the theory of fractional photothermolysis.
      Fractional photothermolysis relies on the principle of creating thousands of microthermal
      injury zones in the skin while allowing the surrounding intact skin to expedite wound
      healing. The relative sparing of the epidermis while facilitating collagen remodeling in the
      dermis underlies the use of non-ablative fractional laser therapy in the treatment of
      atrophic scars.

      The erbium-doped 1,550-nm non-ablative fractional laser has been extensively studied in the
      treatment of atrophic acne scars with good efficacy and safety.

      The concept of using needle subcision for the treatment of depressed surgical scars was first
      described by Orentreich et al in 1995. The first microneedling device, a drum-shaped roller
      was subsequently developed by Fernandes et al in the early 2000s. Several studies have
      validated the use of microneedling for acne scarring with a similar mechanism of creating
      microchannels in the dermis that allow for collagen remodeling. Furthermore, microneedling
      has been demonstrated to induce a specific cytokine profile including fibroblast-like growth
      factor, vascular endothelial growth factor, epidermal growth factor, and transforming growth
      factor-beta3 which are associated with favorable wound healing.

      More recently, experts have advocated for the use of electric-powered microneedling devices
      which allow for more controlled injury at a set depth, density, and speed for the treatment
      of atrophic acne scars with good results.

      To the investigators' knowledge, this study will be the first of its kind to compare the
      efficacy and safety of a combination of 1,550-nm erbium-doped fractional laser and
      microneedling with the SkinPenTM device to 1,550-nm erbium-doped fractional laser alone in
      the treatment of atrophic acne scars.

      Both treatment modalities in this study are already FDA approved treatment modalities for
      acne scarring.
    
  