
    
      Objectives

      Non-invasive brain stimulation can modulate motor function in healthy volunteers and stroke
      patients when applied over the primary motor cortex (M1). M1 is an evident target for
      therapeutic interventions given its key role in motor control and learning. However, given
      the wide variety of motor dysfunctions following focal neurological injuries such as stroke,
      it is desirable to find out whether alternative neuronal structures could also be responsive
      to non-invasive brain stimulation for enhancing motor recovery. The cerebellum is an
      attractive target for therapeutic non-invasive brain stimulation since (i) the cerebellum
      plays a pivotal role in motor learning of reaching and movement synchronization tasks, (ii)
      the deep cerebellar nuclei are involved in the regulation of M1 neuronal activity through
      their excitatory drive to M1, and (iii) the cerebellum may be adaptively recruited after
      brain injury.

      The purpose of this study is to find out if application of non-invasive transcranial DC
      stimulation (tDCS) can modulate motor cortical function. We hypothesize that tDCS of the
      cerebellar hemisphere ipsilateral (Cerebellum IPSI) to the target hand will modulate
      corticomotor excitability and motor function in healthy volunteers.

      Study Population

      40 healthy volunteers (18-40 years).

      Design

      This proof of principle study will determine if tDCS applied over the cerebellum can modulate
      focally motor excitability (as assessed by TMS) and motor performance. The stimulation
      parameters to be studied are polarity (anodal, cathodal and sham tDCS) and intensity (1 mA
      and 2 mA). The focality of stimulation will be addressed by applying tDCS over the neck and
      over M1 in separate control sessions, and by monitoring changes in cerebello-cortical
      excitability with paired-pulse TMS.

      The outcome measures will be changes in motor cortical excitability as measured with TMS and
      in performance of an isometric pinch force task, a reaching task, and a motor sequence timing
      task. Attention and mood will be assessed to rule out nonspecific arousal effects.
      Paired-pulse TMS will be used to demonstrate modulations in cerebello-cortical connections
      and to characterize changes in intra-cortical excitability.
    
  