
    
      Background: Preterm birth (PTB) is associated with 75% of morbidity in neonates. Although
      mortality and morbidity is higher for children with early PTB (< 32 weeks' gestation), late
      PTB (between 34 to 36 weeks gestation) is more common and creates a serious impact on public
      health. Indeed, late PTBs constitute 74% of all PTBs, and even modest increases in the rate
      of late PTB have dramatic effects on health care costs. PTB rates are rising across Canada
      and in Alberta at an even faster rate: between 1996 and 2005, the rate of PTB in Alberta
      increased by 23%. Late PTBs accounted for the majority of this increase. While it is clear
      that early PTB and being small for gestational age (GA) are risk factors for later
      developmental challenges even into adulthood, the risks and the negative effects of late PTB
      on child development are emerging. In spite of evidence that heavier weight (and usually
      older gestation) infants benefit more from early interventions than their lighter weight
      counterparts, late preterm infants are ineligible for early intervention programs unless they
      have other health problems. Most programs are designed for mothers, yet fathers contribute to
      their child's development by providing interactions that are more vigorous, stimulating, and
      state-disruptive than mothers. Given their increased risk for delays, it is important that
      both mothers and fathers of late preterm infants are skilled in parent-child interactions to
      support development. A new intervention for fathers using positive individualized feedback on
      parent-child interactions has shown promise in improving interactions with healthy infants.
      However, it is unknown whether this intervention will be effective for fathers of late
      preterm infants. The purpose of this study is to test an educational intervention for
      first-time fathers of late preterm (34 to 36 weeks gestation) infants.

      Hypothesis: Compared to a comparison group, first-time fathers of late preterm infants who
      receive an educational intervention will have more positive father-infant interactions when
      the infant is 8 months old (adjusted age to account for prematurity) as measured during
      structured play using the Parent Child Interaction Teaching Scale (PCITS) (also known as the
      Nursing Child Assessment Teaching Scale [NCATS]) scored by raters who are blind to group
      assignment.

      Secondary Research Question: What is the effect of the intervention on fathers' perceptions
      of parenting stress as measured by the Parenting Stress Index (PSI) at 4 and 8 months
      adjusted age? Method: In this pilot randomized controlled trial, data will be collected from
      148 English speaking, first time fathers of healthy, late preterm, singleton infants. Fathers
      in the intervention group will receive two home visits when their infant is 4 and 6 months
      old (adjusted age) and one web-based booster session. Fathers in the comparison group will
      receive a home visit and discuss a list of age appropriate toys. For all fathers, baseline
      interactions and parenting stress will be measured at 4 months with outcomes at 8 months.

      Measures: The PCITS is an observational measure used to measure changes in father-child
      interaction after intervention and includes a Parent Domain score composed of sensitivity to
      cues, response to distress, cognitive growth fostering, and socio-emotional growth fostering.
      The PSI is a self-report instrument that provides a Parent Domain score reflecting a parent's
      experience of stress as a parent. The Child Domain score reflects the parental perceptions of
      the child's temperament and behaviour. All measures have established reliability and validity
      and inter-rater reliability will be assessed.

      Analyses: The socio-demographic and baseline variables will be compared between study groups
      using descriptive statistics (mean or median when appropriate, standard deviation or
      interquartile range when appropriate, and proportions). Correlations will be used to
      determine relationship between the dependent variable (interaction) and any known confounders
      that may need to be used as covariates. To test our primary hypothesis that differences will
      exist between groups on father-infant interaction a linear model adjusting for covariates
      will be used. The same approach will be used to test overall treatment effect on parenting
      stress in the Parent and Child Domains. We will include subgroup analyses to test for
      interaction effects between baseline variables and group, and between fathers who did and did
      not use the web-based booster.

      Significance: The results will help in the design of educational interventions to mitigate
      risks, and optimize developmental outcomes for late preterm infants through enhancing
      fathers' interactions with their children, and complementing the effects of mothers'
      contributions to their children's development.
    
  