
    
      Acute rejection (AR) occurs within the first 6 months after transplantation in 20 percent of
      heart-transplant patients and in 50 percent of lung-transplant patients. Given the often
      silent clinical presentation of AR, these patients require monitoring with repeated invasive
      and costly endomyocardial (EMB) or transbronchial biopsies (TBBx). Since organ
      transplantation is essentially genomic transplantation, our prior studies leveraged the use
      of distinctive graft and recipient genotype single-nuclear polymorphisms (SNPs) to barcode
      donor DNA circulating in recipient serum. We have shown that levels of donor DNA measured as
      the percentage of circulating cell-free donor-derived DNA (%ccfdDNA) correlates with AR
      diagnosis and severity as detected by biopsy. The performance receiver operator curve (ROC)
      of %ccfdDNA yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.83. Using this technique, we can
      diagnose AR by measuring elevations in %ccfdDNA up to 5 months before EMB-detected pathology.
      While these findings suggest that monitoring %ccfdDNA may offer a high-performing,
      non-invasive, and early diagnostic tool of AR, further validation studies are required to
      determine its clinical utility. The ability to diagnose AR earlier than possible with a
      biopsy offers an opportunity to investigate the pathogenesis of rejection as well as to
      identify potential AR biomarkers. Thus, the primary objective of this study is to validate
      the predictive accuracy and ROC characteristics of %ccfdDNA for AR in a multicenter,
      prospective cohort study of heart- and lung-transplant patients, recruited through a
      consortium of 5 transplant centers in the Washington, DC metropolitan area. The secondary
      objective is to determine the association between early graft injury caused by acute
      rejection and infection and the development of chronic rejection, i.e.,chronic lung allograft
      dysfunction (CLAD) chronic allograft vasculopathy (CAV). The exploratory objectives are: 1)
      to compare %ccfdDNA characteristics in AMR (antibody-mediated rejection) and ACR (acute
      cellular rejection), 2) to study early immunological changes associated with a significant
      rise in %ccfdDNA, and 3) to examine changes in microbiome architecture and other cell-free
      nucleic acids in rejection.
    
  