
    
      5.1 Phase One This phase of the study is non-interventional. It involves two sections:
      training cohort and validation cohort.

      5.1.1 Training Cohort Such artificial intelligence models typically need a lot of data to be
      fed in, so that it can predict the results with a good accuracy. Since it uses machine
      learning, the accuracy gets better with each data set that is fed in. For the training
      cohort, prospective collection of videos on diagnostic OGD would be done. Selected
      endoscopists would be primed on the examination protocol. Patients would be sedated and given
      oral N-acetylcysteine 30 mins before the procedure. Investigators will record basic
      epidemiological, analytical and clinical data from patient records. ICD-10 diagnostic codes
      or similar diagnostic recording measures and recorded lab data will be used to determine
      diagnosis. The Procedure will be done using Olympus 290 systems under conscious sedation
      after informed written consent. The procedure will be recorded and the video file will be
      saved for future use. Images of suspected lesions and certain anatomic landmarks will also be
      saved like Esophagus (upper, middle, lower), gastroesophageal junction, fundus, body and
      antrum of stomach, incisura and pylorus and first and second part of duodenum. These images
      will also be used in initial training of the CADT. Since all endoscopic procedures in the
      endoscopy centre of Prince of Wales Hospital have been recorded since December 2018, some OGD
      that has been performed will be screened for quality and would also be used in this training
      cohort. 150-200 patient videos would be marked at different anatomical sites by trained
      endoscopists. These videos would be anonymized. The training cohort would be repeated until
      the sensitivity and specificity are over 90%.

      5.1.2 Validation Cohort After feeding these images to the software, a validation cohort would
      be performed. All consecutive patients undergoing diagnostic OGD meeting the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria in the Prince of Wales Hospital would be included in the study. The
      endoscopists would be blinded to the presence of the CADT and the standard protocol. The
      endoscopist would perform a diagnostic OGD as per usual practice. The procedure would be
      recorded and accessed by the CADT at the same time. The same video would be validated by a
      specialist endoscopist on the adequacy of the anatomical sites covered and the preparation of
      the stomach. This would be considered as the gold standard. The specialist endoscopist would
      be blinded to the result of the CADT. The CADT result would be compared against the
      specialist endoscopist. Sensitivity and specificity of the CADT results would be generated.
      If it is lower than 90%, further pictures/ videos have to be fed in for the training cohort.
    
  