
    
      Black Americans have over double the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias
      (ADRD) compared to Whites, thus increasing the number of family members providing care for a
      person living with dementia (PLWD) within this racial/ethnic group. Black American caregivers
      typically deal with the complexities of caregiving through the lens of race and associated
      health disparities. Due to the centuries-old disadvantaged social history of Black Americans,
      a number of unique stressors, vulnerabilities, but also resources, have emerged which could
      inform and affect Black American dementia caregivers' experiences and well-being. There is
      overwhelming evidence that Black American caregivers and their care recipients experience
      disparities in care, have lower rates of formal service use, and are generally under-treated.
      Now in this seemingly worst of times with the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic,
      the disparities are more apparent: Black Americans (13.4% of the population according to the
      2019 U.S. Census Bureau), account for approximately 25% of COVID-19 related deaths and are
      dying at a rate more than 1.5 times higher than their counterparts. The proposed CaRE Course
      is meant to address the cultural reality of caregiving while Black - not just during the
      pandemic, but beyond. The program seeks to develop caregiving mastery while and by
      understanding, acknowledging, and addressing the influence of race, culture, and disparities
      on caregivers' mental health, and their medical, spiritual, and safety needs.

      The researchers will first establish a preliminary competency-based course curriculum
      storyboard of 40-50 modules and draft scripts for the instructional videos that will anchor
      the CaRE course, through iterative Design Studio sessions with Black faith and community
      leaders, Black American caregivers, course faculty, COVID-19 specialists, dementia experts,
      and other clinical experts and working with Emory Nursing Experience instructional designers.
      Then, partnering with a variety of faith-based and community organizations and others, the
      researchers will identify a sample of Black American caregivers who will be invited to enroll
      in the CaRE Course and participate in formative and summative research related to its
      usability, salience, and preliminary efficacy.
    
  