
    
      This study will validate the accuracy of the BiliSpec device in measuring bilirubin levels in
      neonates relative to a laboratory spectrophotometric bilirubinometer (Reichert UNISTAT®
      Bilirubinometer) and transcutaneous bilirubinometer measurements.

      This study will enroll up to 500 neonates at Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital and Kamuzu
      Central Hospital each, for a total of up to 1000 neonates, at risk for jaundice based on
      clinical signs and symptoms or undergoing phototherapy for treatment of jaundice. During the
      pilot study, 100 participants were evaluated and 147 samples total were collected. However
      only 7 samples collected were over 20 mg/dL. In addition to confirming the accuracy of
      BiliSpec in this validation study, enough samples of clinically high bilirubin concentrations
      (>20mg/dL) will need to be collected to ensure the device functions properly over the
      intended dynamic range (0-35 mg/dL). To accomplish this, data from up to 500 participants at
      each location will be collected.

      Informed consent will be requested from the parents of all eligible babies on the ward for
      this study. If the guardian does not consent, the patient's bilirubin levels will be assessed
      using the standard of care on the ward.

      During the trial, the following steps will be taken:

      The trained study nurse will assess the subject for clinical complications before performing
      the necessary heel prick blood draw.

        -  A transcutaneous measurement of bilirubin and a heel stick will be performed on the
           neonate by a trained study nurse or clinician.

        -  One drop of blood will be collected on the sample card and immediately used for
           analysis. BiliSpec will be operated by a trained nurse or trained research assistant.

        -  Another drop of blood, collected in a capillary tube, will be centrifuged and then
           measured using the laboratory spectrophotometric bilirubinometer (Reichert UNISTAT®
           Bilirubinometer 1310310C). The spectrophotometric bilirubinometer will be operated by
           trained research assistants from the Rice department of bioengineering and the
           University of Malawi. Bilirubin concentration values measured by the gold standard
           laboratory bilirubinometer will be used to guide diagnosis.

      Measurements will be made at multiple time points as indicated clinically.

      The neonatal bilirubin concentration in mg/dL will be determined using the BiliSpec device,
      the gold standard laboratory spectrophotometric bilirubinometer, and the transcutaneous
      bilirubinometer described in the testing procedure. Measurements of bilirubin levels will be
      compared. All data will be recorded using a pre-determined data collection form. Analysis of
      the usability and robustness of BiliSpec will also be performed with regards to usability and
      device function by maintaining a log of any user error in using the device and a log of any
      observed device malfunctions. Data will also be collected on the effectiveness of BiliSpec to
      monitor neonates undergoing phototherapy.

      Personal identifiers will be removed and confidentiality of the subjects will be strictly
      preserved. The data will be kept on a secure server accessible only to the study personnel.
    
  