
    
      The study consists of gathering patient data from the chart and performing ultrasound
      measurements of inferior vena cava compressibility at the start of continuous renal
      replacement therapy (CRRT) in patients on the mechanical ventilator in the ICU. Ultrasound
      measurements on the abdomen, as well as recording of clinical data like intake/output,
      weight, pulse pressure variability, vasopressor requirement, nutrition requirement,
      ventilator settings, CRRT settings, and certain laboratory data will be performed at the
      start of the study and then daily for the next 3 days. On the 3rd day, 50 mL of dialysis
      waste fluid will be collected and stored for future analysis.

      At the start of the study, participants will be randomized to two groups. Study activities
      are identical between the two groups and both groups receive ultrasound measurements on the
      abdomen. However, in one group the attending nephrologist on the Acute Consult service will
      be provided with inferior vena cava compressibility measurement information each day before
      the start of rounds. Randomization will follow a predefined schedule, known only to the
      research coordinator, Laura Latta. At no time will the attending physicians receive the
      ultrasound measurements for the group randomized to not have their data shared.

      In addition, the resident, fellow, and attending on the Acute Consult service will be asked
      to assess the volume status of each participant at the start of the study and then daily for
      next 3 days. The volume assessment will consist of answering the following question, "Would
      you recommend fluid removal in this patient today (Yes/No/Unsure)?" The question will be
      asked verbally by Dr. Narasimha Krishna. Each individual's level of training (post-graduation
      year) and the response will be recorded. Individual names will not be recorded and responses
      will not be shared with the attending. Responses to this question are not anticipated to
      affect management of the participant.

      During the follow up phase, the electronic medical records will be checked at day 7 and day
      30 to determine if the participant is still in the intensive care unit, is still on the
      ventilator, or is still alive, or still in the hospital. Both groups will have the same
      follow up time.

      Primary outcome measures include: 1) Time to extubation; 2) Length of ICU stay; 3) Length of
      hospital stay; and 4) 30 day mortality.

      Secondary outcome measures include: 1) Difference in net fluid removal by CRRT at day 3
      between the 2 groups; 2) Agreement between volume assessment and inferior vena cava
      compressibility by level of training.
    
  