
    
      Mirror therapy (MT) has emerged as an effective treatment approach for stroke rehabilitation.
      To augment the effects of MT, one appealing approach is to combine MT with transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS) to promote neuroplasticity. However, it remains
      undetermined as to how tDCS may be effectively and efficiently applied in conjunction with
      MT. The long term goal of this project will be to identify the optimal combination approach
      of MT and tDCS to enhance recovery after stroke. The stimulation timing and location of tDCS
      in relation to MT will be varied, and the scientific evidence will be built upon by the
      evaluation of comprehensive outcome measures. This project will also investigate the possible
      electroencephalography (EEG) physiological and motor control mechanisms, and study predictors
      of treatment success to identify the appropriate patient population for the hybrid regimen.

      Specifically, the first aim of this project is to evaluate and compare the impact of tDCS
      stimulation location on augmenting MT effects. The tDCS will be applied either before or
      concurrently with MT, and will be applied either over primary motor cortex (M1) or premotor
      cortex (PMC). Outcome measures will include behavioral performances selected based on the
      International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) framework, EEG
      physiological measures, and kinematic control of upper extremity (UE) movements. All the
      outcome measures will be assessed before and immediately after the intervention, and only
      behavioral performances will be evaluated at 3- and 6-month follow-up. Investigators
      hypothesize that immediately after intervention, the participants who receive MT combined
      with tDCS will demonstrate greater improvements in the outcomes than those who receive MT
      with sham tDCS. Investigators also hypothesize that the stimulation location of tDCS will
      induce differential therapeutic effects on the outcome measures.

      The second aim of this study is to examine the retention performance of the behavioral
      outcomes at 3-and 6-month follow-up. Investigators hypothesize that the beneficial effects of
      the hybrid therapy will be retained 3 and 6 months post intervention.

      The third aim of this study is to perform subsequent analysis of exploring whether patients
      with primary motor cortex involved will respond to various types of treatment differently
      from those without primary motor cortex involved.

      The fourth aim of the study is to identify the characteristics of responders for the hybrid
      therapy. The possible predictors of post treatment changes in behavioral (the aspects of
      activities and participation), EEG physiological, and kinematic measures will be determined.
      Investigators hypothesize that the behavioral (the aspect of motor impairment), the EEG
      physiological and the kinematic measures will be good predictors for the treatment outcomes.
    
  