
    
      Although the prevalence of smoking has declined over the past 50 years, large disparities in
      tobacco use remain across several subgroups, particularly disadvantaged and health
      compromised populations. In fact, the initiation and maintenance of smoking is twice as
      likely for individuals living with HIV than individuals not living with HIV. Smokers living
      with HIV represent a major health disparity population in the United States (US) and the
      world more generally, and their unique healthcare needs are not being adequately addressed.
      For people living with HIV, smoking is related to poorer survival, and among those who are
      adherent to their antiretroviral treatment regimens, smoking reduces life expectancy more
      than HIV. A major contributing factor to the maintenance and relapse of smoking among smokers
      living with HIV is the increased exposure to multiple stressors associated with HIV (e.g.,
      compromised health status, stigma, cognitive impairment), which in turn, contributes to
      heightened anxiety/depression. Further, smokers living with HIV tend to rely on smoking to
      regulate their negative mood. As a result, smokers living with HIV require specialty care
      options that address their unique 'affective needs.' The proposed intervention is informed by
      the success of a recently completed research project (NCT01393301) in which the feasibility
      and acceptability of a 9-session, cognitive-behavioral therapy-based intervention to address
      smoking cessation and symptoms of anxiety and depression by targeting common processes
      underlying anxiety/depression (distress intolerance, anxiety sensitivity, anhedonia) was
      tested in a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) against an enhanced treatment as usual
      condition. Investigators named this intervention "QUIT". In the pilot RCT, smoking abstinence
      was significantly higher in the intervention than in the standard of care control at both the
      1-month follow-up (the end-of-treatment timepoint) and the 6-month follow-up, and anxiety and
      depressive symptom severity was lower in the intervention condition than the control
      condition at the same timepoints. The present study seeks to conduct a fully powered, 3-arm
      hybrid efficacy/effectiveness trial, integrating resource utilization and cost-effectiveness
      analyses. The investigators propose to randomize 180 smokers living with HIV across three
      implementation sites. Two-fifths of the sample (n = 72) will be randomized to the QUIT
      intervention; two-fifths (n = 72) to an active, credible time-matched control (TM) and
      one-fifth (n = 36) to a standard-of-care (SOC) control. The primary outcomes of this study
      will be point prevalence abstinence at the 1-Month Follow-Up (end of treatment timepoint/
      approximately 1-month post quit day) and 6-Month Follow-Up (approximately 6-months post quit
      day). Changes in anxiety/depressive symptom severity will also be examined, and
      cost-effectiveness analyses will be conducted.
    
  