
    
      This was a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, uncontrolled, single-arm treatment study
      of lenalidomide as monotherapy or in combination with dexamethasone in subjects with
      previously treated relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, with measurable myeloma
      paraprotein in serum and/or urine. Subjects who met all of the eligibility criteria were
      enrolled into the study. Screening procedures took place within 28 days of first dose.
      Subjects who qualified for participation received oral lenalidomide at a dose of 25 mg daily
      for 21 days every 28 days.

      Subjects had the following options for dexamethasone treatment at the discretion of the
      treating physician:

      Option A: No dexamethasone.

      Option B: Oral pulse dexamethasone administered at a dose of 40 mg daily on Days 1-4, 9-12,
      and 17-20 for each 28-day cycle.

      Option C: Oral pulse dexamethasone administered at a dose of 20 mg daily on Days 1-4, 9-12,
      and 17-20 for each 28-day cycle.

      Option D: Oral dexamethasone administered at a dose of 40 mg weekly on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22
      for each 28-day cycle for all cycles. Treatment was to be continued as tolerated until
      disease progression developed.

      Doses of lenalidomide were allowed to be reduced first from 25 mg to 15 mg and then in 5-mg
      decrements due to lenalidomide toxicity. Subjects who could not tolerate a daily dose of 5 mg
      for 21 days every 28 days were discontinued from treatment. At the discretion of the
      investigator, doses of dexamethasone were modified due to dexamethasone toxicity. Dose
      reduction and discontinuation schemes for dexamethasone varied according to the treatment
      option administered.

      Study visits occurred every 2 weeks for the first 3 cycles of therapy and then every 4 weeks
      after the third cycle until disease progression was documented, study drug was discontinued
      for another reason, or lenalidomide became commercially available for this indication.
    
  