
    
      Hypertension is common and one of the major risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
      Therefore, it is a major societal and economic health problem. A substantial proportion
      (20-40%) of the treated hypertensive patients has sub-optimal blood pressure control despite
      the use of multiple drugs. All these patients have an increased cardio-vascular risk.
      Furthermore, the use of multiple drugs diminishes compliance to treatment, and increases the
      risk of side effects. This underscores the need for new approaches for hypertension
      management. Elevated (renal) sympathetic nerve activity contributes importantly to the
      development of hypertension and subsequent vascular risk. Deliberate disruption of
      sympathetic nerve activity (sympatholytic therapy) leads to improvement of vascular outcome
      through blood pressure dependent and blood pressure independent effects. Recently, a
      promising novel sympatholytic approach has been introduced, i.e. catheter-based renal
      denervation in a small clinical trial with resistant hypertensive patients. Many clinical
      centres have now started to perform this procedure or are in the process to start up.

      The Dutch Minister of Health has decided to allow renal denervation in patients with so
      called resistant hypertension, and "conditional reimbursement" is available starting Jan 1st
      2013 for a maximum of 4 years. The Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and
      Development (ZonMw) has provided us with a grant to perform a randomized trial (SYMPATHY) to
      evaluate the effect on blood pressure at 6 months after intervention. Maximum follow-up in
      this trial will be 2 years. Important limitations of this study are, firstly that that
      follow-up is limited to 2 years after renal denervation. Secondly, not all patients that
      undergo renal denervation, will participate in the abovementioned trial. The Dutch National
      Renal Denervation Registry will complement the information from the trial in several aspects.
      These deal with safety, non-responders, and sustainability.

      Objectives of the national database are to collect data that will deliver information on:

      Safety:

        1. What are the short and long term procedural related complications?

           Responders

        2. What are the predictors for the effect on blood pressure, in particular patient related
           factors and procedural related factors?

        3. Are there differences between the various renal denervation devices?

           Sustainability

        4. What is the effect on blood pressure after (3), 6, (9), 12, (18), 24, (30), 36, and 60
           months and thereafter in patients who are considered eligible based on the judgement of
           the treating physician?

        5. What is the effect on kidney function after (3), 6, (9), 12, (18), 24, (30), 36, and 60
           months and thereafter in patients who are considered eligible based on the judgement of
           the treating physician?

        6. What are the cardiovascular events rates in this population, in strata of achieved blood
           pressure level, and potentially compared with other populations.

      Methods:

      With this database a nationwide cohort is build comprising patients treated with renal
      denervation over the years, with uniform baseline data collection and uniform follow-up
      measurements in terms of safety measurements, blood pressure measurements, hospitalisations,
      cardiovascular outcomes and all-cause mortality. The data collection will occur through a
      web-based data entry application. All centers in the Netherlands that perform renal
      denervation will be asked to participate. All patients who underwent renal denervation should
      be included, irrespective of the reason and device used.

      To address the outstanding research questions specific statistical analyses plans will be
      applied.

      Conclusion:

      Our expected results are:

        1. to be able to identify patients characteristics, which are associated with a high
           probability of a favourable blood pressure response to renal denervation,

        2. to provide short-and long-term (24 -60 months) side effects of renal denervation

      Perspective:

      These results, collected in routine clinical practice in a large number of clinics in the
      Netherlands, will have a major impact on the treatment of 'resistant hypertension'. The
      safety and efficacy data will pave the way for formal cost-effectiveness analyses. The data
      have the potential to be of high relevance to decision and policy makers in the government
      and health insurances. When deemed cost-effective and safe, this approach will be widely used
      in the treatment of 'resistant hypertension' and will revolutionise the treatment of these
      patients. Furthermore, it will open ways for evaluation of other groups of patients
      characterized by a high sympathetic tone; in particular patients with less severe
      hypertension, heart failure and chronic kidney disease.
    
  