
    
      This is a prospective, randomised, controlled study. Patients will be selected for this study
      who require bilateral laser trabeculoplasty for IOP control. Eyes will undergo a medication
      wash-out 4 weeks prior to the baseline study session (S1). There will be a security visit at
      2 weeks to make sure that the IOPs remain within a safe range. Following S1 both study eyes
      will receive laser treatment, as assigned by randomization, within a period of 2 weeks. Eyes
      will be randomized to receive the SLT (SLT eye) or PLT (PLT eye) treatment. Both laser
      procedures will be performed in one session (for 360° of the angle), if patients tolerate it.
      Otherwise, they will be split into two sessions (each treating 180° of the angle) to be
      performed within 1 week of each other. The same pre- and post-laser procedures will be
      applied on both eyes.

      After having signed and dated the patient informed consent form, patients will undergo an
      initial ophthalmic examination. The CLS will be placed on both eyes for a baseline 24-hour
      IOP pattern recording session (S1), within 2 weeks preceding the laser treatment. Patients
      will remain ambulatory and will be encouraged to follow a schedule as close to his/her usual
      lifestyle as possible. At hour 24, patients will return to the clinic, the device will be
      removed and a final ophthalmic examination will be conducted. Patient diary will be collected
      and concomitant medication will be reported.

      Following S1 both study eyes will receive either SLT or PLT laser treatment, as assigned by
      randomization (1:1), within a period of 2 weeks. The same pre- and post-laser procedures will
      be applied on both eyes.

      At S2 (1 month after laser treatment) patients will be randomized to 24-hour CLS recording on
      either the SLT or on the PLT eye (1:1). The same ophthalmic examinations as during S1 will be
      conducted and patient diary collected.

      At month 3 patients will be followed up with a slit lamp examination and IOP measurement. At
      months 6 and 12, patients will be seen for a complete ophthalmic examination including visual
      field exam (Octopus, Switzerland), optic nerve and retinal nerve fiber layer evaluation
      (Spectralis OCT, Germany). The overall study duration for the patient is limited to up to 14
      months.
    
  