
    
      Internalizing disorders (anxiety and depression) are among the most prevalent psychiatric
      disorders in youth (1, 2). Cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) is well-establed treatment
      for internalizing disorders (10-13). The evidence originates mostly from disorder-specific
      CBT for youth [e.g., (14, 15)]. However, the validity of specific diagnosis has been
      questioned, especially because of high symptom overlap between disorders (16-19) and the high
      rates of diagnostic comorbidity (20, 21). In addition, research has suggested that depressive
      comorbidity is associated with reduced treatment effectiveness for primary anxiety disorder
      (22-24) and vice versa (18). A recent meta-analysis, of the collective evidence of
      psychotherapy throught 50 years, revealed that there were no effects of disorder-specific
      psychotherapy for youths with one or more comorbid disorder (25). Which indicates that
      disorder-specific treatment is not sufficient for children with comorbidity.

      Transdiagnostic treatments have been developed and evaluated to address this problem. These
      treatments emphasize effective therapeutic principles which may be applied across multiple
      disorders (26, 27). Transidagnostic treatment may be more cost effective and practical than
      disorder-specific treatments as most therapists only need to be trained extensively in one
      protocol. Transdiagnostic treatments may also be easily learned by clinicians and especially
      in generalist settings where one transdiagnostic protocol can be offered to patients with
      various mental health problems instead of many offered to much fewer (28). Offering
      transdiagnostic treatment approach may better serve the diagnostically heterogeneous groups
      which seek help at general clinics instead of many different disorder-specific treatment
      protocols (25, 29). Transdiagnostic CBT protocols have been proved to be effective among
      adults with internalizing disorders (30-33) and also among youths (34-37) It has also been
      showed that transdiagnostic CBT was equally effective as anxiety disorder-specific protocol
      for adults with anxiety disorders (38)

      Treatment Our treatment is a brief group-based cognitive-behavioral treatment which was
      specifically designed for adolescents with impairing internalizing symptoms, or
      anxiety/depressive disorders seeking help at the Primary Health Care Clinics in Iceland. The
      treatment comprises eight weekly 110-minutes sessions were the following components are
      applied: (1) psychoeducation, (2) cognitive restructuring, (3), behavioral activation, (4)
      exposure, (5) problem solving, (6) social skills, and (7) mindfulness. The participants
      receive a workbook with outline of each sessions and assignments related to components (e.g.,
      (e.g., ABC workseets, exposure exercises). They are encouraged to practice skills learned in
      sessions between sessions. All parents attend two sessions. They receive detailed
      psychoeducation and are instructed in assisting their children with the homework assignments
      (week 1), and in week 6 they are instructed how to assist their children with exposure
      exercises. They also receive a workbook with outline of each sessions. The therapist also has
      at least one telephone call with each family to follow-up on exercises.

      Study design and participants The following study is a randomized controlled trial where
      participants are allocated to either eight weekly sessions of brief transidagnostic CBT or
      waitlist monitoring for clinical deterioration. We will randomize by using blockwise
      procedure determined by a computer-generated algorithm. To ensure that the randomization will
      not be predicted in advance, it will be centralized at the University of Iceland.
      Participants will be assigned to study group after being deemed eligible and undergoing
      consent.

      Assessment Participants will be assessed at baseline, midtreatment, posttreatment (week 8), 2
      months follow-up, 4 months follow-up, and 1-year follow-up.
    
  