
    
      Primary Objective:

      Aim of the TIGER study is to evaluate the distribution of lymph node metastases in esophageal
      carcinoma specimens following transthoracic esophagectomy with at least 2-field
      lymphadenectomy.

      Secondary Objective(s):

        -  Accuracy of preoperative diagnostics (especially EUS and PET-CT) and added value of EBUS
           (endobronchial ultrasonography) to existing staging with EUS (endoscopic
           ultrasonography)/PET-CT

        -  Prognostic value of different lymph node stations

        -  Three- and 5-year overall and disease free survival

        -  Distribution pattern of recurrence or metastases

        -  Number of harvested lymph nodes in patients who are treated with and without
           neo-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy

        -  Frequency of skip nodal metastases

        -  Ratio of nodal metastases inside and outside the radiation field o Lymph node metastases
           will be defined as inside or outside the radiation field nodes.

      Study design:

      TIGER is a multinational observational cohort study. The duration of the study will
      approximately be 7 years (2 years inclusion, 5 years follow-up). The participating centers
      are distributed over 18 countries.

      Sample size calculation:

      In 2012, the incidence of esophageal cancer was 456,000 new cases worldwide. Only a small
      percentage of patients with esophageal cancer present with curable disease at time of
      diagnosis. We aim to include all patients with resectable disease in participating centers in
      a 2 year time period. We aim to include 5000 patients. This number suffices for (i)
      descriptive purposes and (ii) clustering of metastases diffusion profiles into meaningful
      subgroups within predefined strata (patients with adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma,
      with and without neoadjuvant therapy, different tumor heights and invasion depths, and
      following a 2- or 3-field lymphadenectomy).

      Study procedures:

      Patients will not undergo any additional procedures for the study. This is an observational
      study only. Patients will be treated according to national guidelines.

      Follow-up:

      Patients will be followed up for 5 years after the operation according to national
      guidelines. Follow-up will be scheduled every three months the first year, every six months
      the second until the fourth year and once yearly until the fifth year. Investigations are
      performed according to national guidelines. In the Netherlands, these are performed on
      indication of patients' complaints.

      Statistical analysis:

      Primary study parameter(s):

      Numbers and percentages of resected lymph nodes and lymph node metastases will be given per
      lymph node station. Tumor location and invasion depth will be categorized. Patients with
      adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma and patients with and without neoadjuvant therapy
      will be analyzed separately. Also patients following a 2- or 3-field lymphadenectomy will be
      analyzed separately.

      Secondary study parameter(s) :

      The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of EUS and PET-CT
      will be reported. Perioperative morbidity and mortality will be summarized descriptively. For
      each patient group mentioned in 5.4, explorative cluster analyses will be done to identify
      subgroups of patients with different patterns of lymph nodes metastases, tumor locations and
      invasion depths. Potentially relevant other characteristics at the time of surgery like age,
      gender, tumor differentiation, vaso-invasive growth will be included in the analysis. No
      restrictions will be applied to the number of clusters in each analysis, but the ratio of the
      largest cluster size to the smallest cluster size should preferably not exceed the value of 3
      and/or the smallest cluster size should be minimally 30 patients. Characteristics introducing
      patient outliers will be excluded and one should further be able to attribute meaning to the
      resulting cluster profiles. Clusters that show the phenomenon of skip metastases will be
      noted. The resulting clusters will be evaluated for the diffusion pattern of future
      metastases during follow-up (descriptive analysis), the number of future metastases during
      follow-up (Poisson regression or generalized estimation equation, whichever appropriate), for
      3- and 5-year overall and disease free survival (Kaplan-Meier survival analysis).
      Multivariate analysis will be performed using the Cox hazard regression method. The
      univariate analysis, including all baseline parameters, will serve as the basis for the
      multivariate Cox hazard regression model. Variables showing association (p < 0.10) with
      survival in univariate analysis will be included in the multivariate analysis. Age and sex
      will be included in all multivariate analyses. Results are presented as hazard ratio with
      exact 95% confidence interval (95% CI). After 5-years of follow-up the efficacy index will be
      determined (incidence of metastases to an area (%) x 5-year overall survival rate (%)). A
      log-rank test, Mann-Whitney U test, or χ2-test will be used as indicated to compare groups. A
      value of p < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Statistical analysis will be
      performed with SPSS 21.0 software (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). No formal power analysis or
      sample size calculation will be performed, but the 5,000 inclusions will suffice for an
      exploratory study.

      Other study parameters:

      Baseline characteristics will be presented in a baseline table. Clinical and pathology data
      will be presented in separate tables.

      Study population:

      Central data management is organized via the secured TIGER database that can be found on
      TIGERstudy.net. Patient inclusion and data registration of these patients will be done by the
      participating local PI, surgeon or fellow for the center they are representing on the TIGER
      website. The local PI is responsible for the inclusion and data registration of all eligible
      patients in his or her center.

      All patients with resectable esophageal carcinoma undergoing transthoracic esophageal
      resection are eligible for inclusion.

      Patients will be treated according to national guidelines and may be neo-adjuvantly treated
      with chemotherapy or chemoradiation. An esophagectomy with a 2- or 3-stage lymphadenectomy
      will be performed followed by a gastric tube or colonic interposition for reconstruction. All
      lymph node stations will be excised and separately sent for pathological examination. Initial
      microscopic evaluation will be performed by standard H&E staining. In case of suspicion of
      micro-metastasis or isolated tumor cells in the lymph node, or in case of suspicion of
      residual tumor cells in patients with extensive response to neoadjuvant therapy, additional
      keratin stains will be performed. For the TIGER-study a new lymph node classification is
      designed, and lymph nodes will be recorded according to that classification system. Patients
      will be followed-up for 5 years after the operation.
    
  