
    
      Post-operative pulmonary complications, such as hypoxemia, pneumonia and respiratory failure,
      occur in 5-10% of patients following abdominal surgery. These post-operative pulmonary
      complications result in increased morbidity, mortality, ICU admission, length of hospital
      stay and resource use.

      CPAP has shown to be an effective treatment for hypoxemia following abdominal surgery. It
      decreases atelectasis formation the risk of pneumonia. Application of nCPAP to treat
      hypoxemic respiratory failure following thoraco-abdominal surgery has shown to decrease
      endotracheal intubation.

      Nasal CPAP has shown to be effective prophylaxis following elective cardiac and
      thoraco-abdominal aortic surgery. It reduces the incidence of hypoxemia, pneumonia,
      re-intubation and re-admission to the ICU. It has also shown to decrease the length of
      hospital stay.

      The use of nCPAP immediately post-operatively in the PACU following abdominal surgery has not
      been evaluated. Nasal CPAP is better tolerated than full face mask CPAP. It allows for
      effective clearance of respiratory secretions, improved communication and decreases
      claustrophobic sensation. The PACU is a transition period from general anaesthesia into the
      post-operative recovery phase. During this time, residual anaesthetic causes decreased level
      of consciousness and sub-optimal respiratory effort. Reversal agent for neuromuscular
      blockade has often not reached its peak effect. Inadequate pain control may further decrease
      respiratory effort. This transition period may be when maximal atelectasis of alveolar lung
      units occurs. This time period may be optimal for the application of nCPAP for prophylaxis
      against hypoxemia. It may improve post-operative pulmonary function which could decrease
      post-operative morbidity, mortality, length of hospital stay and resource use.
    
  