
    
      This protocol will allow for the evaluation of a wireless measuring device for core body
      temperature and a comparison to the data taken with a rectal thermometer, during a Whole Body
      Hyperthermia (WBH) in various subject populations. The primary objective of the proposed
      study is a potential change from wired core body temperature measurement with a rectal
      thermometer to an indigestible thermometer with wireless technology.

      The recent standard for measuring core body temperature during WBH procedures is the use of
      an indwelling rectal thermometer to constantly monitor the temperature for safety and for
      research reasons. Experiences from different clinics and research groups, including ours,
      show a high drop-out rate of potential study participants and patients, because of the
      discomfort of self-inserting a rectal thermometer for the treatment in a Whole-Body
      Hyperthermia. A wireless and reliable measuring technology would open this treatment for
      participants, who are declining their participation due to the indwelling thermometer. This
      device will exit the subject's body via bowel movement 1-5 days following ingestion and will
      not be reused.

      Due to the proximity of the indwelling thermometer to the surface of the body, the
      temperature does not reflect the real core body temperature and preliminary data, taking by
      our group, suggest a significant, but stable difference between core body temperatures
      measured with an indigestible device, compared to the temperature taken with the rectal
      probe. WBH treatments, currently studied by our group at the University of Arizona, are of
      mild nature and the constant infra-red heating is stopped, as soon as a patient reaches the
      rectal temperature of 38.5 C. Due to the fact, that the bodies surface is heated up through
      the infrared exposure, the investigators assume, that the core body temperature will be
      lower, compared to the rectal temperature. A validation study in 20 subjects therefore is
      necessary to determine the differences in the measuring methods. This is especially
      important, as the end-point of the treatments is defined by the core body temperature, and
      different endpoints by switching from one measuring method to the other, without validation,
      would potentially bias the study results.

      Receiving a treatment in the WBH machine is of non-significant risk and can be compared to
      e.g. a sauna visit or an intense exercise, in terms of the physiological reaction. It is
      currently studied by our group for the treatment of Major Depressive Disorder, PTSD and other
      chronic illnesses. This trial however will not be limited to only include individuals with
      MDD or PTSD, but will allow for an expanded use in all populations (while still excluding
      subjects based on safety parameters). The investigators will monitor subject's physiological
      and clinical outcomes (if applicable) from a single Whole Body Hyperthermia treatment in an
      open fashion (no placebo/control condition). This study will include safety assessments
      several days prior to or same day as the WBH, and include follow-up assessments 1 day and 1
      week later.
    
  