
    
      The National Assessment of Educational Progress estimates that only 35% of fourth graders in
      the United States are able to read at or above grade level. Children's future academic
      success is accurately predicted by performance in the first three years of school. A student
      is four times more likely to drop out of high school if he or she is not reading proficiently
      by the end of third grade. High school dropouts are three times more likely to be unemployed
      than college graduates per US Bureau of Labor Statistics in 2018, and those who are employed
      earn an average of 61% less over the course of their lifetimes compared to their
      college-educated peers per US Census Bureau in 2012. Eighty-five percent of juveniles facing
      trial in the court system are functionally illiterate per National Criminal Justice Reference
      Service in 2003, and adolescent girls with low literacy skills are five times more likely to
      become pregnant than teenagers who can read at or above grade level.

      Despite the preponderance of data expounding a literacy crisis in the US, the status quo of
      reading instruction in US elementary schools has not been effective in remediating functional
      illiteracy. In classrooms averaging 21.6 students, teachers are unable to provide the
      individualized instruction that is necessary to meet the learning needs of at-risk students.
      Reading specialists who work with children one-on-one and in small groups employ methods
      similar to those of classroom teachers, requiring children to sit quietly and sustain their
      attention on small print. These demands are difficult for children experiencing challenges
      with self-regulation, and school environments requiring these behaviors for several hours
      each day may inculcate feelings of frustration and failure in the children who most need to
      develop a sense of self-efficacy as readers with full membership in the world of print. In
      this study, twenty-four first graders will be assigned by chance to a reading or no-reading
      group.
    
  