
    
      While increasing numbers of patients with advanced lung disease are candidates for lung
      transplantation, the short- and long-term outcomes are severely compromised by graft
      dysfunction, primarily in the form of organ rejection. The earliest manifestation of lung
      allograft dysfunction, termed primary graft dysfunction (PGD), represents a form of
      ischemia-reperfusion acute lung injury, and occurs in its severest form (Grade 3) in from 10
      to 35% of lung transplant recipients 1-6. PGD is the primary cause of early morbidity and
      mortality after transplantation and is strongly associated with the late development of
      chronic lung rejection or Bronchiolitis Obliterans Syndrome (BOS. Early graft dysfunction
      contributes significantly to the suboptimal outcomes of lung transplantation and to the
      failure of lung transplant recipients to achieve five-year survival rates comparable to
      patients who receive other solid organs such as the heart and liver. The risk of PGD further
      limits the time that lungs can be stored ex-vivo, therefore restricting the pool of available
      donors. A critical advance in the prevention of both early and late lung allograft
      dysfunction will occur if PGD can be successfully prevented or minimized.

      In this study, the investigators propose to test the hypothesis that administration of Sodium
      Nitrite to donor lungs and lung transplant recipients at the time of transplantation will be
      safe and will reduce the incidence of grades 2 and 3 PGD, thereby improving clinical outcomes
      with minimal toxicity.

      Sodium Nitrite will be obtained from a commercial preparation (Hope Pharmaceuticals) and the
      UPMC Pharmacy will prepare the formulations, which will be infused at three time points.
      First it will be infused into the preservation solution bag at the time of organ procurement
      from the donor, then to the allograft at the time of transplantation, and finally as a direct
      infusion into the organ recipient.

      The investigators plan to enroll total of 8 subjects undergoing lung transplantation for this
      Phase 2 observational non-randomized pilot investigation to evaluate the safety, efficacy,
      and pharmacokinetics of Sodium Nitrite administration when administered to the procured lung
      and lung transplant recipient, for the prevention of Primary Graft Dysfunction (PGD). It is
      anticipated that positive results from this trial lead to a larger clinical investigation of
      Sodium Nitrite administration directed at producing a reduction in PGD and perhaps secondary
      obliterative bronchiolitis; and will potentially allow for extended organ storage, extended
      use of more marginal organs, and more effective use of Donation after Cardiac Death (DCD)
      organs which undergo combination of warm and cold ischemia for organ procurement.
    
  