
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a demyelinating inflammatory disease that is one of the most
      common neurological causes of disability in young adults. Besides physical disability,
      fatigue is a very common symptom present in 76 to 92% of people with MS. The 1998 Multiple
      Sclerosis Council for clinical practice guidelines published a consensus definition:
      subjective lack of physical and/or mental energy that is perceived by the individual or
      caregiver to interfere with the usual and desired activity. Although fatigue may be difficult
      to differentiate from sleepiness, it is a clinically different symptom. Sleepiness is the
      tendency to fall asleep or doze off. Some reports that the prevalence of moderate to severe
      sleep problems in MS is significantly higher than in the general population 51.5% vs 33.1%.
      It has also been reported that poor sleep can correlate with depression in subject with MS.
      Few studies have examined the effect of stimulants, amantadine or modafinil for treatment of
      fatigue and have shown contradictory data as effective treatments in MS patients.

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) has also been seen described in MS. Few case reports studies
      have reported that MS patients with OSA treated with continuous positive airway pressure
      (CPAP) had improvement in fatigue but not quality of life. Although the prevalence of OSA in
      the MS population is unknown, it may as much as twice as common as in the general population,
      which is 3 to 7%. Aside from the increased risk of daytime sleepiness, mood disorders,
      cardiovascular risk factors and accidents, OSA has also been implicated in increasing
      inflammatory markers like tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α). Elevation in TNF-α has also been
      seen in MS patients complaining of fatigue, which is thought to play a role in
      pathophysiology of fatigue in MS. The rational of this study is to determine if treatment of
      OSA with CPAP in MS patients improves fatigue. If effective, CPAP may not only decrease the
      risk of long term complications but may also improve the quality of life and daily living of
      these patients.
    
  