
    
      We hypothesize that a majority of patients admitted to an inpatient psychiatric service for
      an acute exacerbation of schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or bipolar I disorder will
      have plasma levels of antipsychotic below the lower threshold of the accepted therapeutic
      range as determined by the Arbeitsgemeinschaft fur Neuropsychopharmakologie und
      Pharmakopsychiatrie (AGNP). We aim to estimate the frequency of total and partial
      non-compliance with antipsychotics in adults with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or
      bipolar I disorder who are admitted to an inpatient psychiatric service with psychosis. In
      order to do so, we will measure serum levels of five commonly prescribed antipsychotics
      (risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, paliperidone and aripiprazole) drawn in the emergency
      room setting to establish the degree of compliance in admitted patients. On admission to the
      inpatient psychiatry service, blood is routinely drawn on all patients via single
      venipuncture for review of basic laboratory values; 2 tubes are typically drawn.
      Investigators will collect a third tube (approximately 2-3 mLs) on all patients prescribed
      one of the above medications who are admitted with a psychotic decompensation. This will
      continue until 100 patients are enrolled. The extra blood will be sent for determination of
      serum level of the drug in question. Each subject will be assigned a unique identification
      number generated by the principle investigator, and data will be coded using this number. The
      following data: age, gender, ethnicity, body mass index, specific diagnosis, and prescribed
      dosage of the drug in question will be obtained from the subject's medical records. We will
      then use the AGNP expert group consensus guidelines for therapeutic drug monitoring to
      determine the degree of compliance in the specific patient. All data will be obtained from
      information available to the clinician (demographic data and previous dosing) or obtained
      from the small additional blood sample. Samples will not be stored for future use; residual
      samples will be destroyed. For the purposes of this exploratory pilot study we are primarily
      interested in determining the proportion of patients receiving any of five antipsychotic
      drugs who have blood levels below an expected therapeutic range. 100 subjects will permit an
      initial estimate with reasonable confidence intervals. We will also carry out exploratory
      analyses to examine the relationship between lower than expected blood levels and diagnostic
      and demographic patient characteristics. This will help to inform future research projects
      and clinical initiatives.
    
  