
    
      Inclusion Criteria

        -  Subjects who are patients at Colorado Springs Cardiology (CSC) or Penrose-St. Francis
           Health Services.

        -  Patients who are between 55-80 years of age.

        -  Subjects actively in an episode of paroxysmal, or persistent AF (who are expected to
           receive treatment and converted back to sinus rhythm (through antiarrhythmic drug
           therapy, direct current cardioversion, ablation or Maze/Minimally invasive Maze
           procedure).

        -  Subjects with a history of AF who have had >3 documented episodes of AF over the
           preceding 12 months and meet all other inclusion/exclusion criteria can pre-enroll. The
           cognition tests will be administered during the patient's next captured AF episode.

      Method of Recruitment

        -  Study participants will be recruited after it is determined that they are acutely in an
           episode of AF by a standard of care 12-lead EKG, during an outpatient clinical visit
           (established patient clinical visits, consultations, or new patient visits) at CSC, or
           when being consulted on or rounded on at Penrose Hospital or St. Francis Medical Center.

        -  A baseline 12 lead EKG at recruitment will establish or confirm the presence of AF

        -  The research personnel will review the consent for the study with the patient while they
           are in the CSC office or the patient's room if they are recruited during their time
           admitted to Penrose-St. Francis Health Services. After the patient has signed the
           consent, patient eligibility will be confirmed and the study process will continue.

        -  Patients of CSC with a known history of AF with be contacted with information on the
           study. If the patient is interested and have had >3 documented episodes of AF over the
           preceding 12 months they will be invited to pre-enroll in the study with the intention
           of having the subject already enrolled in the study before their next episode of AF.

      Procedure:

      The study involves an observational study design. Before the study begins:

      • All nursing and study personnel participating in the study will undergo routine in-service
      notification/training about the study.

      After the study is open:

        -  While a potential participant at CSC, Penrose Hospital, or St. Francis Medical Center,
           patients who are determined to be in an active episode of AF by 12 Lead EKG, will be
           informed about the research study by research personnel and if they are interested in
           participating, the research personnel will proceed with the informed consent.
           Alternatively, patients of CSC with a known history of AF will be sent information on
           the study. If they are interested and have had > 3 documented episodes of AF over the
           preceding 12 months they will be invited to pre-enroll in the study (even when in normal
           rhythm) with the intention of having the subject already enrolled in the study before
           their next episode of AF.

        -  After receiving informed consent and confirming eligibility, patients will have vital
           signs performed according to standard of care and a history taken. The subject will then
           be asked to answer the Cambridge Cognition test while in AF. This can happen on the same
           date the informed consent is performed.

        -  If a patient decides to drop out of the study after signing the consent form routine
           clinical care will be followed.

        -  The Cambridge Cognition test will be performed again at any point after 5 days from the
           termination of the AF episode after a 12 lead EKG confirms that they are no longer in AF
           (including after spontaneous conversion, pharmacologic cardioversion, electrical
           cardioversion, ablation or Maze procedure).

        -  The results of each subject's cognitive testing while in an acute episode of AF
           (experimental) will be compared to the results of the same subject's results in normal
           rhythm (control).

        -  Should a patient's AF episode not resolve within 6 months' time of the documented AF
           episode on the EKG the patient will be screen-failed and exited from the study without
           having taken the follow-up cognition test. All data collected prior to the subject exit
           will be kept for data analysis.

      Number of Subjects Previous similar studies suggest various findings for their effect size11.
      However, all the findings have been consistently supporting association between atrial
      fibrillation and cognitive impairment. Based upon a power of 80% and alpha of 0.05, most of
      the studies suggesting a need of over 400 subjects (98-472), therefore up to 600 subjects
      will be recruited in this study with a goal of obtaining data on at least 400 participants.

      PROCEDURES TO MINIMIZE RISKS To minimize risks associated with breach of confidentiality all
      data will be entered into Centura work stations where clinicians enter patient data into the
      Electronic Medical Record (EMR), which is the patient's clinical record, that includes
      firewall and password protection. Data pertinent to this study will be transferred to a
      Centura Health password protected computer in a non-identifiable manner. All identifiable
      data will be kept in a key protected room only accessible by the research staff.

      To minimize risks associated with psychological discomfort as a result of taking the
      Cambridge Cognition test or its results, breaks will be given where appropriate and the
      patient will be reminded frequently that they may stop the test at any time should they feel
      uncomfortable.
    
  