
    
      Background:

      The treatment of chronic wounds requires time and resources. Optimized resource utilization
      in treatment of chronic wounds is of medical and economic interest.

      Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) is widely used for the treatment of chronic wounds and
      surgical site infections. NPWT is indicated for the treatment of diabetic leg ulcers, lower
      leg ulcers as a result of peripheral arterial occlusive disease, pressure wounds, surgical
      incisional wounds, traumatic wounds, burns, infected wounds, necrotizing fasciitis, infected
      sternal wounds, and after skin grafting to facilitate healing. The polyurethane foam of the
      NPWT is directly applied to a wound bed and sealed with a transparent occlusive film prior to
      application of a negative pressure at 75 to 125 mmHg continuous suction. Prolonged placement
      of the foam in the wound bed results in tissue ingrowth. Then, removal of the foam becomes
      increasingly difficult and is often accompanied by pain, bleeding, and traumatization of the
      healing wound. Therefore, various efforts have been made to decrease wound tissue damage and
      pain during dressing change, including the use of different primary wound fillers,
      administration of topical analgesics or placement of various interface dressings. Yet, the
      effect of a non-adherent polymeric interface dressing on wearing time and frequency of
      dressing changes has not been studied.

      Methods:

      Sixty consecutive patients with chronic wounds of lower extremities or surgical site
      infections after revascularization are randomly allocated to either treatment with
      conventional negative pressure wound therapy (VAC arm, control) or negative pressure wound
      therapy with additional polymeric interface dressing (VAC + PolyMem® WIC, WICVAC, study arm).
      The polymeric membrane dressing is applied as direct wound contact layer, covered with the
      polyurethane foam dressing of the NPWT. The pink polymeric membrane dressing, which is left
      partially visible at the margin of the wound bed under the black polyurethane foam, serves as
      color indicator for the time-point of dressing change upon loss of the pink color. Patient
      characteristics, wound size at each dressing change, pain during treatment and the number of
      dressing changes needed until wound closure are documented.

      Statistical analysis Sample size estimation was based on detecting a 20% difference in the
      number of dressing changes in favor of the WICVAC - study arm, with a type I error of 0.05
      and type II error of 0.2. At least 23 patients are required for each study arm. Data are
      analyzed for statistical distribution. Due to skewed data distribution Mann-Whitney-U tests
      are applied for assessment of differences in primary and secondary endpoints.
    
  