
    
      Recombinant growth hormone (rhGH) treatment is widely used in France to normalize height
      during childhood and final height in children born small for gestational age (SGA). Because
      rhGH has been associated with increased insulin levels and insulin resistance, concern has
      been expressed regarding the late consequences of rhGH treatment on risk factors for diabetes
      mellitus type II and metabolic syndrome, especially in possibly predisposed subjects as SGA
      children.

      Because rhGH use in this population will sharply increase in the coming years, our purpose is
      to identify and analyze factors that predispose these children born SGA to the metabolic
      consequences of rhGH therapy.

      The main objective of this study is to identify and analyze factors implicated in the
      variability of the metabolic and growth responses to rhGH treatment in children born SGA. We
      want to:

        -  Quantify the metabolic effects of rhGH treatment by analyzing insulin levels, insulin
           sensitivity and lipid profile (lipolysis and ketogenesis);

        -  Evaluate the effects of two different rhGH regimens on the growth of children born SGA;

        -  Determine if the metabolic effects of rhGH therapy correlate to the growth responses in
           the two groups;

        -  Identify factors, especially genetic factors, responsible for the variations in
           individual metabolic and growth-promoting effects of rhGH in children born SGA.

      This is a randomized, open-labeled, 2-year study, which will compare two regimens of rhGH
      therapy on the growth responses and metabolic effects in short children born SGA.

      100 prepubertal, non GH deficient, short children (height < -3 SDS) born SGA (birth height <
      -2 SDS) will be randomized to receive either the recommended dose in the EU of rhGH
      (Norditropine SimpleXx®), or the dose to achieve a "treat-to target" value of IGF-1 levels
      within a +1.5 to +2.5 SDS interval (starting dose, 0.067 mg/kg/day) for 24 months.

      Metabolic effects of rhGH treatment will be evaluated by body mass index (BMI), fasting
      insulin and glucose levels, HOMA index of insulin resistance, insulin and glucose levels
      during OGTT, HbA1C and fasting serum lipids (free fatty acids, 3-hydroxybutyrate, total
      cholesterol, LDL and HDL cholesterol, triglycerides). Height, growth velocity, IGF-1 and
      IGF-BP3 levels will evaluate growth response of rhGH treatment.

      Polymorphisms of different genes of the signaling pathway of GH and insulin will be analyzed
      in order to search for those possibly responsible for the variability in metabolic and growth
      responses during rhGH treatment in SGA children.
    
  