
    
      This is a pilot study to investigate the feasibility of a novel MRI technique to assess the
      severity of liver cirrhosis and predict complications based on functionality and perfusion
      measurements whilst maintaining image quality.

      Recruitment:

      Twenty (20) patients with cirrhosis who attend the Leeds Liver Unit at St James's University
      Hospital will be purposively selected by members of the research team who are also part of
      the usual care team for these patients in advance of scheduled clinic visits. The selection
      will be in a way to encompass the full clinical spectrum of liver function within cirrhosis.

      Scan:

      An intravenous cannula will be inserted to the patient's arm by the radiographer, for the
      automated administration of contrast agent during the scan. The participant will be asked to
      remain still on his/her back throughout the duration of the scan.

      Patients will undergo a full MRI protocol including morphological imaging, fibrosis scoring
      tests based on relaxometry and diffusion maps, and the novel functional technique.

      After the scan:

      The participant will not have to attend any extra clinics or scan appointments. The research
      team (that includes members of the participants ongoing care team) will continue to track the
      health condition of the participant over a long-term period (5 years) to collect information
      with regards to clinical events such as hospital admissions, change in treatment, further
      procedures and death. The clinical follow-up information will be collected as part of routine
      care through scheduled ongoing outpatient appointments.

      The data acquired during the scans will be analysed using a novel method to quantify liver
      function and the liver images will be reviewed by an expert radiologist to ensure that the
      quality of these is sufficient for future clinical application. A cross-sectional data
      analysis will be performed to identify associations between the functional biomarkers and
      clinical indices for the assessment of liver fibrosis.
    
  