
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety, tolerability and feasibility of ipilimumab and nivolumab when
      administered concurrently with reduced-field radiotherapy (intensity-modulated radiation
      therapy [IMRT]).

      II. To evaluate the clinical complete response rate to ipilimumab, nivolumab and IMRT with
      reduced field at six months as indicated by fluorodeoxyglucose - positron emission
      tomography/computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) post completion of radiation therapy (RT).

      III. To evaluate the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate of subjects with
      low-intermediate volume, local-regionally advanced, human papilloma virus (HPV)-positive
      squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) treated with ipilimumab, nivolumab and
      reduced-field IMRT.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall response rate to six weeks of induction immunotherapy (IO).

      II. To evaluate the frequency of pharyngeal dysphasia as measured by Dynamic Imaging (Dynamic
      Imaging Grade of Swallowing Toxicity [DIGEST]) grade on modified barium swallow (MBS) and
      patient-reported symptoms (MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory [MDADI]) at 6 month, 1 and 2 years
      after radiotherapy ([IMRT].

      III. To measure acute and chronic toxicities per Patient-Reported Outcomes Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE PRO).

      IV. To measure acute toxicity profiles at the end of radiation therapy and IO and at 6
      months.

      V. To measure late toxicity profiles at 1 and 2 years. VI. To determine local and regional
      control at 6 and 12 months. VII. To determine patterns of failure (local-regional relapse vs.
      distant) at 1 and 2 years.

      VIII. To determine overall survival (OS) at 1 and 2 years.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate associations between total mutational load, interferon (INF) gamma score, T
      cell clonality at diagnosis with clinical response to induction, combination CTLA-4 PD-1
      checkpoint blockade.

      II. To evaluate changes in the tumor immune microenvironment (CD8 + INF gamma score, T cell
      clonality, in tumor biopsy specimens pre and post induction immunotherapy (IO).

      III. To evaluate dynamic changes in and clearance of oral HPV and cell-free deoxyribonucleic
      acid (cfDNA) viral load during therapy and to investigate associations with PFS and OS.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate changes in peripheral blood lymphocyte phenotypes and serum cytokine profiles
      before and after induction IO.

      II. To evaluate changes in the T cell receptor repertoire in tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte
      (TIL) and the peripheral blood in tumor biopsy specimens pre and post induction IO.

      III. To determine the negative and positive predictive values (NPV and PPV) of FDG-PET/CT
      12-14 weeks after end of RT for 1 year and 2 year PFS and OS.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 and
      ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every for 6 weeks for 2 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on day 1 of cycle 2,
      patients also undergo IMRT 5 days a week (Monday-Friday) for 6 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, every 3 months for
      2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  