
    
      At CHR the investigators have been using DHEA supplementation to improve ovarian response to
      ovulation induction for in vitro fertilization for about five years (Barad, Brill et al.
      2007; Barad, Weghofer et al .2009; Gleicher, Ryan et al. 2009; Gleicher, Weghofer et al.
      2010; Gleicher and Barad 2011). Our views on the effect of androgens on the follicular
      environment have recently been reviewed (Gleicher, Weghofer et al. 2011). A recent analysis
      of androgen metabolites of DHEA in our patients suggested that women who successfully respond
      to DHEA supplementation with increased egg production and clinical pregnancy had testosterone
      above the normal median values for reproductive age women. There also appears to be a cohort
      of women who did not respond to DHEA and who had very low serum testosterone. The
      investigators decided to investigate if supplementing those women with testosterone to the
      normal female range would improve ovarian function and possibly increase pregnancy rates.

      Recruitment & Experimental Plan

        -  A baseline blood draw following completion of 6 weeks of DHEA supplementation will
           determine eligibility for the study. The baseline blood determinations are part of the
           standard pre cycle screening at CHR for all patients.

        -  After signing informed consent subjects will be randomly assigned to either active
           testosterone cream treatment or placebo.

        -  Active treatment will consist of a testosterone delivery system that will deliver
           transdermal testosterone cream(0.5 mg per gram of cream.) The cream and placebo cream
           will be compounded by Metro Drugs (New York, NY) and dispensed in calibrated pump that
           will deliver one gram of cream per stroke. Transdermal absorption is about 10% so 2
           grams (1.0 mg) per day applied to the skin will deliver about 100 ug per day. In
           preliminary analysis we have determined that a 2 gram dose of this preparation will
           raise total testosterone to our target range of between 50 and 100 ng/dL.

        -  The dose of testosterone cream will be 2 grams of cream per day applied to the left
           inner forearm. The study medication will continue to be applied for 6 weeks.

        -  All patients with evidence of diminished ovarian reserve in our practice are treated
           with DHEA. Thus, patients in this study will be receiving DHEA + testosterone or DHEA +
           Placebo. Patients who achieve a level of serum testosterone in the desired range using
           DHEA alone will not be eligible for this study.
    
  