
    
      Background: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is characterized by a major loss of
      lung volume due to alveolar flooding, atelectasis and consolidation[1]. Positive
      end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is applied to recruit non-aerated or poorly aerated lung
      tissue, and thus may improve gas exchange in patients with ARDS[2]. However, PEEP may also be
      harmful by overdistending the previously open lung tissue. The potential effectiveness and
      benefit of high PEEP levels depends on the patient's recruitability. Previous techniques for
      assessing recruitability are usually reserved for clinical research (computed tomography,
      multiple pressure-volume curves)[3-4] or need special equipment. A simple, feasible bedside
      method to assess the individual needs for PEEP in terms of recruitability seem essential to
      improve the prognosis of this syndrome. The investigators therefore propose a simplified
      approach derived from our previous study[5] to estimate alveolar recruitability at the
      bedside.

      Objectives: The major aim is to test the hypothesis that this simplified approach is a valid
      method for assessing alveolar derecruitment at the bedside in comparison to direct
      measurements of lung volume and derecruitment.

      Methods: This physiological study will enroll 30 patients from the three Intensive Care Units
      at St. Michael's Hospital in two years. All patients will be passively ventilated at two PEEP
      levels (15 cmH2O and 5 cmH2O) and the plateau pressure will be limited to less than 35 cmH2O.
      Respiratory mechanics, lung volumes (using the nitrogen washout/washin technique),
      quasi-static Pressure-Volume curves, lung ultrasound, and arterial blood gases will be
      assessed at each PEEP level. In patients who already have an esophageal catheter in place,
      Pes will also be measured.

      Data Analysis: The primary endpoint is the correlation and bias between the Vder estimated by
      our approach and the one measured by the multiple P-V curves technique through paired tests,
      correlations and Bland and Altman analysis
    
  