
    
      This investigation will be the first of its kind to conduct a clinical trial of an industrial
      hemp-derived product in individuals with anxiety. Despite the recent interest in medical
      cannabis and cannabinoid-based products, the availability of hemp-derived products in all 50
      states, and anecdotal evidence suggesting that hemp-derived products may have a profound
      anxiolytic effect, no studies have conducted a clinical trial of a hemp-derived product in
      individuals who suffer from anxiety.

      This investigation is composed of two phases. Phase 1 is comprised of a six-week open-label
      clinical trial of the custom formulated hemp-derived high-CBD solution in individuals with
      anxiety. Participants will be pre-screened by phone in order to evaluate their eligibility
      for the study. If approved, participants will come to the hospital for a baseline/screening
      visit, and will complete a structured clinical interview, clinical and quality of life
      questionnaires, and cognitive assessments. Enrolled participants will be given study product
      to use for the duration of the study; participants will be instructed to self-administer the
      solution under the tongue twice daily for six weeks. Throughout the treatment period,
      participants will complete short in-person or phone visits on a weekly basis, where they will
      complete questionnaires about their mood and quality of life. Participants will also return
      to the hospital for a final visit after six weeks of treatment to complete additional
      questionnaires and cognitive assessments.

      Phase 2 of the study is a double-blind clinical trial of this solution in patients with
      anxiety. This double-blind trial will begin after the open-label trial has been completed. In
      the same manner as the open-label trial, participants will be pre-screened by phone, and
      approved participants will come to the hospital for a baseline/screening visit to complete a
      structured clinical interview, questionnaires, and cognitive assessments. Eligible
      participants will also have the option to complete an hour-long MRI scan at the baseline and
      final visits. Enrolled participants will receive either CBD solution or placebo solution to
      self-administer throughout the six week treatment period, as described above. Participants
      will complete in-person visits and phone check-ins during the treatment period to complete
      questionnaires about their mood and quality of life. Participants in this phase of the study
      will also return for a final visit after six weeks of treatment to complete additional
      questionnaires, cognitive assessments, and an optional MRI scan.
    
  