
    
      1. Compare overall survival and disease-free survival of patients with acute myeloid
           leukemia classified according the European LeukemiaNet treated in participating South
           American hospitals with the results reported in developed countries.

        2. Compare overall survival and disease-free survival of patients with AML low or
           intermediate risk treated with two cycles of cytarabine in intermediate dose versus one
           cytarabine cycle at the same dose followed by autologous SCT as consolidation. The risk
           will be established according to the classification of the European LeukemiaNet.

        3. Create a network of institutions in developing countries that will perform AML
           diagnosis, risk classification, treatment, supportive care and follow-up evaluation
           according to a common protocol and will register data using common clinical research
           forms (CRFs) in a single database and available on the internet

        4. Using National Reference Laboratories, provide cytogenetic and molecular methods for all
           institutions participating in the network, thus allowing rapid diagnosis and risk
           stratification of AML cases according to the European LeukemiaNet structure;

        5. Develop a method of assessing minimal residual disease based on flow cytometry adapted
           to local resources and capable of guiding therapeutic decisions;

        6. Determine the time interval between: a) diagnosis and risk group determination; b) the
           first cycle of consolidation chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem cells
           infusion;

        7. Determine the frequency and etiologic agent of infections associated with treatment, the
           number and average duration of hospitalization due to episodes of neutropenia;

        8. Create a bank of samples of bone marrow from AML patients at different times of
           treatment;

        9. Determine the disease-free survival and the cumulative incidence rate of relapse and
           non-relapse mortality and compare them between chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy plus
           autologous SCT cohorts.
    
  