
    
      Postoperative pain that persists beyond the normal time for tissue healing is increasingly
      recognized as an important complication after various types of surgery. According to the
      International Association for Study of Pain (IASP), chronic postsurgical pain (CPSP) is
      defined as the persistence of pain at surgical site or referred area, at least 3 months
      following the surgical procedure1. CPSP is common after cardiac surgery. The reported
      incidence was 28% to 56% up to 2 years postoperatively. The wide range of reported incidence
      seems to result from heterogenicity of the study population and the study design. McGillion
      MH et al reviewed that cross-sectional and retrospective studies have generally reported
      higher prevalence for CPSP (14-56%) after cardiac surgery than those investigations with
      prospective designs (7.5-45%). Despite a large number of cross-sectional and retrospective
      studies, prospective cohort studies examining the incidence of chronic post-sternotomy pain
      following cardiac surgery have been scarce, and none on our local Chinese population.

      Several mechanisms have been involved in the development of chronic pain after sternotomy.
      These include dissection, nerve entrapment by sternal wires, sternal retraction which can
      dislocate and fractured ribs, and intercostal neuralgia as a consequence of nerve damage
      during dissection of the internal mammary artery during coronary artery bypass graft (CABG).
      All can stimulate the release of proinflammatory cytokines which sensitize the afferent
      nociceptive fibres to cause chronic pain. Ongoing pain after surgery can continue to
      sensitize the nociceptive fibres which may subsequently lead to hyperalgesia, hyperpathia,
      allodynia and dysesthesia. In addition, like any form of chronic pain, it is a
      multidimensional process involving social, cognitive and psychological factors.

      CPSP has the potential to impact daily functioning and quality of life of patients, as well
      as increasing the healthcare costs. CARDpain study reported that among those with CPSP, over
      50% had significant pain-related interference with activities of daily living (family and
      home responsibilities, recreation and employment) at 3, 6 and 12 months following cardiac
      surgery. Identification of risk factors associated with the development of CPSP could
      potentially improve outcomes among high-risk patients, especially if the risk factors are
      modifiable. To date, only the CARDpain study examined the role of social and psychological
      risk factors in development of CPSP after cardiac surgery. They found pre-surgical anxiety,
      measured by the Hospital and Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS), was a significant risk factor.

      The primary aim of our study is to examine the incidence of chronic post-sternotomy pain at 3
      months and 6 months following cardiac surgery in our local Chinese population, and identify
      the clinical and psychological risk factors associated with its development. The secondary
      aim is to determine the impact of CPSP on the quality of life following cardiac surgery.
    
  