
    
      An observational, multicenter, prospective, real-world study at Brazilian institutions.

      Adult patients with early HER2+ breast cancer receiving adjuvant biosimilar trastuzumab
      (Zedora) at the participating sites after the start of the study and meeting the eligibility
      criteria will be invited to participate. Demographics, comorbidities, disease history, extent
      of exposure to biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora), adverse events and LVEF values will be
      collected.

      Data collection will be performed using a case report form (CRF) specifically designed for
      the study.

      Study Treatment:

      Biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora) must be prescribed at the dosage described in the product
      label.

      Treatment duration will be 12 months for patients starting upfront with biosimilar
      trastuzumab (Zedora). Patients switching at any time to biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora) after
      a period of adjuvant or neoadjuvant Herceptin® use will also be included in the overall
      analysis and subsequently assessed in a subgroup analysis.

      Sample Size:

      Number of patients = 170 Given the inexistence of a specific hypothesis to be tested, the
      statistical analysis will be basically descriptive.

      Sample size is based on the two-sided 95% confidence interval (95% CI) for the invasive
      disease relapse-free survival rate.

      The table below shows the 95% CIs for different rates in a sample of 170 patients, with an
      interval size ranging between 9% and 15%.

      Based on literature, a 3-year relapse-free survival between 88 and 96% is expected. According
      to the table above, a sample of 170 patients allows assessing this endpoint with +/- 6.0%
      accuracy.

      Study duration:

      The estimated time for patient enrollment in the study is one year and may be extended in
      case the sample size is not reached in this period. Biosimilar trastuzumab (Zedora) must be
      prescribed according to the product label and treatment duration will be up to one year. The
      patient will be maintained in the study for 5 years (from start of treatment), unless there
      is tumor recurrence (local or distant).
    
  