
    
      Patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder commonly have other conditions that
      may affect the liver, such as alcohol abuse and/or chronic liver infections (hepatitis).
      Although single-dose studies in patients with liver disease are conducted to test the safety
      of medications, there is less information about the safety of treatment with medications for
      schizophrenia in this at-risk population of patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective
      disorder and liver disease. This 9-week study is open-label (both patient and investigators
      know what study drug and dose of study drug the patient is taking) and has 2 phases. During
      Phase 1, which lasts 4 weeks, patients will continue to take whatever medication they are
      already taking for schizophrenia (TAU, or treatment as usual). During the first week of Phase
      2, patients will receive decreasing doses of TAU and increasing doses of paliperidone ER. For
      the rest of Phase 2, which lasts 4 more weeks, patients will take paliperidone ER in doses
      between 3 mg/day and 12 mg/day, as prescribed by the study doctor. This study will evaluate
      adverse events and will use several scales and tests to measure the effectiveness of
      paliperidone ER in patients with an established diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective
      disorder and liver disease. Study assessments include the PANSS (Positive and Negative
      Symptom Scale for Schizophrenia), CGI (Clinical Global Impression scale), MSQ (Medication
      Satisfaction Questionnaire), sleep VAS (Visual Analog Scale), SF-36 (Short Form 36 Health
      Survey), and PSP (Personal and Social Performance Scale). Each assessment will be performed
      at least two times during the course of the study, but some assessments will be done more
      frequently. Visits are scheduled every 1 to two weeks during the 9 week study.

      The hypothesis is that paliperidone ER can be used safely in patients with schizophrenia or
      schizoaffective disorder who also have identified liver disease. During Phase 1 of the study,
      patients will continue to take whatever medication they are already taking for schizophrenia
      (TAU, or treatment as usual) for 4 weeks. For the first week of Phase 2, patients will
      receive decreasing doses of TAU. During Phase 2, patients will take paliperidone ER in doses
      between 3 milligrams per day and 12 milligrams per day by mouth for 5 weeks.
    
  