
    
      Microcytic hypochromic anaemia is very common hematological abnormality in the clinical
      practice ( Snakar et;al. 2016 ) . Iron deficiency anaemia and beta thalassemia trait are the
      most common causes of microcytic hypochromic anaemia. As mentioned by the World Health
      Organization ( WHO ) estimates in 2004 , there were 273000deaths due to iron deficiency
      anaemia along with 19.7 million disability . Approximately 1.3 % cases were recorded globally
      in developing countries ( Kasseban et;al.2014 ) . Iron deficiency anemia is the most common
      nutritional disorder . This type of anemia is the final phase of a process that begins with
      exhaustion of iron stores and continues with iron depletion from other compartments that
      contain it compromising normal haematopoesis ( Wharton et;al. 1994 ) Beta thalassemia trait
      is the second most common cause of microcytic hypochromic anaemia . It is genetically
      determined disorder in which the defect of b globin gene results in decreased production of
      hemoglobin A1 ( Sliman et;al. 2004 ) The differentiation between Iron deficiency anemia and
      Beta thalassemia trait is important because of two main reasons . First , because hemoglobin
      will not improve in beta thalassemia trait if it is misdiagnosed as Iron deficiency anemia
      and unnecessary iron being prescribed by the attending physician ( Vehapoglee et;al. 2014 ) .
      The second grave reason is that misdiagnosed beta thalassemia trait as Iron deficiency anemia
      may get married to a beta thalassemia trait , resulting in homozygous or thalassemia major in
      the offsprings ( Tripathi et;al. 2015) Ideally one needs a battery of tests including
      detailed peripheral blood picture , HBA2 estimation , serum iron , TIBC , serum ferritin and
      transferrin saturation to differentiate Iron deficiency anemia from beta thalassemia trait
      clearly (Bordbar et;al. 2015 ) . But all these investigations are either not available in all
      clinical setup or they are relatively time consuming and need expensive techniques ( Natios
      et;al. 2007 ). Derived indices showed that RDW is the first index of the routine blood count
      to become abnormal during the development of Iron deficiency anemia ( McCulre et;al. 1985 ) .
      It quantitatively measures red blood cells size.

      variation computed directly from the RBCs histogram and is calculated as standard statistical
      value , the coefficient of variation of the volume distribution ( Verma et;al. 2015 and
      Plengsures et;al. 2015) . RDW is high in Iron deficiency anemia because there is a wide
      variation in red cell size . in beta thalassemia trait , the red cells are all the same size
      , there is virtually no variation ,so RDW is low ( Park et;al.2009 ) . Another red cell
      discriminate function , RDWI had been proven to be reliable discrimination index in the
      differentiation between Iron deficiency anemia and beta thalassemia trait ( Ismail et;al.2016
      ) . It can be easily calculated as ( MCV in ( Fl) x RDW / RBCs in (million per microlitre ) )
      quotient more than 220 suggest Iron deficiency anemia

      , less than 220 suggest beta thalassemia trait. RDWI provide valiable help to the attending
      physician as all discriminating factors including RBCs count , MCV and RDW are incorporated
      in its formula ( Jayabose et;al. 1999 ) .
    
  