
    
      Muscle relaxants are integral part of modern anesthesia. They optimize intubating conditions,
      reduce laryngeal trauma and improve operating conditions. Drawback is a possible
      pharmacological (muscle relaxing) effect of these drugs beyond the end of the operation (i.e.
      post-operative residual curarization: PORC). PORC is a relevant complication after general
      anesthesia. Reportedly about 30% of all patients who received muscle relaxants show signs of
      PORC when arriving in the post-anesthesia care unit. PORC comprises the risk of impaired
      post-operative fine motor and coordinative skills with a possible impairment of swallowing
      pharyngeal secretions with an increased risk of aspiration after extubation. Possible
      deleterious effects of this could be pneumonia, bronchitis, myocardial infarction, cardiac
      insufficiency, stoke or re-operation. In a pilot study we were able to identify clinical
      assessment criteria to assess patients' risk for aspiration, which are now part of the
      post-anesthesia evaluation of every patient.

      Unfortunately there is a major pitfall arising from the inability to clearly identify PORC.
      Although objective neuromuscular monitoring is the golden standard to measure neuromuscular
      transmission during anesthesia, clinical signs have been used to identify muscle weakness
      postoperatively. One reason for this practice is the varying action of muscle relaxants at
      different muscle groups demonstrating neuromuscular monitoring to be insufficiently sensitive
      to detect PORC symptoms at the pharyngeal muscles. This situation may lead to a seldom use of
      neuromuscular monitoring devices and may add to a decreasing use of muscle relaxants in
      clinical anesthesia.

      In this Germany-wide, multi-center, epidemiologic study we would like to evaluate if the use
      of muscle relaxants, or signs of their prolonged effect beyond the end of the
      operation/anesthesia (PORC), affect the further in-hospital stay and post-operative morbidity
      and mortality. The sampling in 8 German hospitals should determine the number of patients
      with clinically relevant signs of muscle weakness at the time of arrival in the
      post-anesthesia care unit. Therefore a data entry form has been developed by the principal
      and sub-investigators of the 8 participating study hospitals. This data entry form enables
      the staff in charge of the post-anesthesia care unit to acquire and to document residual
      neuromuscular blockades. The sampling will be done in the 8 participating hospitals on 21
      randomized working days over a period of 24 hours. To identify the potential risk factors for
      postoperative residual curarization, the known predictors for neuromuscular rest blockades
      are recorded as well. Known predictors are for example: type and amount of muscle relaxant,
      duration of operation and anesthesia, surgical procedure, patients' age,
      anesthesia-technique, antagonization of muscle relaxant or neuromuscular monitoring. Further,
      the patients' progress in the post-anesthesia care unit is documented.

      The 28 day outcome of patients is followed up with a second data entry form which includes
      health-economical aspects. Reported are complications, duration of intensive care unit and
      hospital stay, as well as remaining health damages at the time of discharge. To estimate the
      significance of PORC, data of patients with PORC is compared to data of patients without
      PORC. These patients are recruited during the first data collection period in the
      post-anesthesia care unit. The control for any patient with PORC is the next one arriving in
      the post-anesthesia care unit without PORC.
    
  