
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the antitumor efficacy of bortezomib and thalidomide in patients with newly
           diagnosed stage II or III multiple myeloma.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of peripheral motor/sensory neuropathy in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess the ability to mobilize and collect stem cells in patients who undergo future
           autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation.

        -  Determine the time to response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

      Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and oral thalidomide once daily on
      days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 4 courses. Patients who plan to
      undergo transplantation AND achieve ≥ 50% reduction in the tumor burden proceed to
      transplantation off study. Patients who do not undergo transplantation receive 2 additional
      courses of therapy beyond best response for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who achieve at least a partial response after completion of treatment may receive
      maintenance therapy comprising bortezomib IV every 2 months and oral thalidomide* once daily
      OR twice every 2 months (i.e., the day before and the day of bortezomib administration) in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *For patients who had previously discontinued thalidomide, maintenance therapy may
      consist of bortezomib only.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at the beginning of each study course, and after
      completion of study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  