
    
      For adults with schizophrenia, the transition from hospital inpatient to outpatient care
      poses substantial risks of treatment disengagement. Traditional case management approaches
      for patients with schizophrenia have involved telephonic follow-up after discharge from
      inpatient mental health care and have yielded poor results. Much less information exists
      regarding outcomes for patients with schizophrenia discharged following inpatient medical
      care. Given that these patients often have difficulty accessing and adhering to medical
      treatments, patients with schizophrenia who are admitted to a hospital for treatment of a
      medical condition are especially vulnerable to failed care transitions. Intensive
      interventions involving home visits, social support, motivational interviewing, and
      accompanying patients to outpatient appointments have shown positive results for patients
      discharged following inpatient mental health care, and may therefore be effective for
      patients with schizophrenia discharged following inpatient medical care. Critical Time
      Intervention (CTI) is a novel evidence based time-limited intervention that involves ongoing
      community-based contacts with patients from trained care managers to facilitate connections
      to aftercare providers and community and support systems following hospital discharge. This
      pilot study will adapt CTI for use with patients with schizophrenia who are admitted to one
      of 2 safety net hospitals in Bronx, New York, for treatment of ambulatory care sensitive
      conditions (medical conditions for which appropriate ambulatory care should limit the need
      for inpatient treatment). We will randomize 80 eligible inpatients to receive either: 1)
      treatment as usual (TAU) (n=20); or 2) CTI and TAU (n=40). During a 3-month period prior to
      randomization, an Adaptation Team of research and hospital staff will review data from
      qualitative interviews of clinical staff and patients to identify factors likely to
      facilitate and impede CTI implementation. The team will then adapt the CTI to increase the
      likelihood of successful implementation. In the randomization phase, participants assigned to
      CTI will meet with a CTI care manger during their inpatient stay and over a 3-month period
      following hospital discharge. CTI care managers will assess and address patient needs and
      barriers to outpatient medical and mental health care and provide support and assistance with
      medical and mental health care management. For quantitative analyses, the primary outcome
      measures will be all-cause hospital readmissions at 7 and 30 days following discharge.
      Secondary outcomes will include follow-up with medical and mental health outpatient care at 7
      and 30 days following hospital discharge. Patients receiving CTI will also be assessed to
      evaluate satisfaction with CTI services, psychiatric symptoms, community function, and
      involvement in medical care decisions. The proposed study will test whether a time-limited
      novel intervention helps overcome common barriers to adherence with outpatient medical and
      mental health care and reduces hospital readmissions for a vulnerable population.
    
  