
    
      The study will be divided in 3 main aims; in the first, the long term immunological response
      to PCV13 and PPV23 in HIV+ adults will be evaluated. In a previous clinical trial (PRIN 2009
      study, Clinicaltrials: NCT02123433) a cohort of HIV positive adults had been vaccinated
      either with 2 doses of PCV13 8 weeks apart or 1 dose of PPV23 (last enrollment: December
      2012). Immunoglobulins G (IgGs) against 12 common pneumococcal serotypes included in PCV13
      and PPV23 were quantified by ELISA at baseline (BL), 8, 24 and 48 weeks: analysis are still
      ongoing; preliminary data revealed that both vaccines were safe and well tolerated and showed
      similar immunogenicity. The present study aims to evaluate persistence of long term (>= 3
      years) serological and memory B cells response in those previous vaccinated groups. In this
      phase, population will be screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria to entire study
      conduction. Once obtained informed consent, patients will be enrolled. Together with the
      collection of blood samples for routine purposes, an additional blood sample will be taken so
      to run immunological tests (ELISA, ELISpot). It is important to underline that no invasive
      procedures are needed for the study, apart from routine clinical practice: blood specimens
      will be obtained as part of routine investigations, blood will be hence taken for CD4+ cell
      count, viraemia analysis and anti-HIV drug monitoring; enrolled patients will agree just to
      donate a blood sample for research purposes. Blood samples will be collected from all
      previously PCV13 or PPV23 vaccinated HIV+ subjects and serum antibodies and B cells isotypes
      will be analyzed at baseline (BL), that is >= 3 years after a previous PCV13 or PPV23
      vaccination.

      The second objective of this study aims to evaluate short and long term immunological
      response with different combined vaccine strategies in HIV+ adults. Participants will be
      recruited if they'll have needed to receive antipneumococcal vaccines (primary or booster)
      according to clinical standard indications.

      Elicited immunological response (serum antibodies and B cells isotypes) will be explored at
      BL, 8, 24, 48 and 96 weeks after additional different received pneumococcal vaccine
      strategies. At BL, after collecting blood samples as previously described for Aim1, every
      patient will be assigned to a specific Group on the basis of the received vaccine schedule,
      prescribed by clinicians according to individual clinical indications. Short- (30 minutes),
      medium- (<=5 days) and long-term adverse reactions will be reported, by clinical evaluation
      within 30 minute post-vaccine, phone call at day 5 and anamnestic data collection during
      follow up 8, 24, 48 and 96 weeks.

      Blood samples will be analyzed at 8, 24, 48 and 96 weeks to evaluate serum antibodies and B
      cells isotypes.

      Finally, the third aim of the study will lead an epidemiological and microbiological survey
      in vaccinated HIV+ adults. At BL, 8, 24, 48 and 96 weeks all clinical-anamnestic data will be
      updated, together with blood sample analysis to title IgG towards each vaccinal pneumococcal
      polysaccharides and to evaluate B cells isotypes and nasopharyngeal swab for S. pneumoniae
      culture, in vitro chemosusceptibility tests, serotyping, clonal analysis by Multilocus Locus
      Sequence Typing (MLST).

      Carriage will be defined as S. pneumoniae isolation from one or more of the nasal swabs, in
      absence of any clinical signs or symptoms; a 12 months clinical follow up will be performed
      in colonized patients. All patients developing infections will be followed until resolution.
    
  