
    
      This study will be conducted from January, 2021 to December, 2024. A total of 140
      participants are included with 70 participants in each group. Participants are allocated to
      TALR or PCLR group before index surgery according to a computer-generated randomization list.

      For all patients, after regional nerve block and adequate sedation, intraoperative stress
      test is performed for flexibility of first metatarsophalangeal joint (MTPJ).6 The test is
      confirmed with dorsoplantar fluoroscopy. Only the cases with negative results (passive
      correction is not possible) are included. Then, a medial incision of 2.5-cm is made at distal
      metatarsal head and a reverse L-shaped medial capsulotomy is made followed by TALR or PCLR.

      After TALR or PCLR, medial bunionectomy is performed. DMCO is made with the apex at distal
      metatarsal neck and angle of 60 to 90 degrees. The metatarsal head is laterally moved and
      fixed with one or 2 oblique headless compression screws.

      Postoperative followup The patients are followed up at two weeks for removal of stitches,
      then 1-month, 2-month, 3-month, 6-months, 1-year, and annually after 1 year for radiographic
      , functional assessments, and evaluation of complications.

      Power analysis for patient number With the assumption of mean HVA are 10 degrees for TALR
      group and 15 degrees for PCLR group at final followup, and a standard deviation of 8 degrees
      for both groups, the calculated effect size d is 0.625. In order to achieve the α error
      probability of 0.05 and power of 0.95, 68 participants in each group are necessary with a
      total of 136 participants in this study.

      Statistical analysis In the comparisons between TALR and PCLR groups, the independent two
      samples t-test and the Mann-Whitney test are performed for normal and non-normal distributed
      data respectively, and the Fisher's exact test is performed for categorical data. P-values
      less than 0.05 is considered to be statistical significant. The statistical analyses are
      performed by using SPSS 25.0 statistics software (SPSS Inc, Chicago, USA).

      Clinical relevance

        1. Compare the differences of surgical outcomes between TALR and PCLR. These results could
           offer valuable information for foot and ankle surgeon.

        2. If PCLR is not adequate to achieve satisfactory outcomes, the minimally invasive surgery
           using PCLR for HV is not recommended.
    
  