
    
      This study aims to increase generalizability of clinical data for current treatments of
      chronic pain by integrating pragmatic comparative effectiveness research within patient care.

      Chronic pain is a major healthcare problem with annual cost of above $600 billion. The
      quality of data available for treatments of chronic pain is not optimal. Generalizability of
      explanatory randomized controlled trial data is problematic as these trials exclude up to 90%
      of patients: leaving out real-world patients with serious medical and psychological
      comorbidities. Thus, national institutions and societies (including National Institute of
      Health) have called for pragmatic trials embedded in patient care to compare effectiveness of
      currently used treatments leading to findings that generalize to broader range of patients.

      The long-term goal is to integrate pragmatic research within clinical pain practice; the
      investigators will then collect high-quality longitudinal data in the form of randomized
      comparative effectiveness research. This research will be a platform for development of
      precision health in the field of pain medicine. Personalized treatment options for each
      patient will not be possible without understanding how effective these treatments are in
      real-world application. The changes in clinical practice and workflow necessary to integrate
      this type of research within patient care present pragmatic challenges. In this research, the
      overall objective is to overcome these challenges using an open-source learning health care
      system - CHOIR. CHOIR is currently used to track patients' clinical trajectory and treatment
      response across multiple academic sites resulting in over 25 publications characterizing
      chronic pain. Through pilot studies, the investigators have already developed a point-of-care
      randomization for CHOIR that facilitates integration of research and patient care by allowing
      the physicians to randomize patients during clinic visits. The investigators have already
      demonstrated feasibility of the randomization and data collection platform in two ongoing
      pilot pragmatic clinical trials. To move this forward, the investigators are proposing to
      integrate pragmatic research within clinical practice through conducting a randomized
      comparative effectiveness trial in 450 patients with chronic pain pursuing the following
      aims:

      Aim 1: To compare effectiveness of anti-convulsants and anti-depressants in patients with
      chronic pain using point-of-care randomization. Anti-convulsants and anti-depressants are two
      most-commonly used classes of medications for treating chronic pain. Clinicians usually
      choose between them based on clinical judgement; these decisions often lack clinical
      evidence. The investigators need to understand how effective these medications are in
      real-world applications, and which patients respond better to each class of medication. The
      investigators will thus randomize the patients in our clinic to either anti-convulsants or
      anti-depressants.

      Randomization: The participants are going to be randomized by the treating pain provider
      using point-of-care randomization during the clinic visit. Point-of-care randomization will
      be done through CHOIR using computer generated random numbers. The randomization algorithm
      will disregard the patients who are randomized but decline to participate in the study to
      maintain a balanced number of patients in each arm.

      Intervention: The participants will be randomized to receiving either classes of medications.
      Then using a patient centered approach, the participant and their treating pain provider will
      choose one medication within the class the patient are randomized to. The decision will be
      based on participants' comorbidities, goals of care, preferences and best interest. For
      example, if a participant is randomized to receive an anti-convulsant and wants to avoid any
      weight gain, topiramate would be an appropriate choice; or if a participant is randomized to
      receive an anti-depressant and has poor sleep, a tricyclic anti-depressant would be an
      appropriate choice.

      Participants will continue the medications for at least 6 months provided that they can
      tolerate the side effects, consider the treatment effective, and are willing to continue the
      treatment. Titration of doses based on participants' tolerance and response is allowed based
      on clinical decision of the treating pain provider. Concomitant use of other analgesics or
      pain medications as well as pain interventions is also allowed. The investigators allow the
      participants to stop medications in consultation with their primary pain provider if they
      cannot tolerate side effects or experience no benefit. In these circumstances, we encourage
      the patients and their physicians to choose another medication within the class of
      randomization; however, the investigators will not limit the choices of participants.

      Data collection: The participants will receive electronic surveys similar to their routine
      clinical care. The investigators will send out the surveys at one, three, and six months
      after randomization. These surveys are going to be abbreviated to include average and worst
      Numerical Rating Scale (11-point NRS) of pain; pain catastrophizing scale; National Institute
      of Health (NIH) Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) measures
      for pain interference, depression, anxiety, and sleep disturbance; and questions about
      medication compliance, dose and adverse events.24-30 Data about use of other analgesics and
      medications, and pain interventions will also be recorded at these intervals from
      participants' electronic health records. If the participants do not complete the surveys
      within five days of receipt of the survey link, they will be contacted to be reminded of the
      survey. The investigators will also record participants' baseline characteristics including
      age, sex, main pain diagnosis, other pain diagnoses, psychological comorbidities, medical
      comorbidities, medication use, and education.

      Observation Arm: The patients who do not enter the randomization arms (patient refusal or
      contraindication to receive one class of medications) will be included in an observation arm
      after obtaining informed consent. The investigators will collect data from these patients
      identical to what explained above for randomized patients.

      Aim 2: To characterize the level of satisfaction of physicians with pragmatic comparative
      effectiveness trials. The investigators will perform a qualitative interview with all
      physicians in our clinic before recruitment phase and then every six months until the end of
      recruitment phase. Hypothesis. Integrating pragmatic randomized comparative effectiveness
      research will not affect the satisfaction of physicians in our clinic with the flow of
      clinical care.

      Aim 3: To characterize factors impacting responsiveness to anti-convulsants and
      anti-depressants in treating chronic pain. The investigators will use reduction in patients'
      reported pain as response to a treatment. The investigators will use multivariate logistic
      regression and machine learning algorithms to identify predictive factors for response to
      these two treatment arms. The investigators predict that lower socioeconomic status; longer
      duration of pain; widespread pain; and worse scores in pain catastrophizing, physical
      function, pain interference, depression, anxiety, and social function will predict lower
      responses to anti-convulsants and anti-depressants.

      Summary: Successful completion of these aims will advance the ability to: (1) use flexible
      point-of-care randomization to compare the effectiveness of different treatments in different
      subgroups of patients whenever equipoise exists; (2) apply the identified predictive factors
      to develop decision support systems to determine best choice of medication for individual
      patients; inching closer to precision health; and (3) use the feedback from our physicians to
      better integrate research and clinical care.
    
  