
    
      Radiotherapy is an important treatment modality in the management of cancers of the uterine
      cervix. About half of patients with cervical cancer receive definitive radiotherapy in the
      course of their disease. Radiotherapy is most often administered as a combination of external
      beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and brachytherapy (BT). In the late 90's a major breakthrough in
      cervical cancer radiotherapy took place with the introduction of MR image guidance of BT. By
      performing MR imaging before each BT implant it is possible adapt the dose given by BT to the
      anatomy of each individual patient taking into account not only the position of organs at
      risk (bladder, rectum and sigmoid) but also the tumour regression induced by the preceding
      EBRT and chemotherapy.

      Functional imaging that reflects hypoxia, metabolism, heamodynamics and tissue structure have
      been applied to locally advanced cervical cancer with the goal to identify imaging markers
      that may predict outcome early on and improve tissue classification. DCE-MRI may be the most
      investigated so far for locally advanced cervical cancer. A comprehensive literature review
      including papers investigating the prognostic value of DCE-MRI in patients with locally
      advanced cervical cancer identified 20 papers from 10 research groups, with a median number
      of 30 patients (range 7-102 patients). A total number of 17 papers publish a positive
      association between pre-treatment DCE-MRI and outcome in terms of local control or disease
      free survival (1-17). However, not all studies present independent cohorts of patients. Three
      papers show no effect (18-20) The studies on cervical cancer points in the direction that
      DCE-MRI has the capability to identify aggressive forms of cervical cancer, and that the
      pre-treatment measurements may serve as, predictive markers for outcome after
      chemo-radiotherapy. The largest studies indicate that in particular the tumour fraction with
      the lowest signal enhancement is an important parameter, though the diversity in methodology
      is significant.

      Diffusion weighted MRI (DWI-MRI) has to a lesser extent than DCE-MRI been investigated in
      locally advanced cervical cancer. Most studies using DWI-MRI in cervical cancer have
      investigated its diagnostic capabilities (21-28) all concluding high sensitivity and
      specificity (review by Kundu et al. (29)). The Toronto group; McVeight et al. (26) and later
      Gladwish et al. (30) found prior to the onset of treatment that the highest 90th % ADC value
      correlated with response, similar finding was found by the group in Tianjin; Liu et al. (22).
      Both groups found that higher ADC value insides the tumour was predictive of poor response to
      treatment and suggest the higher ADC to be connected to tumour necrosis. When tumour
      necrosis, occur there is loss of cell membrane integrity and therefore an increase in the
      extracellular volume and a decrease in intracellular volume effectively increasing the ADC.
      Conversely, the group from London UK; Harry et al. (31) and Somoye et al. (32) showed no
      correlation to treatment response at the time prior to treatment. Instead the ADC at 2 weeks
      (and the change in ADC) into treatment was predictive of treatment response and prognostic of
      patient outcome. Finally, Marconi et al. (33) found a relation between minimum ADC in the
      tumor and both DSS and DFS.

      This is an observational prospective, non-randomized study in which patients with locally
      advanced cervical cancer included in the EMBRACE II study can enroll. The study will be
      carried out in 8-15 EMBRACE centres. MRI will be carried out prior to radiotherapy. The
      details of the MRI exams will differ from standard clinical practice in the centres, but will
      be consistent with international guidelines for cervix MRI. The exam will include T1, T2,
      diffusion, and dynamic contrast-enhanced imaging. At time of brachytherapy, the treatment
      planning MRI will additionally include DWI and qT2. Patients will be followed up according to
      the EMBRACE II follow-up schedule.
    
  