
    
      This project is a placebo-controlled, double-blinded randomized controlled trial comparing
      the effect of misoprostol 400mcg buccally to placebo on blood loss in second trimester
      surgical abortion between 16-21 weeks gestation. The probability of group assignment is 50%
      with half of the women randomized to misoprostol and half to placebo (folic acid 1 mg).

      Folic acid was chosen at the placebo as it looks similar to misoprostol, and when it is held
      in the cheek it has very little taste, similar to misoprostol. A compounded placebo that was
      tasteless had a very different appearance and was not suitable as a control.

      Consent will be obtained after consent for the abortion has been completed and counseling and
      explanation of the abortion has been completed. Consent may be obtained before the abortion
      procedures have begun of the day prior to abortion (osmotic dilator placement and induction
      of fetal demise if appropriate), or after these procedures have been completed. No study
      procedures take place on the day prior to abortion.

      On the day of the abortion, 1 hour prior to the procedure, the following study procedures
      will be conducted. Women will be given the study medication, which consists of two tablets of
      either misoprostol 200 mcg (400 mcg total) or placebo (folic acid 2 mg). The medication will
      be dispensed from opaque sequentially numbered vials so that double-blinding is maintained.
      The subject will be asked questions about symptoms prior to administration of the study
      medication. She will then hold the medication buccally (in her cheek) for 20 minutes and then
      swallow any remaining tablet. Immediately prior to the abortion, the subject will be asked
      about her symptoms again.

      The abortion will commence 1 hour after administration of the study medication. The following
      study procedure will be done at the start of the abortion. The amount of cervical dilation
      will be measured by cervical dilators, starting with the largest dilator and progressively
      using smaller dilators until the largest one that will pass is determined. This generally
      takes less than 30 seconds.

      The abortion will then be done with a combination of suction and extraction, which is part of
      standard clinical care at BMC. The following research procedures will be conducted: the
      length of the procedure will be recorded, and the woman will be asked afterward about her
      pain level during the abortion. This concludes the study procedures for the woman. Her time
      in the study is one day.

      After the abortion, the fetus and placenta will be removed from the collected specimen and
      weighed and sent to pathology as per usual clinical procedure. The following study procedure
      will be done. The collected fluid from the suction machine, consisting of blood and amniotic
      fluid, will be measured. If the drapes or towels have been soiled with blood or fluid, they
      will be weighed and the amount added to the total measured from the suction machine. The
      amount of blood will be calculated by comparison with the expected amount of amniotic fluid
      as published by Hern (attached in Section S). Note that the amount of fetal blood is very
      small, less than 20 ml at the highest gestational age in this study, and will not appreciably
      change the total. If all of the blood and fluid has been collected into the suction jar (and
      none of the towels are soiled), then 5 ml of the mixed fluid will be sent for a hemoglobin
      level, and the percentage of blood calculated from that, as pure amniotic fluid will have a
      hemoglobin level of zero. This results will be used for confirmation when available, but will
      not be used as the primary outcome. Measurements on the fluid will be completed on the day of
      abortion. The fluid is normally discarded and will be discarded after measures are complete.
    
  