
    
      The prevalence of obesity is increasing worldwide. Obesity and its associated complications
      represent an enormous burden for obese individuals, their families, healthcare systems and
      societies. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as a frequent and serious
      complication of obesity. Steatosis, the benign and potentially reversible form of NAFLD, may
      progress to a more severe form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which can result in
      fibrosis and ultimately liver cirrhosis, and rarely hepatocellular carcinoma. The majority of
      obese have NAFLD. Currently, no pharmacological agents are licenced for the prevention or
      treatment of NAFLD, and weight loss, notoriously difficult to obtain (and specially to
      maintain), remains the only treatment option. Interestingly, curcumin, a phenolic compound
      extracted from the turmeric root, has from in vitro and animal studies shown promising
      effects in preventing and treating NAFLD, and the sparse available human data point in the
      same direction; but solid human data are missing. This study seeks to investigate the effects
      of curcumin on treating NAFLD in humans by looking at the effects of ingestion of curcumin
      for 6 weeks in obese subject with NAFLD on lipid, glucose and protein metabolism.

      In this randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial, eligible participants will
      undergo baseline assessments before being randomised to receive two capsules of placebo twice
      daily or two capsules of curcumin (corresponding to 200 mg) twice daily for 6 weeks. In the
      end of the 6-week intervention periods, end-of-trial assessments (similar to baseline
      assessments) will be performed.

      Information meeting:

      Prior to any protocol-related procedures, an information meeting at Center for Clinical
      Metabolic Research, Gentofte Hospital, will be arranged, and subjects will be informed of the
      possibility of bringing a person of own choice to the visit. During this meeting, a member of
      the research group will explain the purpose, procedures and possible risks of the study in
      undisturbed and confidential surroundings. The subject will be informed that if extra time to
      evaluate participation is needed, a minimum of 24 hours from oral information is given until
      the consent and sign the informed consent form should be given is acceptable. After obtaining
      the informed consent, time of screening is planned. The subject will be informed that it is
      possible to withdraw the written consent at any time prior to or during the study.

      Screening visit:

      If a person agrees to participate in the study following the information meeting, and oral
      and written informed consent has been obtained, a screening visit will be planned. The
      subject will be instructed in a 10 hour overnight fast before screening (including medicine,
      but water may be consumed until 2 hours before screening). After this fast the subject will
      meet in the department in the morning. Height and body weight will be measured, medication
      and medical history will be recorded, blood will be sampled for assessment of plasma/serum
      concentrations of thyroid-stimulating hormone, creatinine, electrolytes, aspartate
      aminotransferase (ASAT), alanine aminotransferase (ALAT), lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline
      phosphatase, albumin, bilirubin, gamma-glutamyltransferase, viral hepatitis markers, platelet
      count, ferritin and haemoglobin, and albumin-creatinine ratio in the urine will be measured.
      A Fibro Scan will be performed. A physical examination will be made including evaluation of
      blood pressure and pulse rate. Alcohol habits will be evaluated based on The Alcohol Use
      Disorder Identification Test (AUDIT) questionnaire76,77 and quantification of the weekly
      amount of alcohol. A magnetic resonance (MR) safety checklist will be completed and a MR
      information sheet will be given. If all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria
      are met, dates for baseline assessments and randomisation visit will be planned within 6
      weeks from the screening visit. The subject will be instructed in not to consume
      curcumin-containing food on a daily basis from screening until end of trial.

      Baseline assessments and randomisation visit:

      Included subjects will undergo an MRS, which will be scheduled as close as possible to the
      start of intervention. The subject will meet at the Department of Radiology at Herlev
      Hospital and be placed in a horizontal position during the scan. During the MRS, a
      spectroscopy of the liver will be assessed, and an estimation of visceral adipose tissue and
      subcutaneous adipose tissue will be done. The subject will be placed in a horizontal position
      during the scan (duration: approximately 30 minutes).

      Food and physical activity diary and standardised food intake period: Before start of
      intervention and during the week before end-of-trial visit, each subject will fill out a
      three days food and physical activity dairy. The food and physical activity diary will be
      registered manually by participants, using a questionnaire. The two last days before test
      days, the participants are requested to have a standardized food intake high in
      carbohydrates, to get the most valid oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) response, and the
      subject will be thoroughly instructed in this.

      During the last week before randomisation, the subject is kindly asked to collect a stool
      sample for the determination of gut bacteria count and subtype. The participant will receive
      sample kits consisting of cooler bag, freezer packs and stool sample tubes. Stool samples
      will be collected by the participant at home: Prior to defecation a disposable collector will
      be placed in the toilet from where stool will be transferred to a tube that immediately is
      transferred to a transport container and placed at -20°C in the patient's freezer. Prior to
      transport to Gentofte Hospital, the transport container is transferred to the cooler bag and
      at arrival at Gentofte Hospital the transport container (with the sample tube) is immediately
      stored in at -80°C for later analysis. This entails DNA extraction, library preparation,
      MiSeq 16S rRNA sequencing and microbiota analysis (relative abundance, alpha/beta diversity,
      link to phenotype of interest).

      On the randomisation visit, the subject will meet in the laboratory around 8 a.m. after 10
      hours of fast (including medication) and refrainment from tobacco or nicotine supplements
      use. The subject is allowed to drink water until 8 hours before meeting in department.
      Furthermore, the subject will be requested to avoid heavy alcohol intake and strenuous
      exercise two days prior to the visit and instructed to use non-strenuous methods of
      transportation to the research facility. The following procedures will be conducted:

        1. A fasting urine sample will be collected, and the participant is kindly asked to empty
           the bladder completely. Urine volume will be measured.

        2. Measurement of bioimpedance.

        3. Fasting blood samples will be collected (genetic markers for NASH, biomarkers of NASH
           and fibrosis, fibroblast growths factors, triglycerides, cholesterols, liver parameters,
           haemoglobin A1c, inflammatory markers, adipokines, haemoglobin, creatinine) amounting 22
           ml.

        4. FibroScan: The subject will be lying in a supine position for approximately 10 minutes
           during which a probe using shear-waves and ultrasound is applied in the right side of
           the body below the ribs

        5. Measurement of blood pressure, pulse rate, body weight and hip and waist circumference

        6. One cannula will be inserted in the cubital vein for collection of blood samples; the
           forearm from which blood samples are drawn will be wrapped in a heating blanket (42°C)
           throughout the experiment (for arterialisation of venous blood)

        7. Blood samples will be collected according to Table 1 below (total amino acids, gut
           hormones, glucose, glucagon, insulin, c-peptide, urea, free fatty acids)

        8. At time 0 min, the subject will ingest 75 g of water-free glucose dissolved in 300 ml
           water over a period of 5 minutes

        9. At time 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180, 210 and 240 min, hunger, satiety, fullness and
           prospective food consumption will be measured by visual analogue scales (VASs). (see
           enclosure 5 "VAS").

       10. During the last hour (~180min - ~240 min), resting energy expenditure (REE) will be
           measured in a supine position by indirect calorimetry to determine oxygen consumption
           (V02) and carbon dioxide production (VC02). A flow-through canopy gas analyser will be
           used.

       11. At time ~240 min the subject will be asked to provide a new urine sample for measurement
           of urea concentration. The participant is kindly asked to empty the bladder completely.
           Urine volume will be measured.

       12. At time 250 min, the subject will ingest a standardised ad libitum meal consisting of
           minced meat, pasta, corn, carrots, peppers, cream, salt and pepper (50 energy (E) %
           carbohydrate, 37 E% fat, 13 E% protein); the subject will be instructed to eat as much
           as possible until feeling comfortable satiated; the meal should be consumed within a
           maximum of 30 minutes and by the end of the meal, time spent eating, weight of the meal
           and the total amount of energy consumed will be noted. Additionally, the participants
           rated the appearance, smell, taste, off-taste, and overall impression of the ad libitum
           meal on VAS scores during the ad libitum meal. 10 minutes after termination of the meal
           consumption, the last questionnaire regarding hunger, satiety, fullness and prospective
           food consumption will be measured by visual analogue scales.

      The interventional period:

      The intervention will start soon after randomization visit and first MRS. During the entire
      intervention period, each subject will fill out a dairy to keep track of any new concomitant
      medication, compliance and possible adverse events. Each subject will take either two
      capsules of Meriva® or two placebo capsules each morning and each evening for 42 days (±3
      days) with a small glass of water, preferably in relation to a meal. Should the subject
      forget/miss to take a dose, it can be ingested until 6 hours before the next planned dose. If
      the subject forgets/misses a dose, and the next planned dose is within the next 6 hours, the
      dose should be passed, and the subject must note the incident in the diary. The subject is
      kindly asked to keep the alcohol and smoking habits they might have had before screening and,
      thus, not to consume more than 21 units of alcohol per week. Furthermore, it is not allowed
      to consume more than 5 units in one night or to consume curcumin-containing food on a daily
      basis until end of trial. Mid-way through the intervention period, the subject will receive a
      phone call from the investigator or other delegated site staff, checking on adverse events,
      concomitant medication and compliance, and to answer any questions from the subject.

      In the last week of intervention, participants are once more requested to fill out
      questionnaires regarding food intake and physical activity. Starting two days prior to
      end-of-trial visit, the subject must once more follow two days of standardized food intake.

      End-of-trial assessments and visit:

      The end-of-trial visit will be scheduled 42±3 days after start of intervention. Within one
      week prior to the end-of-trial visit, stool sample collection will be scheduled and performed
      as described above under "Baseline assessments and randomisation visit" and MRS in assessed
      as close to end-of-trial visit as possible. Procedures during the end-of-trial visit are
      similar to the ones described above under "Baseline assessments and randomisation visit".
      Also, during this day, to check for any effect of curcumin intervention, physical examination
      will be performed by a physician from the research team and additional blood samples
      (identical with the samples at the screening visit, except viral hepatitis markers) will be
      collected (which adds another 5 ml blood samples compared to randomisation visit) and
      albumin-creatinine ratio in the urine will be measured.
    
  