
    
      The eligible population of step 1 will be pregnant women in their second trimester of
      pregnancy and undergoing TOP for any fetal abnormality and no evidence of placental
      dysfunction.

      Letermovir (LTM) is a new anti CMV drug, manufactured by Merck that:

        -  is highly efficient in vitro against CMV (more than ganciclovir the gold standard drug)

        -  is as efficient as valganciclovir to cure CMV infection and highly efficient as a
           prophylaxis to avoid CMV infection and disease in bone marrow transplated patients

        -  is very well tolerated

        -  has no data from the use in pregnant women and animal studies are insufficient with
           respect to fetotoxicity, but no specific concern in pregnant women arises from its
           safety profile

        -  crosses the placenta in the ex vivo model of the human perfused cotyledon to reach
           efficient fetal concentration

      In this STEP 1 study, we elected to test 2 Letermovir dosages:

        -  240 mg given orally once a day. Based on 10% rate of letermovir transplacental passage
           as demonstrated in the cotyledonon model, we calculated that the dosage of 240 mg given
           once a day to the pregnant woman should be suffisent to reach efficient concentration in
           fetal blood.

        -  480 mg /day given orally once a day. 480 mg per day is the recommended dose to prevent
           CMV infection in bone marrow transplanted patients;

      The risks added by the study are those of letermovir: nausea, diarrhea and vomiting
      (frequent), hypersensitivity, loss of appetite, headache, vertigo, abdominal pain, ALT and
      AST increase, muscule spasm, blood creatinine increase, fatigue, peripheral edema (very
      rare). The expected benefit for the women is: none.

      Women and obstetrician investigator will sign the written consent for the trial.

        -  Validation of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria will be assessed by the obstetrician
           investigator as follows:

        -  age, weight, height and medical history will be collected.

        -  Inquiry on maternal concomitant treatment(s)

        -  Blood sampling: (4 ml altogether)

        -  1 Heparinate Lithium tube (2 ml) for measurements of urea, creatinine, creatinine
           clearance, liver enzyme (ALAT ASAT GGT PAL), bilirubine

        -  1 EDTA tube of 2 ml for full blood test count These measurements will be done in the
           biochemistry laboratory of the investigating site.

      When validation of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria is done (all the criteria will be
      available on the day of the baseline visit), the woman receives the tablets of letermovir.
      They will be allocated either 240 mg or 480 mg up until termination of pregnancy. The first 5
      included women will receive 240 mg. In order to have variation in the time elapsed between
      administration and sampling, it will be asked to the first 3 women to take the drug every
      morning and to the following 2 patients to take the drug every evening. The 5 subsequent
      women will receive 480 mg. This time, it will be asked to the first 2 women to take the drug
      every morning and to the following 3 patients to take the drug every evening.

      Hence, the day of TOP, patients who take the drug every evening will have the largest delay
      between the last intake and blood sampling. The patients who take the drug every morning
      should take the last tablet early in the morning the day of TOP and latest 4 hours before the
      blood sampling.

      After the baseline visit, there will be one other visit just before TOP; the obstetrician
      investigator will be in charge of this visit:

        1. Maternal examination will comprise:

             -  Inquiry of potential side effects (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, rash, cough,
                peripheral edema, headache, abdominal pain, decrease appetite, others)

             -  SAE/AE will be collected

             -  Blood pressure measurement

             -  Blood sampling: (5 ml) with: one Lithium Heparinate tube for letermovir dosage

             -  1 Heparinate Lithium tube (2 ml) for measurements of urea, creatinine, creatinine
                clearance, liver enzyme (ALAT ASAT GGT PAL), bilirubine

             -  Hours of the 3 intakes of pills will be recorded in an individual treatment booklet

        2. At TOP, fetal examination will comprise:

             -  Fetal blood sampling (5 ml in a Lithium Heparinate tube for Letermovir dosage)
                collected at the time of feticide before lethal injection is given in the umbilical
                vein under ultrasound guidance.

             -  Amniotic fluid sampling (5 ml on Lithium heparinate tube for Letermovir dosage)
                collected by the midwife at the time of artificial rupture of the amniotic
                membranes.

             -  Placental biopsies sampling (2 cotyledons for Letermovir dosage) collected after
                delivery.

             -  SAE/AE will be collected

        3. At day 4 after TOP:

      Phone call to collect SAE/AE after TOP

      The duration of participation of each woman including data collection will be a maximum of 7
      days (3 days before the TOP and 4 days after TOP).

      The duration of the study will be 3 months.
    
  