
    
      Our long-term goals are to: 1) develop arthritis biomarkers in psoriasis patients that will
      facilitate early treatment interventions; and, 2) identify new therapeutic targets in PsA
      through better understanding of the underlying molecular pathogenesis. PsA, an inflammatory
      arthritis associated with psoriasis, affects approximately 650,000 adults in the United
      States and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Joint inflammation and
      damage arise within the first 2 years of disease in 50% of patients who manifest bone
      erosions and joint space narrowing on plain x-rays. The advent of Tumor Necrosis Factor
      antagonists (TNFi) for treatment of PsA has dramatically improved clinical response and
      slowed bone and cartilage degradation. Nevertheless, up to 45% of patients do not meet
      primary endpoints in clinical trials, which underscores the need for new therapeutic options.

      Another approach to improve treatment response is early PsA diagnosis, and recent data
      indicate that treatment soon after disease onset can improve outcomes. Relevant to the
      potential for early intervention and prevention, psoriatic skin plaques typically precede PsA
      by 10 years. Moreover, a significant percentage of these psoriasis patients have subclinical
      musculoskeletal imaging findings. These findings provide an unparalleled opportunity for
      early intervention that could potentially limit or halt joint inflammation and damage.
      Regrettably, despite the obvious advantages of early diagnosis and treatment, this goal
      remains elusive because the clinical significance of imaging abnormalities in psoriasis
      remains unknown. Furthermore, investigators have limited understanding of the mechanisms that
      underlie the transition from psoriasis to PsA, and investigators lack the disease specific
      biomarkers necessary to identify psoriasis patients with new onset arthritis or sub-clinical
      disease. Lastly, up to a third of psoriasis patients with moderate to severe skin disease
      report they are undertreated and many are on topical agents unlikely to have a significant
      effect on subclinical or clinically apparent joint inflammation.

      Up to 150 subjects will be consented and studied in this cross-sectional study - 125 subjects
      with Psoriasis (Ps) and 25 Healthy controls. Power Doppler Ultrasound (PDUS) in joints and
      entheses will be analyzed to find at least 35 subjects with positive US findings defined as
      synovitis, effusion, joint erosions, or increased vascularity otherwise known as a signal. Up
      to 50 Ps patients with positive PDUS results will be followed prospectively and contacted at
      intervals to update medication history indefinitely. Ps patients will be asked for a follow
      up PDUS 4 months post start of biologic, DMARD therapy or phototherapy if the patient decides
      to go on such therapies to study longitudinally.

      Up to 30 bone marrow aspirations on healthy and PDUS positive Psoriasis subjects will be
      performed. A bone marrow aspiration post start of biologic or DMARD standard of care therapy
      will be assessed as well.

      Research assays: serum will be used to measure biomarker 14-3-3η levels, which may be
      analyzed by an external company. Peripheral blood will be used to measure the frequency of
      DC-STAMP+ cells (CD14+DC-STAMP+ CD4+DCSTAMP+DC-STAMP+IL-17+). Using multichromatic flow
      cytometry, we will measure DC-STAMP expression on peripheral blood cells and on bone marrow
      cells. To determine if elevated BM DC-STAMP expression by stromal cells, T cells and/or
      monocytes promotes OC formation, co-cultures of bone marrow stromal and hematopoietic cells
      with peripheral blood cells will be analyzed for OCPs.
    
  