
    
      This is a prospective study to investigate the efficacy of using stent-assistance for
      embolization of intracranial aneurysms with a wide neck (defined as > or = to 4mm, or with a
      dome to neck ratio of 2:1 or less). We plan to investigate successful embolization of
      intracranial aneurysms defined by angiographic occlusion of greater than or equal to 90% at 6
      months. Patients will be followed for a minimum period of 2 years from the date of the
      procedure, with a planned total duration of 4 years of the study, including follow up time.
      Participants will be initially assessed and if included, will undergo procedure that includes
      use of the device. Afterwards, they will be scheduled for regular follow up at 2 weeks for
      clinical assessment, then again at 3 months for clinical assessment and MRA to investigate
      the stented region, then again at 6 months for clinical assessment and possible cerebral
      angiogram vs possible MRA, and then again at 1 year post-procedure, and then again at 2 years
      post-procedure. Patients may then follow up on an annual basis or every 2-3 years, depending
      on preference and any residual or recurrent aneurysm. A more specific timeline and treatment
      course is described below.

      Patients will receive cerebral angiography for evaluation of their cerebral vasculature and
      aneurysm configuration to ensure that the parent vessel diameter is adequate and that the
      aneurysm is 4mm in size with a wide neck. In these cases, if it is determined that the
      patient will require additional vascular support in order to adequately embolize the aneurysm
      then the use of stent-assisted coil embolization may be offered to the patient.

      Once enrolled, patients will undergo endovascular stent-assisted coil embolization of the
      aneurysm, and clinical outcomes will then be assessed. Data will be collected for analysis
      according to the primary and secondary outcome measures in addition to any deviations from
      the protocol or safety concerns as well
    
  