
    
      Hallux valgus is a frequent deformity of the first ray of the foot with adduction and
      pronation of the greater toe at the first metatarsophalangeal joint and abduction of the
      first metatarsal at the first tarsometatarsal joint. Valgus deformity of the greater toe
      itself - so called "Hallux valgus interphalangeus (HVI)" - can be found regularly in hallux
      valgus deformities as well. Various osteotomies and soft tissue procedures to correct hallux
      valgus deformity have been proposed so far. While corrective osteotomies of the first
      metatarsal bone represent the main therapeutical option in hallux valgus correction, the need
      for additional phalangeal osteotomy of the greater toe (e.g., Akin osteotomy) is discussed
      controversial and remains a surgeon's decision to date. In this context, the decision to
      perform an additional Akin osteotomy depends on the radiographic measurement of the hallux
      valgus interphalangeus deformity.

      The following radiographic angles to define HVI have been used most consistently in the
      literature so far: The hallux interphalangeal angle (HIA), the proximal to distal phalangeal
      articular angle (PDPAA), the proximal phalangeal articular angle (PPAA) or distal articular
      set angle (DASA), and the distal phalangeal articular angle (DPAA). To date, a hallux valgus
      interphalangeal angle of greater than 10 degrees serves as the most frequently used
      definition of HVI. However, the measurement of HIA is prone to error due to the irregular
      geometry of the distal phalanx. Therefore, the proximal to distal phalangeal articular angle
      might describe hallux valgus interphalangeus deformity more precisely and reliably.
      Furthermore, a significant hyperpronation of the phalangeal bone can be observed frequently
      in hallux valgus deformity. This phalangeal hyperpronation results in a non-orthogonal
      projection of the greater toe on preoperative films, which might be the cause for
      underestimation of HVI on standardized weightbearing radiographs.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the reliability of radiological assessment of hallux
      valgus interphalangeus and to evaluate, if HVI can be defined more precisely using
      intraoperative anteroposterior "off axis view" radiographs additionally. The investigators
      hypothesize that (1) HVI is underestimated on pre-operative standardized anteroposterior
      radiographs compared to anteroposterior off axis views; (2) the Investigators hypothesize
      that PDPAA shows significantly less intra- and interobserver variance and is therefore more
      reliable than other angles (HIA, PPAA, DPAA) for measuring HVI; and (3) the investigators
      hypothesize, that the detected differences between weightbearing and off axis radiographs are
      a function of the severity of the deformity
    
  