
    
      The natural history of HIV infection in many patients has been dramatically altered through
      the use of highly-active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). However, this treatment paradigm of
      chronic chemotherapy may not be sustainable given the short and long-term toxicities of these
      medications. Among the more concerning are the development of atherogenic lipoprotein
      abnormalities and a state of relative insulin resistance. Logically, there has been concern
      that such metabolic disturbances may predispose towards cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality. Although these therapies have only been in widespread use for a short period of
      time, a growing body of evidence from case reports and cohort studies has suggested that
      HIV-infected patients on HAART may experience premature coronary artery disease. The
      explanation of this phenomenon is most likely multifactorial. In terms of pathophysiology,
      the relative contributions of HIV viral replication, host immune response, and the use of
      antiretroviral agents remains unknown. HIV-1 could possibly have a direct effect on the
      endothelium as has been suggested for other infectious agents such as chlamydia, herpes
      simplex, and cytomegalovirus. One could postulate that the virus might have some capacity to
      effect the production of nitric oxide (NO), as a pathogenic mechanism. It is unknown whether
      the medications have direct toxicities or whether the common underlying mechanism is
      drug-induced abnormalities in lipid and/or glucose metabolism. Furthermore, intervention with
      therapeutics that reverse these metabolic disturbances might ameliorate these risk factors,
      normalize endothelial function, and thus decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease among
      this patient population. Even if such patients are at no higher risk than HIV-negative
      patients with similar metabolic profiles, attention must be paid to modifiable risk factors
      as patients are living longer. This protocol aims to assess endothelial function among a
      group of HIV-infected patients with varying degrees of virologic control and levels of immune
      function on a variety of different HAART regimens. These patients will then be administered
      medications with known effects on lipid and glucose metabolism to determine if they might
      serve a role in improving these parameters and thus endothelial function. The results of this
      study will hopefully yield effective strategies to maintain the efficacy of HAART therapy
      while minimizing or reversing toxicities. Understanding the factors important to causing
      endothelial dysfunction will help better characterize the relative risks/benefits of early
      vs. late and continuous vs. intermittent HAART therapy. Additionally, it will hopefully offer
      some insights as to the underlying pathophysiology of the phenomenon of premature
      cardiovascular disease among HIV-infected patients on HAART that could then be more
      thoroughly investigated in subsequent clinical trials. We may ultimately learn that either
      the virus or antiretroviral drugs or the consequent lipid and insulin abnormalities they
      induce alters NO function at the level of the endothelium.
    
  