
    
      The purpose of the study is to examine the connection between the dose of paroxetine and the
      effect of paroxetine on tramadols metabolism and thereby the effect of tramadol on the median
      pupil size.

      Tramadol is being metabolized in the liver to O-desmethyltramadol (M1) catalysed by the
      enzyme P450 CYP2D6 and to N-desmethyltramadol (M2). Tramadol is a racemic mixture of the two
      enantiomers (+)-tramadol hydrochlorid and (-)-tramadol hydrochlorid and therefore there is
      formed two enantiomer metabolits, (+)-M1 and (-)-M1. The (+)-M1 has a much higher affinity
      fore the human opioid µ-receptor compared to (+)-tramadol, (-)-tramadol and (-)-M1.

      Paroxetine is a very potent inhibitor of the enzyme CYP2D6 and when there is contemporary
      administration of paroxetine and tramadol the formation of the active metabolit (+)-M1 will
      be inhibited. The patient will experience a poorer analgesic effect of tramadol.

      It is also the effect of (+)-M1 on the opioid µ-receptor than results in the contracted
      pupils and that is why it can be shown how potent paroxetine inhibits the enzyme CYP2D6 by
      measuring the median pupil size.

      In the study 12 healthy volunteers are going through 5 phases where they are suppose to
      consume a determined dose of tramadol and 5 various doses of paroxetine corresponding to the
      5 phases. Fig 1.

      phases 1 2 3 4 5 Dosis Tramadol mg 50 50 50 50 50 Dosis Paroxetine mg Placebo 10 20 30 50
      Paroxetin / placebo 2 ½ placebo 2 placebo 1 ½ placebo 1 placebo tablets ½ paroxetine 1
      paroxetine 1 ½ paroxetine 2 ½ paroxetine Fig. 1 summary of the 5 phases

      There is a variation in the time where maximal plasma concentration is obtained in
      consumption of respectively tramadol (1 - 2 hours) and paroxetine (6 hours). For that reason
      there has to be at least 6 hours between the administration of paroxetine and tramadol.

      The healthy volunteer brings the research medicine home and consumes it before bedtime the
      night before the day of the study. At eight o'clock next morning the healthy volunteer
      arrives to the first pupil measurement and consumption of tramadol. Tree hours later the next
      pupil measurement is carried through. The healthy volunteer accumulates his or her urine
      until 2 pm. As paroxetine is a irreversible inhibitor of the enzyme CYP2D6 there has to go at
      least 14 days before the next phase takes place. In that amount of time there can be
      recreated a new pool of enzyme.
    
  