
    
      This is a prospective, single-center, randomized, double-blinded, clinical trial involving
      three orthopaedic surgeons who perform total knee replacement. The proposed study is optimal
      for obtaining clinical and functional comparisons between TKA surgical procedures utilizing
      conventional practices (control) and TKA utilizing Vitagel®, a surgical hemostat used to
      control bleeding and facilitate healing. The study will include patients that are receiving a
      unilateral primary TKA.

      Fifty cases will be assigned to each arm of the study (total 100 cases). This sample size was
      estimated using an alpha of 0.05 (conventional for all studies) and a beta of 0.80
      (recommended for superiority studies). The standard deviation is based on a study conducted
      by the PI at the Cleveland Clinic in an IRB approved retrospective project in 2007, and will
      provide in excess of 80 percent statistical power in detecting less than a 100 ml difference
      in blood loss between the two groups.

      The study will be conducted at the Cleveland Clinic (Cleveland, OH). The patients will not be
      informed of their treatment assignment, and the research investigator making observations and
      recording the data postoperatively will also be blinded to their treatment assignment. The
      placement of patients into treatment arms will be based on random drawing of sealed
      envelopes. An assessment of blinding will be conducted at the conclusion of the study by
      asking patients what treatment they think that they received.

      Data will be collected at four timepoints, including preoperatively, during the hospital
      stay, 4 weeks postoperatively, and 12 weeks postoperatively. Preoperative data collected will
      include baseline SF-12, KOOS, hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, and pain scores. Data
      collected in the hospital will include hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, pain scores,
      narcotics usage, length of stay, and patient satisfaction at discharge. The SF-12, KOOS, pain
      scores, and patient satisfaction will be collected utilizing the 4 week (±2 weeks) standard
      of care postoperative visit. Patients are not always seen at the 12 week (±4 weeks)
      postoperative timepoint as standard of care. To collect these data, patients will be mailed
      the SF-12, KOOS, pain scores, patient satisfaction, and blinding assessment questionnaires.
      Patients not responding to the initial mailer will be contacted by phone and sent a second
      packet of questionnaires.
    
  