
    
      Currently, there is no high-quality evidence comparing the clinical outcomes and cost
      effectiveness of surgical drainage combined with antibiotics versus dual-agent intrapleural
      fibrinolytic therapy (IPFT) catheter drainage of pleural space infections with concomitant
      antibiotic therapy. The absence of comparative data is a challenge for surgical and medical
      services in clinical decision-making for this common and morbid condition.

      This is a pilot study comparing surgical drainage of the pleural space in complex pleural
      effusions to bedside chest tube drainage using dual agent IPFT with the intent to inform on
      study algorithm and endpoint performance in anticipation of a multi-institutional randomized
      clinical trial.

      Patient's with complex pleural space infections identified at the institution that meet
      inclusion criteria will be randomized to receive either IPFT or surgical debridement after a
      surgery consultation is obtained. Patients randomized to the IPFT study arm will receive a
      total of 5-6 doses of alteplase 10mg and DNase 5 mg BID x 3 days delivered through a chest
      tube or small bore catheter into the pleural space. The doses will be given twice a day. If
      the first IPFT dose is given in the evening on the first day, they will only receive a total
      of 5 doses of the dual-agent IPFT (alteplase and DNase). The surgical arm will have either
      open surgery of a VATS approach at the discretion of the surgeon.

      IPFT (alteplase and DNase) is not an investigational agent. It is used in standard of care
      practice for the treatment of complex pleural space infections. The investigators seek to
      compare dual-agent IPFT (alteplase and DNase) to surgery in this study. As such, the IPFT
      agents will be ordered from pharmacy through the electronic medical record (EMR) as in normal
      practice and there is not a study drug.

      After drainage, patients will be followed with protocol images to assess the drainage of
      their pleural space. If there is satisfactory improvement in the pleural fluid collection on
      imaging chest tube or small bore catheter will be removed per protocol in both study arms.
      Chest tube removal protocol is based on fluid character and measured output.
    
  