
    
      Study type

      Retrospective, observational, single-center study at the Department of Ophthalmology of
      Centro Hospitalar Vila Nova de Gaia e Espinho, EPE.

      Data was obtained from patients' medical records and anterior segment photographs from
      October 1, 2018 to November 1, 2020.

      Each participant and/or relative was given a detailed explanation and a written informed
      consent regarding possible alternatives, risks and benefits of off-label use of topical
      insulin drops. This study was approved by the board of Centro Hospitalar de Vila Nova de Gaia
      e Espinho (UIEC-2020-981914339595fa024c567ec5). This study complied with the tenets of the
      Declaration of Helsinki.

      Patient selection

      Patients included in this study were provided from the Cornea department of the Ophthalmology
      center in Centro Hospitalar de Vila Nova de Gaia e Espinho. Every patient included had an
      established diagnosis of NK (ICD10: H16.2) in stages 2 or 3 that was refractory to standard
      medical and/or surgical treatment and underwent treatment with topical insulin. All patients
      underwent complete ophthalmological exam including best-corrected visual acuity, slit-lamp
      examination, corneal sensitivity in the center and four quadrants of the cornea and
      fundoscopic evaluation. NK was graded based on slit-lamp and fluorescein stain findings -
      stage 2: epithelial defect (with or without a rim of loose epithelium) without stromal
      ulceration; stage 3: corneal ulceration and/or stromal lysis.

      Topical insulin preparation and administration

      Topical insulin drops were prepared by diluting 1 unit of fast-acting insulin per 1 mL of an
      artificial tear with a propylene glycol base. Drops were preserved at low temperature (2ºC)
      and were applied four times a day. A therapeutic corneal CL was placed in every patient and
      fluoroquinolone drops were applied to prevent possible CL side-effects.

      Treatment was continued until NK PED or Ulcer resolved and tapered accordingly. Patients
      would discontinue topical insulin if the condition did not improve within 30 days or worsen.
      Follow-up was ensured on the 3rd,5th, and 7th day and then individualized during the
      full-extent of treatment. Anterior segment photos were taken on each visit.
    
  