
    
      Usually there are 4-5 PVs in each person that bring blood form the different lobes of the
      lung into the LA. Typically the inside lining of the LA extends for 3-7 mm inside the PVs
      around the entire circumference as they connect (ostium; os) in the form of finger like
      projections. These projections are thought to be the sites that initiate AF. The procedure
      involves careful definition of the finger like projections between the LA and PV os using the
      circular mapping catheter (Lasso). The connections produce specific pattern of electrical
      recordings which are targeted using the ablation catheter that utilizes radio-frequency
      energy to create local burns at the point of contact with the inside of the heart. A
      successful burn destroys these finger-like projections which can be appreciated by loss of
      the characteristic electrical recordings which were seen pre-ablation. Using this technique,
      a series of radiofrequency ablation lesions are delivered around the circumference of PV, the
      end point being obliteration of all electrical recordings between the left atrium and the PV
      of interest (also called "Electrical Isolation" of PV from the rest of the LA). At this time
      the ablation procedure for AF involves electrical isolation of either those PVs that have
      been shown to be the sites from where AF starts (arrhythmogenic PV) or empirically isolating
      all the PVs that the patient has (typically 4-5). There is lack of data showing benefit of
      one technique over the other. Additionally, in order to create radiofrequency lesions or
      burns inside the heart, two different catheter technologies have been approved and are
      currently in use: 1) radiofrequency delivery using a standard 4-mm tip or 8-mm tip catheter,
      which creates burns at the point of catheter contact that are approximately 5 mm deep and 2)
      delivery of radiofrequency energy via saline irrigated cool tip catheter which is capable of
      creating deeper burns (5 - 10 mm). Once again, for electrical isolation of pulmonic veins in
      pts with AF, there is no data that proves the benefit of either catheter technology over the
      other.

      PURPOSE AND DURATION: The objectives of the proposed research project are to study:

        -  The effectiveness of electrical isolation of only the arrhythmogenic pulmonic veins (PV;
           partial isolation) vs. electrical isolation empirically of all 4 PV (total isolation) on
           long-term (1 year) control of Atrial Fibrillation (AF)

        -  The effectiveness of a closed loop saline irrigated cooled tip ablation catheter
           compared with standard 4-mm tip or 8-mm tip ablation catheter in achieving successful
           electrical isolation of pulmonic vein(s).

      Study participants shall have a 1:1 chance of getting either ablation of all 4 PVs vs. only
      the PVs that are shown to start AF and also for creation of the radiofrequency ablations you
      have 1:1 chance of being enrolled either in the arm that utilizes the standard catheter vs.
      that which utilizes the saline irrigated cooled tip catheter. The duration of your
      participation in the study will be for a maximum of 12 months. This trial is being conducted
      in approximately 300 patients.

      Hypothesis:

      Total electrical isolation of all 4 PVs compared with electrical isolation of only PV(s)
      where abnormal impulses are found should be more efficacious in achieving long-term cure of
      patients undergoing ablation for AF. Furthermore, the saline irrigated cooled tip catheter
      should be able to accomplish successful EI of PV(s) in either group with lesser number of
      lesions when compared with the standard 4-mm tip or 8-mm tip ablation catheter.
    
  