
    
      Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is an aggressive and incurable hematologic malignancy with
      incidence of MCL increases with age (average age is 68 years) and is more common in males.
      Majority of the patients presents with advanced systemic and symptomatic disease requiring
      aggressive chemotherapy. Although some patients with MCL can have indolent course, majority
      of them pursue an aggressive course. Most patients with MCL presents with non-bulky
      lymphadenopathy and advanced stage with frequent extra-nodal involvement. In general, MCL
      carries an aggressive course with very poor outcome. MCL has wide spectrum of clinical
      presentation ranging from indolent disease to symptomatic aggressive disease. The initial
      treatment of MCL depends on many disease and patient related factors. Advanced, biologically
      aggressive ( by histology markers) disease in a young and fit patient needs
      aggressive/intense induction, Autologus stem cell transplant (ASCT) consolidation and
      maintenance treatment. While unfit patient usually is offered less intense treatment followed
      by maintenance treatment.

      Investigational drugs ublituximab & umbralisib are highly active in various B cell lymphomas.
      Umbralisib is a highly-specific and orally available dual inhibitor of
      phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) delta (δ) and casein kinase 1 epsilon (CK1ε) with nanomolar
      inhibitory potency, and high selectivity over the alpha, beta, and gamma Class I isoforms of
      PI3K. The PI3Ks are a family of enzymes involved in various cellular functions, including
      cell proliferation and survival, cell differentiation, intracellular trafficking and
      immunity. The delta isoform of PI3K is highly expressed in cells of hematopoietic origin, and
      strongly upregulated, and often mutated in various hematologic malignancies.

      Ublituximab is a novel third generation chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody bioengineered
      for potent activity, exhibiting a unique glycosylation profile with a low fucose content,
      designed to induce superior antibody-dependent cytotoxicity (ADCC). Ublituximab exhibits
      competitive complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC), on par with rituximab, and has also been
      demonstrated to induce programmed cell death (PCD) upon binding to the CD20 antigen on
      B-lymphocytes.

      Pre-Clinical Development Of Ublituximab:

      The antitumor effect of ublituximab was compared to that of rituximab with chemotherapy in
      follicular lymphoma (FL), and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) xenograft murine models. Single
      agent ublituximab demonstrated dose-related anti-tumor activity with 100% tumor growth
      inhibition in the FL xenograft at a dose of 100mg/kg, and a superior tumor growth delay (21
      days) compared to rituximab. Ublituximab also demonstrated superior anti-tumor activity
      compared to rituximab against MCL xenografts at all dose levels (Esteves IT, 2011).

      Ublituximab in Combination with Umbralisib :

      The combination of Ublituximab and Umbralisib is being evaluated in various clinical trials.
      The preliminary data suggests that the combination is safe and well tolerated. Results of a
      Phase I/Ib study of the combination of ublituximab + umbralisib (U2) in patients with
      relapsed or refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma(NHL) and Chronic lymphocytic Leukemia(CLL) have
      been reported. Overall, results from this study suggest that the U2 regimen is well tolerated
      and active in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies.

      Rationale for this Study:

      This is a Single arm, multi-center, open label Phase II trial with safety lead in Adult
      patients with newly diagnosed Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL)(Stage II-IV). MCL majority, is an
      aggressive and incurable lymphoma. As it is the lymphoma of elderly, aggressive treatment
      approaches like aggressive induction treatments and ASCT may be more risky in this
      population. Majority of these patients are treated with less intense approach like
      Rituximab-Bendamustine (BR), R-CHOP or VR-CAP. Nearly all the patients are treated with
      Rituximab maintenance after these induction approaches.

      In this study, we will explore combination of novel CD20 monoclonal antibody (Ublituximab)
      with CHOP and a novel highly active PI3K inhibitor (Umbralisib) in ASCT ineligible untreated
      advanced MCL. Umbralisib is highly active in various B cell lymphomas. The combination of
      Ublituximab and Umbralisib is being evaluated in two signature clinical trials. The
      preliminary data suggests that the combination is safe and well tolerated. To improve upon
      the back bone of R-CHOP, we want to explore U2-CHOP (Ublituximab with Umbralixib)-CHOP
      followed by U2 maintenance in ASCT in eligible patients. Both the study agents (U2) are
      highly active in lymphomas. Study hypothesis is to improve rates of complete response at the
      end of induction treatment with this novel combination.

      Study Objectives:

        -  To determine the safety of Umbralisib and Ublituximab in combination with CHOP
           chemotherapy for newly diagnosed MCL.

        -  To determine the efficacy of U2-CHOP in terms of Complete Response rates (CRR) in
           patients with untreated MCL after induction phase (6 cycles of U2-CHOP) by PET/CT
           response assessment criteria by Cheson 2014.

        -  To characterize the toxicity profile of U2-CHOP induction followed by U2 maintenance in
           newly diagnosed Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) patients.

        -  To determine rates of Overall response rate, disease control rate

        -  Overall survival and progression free survival

        -  To explore minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rates at the end of induction
           treatment
    
  