
    
      Dual Antiplatelet Therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and P2Y12 receptor inhibitor remains a
      cornerstone in the secondary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD). Clopidogrel is one
      of the most commonly used antithrombotic agent that inhibits the platelet P2Y(12) adenosine
      diphosphate (ADP) receptor. With the widespread use of clopidogrel, resistance to clopidogrel
      has been attracting increasing attention, and emerged as a new challenge adversely affecting
      patients clinical risk and outcome. Clopidogrel resistance means that blood platelets show
      little or no response to clopidogrel. Recent studies have found that clopidogrel resistance
      rate was about 11% ~ 44%. Clopidogrel resistance is more common in patients with
      loss-of-function CYP2C19 genotypes, and closely associated with increased risk of serious
      cardiovascular events, including ischemic events, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis,
      revascularization and so on. This seriously affects the prognosis of patients, and brings
      difficulties to clinical treatment.

      Ticagrelor is an oral, reversibly-binding, direct-acting P2Y12 receptor antagonist used
      clinically for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary
      syndromes (ACS). Guideline recommendations on the use of dual antiplatelet therapy have been
      formulated that ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily plus aspirin in preference to clopidogrel 75mg
      daily plus aspirin for ACS patients. Recent study found that ticagrelor 90mg twice a day
      orally could significantly reduce the occurrence of clopidogrel resistance and adverse
      cardiovascular events. The previous studies have reported that half-dose ticagrelor had the
      similar inhibitory effect on platelet aggregation as the standard-dose ticagrelor, which was
      significantly stronger than that in the clopidogrel group. But it is still not very clear
      that the effect of low-dose ticagrelor on platelet function in patients with clopidogrel
      resistance and coronary heart disease.

      Therefore, we performed this randomized, single-blind clinical trial to observe the effects
      of low-dose ticagrelor and double standard-dose clopidogrel on platelet aggregation and
      cardiovascular prognosis in clopidogrel resistance's patients with coronary heart disease.
    
  