
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the response rate in children with recurrent or refractory neuroblastoma
           treated with hu14.18-interleukin-2 (hu14.18-IL2) fusion protein.

        -  Determine the adverse events of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the immunologic activation in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the induction of anti-hu14.18-IL2 antibody in patients treated with this drug.

        -  Correlate antitumor response with measurements of toxicity, immune activation, and
           anti-hu14.18-IL2 antibody activity in patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      measurable/evaluable disease (measurable by standard radiographic criteria vs evaluable by
      MIBG (meta-iodobenzylguanidine) scanning and/or bone marrow histology vs disease identified
      and quantified by bone marrow immunohistochemistry).

      For standard radiographic criteria this study will use the definitions of measurable disease
      from the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) from the National Cancer
      Institute. Complete Response (CR) - Disappearance of all target lesions. No evidence of tumor
      at any site (chest, abdomen, liver, bone, bone marrow, nodes, etc). Very Good Partial
      Response (VGPR) - Greater than 90% decrease of the disease measurement for CT/MRI target
      lesions, taking as reference the disease measurement done to confirm measurable disease in
      target lesions at study entry; all pre-existing bone lesions with CR by MIBG; MIBG scan can
      be SD or CR in soft tissue lesions corresponding to lesions on CT/MRI. Partial Response (PR)
      - At least a 30% decrease in the disease measurement for CT/MRI target lesions, taking as
      reference the disease measurement done to confirm measurable disease in target lesions at
      study entry. Progressive Disease (PD) - Any one of the following: a) At least a 20% increase
      in the disease measurement for CT/MRI target lesions, taking as reference the smallest
      disease measurement recorded since the start of treatment. b) Appearance of one or more new
      lesions or new sites of tumor. c) PD as defined above for either bone marrow or MIBG lesions.

      Stable disease (SD) - The patient will be classified as stable disease for overall response
      if there is stable disease by either CT/MRI lesion, bone marrow, or MIBG criteria. No new
      lesions; no new sites of disease.

      Patients will be enrolled in 3 strata, and evaluated for antitumor response following 2
      monthly courses (treatment on Days 1-3, followed by 25 days of observation,). Patients with
      progressive disease will be taken off protocol therapy. Patients with stabilization or
      regression of disease will be eligible to receive 2 more monthly courses of treatment.
      Additional treatment following course 4 will be allowed for patients showing a continued
      clinical response, up to a maximum of 10 courses of treatment.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40-60 patients (20 for strata 1 and 2 and 0-20 for stratum 3)
      will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  