
    
      The Investigators analysis of electronic primary care records has recently estimated that
      approximately 1.1 million smokers are admitted to English hospitals every year . Every one of
      these admissions represents a prime opportunity to intervene to promote smoking cessation,
      particularly since most smokers abstain from smoking while in hospital. Recent NICE guidance
      (PH48) recommends that smoking cessation interventions should be provided in routine care
      pathways for all smokers admitted to hospital; The Investigators earlier work (Evaluation of
      the impact of a systematic delivery of cessation interventions on delivery of smoking
      cessation in secondary care. REC Reference Number:10/H0403/34) in this Programme
      (RP-PG-0608-10020) has demonstrated that default delivery of cessation support to all smokers
      in hospital significantly increases uptake of support and doubles the proportion of smokers
      who quit long term. Clinical experience indicates that many smokers admitted to hospital,
      particularly those with an illness caused or exacerbated by smoking, are motivated not to
      smoke again after discharge but are also likely to be heavily dependent on smoking and in
      many cases are disabled by lung or heart disease, socially isolated, and socio-economically
      deprived. On leaving hospital, many participants returned to a home environment where smoking
      has been an integral part of daily life for many years. It is therefore not surprising that
      whilst many participants managed to stay smoke-free during their hospital stay, relapse after
      discharge is common.

      The Investigators previous study, among smokers who received care similar to that now
      recommended by NICE, 62% of participants abstinent at discharge had relapsed by 4 weeks, and
      81% by 6 months. The Investigators hypothesise that many of these relapses could be prevented
      by interventions that help to sustain cessation and the maintenance of smoke-free home after
      discharge.

      The investigators therefore propose to test the effectiveness of an intensive home support
      intervention for newly-abstinent smokers leaving hospital and involving home visits to
      support cessation and establishment of a smoke-free home; ensure receipt and correct use of
      smoking cessation pharmacotherapy; deliver behavioural support or else, where local services
      are preferred, transfer to local community Stop Smoking Services (SSS).
    
  