
    
      HIV is a critical and costly health problem for American women. Among pregnant drug abusers,
      sex- and drug-related HIV risk behavior occur at alarming rates. While
      motivationally-enhanced HIV risk behavior interventions have demonstrated efficacy with
      similar populations, very little work has been directed toward pregnant women in drug abuse
      treatment. The long-term objective of this research program is to reduce HIV risk behavior
      among pregnant women engaged in drug abuse treatment by developing and establishing the
      efficacy of an intervention that combines motivational interviewing, psychoeducation, and
      skill building exercises. Furthermore, we seek to advance knowledge of the mechanism of
      action by which interventions reduce HIV risk behavior. In the present application, we
      propose to develop and pilot test an intervention that addresses both sex- and drug-related
      HIV risk behavior among pregnant women in drug treatment. In the first phase of the study, we
      will conduct focus groups with pregnant women in drug treatment, as well as a focus group
      with their treatment providers, in order to determine key areas of emphasis for an
      intervention in this population. We will then develop an HIV risk behavior intervention for
      pregnant women in drug treatment, pilot the intervention with 20 women, and elicit their
      feedback regarding the intervention. Following refinement of the intervention, we will
      conduct a small randomized trial (n=60) to examine the efficacy of the intervention relative
      to standard care (SC). We expect that, relative to SC, participants randomized to the
      intervention condition will have lower levels of sex- and drug-related HIV risk behavior. We
      will also examine the potential mechanisms by which the intervention produces a reduction in
      HIV risk behavior. If found to be efficacious, this intervention will help to reduce the
      acquisition of HIV among pregnant drug abusers, improving health outcomes for the women and
      their children.Relevance to Public Health: The proposed study is designed to develop and test
      an intervention to reduce sex- and drug-related behavior that places pregnant drug abusers at
      risk for HIV infection. If successful, this intervention could reduce the rate of HIV
      infection in these women and their children.
    
  