
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the value of trastuzumab given during radiation therapy (RT) compared to RT
      alone in preventing subsequent occurrence of ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence,
      ipsilateral skin cancer recurrence, or ipsilateral ductal carcinoma in situ (IIBCR-SCR-DCIS)
      in women with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive DCIS resected by
      lumpectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the value of trastuzumab given during RT compared to RT alone in prolonging
      invasive or DCIS disease-free survival (IDFS)-DCIS.

      II. Determine the value of trastuzumab given during RT compared to RT alone in increasing
      invasive or DCIS recurrence-free interval.

      III. Determine the value of trastuzumab given during RT compared to RT alone in improving
      regional or distant recurrence.

      IV. Determine the value of trastuzumab given during RT compared to RT alone in improving the
      incidence of contralateral invasive or DCIS breast cancer.

      V. Determine the value of trastuzumab given during RT compared to RT alone in improving
      survival.

      VI. To explore the effect of trastuzumab on ovarian function.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the benefit of trastuzumab added to RT will be significantly higher in
      v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (cMYC)-amplified tumors than in the cMYC
      non-amplified subset.

      II. To determine if the benefit of trastuzumab added to RT will be less in tumors with
      mutations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 (PI3) kinase gene than in tumors without PI3 kinase
      gene mutations.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo standard whole breast irradiation (WBI) over 5-6 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients receive trastuzumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes once in weeks 1
      and 4. Patients also undergo WBI as in Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years and
      then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  