
    
      The African continent today is emblematic of TB as a global health emergency with little
      known about the long-term sequelae. It is likely that TB patients from resource-constrained
      settings, who usually present with more extensive disease, are left with greater lung
      impairment.

      This project aims to advance the understanding of the clinical, microbiologic, and host
      immune factors affecting the long-term sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis; to identify the
      most important factors that contribute to lung impairment, including the immunological
      response and genetic predisposition of the host and differences in the biology of the
      pathogen; to determine occurrence of reversible and irreversible costs and socioeconomic
      consequences for patients; and to facilitate novel interventions to restore and preserve
      overall health, well-being and financial protection in patients with TB.

      The core of the current project is a prospective cohort of up to 1600 patients across four
      countries (Mozambique, Tanzania, South Africa and The Gambia), enrolled at the time of TB
      diagnosis, and followed up for at least 2 years. The overall goal of the cohort is to
      describe and analyse the basis of the long-term clinical consequences of pulmonary TB, with a
      particular focus on lung injury. The investigators will enroll patients during two years and
      follow each patient up for at least two years. The project also includes a number of
      sub-studies: Host-Immunology, Pathogen and Socio-Economic. General laboratory tests and TB
      specific tests, X-ray, physical examination and cardio-pulmonary assessment will be performed
      and the obtained clinical data will be recorded in study questionnaires. The investigators
      will collect and analyse biological specimens (blood, urine and sputum) longitudinally during
      the period of observation and after all specimens have been stored. In-depth analysis of the
      host immune response, focusing on potential mechanisms of lung damage, including oxidative
      injury, proteolytic matrix degradation, and neutrophil-mediated damage, neutrophil-macrophage
      ratios and markers; and molecular analysis of mycobacterial dynamics and markers in relation
      to pulmonary and microbiological treatment outcomes, including success, failure, relapse,
      reinfection and death will be carried out. Socio-economic data, including patient costs, will
      be collected at the time of TB diagnosis, during treatment, at the end of treatment and
      during the follow-up period, and analysed to determine how the risk of TB sequelae is linked
      with the socioeconomic position of the patient, to establish the occurrence of catastrophic
      costs due to TB and the proportion of patients that resort to potentially irreversible
      socioeconomic coping strategies.

      Accurate data source will be maintained and confidentiality will be guaranteed. Data will be
      analysed according to the statistical plan. Results of the study will be disseminated to all
      relevant stakeholders through meetings, reports and publications.
    
  