
    
      Soovu device description:

      From the FDA document (C190061) "The system is indicated to provide topical heating for the
      purpose of elevating tissue temperature for the temporary relief of minor muscle and joint
      pain and stiffness; the temporary relief of joint pain associated with arthritis; the
      temporary relief of muscle spasms, minor sprains and strains, and minor muscular back pain;
      the temporary relief of menstrual discomfort; the relaxation of muscles; and the temporary
      increase of local circulation where applied." The devices are constructed following
      documented ANSI/AAMI ES60601-1, ANSI/AAMI HA60601-1-11, IEC 60601-1-2, IEC 60529, ISO
      10993-5, and 10993-10 safety standards.

      The device consists of two separate heating units pods that are attached to the body via a
      ring coated with medical grade adhesive. The units are easily removed from the body. The
      units are controlled by a phone app that the user downloads to his or her phone and pairs
      with the units via Bluetooth. The app contains instructional material on how to use the
      device and general information related to pain management. The user may start and end heat
      cycles via the app, may adjust the temperature of the unit, and select from one of three
      heating profiles. The maximum temperature of the unit is 113° F well within accepted safety
      limits. The three heating algorithms are:

        1. Waves of heat up 113F that occur about 2 times per minute for up to 30 minutes

        2. Waves of heat up 113F that occur about 4 times per minute for up to 30 minutes

        3. Waves of heat up 113 F that occur about 2-3 times per minute for up to 30 minutes. These
           waves of heat are synchronized with instructions in the app that guide users through
           relaxed breathing exercises sometimes called box breathing. This option lasts up to 30
           minutes.

      The user can freely select any of the options, can end the session before the 30 minute time
      out, and can reduce the maximum temperature of the heat wave from 113° F all via the app.

      Objective(s) To assess the consumer experience of Soovu Labs wearable thermal pulsed-heat
      device with Blue-tooth connected app among patients with recurring lower back. Assessment
      will include a) whether the device is perceived to work in managing their pain, b) if the
      device is comfortable to wear and use, c) if the app is easy to use, and d) if patients would
      purchase the product and replacement adhesive.

      Design Single arm. home-use study

      Treatment Participants will be provided with a Soovu Labs device. Back pain sufferers will
      apply the product to their pain site as needed following label instructions during an
      approximate 60 day usage period. Participants will download the app to their personal mobile
      phone.

      Number of Patients A total of 40 participants will be recruited for the study.

      Rationale Pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience that is associated with
      actual or potential tissue damage or is described associated with such damage. It causes
      significant disability and dramatically decreases the patients' quality of life especially if
      it lasts for a long time and becomes chronic. Many key opinion leaders and experts in
      orthopedics and rheumatology accept that the pain is considered chronic if it lasts more than
      six months. Chronic neck, back, and shoulder pain are among the most common and disabling
      conditions accompanying different musculoskeletal disorders. As many other chronic painful
      conditions, they are very disabling and lead to considerable stress on healthcare systems.
      Several treatment modalities and their combinations have been proposed with different success
      rates, including exercises, physical therapy, oral medication, injections and even surgery.
      However, many products have low satisfaction rates given poor design, poor aesthetics, and
      limited effectiveness.

      The present study suggests a new therapeutic option (pulsed heat) for patients with recurring
      lower back or cervical pain. The new wearable device delivers pulsed heat that automatically
      raises and lowers the heat intensity over wear time may provide a better patient experience.
      This study will assess opinions of likely users about the device.

      Study Procedures The IHUT study will be run by Soovu Labs Inc. Seattle, WA.

      Subjects may be recruited via an internal database of those who have participated in previous
      studies and focus groups as well as new recruits. Subjects will be given the device for home
      use for up to 60 days. Prior to entering the study all subjects will be screened for
      inclusion/exclusion criteria (Attachment 1). If subjects are eligible and wish to enter the
      study, they will complete an intake form (Attachment 2).

      Subjects will be mailed the devices, adhesive rings (three different types), charger and
      instructional materials including Owner's Manual with appropriate indications, warnings and
      cautions, and Quick Start Guide to unbox at home. The attachment rings contain adhesives that
      are commercially available, are biocompatible, and approved for human use. Questions related
      to the unboxing are listed in attachment 3.

      Once entered into the study users will be free to use the Soovu device as needed, with a
      recommendation to use daily. The phone app that controls the device automatically tracks the
      use of the device. Specifically, location of pain, which treatment profile (1-3) the subject
      used, relief post use, the time and number of uses per day, duration of each treatment, and
      whether the user viewed any of the supportive instructions contained on the app.

      Subjects will periodically be contacted via telephone or internet and asked a set of
      questions and opinions . At the conclusion of the study subjects will be contacted via
      telephone or internet and asked a set of exit questions as well as to return the study
      device.

      In addition, a social media site with participation limited to study participants will be
      made available for participants to share comments amongst themselves, and for the company to
      provide clarifications on product usage as needed.

      Criteria for Evaluation of Safety Any adverse event related or unrelated to the tested
      products will be documented and reported as required (occurrence date, site, outcome and
      assessment of causality and severity etc.) following approved operating procedures. All
      adverse events will be recorded in the final study report. Adverse event instructions will be
      included in the participant's Informed Consent Statement and in the study materials.

      Statistical Methods Data will be analyzed using analysis of variance with pain site, past
      treatments, and gender as discrete factors, and age as a covariate. Purchase interested will
      be assessed using frequency analysis.
    
  