
    
      Aim

      The aim of this pilot randomized study is to verify whether the addition of vitamin E
      alpha-tocopherol to the blood-side layer of a synthetic polysulfone dialyser membrane has a
      clinical advantage in terms of ESA responsiveness and, consequently, the anemic status of
      hemodialysed patients.

      Patients

      Patients of both genders aged more than 18 years will be considered eligible for the study if
      they had been receiving bicarbonate hemodialysis treatment for at least six months and stable
      ESA therapy for at least three months, and had adequate iron stores (ferritin levels >200
      ng/ml and transferrin saturation >20%). Patients with haemoglobinopathies, sickle cell
      anemia, thalassemia or malignancies will be excluded, as were those who had experienced
      infection, vascular access thrombosis, stroke, myocardial infarction, heavy blood loss, major
      surgery or blood transfusion in the previous three months.

      Study design

      This is an 8-month, controlled and randomised study of two parallel groups; after giving
      their informed consent, the enrolled patients will be randomly assigned to the Vi-E
      experimental treatment (polysulfone dialyser with vitamin E alpha-tocopherol) or the PS
      control treatment (polysulfone dialyser without vitamin E alpha-tocopherol).

      Clinical data

      The dialyser will be randomly assigned at the beginning of the study, and pre and
      end-dialysis body weight, blood pressure and heart rate will be recorded at baseline and
      every two months. Dialysis prescription will not change during the study. All of the drugs
      administered during each dialysis session will be recorded, as all of the prescribed
      inter-dialysis therapies.

      Laboratory data

      Hemoglobin, serum albumin and plasma high-sensitivity C reactive protein levels (ELISA) will
      be recorded at baseline and every other month, together with nutritional and inflammation
      indices. Iron status will be evaluated on the basis of transferrin saturation and plasma
      ferritin levels. Reticulocytes and PTH levels will be also recorded. Equilibrated Kt/V will
      be calculated in order to estimate the dialysis dose of low molecular weight uraemic toxins,
      and the appearance of urea nitrogen will be calculated in order to estimate daily protein
      intake.

      Plasma alpha-tocopherol and gamma tocopherol levels will be determined by means of
      reverse-phase HPLC analysis; total antioxidant capacity (TAC) will be determined using the
      ferric reducing-antioxidant power and advanced glycation end-products will be detected using
      total fluorescence at 335/385 Ex/Em. Advanced oxidation protein products, carbonyl products,
      erythrocyte creatine and interleukin 6 will be also determined.

      Main response variable

      The primary outcome measure will be the ESA resistance index, a combined variable calculated
      by dividing the weekly ESA dose by haemoglobin level and end-dialysis body weight.

      Sample size

      Given the pilot nature of the study, it is estimated that a sample of twenty patients (ten
      patients per group) will be sufficient to provide reasonable control over random variations
      in ESA resistance.

      Statistical analysis

      The data will be described using median values and interquartile ranges based on 25th and
      75th percentiles for the distributed continuous variables. The baseline distribution of the
      continuous and categorical variables by group will be investigated using the Mann-Whitney and
      Chi-squared tests as appropriate.

      The follow-up data will be analyzed using analysis of variance for repeated measures in order
      to test the possible differences in ESA resistance over time between the two groups.

      A secondary analysis will be made by adding the values of some baseline covariates in order
      to identify predictors associated with ESA resistance. In order to reduce over-parameterizing
      the model, the explored covariates will be grouped in two hierarchical steps:

        1. Biocompatibility of the previous membrane (categorical), iron status (transferrin
           saturation and ferritin), nutrition (albumin), intact PTH, inflammation (high-
           sensitivity C reactive protein);

        2. Add some markers of oxidative stress (TAC, alpha- and gamma-TOC, carbonyl products,
           AOPP, AGEs and erythrocyte creatine) The effect of the experimental treatment over time
           will be tested by means of group interaction, with this hierarchical approach.
    
  