
    
      INTRODUCTION. The disease caused by the new respiratory virus (coronavirus) designated as
      SARS-CoV-2 has recently been classified as a pandemic by the WHO.

      With an increasing number of confirmed cases in most countries worldwide, it is responsible
      for a significant morbidity and mortality and has motivated the implementation of measures at
      national and international levels with a great impact on the way of life of people throughout
      the whole planet.

      In addition, this condition currently threatens many countries with the collapse of health
      systems, producing serious logistical problems due to extensive affectation of the
      population, which can worsen the prognosis of those primarily affected by COVID 19 and other
      patients with different pathologies and who may have difficulties to get healthcare.

      Limited clinical information is available and generally limited to the Asian population,
      since the first cases were identified in Wuhan (Hubei, China).

      PURPOSE. The main objective of the present study is to carefully characterize the clinical
      profile of patients infected with COVID-19 in order to develop a simple prognostic clinical
      score allowing, in selected cases, rapid logistic decision making (discharge with follow-up,
      referral to provisional/field hospitals or admission to more complex hospital centers).

      As secondary objectives, the analysis of the risk-adjusted influence of treatments (ie.
      ACEIs, ARBs) and previous comorbidities of patients infected with the disease will be
      performed.

      DESIGN AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Cross-sectional and ambispective registry, a real life "all
      comers" type, with voluntary participation, without funding or conflicts of interest. It is a
      study initiated by researcher that will have advanced statistical support from the IMAS
      foundation (Institute for the Improvement of Health Care, Madrid, Spain), that will serve as
      statistical core.

      International level.

      PARTICIPANTS PROTOCOL. The study has been approved by Hospital Clinico San Carlos Ethic´s
      Committee (20/241-E) and the institutional board of each participating center. It has
      received an AEMPS classification (EPA-0D).

      The researchers aimto select all the patients attended in any health center (with in hospital
      beds), who have been discharged or have died at the time of the evaluation.

      All will be considered eligible with a positive COVID 19 test (any type) or if their
      attending physicians consider them highly likely to have presented the infection.

      Given the anonymous characteristics of the registry and the health alarm situation generated
      by the virus, in principle, it is not considered necessary to provide written informed
      consent.

      - Inclusion criteria Patients discharged (deceased or alive) from any hospital center with a
      confirmed diagnosis or a COVID-19 high suspicion.

      There are no exclusion criteria, except for the patient's explicit refusal to participate.

      DATA BASE. An anonymized database is presented in electronic format, to be filled in at each
      participating center (www.HopeProjectMD.com).

      In theory, all information could be obtained from electronic records (medical history).

      If deemed necessary, the investigator may call patients in order to establish their vital
      status (strongly warranted), as well as the results of the RNA test (or antibody) , if they
      were pending during their stay.

      SAMPLE SIZE. It would not be possible to estimate for the sample size based on literature
      reports. Thus, HOPE will aim to get the maximum numbers of patients possible.

      OUTCOMES. Primary: All-cause mortality. The major contributors of increased mortality will be
      assessed.

      Secondary: In stay events, defined by the attending physician.

        -  In hospital stay.

        -  Heart failure.

        -  Renal failure.

        -  Respiratory Insufficiency.

        -  Upper respiratory tract involvement.

        -  Pneumonia.

        -  Sepsis.

        -  Systemic inflammatory response Syndrome.

        -  Clinically relevant bleeding.

        -  Hemoptysis.

        -  Embolic event

        -  Other complications.

        -  Causes of death. Depending the results of the main interim analysis, the main DB could
           be slightly modified and several sub analyses could be proposed after sensitivity
           analyses.
    
  