
    
      This study will explore the attitudes of patients and healthcare practitioners towards the
      components of CR (diet, smoking, and medication) and their relationship with improving
      patients' perceived health and wellbeing. We will apply user-centred approaches by working
      with patients and other stakeholders to develop the best solutions that help patients to
      adhere to relevant health behaviour changes. The proposed study will use a mix of surveys and
      interviews. This will conclude with a two-day workshop with patients and health care
      professionals to come up with recommendations for improving adherence to CR.

      Stage 1: A bespoke survey has been designed to examine the perceptions of patients and health
      care professionals. The survey will include questions around, CR referral, uptake and
      adherence rates. Factors that hinder and improve attendance to CR will be explored. Surveys
      will be distributed amongst CR patients across six centres in the United Kingdom: Sheffield,
      London, North of England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. The aim is to collect survey
      responses from 498 patients.

      Stage 2: Qualitative interviews will be carried out with both patients and professionals.
      Topics will include factors that improve or hinder attendance and completion of CR. In
      addition, factors in CR which assist with improving quality of life will be explored. This
      will provide a more in-depth understanding of challenges to attendance identified in study 1.
      Up to 10 patients from each site will be interviewed, plus up to 20 health care professionals
      across all sites.

      Stage 3: Up to 30 participants recruited across regions will be invited to take part in a
      two-day workshop. The two-day co-design workshop will involve patients, clinicians, CR
      providers, and researchers. The aim is to develop recommendations and approaches to improving
      attendance and completion of CR. This will include improvements to existing CR.

      Study Conduct, Participant identification, inclusion, and exclusion

      Each of the six sites currently delivers comprehensive early CR and provides access to
      patients and providers with lived experience of the core components and behaviour changes
      associated with CR adherence. A local principal investigator who is responsible for the
      leadership of a research study has been identified at each site to oversee conduct of the
      study protocol and facilitate participant recruitment. Participants will represent a range of
      demographic backgrounds including ethnicity, socioeconomic group, cardiac diagnosis and
      length of engagement with CR. Recruitment to interviews will stop when no new themes are
      being identified from the interviews (data saturation).

      Healthcare professionals meeting our inclusion criteria will be approached directly, by the
      principal investigator at each study site. People interested in the study will be given an
      information sheet, and a minimum of 24 hours to consider study information before
      recruitment. Patients will be identified and invited to take part in the qualitative study by
      their healthcare professional upon referral to a CR programme.

      Patients providing verbal consent will then be contacted by a member of the research team.
      These patients will also be invited to take part in the qualitative interviews investigating
      long-term adherence to CR (after six months). In the event that too few of the patients are
      available for the interview after six months, further patients will be retrospectively
      identified through the patient records kept by the CR team.

      Participant consent and withdrawal

      Written informed consent will be sought from participants at all stages of the study
      including the initial survey, subsequent interviews and/or co-design event. It will be clear
      at all times throughout the research that participation is voluntary and withdrawal at any
      stage without challenge will be supported. Information relating to participant consent will
      make explicit than any data collected prior to the participants' withdrawal may be retained
      for analysis.

      Survey

      Surveys will be completed online or sent via post to all identified eligible patients. If a
      patient decides to complete the survey online, an accessible email link will be sent via a
      web link using a licensed copy of Qualtrics survey software. Participants will be asked to
      read the study information and sign/digitally tick consent before proceeding to the survey
      questions.

      Interviews and co-design event

      Eligible participants who are interested in our study will be provided with written
      information sheets and offered the opportunity to ask questions by phone, email or where
      possible, face-to-face with the local principal investigator and/or a member of the core
      research team at Sheffield Hallam University. Participants will be given a minimum of 24
      hours to consider the study information, after which time they will be contacted to arrange
      attendance.

      Ethical considerations

      Risks to participants are estimated to be low; although it is possible there may be some
      emotional effect of discussing issues and experiences related to cardiovascular disease,
      treatment, and its potential impact on quality of life. Participants will be made aware of
      the nature of the topics to be discussed during the informed consent process so that they
      know what to expect. Participants will be made aware that they can withdraw from the study at
      any time, or avoid any topics that cause discomfort. The co-design workshop will be
      facilitated in a way that fosters sharing, non-judgment, and equality amongst group members.
      It is important to manage expectations that group discussions during workshops are for
      research purposes, and not directly intended as patient support groups. Links and contact
      details will be provided for patients who express a need for further support, both verbally
      and via participant information sheets.
    
  