
    
      BACKGROUND Scientific basis/Rationale Antipsychotic medication is efficacious in treating
      positive psychotic symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, and disorganized thinking,
      which are cardinal symptoms of schizophrenia spectrum disorders. However, antipsychotic
      treatment does not ameliorate the accompanying negative symptoms (e.g. anhedonia, avolition,
      and social withdrawal), and cognitive deficits, which are highly disabling and predictive of
      patients' long-term prognosis. Importantly, shortening the interval between onset of
      psychosis and initiation of an efficient intervention lead to better long-term outcome.

      The pathophysiology of psychosis is complex and involves multiple neurotransmitters, e.g.
      serotoninergic-, GABAergic, and glutamatergic systems, but modulation (particularly
      antagonism) of striatal dopamine D2 receptors (D2R) remain the key common denominator of all
      licensed antipsychotics. Nevertheless, around one third of patients with psychosis display
      inadequate response to antidopaminergic treatment, and persistent negative symptoms is a
      critical predictor for future treatment resistance.

      Glutamate hypothesis of psychosis Mounting evidence from post-mortem-, brain imaging-,
      genetic-, and pharmacologic challenge studies indicate glutamatergic dysregulation,
      specifically of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), as part of the pathophysiology of
      psychosis and schizophrenia. Through excitotoxicity, glutamate dysregulation may underlie
      structural degeneration, e.g. in hippocampus, which is a key finding in schizophrenia
      spectrum patients. Nevertheless, cross-sectional 3T MRS glutamate levels between
      first-episode patients and HC have shown equivocal results, e.g. likely reflecting
      differences in glutamate levels across brain regions and in variable previous antipsychotic
      exposure of included patients. Using 3T MRS, investigator recently reported increased
      thalamic glutamate levels in antipsychotic-naïve patients with first-episode psychosis
      compared to HC. Importantly, high thalamic levels predicted poor treatment response. Other
      studies have also associated glutamate levels with outcome. Investigator have shown that
      aberrations in the thalamic glutamate levels are heritable, related to psychosis, and extend
      to individuals at ultra-high risk for psychosis (UHR). Investigator have found that thalamic
      and ACC levels of glutamate are associated with symptomology and cognition, specifically
      spatial working memory, set-shifting, and attention both in UHR and first episode psychosis.
      Cutting-edge 7T MRS can non-invasively determine brain metabolite levels of e.g.
      γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA), N-acetylaspartate, N-acetylaspartyl, and importantly, 7T allows
      to discriminate glutamate concentrations from glutathione and glutamine. Moreover, multiple
      voxels/brain regions can be investigated with 7T. In the context of glutamate and psychosis,
      the thalamus, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), hippocampus, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC), and basal ganglia are of particular interest.

      Regarding brain structure, application of structural 7T sequences allows for increased
      sensitivity to quantify neurodegeneration e.g. hippocampal subfield segmentation. Finally,
      high resolution quantification of tissue parameters such as iron deposition using
      quantitative susceptibility mapping allow characterization of subtle changes in the
      'dopaminergic regions' of the basal ganglia, including striatum, pallidum, and substantia
      nigra.

      Glutamate antagonist treatment Against this background, modulation of glutamatergic NMDAR has
      been investigated as a potential treatment target in patients with psychosis and
      schizophrenia. Memantine is a non-competitive NMDAR antagonist used for treatment of
      Alzheimer's disease. Two recent meta-analyses and one systematic review have concluded that
      adjunctive memantine to antipsychotics is safe and significantly improves negative symptoms
      in chronic medicated patients with schizophrenia. One of the meta-analyses also indicated a
      potential effect on global levels of cognition. Memantine has been theorized to ameliorate
      progression of negative symptoms by counteracting excitotoxicity correlated to high glutamate
      levels in early stages of psychosis, but this has not been investigated in initially
      antipsychotic-naïve patients. Finally, the intriguing fact that pharmacologically similar
      antagonists of NMDARs (e.g. memantine and ketamine) exert almost paradoxical effects in
      humans highlights the importance of understanding the pathophysiology of NMDAR modulation in
      psychosis.

      Study medication Amisulpride All patients will be treated with amisulpride, as the standard
      of care treatment.

      Tablet amisulpride (100-800 mg/day) is a second-generation antipsychotic and a first-line,
      generic drug against psychosis and schizophrenia in Denmark. Amisulpride primarily binds to
      D2 and D3 receptors, but also has affinity for serotonin 5-HT7 receptors. In AMEND,
      amisulpride is chosen because it is the most selective licensed antidopaminergic compound to
      treat psychosis. Side effects include sedation, weight gain, hyperprolactinemia, and
      extrapyramidal symptoms. Investigator have previously used amisulpride in a similar cohort of
      antipsychotic-naïve patients and have gained extensive insights regarding its clinical
      effects and relation to striatal dopamine receptor activity, reward system, brain structure,
      weight gain, and sexual side effects. Of note, amisulpride has been approved for treatment of
      negative symptoms in schizophrenia, however, in investigators previous cohort negative
      symptoms did not improve.

      Memantine Tablet memantine (10-20 mg/day) is an generic drug approved for treatment of
      Alzheimer's Disease(AD) showing benefits on the main domains of AD i.e. cognition, function,
      behavior, and clinical global change. Memantine acts through uncompetitive, open-channel
      NMDAR antagonism, and has minimal activity for GABAergic, dopaminergic, adrenergic,
      histaminergic, and glycinergic receptors. There are no known interactions between memantine
      and antipsychotics. Side effects include fatigue, dizziness, constipation, anxiety, headache,
      diarrhoea, and nausea. In previous memantine add-on RCTs in schizophrenia patients, the
      reported side effects did not differ from placebo. Memantine has no abuse potential.

      Placebo Placebo tablets will be coated to match memantine 10 or 20 mg.

      Study population Antipsychotic-naïve, first-episode schizophrenia spectrum patients with
      first-episode psychosis.

      Patients will be recruited from psychiatric hospitals and outpatients psychiatric centers in
      the capital region (Copenhagen area), where doctors or nursing staff will inform relevant
      patients about the project and contact the doctor or nurse from the AMEND team, if the
      patients accept and might fulfil the inclusion criteria. A diagnostic interview, Present
      State Examination(PSE), will be performed before inclusion to assess if the patients fulfil
      the inclusion criteria. In addition, to fulfilling the diagnostic criteria, it should be
      medically assessed that the patient would benefit from antipsychotic treatment. Furthermore,
      somatic and neurological examination, as well as screening of pregnancy and substance abuse,
      will be performed before inclusion.

      Aim of study/ outstanding research questions to be answered in our study? Summary of concept
      By rational combination of two licensed, off-patent drugs, amisulpride and memantine, AMEND
      aims to optimize treatment of psychosis alongside with unravelling the signature of memantine
      response. If successful, AMEND will provide pivotal neurobiological evidence for future
      stratification of patients with first-episode psychosis before initial antipsychotic
      treatment.

      Hypotheses

      Investigator hypothesize that add-on of memantine to amisulpride:

        -  Will be superior to reduce negative symptoms and that this effect will correlate with
           reduced glutamate levels in thalamus after 12 weeks.

        -  Will exert the most pronounced effect in patients, who display higher baseline thalamic
           glutamate levels than HC, and this subgroup of patients will also experience better
           total symptom control.

        -  Will improve domains of cognition, and specifically that effects on working memory,
           set-shifting, and attention will be predicted by initial glutamate levels in thalamus
           and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC).

      Primary and secondary endpoints Primary Endpoints Primary endpoint will be reduction in
      negative symptoms as measured with Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) negative
      symptoms after 12 weeks of treatment [PANSS negative baseline - PANSS negative at week 12].
      Assessments will be supplemented by Brief Negative Symptom Scale (BNSS) scores.

      Secondary endpoints Secondary endpoints include changes in cognition (in particular working
      memory, set-shifting, and attention), PANSS positive and total other clinical measures, level
      of functioning, side effects, and glutamate levels in five a priori selected regions:
      thalamus, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), hippocampus, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC), and basal ganglia.

      Exploratory endpoints include associations between clinical data, quality of life, brain
      metabolites in other regions, e.g. ACC, and structural measures (e.g. hippocampus subfields),
      and basal ganglia quantification. Interactions between baseline brain metabolite levels and
      brain structure in patients and HC will also be investigated.

      Material and methods Study design This investigator-initiated, double blinded randomized
      controlled trial, will establish a cohort of 46 antipsychotic- naïve first episode psychosis
      patients aged 18-45. Patients will be recruited from psychiatric out- and inpatient clinics
      in the Capital Region of Copenhagen.

      Patients will be allocated to 12 weeks treatment with [amisulpride plus memantine] OR
      [amisulpride plus placebo]. Randomisation will be stratified by PANSS negative sub score
      categorizing patients in a "Low PANSS baseline<20" and "High PANSS baseline>=20".

      The randomisation will use permuted blocs in sizes of 4,6 and 8, to ensure an even
      distribution among the two groups since the number of patients in the two groups will not be
      restricted.

      The pharmacy (Region Hovedstadens apotek) will manage the randomisation. Twenty healthy
      controls matched on age, gender and parental socio-economic status will be recruited by
      advertisement and undergo baseline- and 12-week examinations.

      Trial design Double blinded randomized controlled trial.

      Study phase Phase I, known medicine (memantine) tested for new indication (psychosis).

      Timeline Estimated study duration To increase power of secondary analyses, enrolment will
      continue until 18 participants in each arm have completed examinations. Moreover, AMEND will
      be extended to 12 weeks based on the median trial duration in the meta-analysis of add-on
      memantine (12 weeks (mean 11.5 weeks)).

      Based on our center's 20 years of experience with recruitment and treatment of
      antipsychotic-naïve patents, we expect an inclusion rate of 2 patients per month and an
      attrition rate of 25%. Thus, recruitment of 46 patients will take 2 years.

      The project will take place from 1st of May 2021 until 31st December 2024.
    
  