
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind clinical trial with stealth allocation through an
      automated randomization system Random Allocation Software version 1.0, May 2004. The
      randomization codes were the responsibility of the professional supervisor of the Laboratory
      of Technique and Dietetics of the University Vila Velha - UVV / ES. The same professional was
      responsible for the identification of bottled beverages intended for volunteers. Double blind
      refers to the blinding of patients, researcher, data collectors and outcome assessors. The
      kefir group (KG) received orally probiotic milk fermented with kefir grains and the control
      group (CG) received curds. The follow-up of the clinical trial is classified as long-term as
      it lasted for eleven weeks. The subjects of the research were recruited in an university
      teaching institution. After recruitment, confirmation of the presence of MS parameters was
      performed through anthropometric analyzes, blood pressure measurement and biochemical
      parameters, following the NCEP-ATP-III criteria. The subjects were then randomized into two
      groups, the control (CG) and kefir (KG). After the 11-week period all analyzes performed
      before the randomization process were repeated. During the study the drugs for the reduction
      of serum cholesterol, arterial hypertension and any other medication of continuous use had
      their use maintained. The inclusion criteria were age above 18 years and having had
      alteration of the components of MS. Pregnant and lactating women were excluded from the
      study, those who used drugs for dyslipidemias that interfered with intestinal metabolism such
      as ezetimibe and anion exchange resin, hormones of any kind, medicines for weight loss and
      the use of antioxidant supplements such as vitamin C or ω-3. The present work was submitted
      and approved by the Ethics Committee in Research with Human Subjects of the University Vila
      Velha - UVV, under number 1,025,083. All the volunteers signed the free and informed consent
      form, agreeing to participate in the research. The sample was calculated to detect a 12%
      reduction in the levels of ultra-sensitive C-reactive protein (CRP), considering a standard
      deviation of 15% a 2-tailed of 0.5 and power of 80%. The products were distributed to the
      volunteers in the workplace during office hours, in the morning, Monday to Friday. The
      routine was followed daily, totaling eleven weeks of experiment. The anthropometric
      measurements were individually assessed at the UVV Nutrition Clinic before the beginning of
      the trial and were repeated at the end of the study. In order to measure body weight, the
      RAMUZA DP-300 digital platform scale was used with a maximum capacity of 200 kg and a
      precision of 100 g. The measurements were performed with light clothing and with barefoot
      volunteers. The stature was measured using the CHORDER HM 210D digital vertical
      anthropometry, maximum measurement of 210 cm and precision of 1mm, with barefoot individuals.
      For the calculation and classification of the body mass index (BMI), the cuts proposed by the
      WHO were adopted. The waist circumference (WC) was obtained by means of a millimeter and
      inelastic measuring tape. The cut-off points for risk assessment associated with metabolic
      complications of obesity were proposed according to WHO and SIMÃO et al. (2013). Body
      composition was analyzed by electrical bioimpedance (MaltronBody Fat Analyzer BF 906), as
      described by Lukaski et al. (1985). The percentage of lean mass and body fat was evaluated.
      During the experiment the food selection was at the discretion of the volunteer, following
      the composition and distribution of the meals they usually consume. The blood pressure
      measurement (SBP and DBP) was performed according to the protocol of the Sixth Brazilian
      Hypertension Guideline, using the average between two measurements performed using
      HEM-705CPINT automatic device, Omron, OmronHealth Care, INC., Illinois-USA. For biochemical
      analysis, fasting blood samples were collected by traditional venipuncture to evaluate the
      biochemical parameters of fasting glycemia, glycated hemoglobin (HA1c), total cholesterol
      (TC), high density lipoprotein (HDLc), triglycerides (Tg) (C-reactive protein), C-reactive
      protein (CRP), low-oxidized lipoprotein (LDLox), Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST), Alanine
      Aminotransferase (ALT), Creatinophosphokinase (CPK), γ-Glutamyl Transferase (γ-GT), Urea
      Nitrogen, Creatinine. The samples were sent to the Tommasi Clinical Analysis Laboratory -
      Vila Velha - ES, for further analysis. Low Density Lipoprotein (LDLc) and Non-HDLc
      Cholesterol were calculated from the biochemical analysis of the blood. To identify the
      relative and absolute risk of each volunteer from the research for the development of
      coronary disease in the next decade of life, it was applied the Framingham score for the risk
      of coronary heart disease. All data from anthropometry, food intake, biochemical analysis of
      blood, SBP and DBP, and Framinghan score were collected before and after the period of
      consumption of curd or kefir products. The data was compiled in spreadsheet elaborated in
      Microsoft Excel and were expressed as the average plus or minus standard deviation (S.D.).
      The database was analyzed using the statistical program SPSS 11.5 (Statiscal Package Social
      Science version 11.5). Simple relative frequencies were performed for qualitative variables
      within each group. For the quantitative data, descriptive statistics were performed and the
      differences were determined using the paired Student's T test (in the same group) and
      unpaired (between the groups) for a 95% confidence interval. The difference between means
      will be considered when p <0.05.
    
  