
    
      Why ABO non-identical RBCs may cause harm: In addition to the two exploratory studies
      published by our group (Z. Sohl, personal communication, April 30th, 2020), other
      investigators have also suggested that ABO non-identical transfusions could be harmful. A
      retrospective study by Heal et al., evaluated the effects of a policy change to provide only
      ABO identical RBCs and platelets for patients undergoing stem cell transplantation and
      patients receiving treatment for hematological malignancies. A historical control group was
      used for comparison. The ABO identical policy resulted in less bleeding (5% vs. 15-20%) and
      improved survival.

      Other retrospective studies have also shown ABO non-identical platelet transfusions to be
      associated with an increased risk of platelet refractoriness and that refractory patients had
      circulating immune complexes for several days. Post transfusion platelet count increments
      were also higher when ABO identical platelets were transfused. In a retrospective study of
      153 patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass graft or coronary valve replacement
      surgery, the transfusion of at least one ABO non-identical platelet pool was associated with
      an increased hospital stay, more days with fever, and more RBC transfusions. Other outcomes
      (mortality in hospital, length of stay in the intensive care unit, antibiotic days, and a
      total number of platelet transfusions) were not statistically different. A subgroup analysis
      (n=139) of patients who received at least two platelet pools showed a non-significant trend
      towards increased morbidity and mortality (8.6% vs. 1.9%; p=0.10) in recipients of
      ABO-matched platelets. A retrospective study by Lapierre et al. analyzed data from 186
      consecutive children with neuroblastoma or brain tumors who were treated with high-dose
      chemotherapy followed by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The primary endpoint was
      hepatic veno-occlusive disease. In their multivariate analysis, two factors significantly
      increased the risk of this outcome: transfusion of platelet concentrates containing
      ABO-incompatible plasma and use of melphalan in the conditioning regimen. They concluded that
      transfusion of platelet concentrates containing ABO-incompatible plasma increases the risk of
      hepatic veno-occlusive disease and hypothesized that passive antibody binding to A and/or B
      antigens expressed on the surface of hepatic endothelial cells could be involved in the
      pathophysiology.

      It is important to emphasize that a publication bias probably exists in this literature with
      primarily positive studies being reported, and most of the studies are observational (lower
      quality evidence). Many of the platelet studies also included both minor incompatibilities
      (plasma in the platelet product has ABO antibodies that react with the recipient's RBCs) and
      major incompatibilities (recipient's plasma has ABO antibodies that react with ABO antigens
      on the transfused platelets); however, this literature combined with our preliminary
      exploratory analyses (Z. Sohl, personal communication, April 30th, 2020) raises the
      hypothesis that ABO non-identical transfusions (whether minor or major) could impact patient
      outcomes and should be further explored.

      Possible biological mechanism: The concept of transfusion-related immune modulation (TRIM)
      was defined over 30 years ago. More recent evidence suggests that biological mechanisms
      leading to TRIM can be the heterogeneous involving donor, product, and/or patient factors
      that contribute to patient morbidities and mortality. A conceptual framework for two possible
      mechanisms that could lead to harm post-transfusion are a proinflammatory pathway and an
      immunosuppression pathway. For both pathways, inflammation is one of the prime targets that
      contribute to the adverse events seen in recipients. In this study, the investigators will
      use biomarkers of inflammation to determine if the differences are seen between patients who
      receive ABO identical RBC or platelet transfusions compared to those receiving ABO
      non-identical blood products.

      The investigators hypothesize that passive anti-A and anti-B (from group O donors) can bind
      to recipients' endothelial cells or soluble antigen causing circulating immune complexes that
      can signal cytokine generation and release causing a "cytokine storm". The severity of the
      storm may be tempered or enhanced by the secretor status of the recipient and possibly the
      donor, the titre of the passive antibody transfused, and Group A or AB recipients' subgroup
      status (A1/A2). Antibody incompatibility could also lead to small amounts of hemolysis, which
      could trigger an inflammatory response. The biomarkers frequently used to detect inflammation
      include interleukin-6 (IL-6); tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α); interleukin-8 (IL-8) and
      interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β); CD40 Ligand and, C-reactive protein (CRP). Markers of hemolysis
      in patients post-transfusion include bilirubin, haptoglobin, and lactate dehydrogenase. The
      investigators will also measure circulating immune complexes as these have been linked to
      inflammation and a serological profile of the donor/product and the patient will also be
      performed. A complete list of biomarkers is included below.

      summary of testing to be performed at various time points during each transfusion episode:

      Patient Tests:

        1. C-Reactive Protein

        2. Circulating Immune Complexes

        3. IL-6

        4. IL-1β

        5. TNF-α

        6. IL-8

        7. CD40 Ligand

        8. Complete Blood Count

        9. Bilirubin

       10. Lactose Dehydrogenase

       11. Haptoglobin

       12. Anti-A titre (for A and AB group)

       13. Anti-B titre (for B and AB group)

       14. A1 Phenotyping

       15. Lewis Phenotyping

      Product Tests:

        1. Anti-A titre (for A and AB group)

        2. Anti-B titre (for B and AB group)

        3. A1 Phenotyping

        4. Lewis Phenotyping

      Patients tests will be done at baseline (right before the transfusion starts), 1 hour after
      transfusion, and 12-24 hours after transfusion

      Product tests will be done one time on each RBC unit that will be used in the transfusion
      episodes.
    
  