
    
      Accelerometers enhance physical activity. Only one study assessed accelerometers' validly in
      an elderly robust population, over 100m walking distance. The accelerometers' validly was
      demonstrated especially for the ankle position (Floegel et al., 2017). The primary objective
      was to assess accelerometers validity for counting steps in an elderly frail population ready
      for discharge from a rehabilitation unit. The comparison gold standard was steps count by 2
      physicians blind to accelerometers data, over a filmed 10-meter walk (minimal capacity to
      walk inside their own living place). The second objective was to evaluate the best position
      of the accelerometer: wrist, ankle, hip.

      Investigators included prospectively subjects aged ≥ 70 years, hospitalized in the Paul
      Brousse geriatric rehabilitation ward, able to walk at least 10 meters (maximum functional
      recovery according to the physiotherapist opinion) and with a Mini mental state examination ≥
      20/30 (able to understand). All subjects gave written informed consent and the study was
      approved by the local ethics committee. The secondary objective was to evaluate the position
      of the accelerometer that give the most accurate step count: wrist, ankle, hip. The study
      took place in the Paul Brousse hospital in Villejuif in rehabilitations units. Falls during
      the protocol were considered as the only risk. To prevent this risk a physiotherapist walked
      behind the participants during the 10-meter walk. Demographic, clinical, physiological data
      were recorded and anonymized. In this monocentric non-randomized study, the number of
      participants to include was 120. Twenty participants were planned to be included each month
      during 6 months. Statistical analysis will be made by a T test to measure the difference
      between the gold standard and the count of the accelerometers. To eliminate measurement bias,
      Bland Altman analysis will be performed. Interclass correlation will be performed to measure
      the differences between accelerometers' positions. Logistic regressions will be done with
      measurement's variability determinants. In all analyses, the 2-sided α-level of 0.05 was used
      for significance testing.. All analysis will be performed using R statistical software.
    
  