
    
      The selection of the patients is made on study of the files of the cochlear implanted
      patients with leading implant COCHLEARTM, compatible external processor with the research and
      being able to potentially realize only the studied acts.

      The unit proposes then during a consultation or by explanatory e-mail, to the patient to
      participate in a training workshop. The information note will be presented to the patient
      during the consultation, or sent by e-mail.

      After checking the selection criteria and signing the consent by the patient, the patient
      joins a training workshop.

      During the workshop, bringing together 3 to 5 patients supervised by an ENT doctor of the +/-
      adjuster team, a speech therapist and +/- a COCHLEARTM engineer, patients will be trained in
      the handling of the tablet and software. Then, in a second step, each patient will have to
      carry out the hearing and self-adjustment tests by themselves in a quiet room in the unit. He
      will be able to reach a unit professional who can help him.

      The patient will benefit from auditory evaluation by a consonants discrimination test and a
      3-digit noise test and then an evaluation of the implant and processor parameters using
      COCHLEARTM NFS tuning software.

      It is at the end of this workshop that the unit professionals will judge whether the patient
      is pursuing the research or not. If the patient continues the research, he will have an
      appointment to return to the service 8 to 30 days later.

      Patients pursuing the research will be invited to complete the end-of-workshop questionnaire.

      The patient will return to the follow-up center and will repeat exactly the same acts, alone
      in a room, 8 to 30 days after the first tests. He will also have the opportunity to be
      assisted by someone of his choice.

      At the end of this visit, the patient will be invited to complete the end-of-research
      questionnaire.

      This follow-up visit will mark the end of the patient's participation in this research,
      unless there is a need to adjust the device.

      Once the tests are completed, health professionals will analyze the data retrieved from the
      tablet and if needed, will see the patient in adjustment within 8 days maximum if there is a
      difference between the tests performed at the unit during the inclusion visit and those
      performed by the patient alone in a distant evaluation.

      Self-test data from the patient at the follow-up visit should be identical to the training
      workshop. If this is not the case, it is therefore essential to know if the difference is due
      to a poor control of the tests or rather to an anomaly appeared secondarily.

      Patients will be reviewed as part of the care in case of need for new settings.

      The professionals involved in the research (training workshop and self-test verification)
      will be invited to complete an evaluation questionnaire

      Our approach aims to make the patient aware of how the cochlear implant works, to empower him
      and to make him responsible for his equipment.

      By providing him with training not only in passing evaluation self-tests but also in certain
      parameters of the setting, we want him to understand the interest of an annual follow-up.

      And we want to show that a well-trained patient can participate actively in the follow-up of
      his cochlear implant thanks to adapted tools and telemedicine.

      Total number of subjects selected to participate in the workshop: 40. Inclusion period: 6
      months, for 30 selected patients at the end of the workshop.

      Duration of participation of each patient: 38 days maximum Total search time: 7 months and 8
      days
    
  