
    
      Of the more than 400 children annually receiving a heart transplant, the likelihood that the
      child dies within five years (25%) is equivalent to the potential that the child lives >20
      years post-transplant. The success of the transplant, and thus long-term survival of the
      child, is well known to correlate with achieving adequate immunosuppression to prevent
      rejection, especially in the period immediately following transplant. Attaining adequate
      immunosuppression is complicated by several factors, many of which impact the
      pharmacokinetics (PK) of the immunosuppressive agent. These factors include age of the
      patient, renal and hepatic function, concomitant medications, patient genetics, and the time
      post-transplant. Frequent, invasive drug monitoring is used clinically to assess how these
      factors impact an individual child's PK, and in turn the dose required to achieve and
      maintain adequate immunosuppression. However, this empirical "guess and check" approach often
      results in the child spending substantial time receiving immunosuppressive therapy that is
      either ineffective or unsafe, decreasing the longevity of the transplant organ and thus,
      long-term patient survival. A more desirable approach would be to guide dosing using a
      precision medicine approach, wherein patient specific factors are used a priori to predict
      the dose most likely to achieve adequate immunosuppression. Developing a precision medicine
      platform for immunosuppression following pediatric heart transplant has the potential to not
      only improve outcomes in heart transplant recipients, but across all transplant types. This
      proposal aims to: 1) determine the impact of CYP3A5 genetic variation on tacrolimus
      concentrations in children, 2) prospectively validate the clinical utility of a PK-guided
      precision medicine platform in pediatric heart transplant patients receiving tacrolimus-based
      immunosuppression; and 3) identify and correlate biomarkers of transplant outcomes and
      tacrolimus safety/effect with the PK of tacrolimus, in order to establish the tacrolimus
      concentrations required for safe and effective immunosuppression in pediatric heart
      transplant recipients. The overall objective of this study is to improve the long-term
      survival of children with heart transplant via optimization of the child's immunosuppressive
      therapy. Importantly, the interdisciplinary nature of this mentored research proposal will
      facilitate my progress towards an independent career developing precision medicine tools to
      improve health outcomes in children.
    
  