
    
      Due to the lack of effective vaccination and the shared routes of transmission, hepatitis C
      virus (HCV) infection remains a challenging co-morbidity in patients with human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. It is estimated that approximately 2.3 million people
      are coinfected with HIV and HCV (HIV/HCV) in the world. Compared to patients with HCV
      monoinfection, HIV/HCV-coinfected patients tend to have higher serum HCV viral loads, faster
      hepatic fibrosis progression, and higher risks of hepatic decompensation. Following the
      commencement of scale-up antiretroviral therapy (ART) that decreases the HIV-related
      opportunistic infections and malignancies, the liver-related complications have now become
      the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients. On the other
      hand, the survival rate is improved if these patients achieve sustained virologic response
      (SVR) by anti-HCV agents.

      On the basis of excellent efficacy and safety, treatment by interferon (IFN)-free direct
      acting antiviral agents (DAAs) has made a paradigm shift for HCV care. Velpatasvir (VEL) is
      an HCV non-structural protein 5A (NS5A) inhibitor and sofosbuvir (SOF) is an HCV NS5B
      nucleotide polymerase inhibitor. Both agents are active against HCV with pan-genotypic
      potency. A fixed-dose combination of VEL at a daily dosage of 100 mg and SOF at a daily
      dosage of 400 mg (VEL/SOF) with or without weight-based ribavirin (RBV) has been approved by
      U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and European Medicines Agency (EMA) to treat HCV
      genotype 1-6 patients with compensated and decompensated liver diseases, respectively.
      Recently, a phase 3 study of VEL/SOF to treat HCV infection in HIV-coinfected patients
      reveals that this regimen is safe and provides a high and comparable SVR rate to
      HCV-monoinfected patients.

      Although treatment of HCV by IFN-free DAAs is considered highly efficacious and well
      tolerated, numerous HCV-infected individuals have limited access to the brand-name agents due
      to the lack of universal governmental reimbursement or private insurance support. Therefore,
      allowing the generic version of patented DAAs for HCV through voluntary or compulsory
      licensing may provide patients with greater access to new HCV treatment, particularly in
      resource-constrained countries. Regarding the real-world experiences of generic IFN-free
      DAAs, a recent report from China evaluated the effectiveness of a generic version of
      ledipasvir (LDV) plus SOF (LDV/SOF) with or without RBV for 8-12 weeks in 192 HCV genotype 1b
      (HCV-1b) patients. The overall SVR rates were excellent (96.8%-96.9%) and most patients
      tolerated the treatment well. Based on the encouraging results, we aim to evaluate the
      effectiveness and safety of a generic version of pan-genotypic VEL/SOF-based therapy for HCV
      in HIV-coinfected patients, and compare the performance of such a regimen in HCV-monoinfected
      patients.
    
  