
    
      Cramps in MNDs are believed to occur as a result of high-frequency burst firing of alpha
      motor neurons. Levetiracetam inhibits burst firing in epileptic rat hippocampus.
      Levetiracetam has never been tested against cramps in humans; however, it has helped another
      condition believed to result from burst firing of a motor nerve: hemi-facial spasm.

      The mechanisms underlying spasticity in MNDs likely involve imbalance between excitatory and
      inhibitory influences on the alpha motor neurons. Levetiracetam may modulate these influences
      in a number of ways, including reducing the effects of zinc and beta-carbolines in GABA and
      glycine receptors. Levetiracetam reduces phasic (but not tonic) spasticity in patients with
      multiple-sclerosis.

      Levetiracetam may have neuroprotective properties. In a model of cerebral ischemia induced by
      occlusion of the rat internal carotid artery, pre-treatment with levetiracetam reduced
      infarct size in a dose-dependent manner. In rats injected with kainic acid to induce calcium
      overload, oxidative stress and neurotoxicity, pretreatment with levetiracetam offset kainic
      acid's effects. The mechanisms for these effects may relate to levetiracetam's ability to
      influence calcium currents, or its ability to increase the release of growth factors from
      astrocytes, mechanisms that would be relevant in MNDs. Levetiracetam's ability to inhibit
      histone deacetylase may also help slow MNDs progression.

      OBJECTIVES: 1. Assess the safety and tolerability of levetiracetam over 9 months in patients
      with MNDs. 2. Determine whether treatment with levetiracetam is associated with a reduction
      in cramps, spasticity or motor neuron disease progression.

      METHODS:Open-label, Phase 2 trial of 20 adult patients with MNDs (ALS, PLS or PMA) at Duke
      University ALS Clinic. Eligible patients have cramps with average severity 50/100 points, are
      able to provide informed consent, have normal renal functions and are on a stable riluzole
      dose. Exclusions include pregnancy, unstable mental illness, dementia, drug abuse or
      non-compliance. The first 3 months of the study are a baseline period. Over the remaining 9
      months, patients take levetiracetam at increasing doses up to 3000mg per day. Outcome
      measures include adverse events, tolerability,cramp-pain-severity score, cramp-frequency
      score, modified Ashworth Spasticity Score, Penn Spasm Score, FVC, ALSFRS-R and MMT.
    
  