
    
      Age-related physiological changes predispose to heart failure with preserved ejection
      fraction (HFpEF). Thus, HFpEF prevalence is escalating as the older population expands. High
      mortality and morbidity, diminished quality of life, and spiraling healthcare costs are
      typical consequences, and no effective HFpEF therapy is known. Therefore, several small
      exercise training (ExT) trials for HFpEF stand out by showing that ExT result in improved
      aerobic exercise capacity and infer that ExT constitutes novel substantive therapy.
      Nonetheless, such benefit was evident only after months of moderate to high intensity ExT;
      regimens that are unfeasible for most patients. In fact, poor compliance with ExT is typical
      in most HFpEF patients. The investigators propose there are intrinsic physiological
      components of HFpEF pathophysiology that predispose to "fatigability". The investigators
      advance the concept of fatigability by quantifying it as a performance-based measure; i.e.,
      subjective tiring during a standardized steady-state walking (perceived fatigability) and
      deterioration of self-selected walking speed over time (performance fatigability). The
      investigators assert that therapies to reduce fatigability will enhance HFpEF outcomes.
      Ongoing studies reveal pleiotropic benefits of oral inorganic nitrite (NO2), including
      enhanced performance of skeletal muscle (metabolism and bioenergetics) and vasomotor
      responses (systemic and pulmonary). The investigators' pilot work shows safety and biological
      efficacy of oral NO2 capsules. Thus, the investigators propose a randomized, controlled,
      double-blinded trial to study oral NO2 therapy in older (≥70 years) HFpEF patients. Aim 1
      explores the utility of NO2 capsules to reduce perceived and performance fatigability (rated
      perceived exertion), improve aerobic capacity (peak oxygen uptake) and increase daily
      activity (accelerometry). Aim 2 delineates the mediating processes by which NO2 benefits are
      achieved. Skeletal muscle determinants are differentiated from the right and left heart
      vasomotor dynamics by integrating assessments using 31Phosphorus magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy and percutaneous needle muscle biopsies with those made using non-invasive and
      invasive cardiopulmonary exercise testing, near infrared spectroscopy and other techniques.
      The principal investigator is trained geriatrics and cardiology, and is solidly oriented to
      the dynamics of aging and cardiovascular disease (clinically and mechanistically) with
      particular expertise in functional assessment and skeletal muscle gene expression as
      determinants of performance. The investigative team provides formidable synergies that are
      well-suited to this translational investigation of systemic, cellular, and sub-cellular
      physiological dynamics. Our proposal is significant in multiple respects: 1) HFpEF is endemic
      with aging and constitutes a critical contemporary healthcare challenge today's growing
      population of older adults. 2) Fatigability is rooted in HFpEF pathophysiology, but it has
      not previously been addressed as a key part of management. 3) NO2 therapy is a novel and
      compelling therapeutic strategy. 4) Mechanisms underlying fatigability are clarified; we
      advance principles of patient-centered care by clarifying mechanisms that underlie a
      patient's experience of fatigability.
    
  