
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the impact of standard informed consent vs a CD-ROM educational intervention on
           knowledge about microsatellite instability (MSI) testing in patients with colorectal
           cancer (CRC) or a family history of CRC.

        -  Determine the impact of these interventions on patient satisfaction with the preparation
           to make a decision.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether the CD-ROM educational intervention has a differential impact on
           satisfaction with the MSI test decision, difficulty making the MSI test decision, and
           decisional conflict, as well as on patients' attitudes about MSI testing and CRC (e.g.,
           perceived benefits and barriers to having the MSI test, perceived risk for colorectal
           and related cancers, self-efficacy), on general and cancer-related distress, and on
           discussions with family members about the MSI test and familial CRC risk.

        -  Assess whether demographic factors, disease/family history characteristics, family
           support for testing, and cancer-related distress moderate the impact of the intervention
           on satisfaction with and completeness of the informed consent process.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, pilot, study (part I) followed by a randomized study (part
      II).

        -  Part I: The educational CD-ROM is developed over 9 months. Patients receive a pilot
           version of the CD-ROM and provide feedback regarding usability and content.

        -  Part II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients complete a baseline interview and receive a standard informed
                consent for microsatellite instability (MSI) testing and a brief, standardized
                explanation of the MSI test.

             -  Arm II: Patients complete a baseline interview and receive a standard informed
                consent for MSI testing and the educational CD-ROM developed in phase I.

      All patients in part II (even those that did not consent to the MSI test) complete a
      follow-up survey at 2 weeks.

      Tissue samples from patients are analyzed by immunohistochemistry and MSI assay (polymerase
      chain reaction) for MLH1 and MSH2.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 184 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  