
    
      Trial TC-UT-03 is a prospective, open label, single-arm trial, designed to assess the
      efficacy, safety, and tolerability of treatment with UGN-101 instilled in the upper urinary
      system of patients with non-invasive low-grade (LG), Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma (UTUC).

      Upon signing of informed consent, the patients will undergo a screening visit for eligibility
      evaluation. Eligible patients will be treated with UGN-101 once weekly for a total of 6
      times; in a retrograde fashion. Patients who will demonstrate complete response (CR) will be
      treated with UGN-101 once monthly as a maintenance therapy for a total of 11 instillations or
      up to the first recurrence whichever comes first.

      Five (5) weeks (± 1 w) following the last instillation, the Primary Disease Evaluation (PDE)
      Visit, during which safety and efficacy will be assessed, will take place. During this visit,
      the ablative effect of the UGN-101 will be assessed visually, by upper tract washed urine
      cytology, and if there are remaining tumors, by biopsy or brush biopsy if technically
      feasible.

      Patient demonstrating CR at PDE will undergo monthly maintenance instillations of UGN-101 up
      to 11 months post PDE. Safety follow-up for these patients will be done until one month post
      last instillation or at the end of the follow-up period in FU visit 12, which is the earlier.

      For patients who did not demonstrate Complete Response, to the extent that it is possible,
      all remaining tumors lesions will be biopsied. The patients shall undergo any additional
      surgical or other treatment the Principal Investigator (PI) decides deem necessary to remove
      remaining tumor.

      An independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) was assigned to this trial. Accumulating
      safety, tolerability and efficacy data will be monitored periodically by the DMC according to
      a pre-specified process and frequency detailed in the DMC charter.
    
  