
    
      Participants:

      The investigators will enroll participants with acute Sydenham's chorea (aSC) and age-matched
      controls with streptococcal tonsillitis (ST) within the past 4 months and healthy children
      (HC) with no a history of a strep infection in the past 6 months and negative throat culture.
      Informed consent will be obtained from participants and/ or parents. Children with SC will be
      evaluated for SC severity using the USCRS. The investigators will record clinical data
      regarding gender, age, duration symptoms, and medical treatments. Controls will be examined
      by referring physician to rule out chorea. Sera samples from all participants will be stored
      at -70°C and shipped to the microbiology and immunology lab, University of Oklahoma Health
      Sciences Center (OHSC) on dry ice.

      Laboratory testing:

      Immunophenotyping for anti-D1R, anti-D2R, anti- LG and anti-tubulin titers and signaling
      studies will be performed at the OUHSC microbiology and immunology laboratory.

      Autoantibody titers. Sera will be assayed for reactivity with the dopamine D1 and D2
      receptors (Human dopamine D1 and D2 receptor membrane antigens, Perkin Elmer-Membrane Target
      Systems) in the direct ELISA and assays which include the ELISA competitive inhibition. Anti-
      LG and anti-tubulin titers will be tested as well.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Time will be categorized in order to model non-linear associations among the groups. Means
      will be compared among groups using an ANOVA model that included main effects for the time,
      participant diagnosis and the interaction between participant diagnosis and time. Modeling
      assumptions will be evaluated using residual plots. A natural log transformation of the
      antibody measure will be used when there was evidence of non-constant variance across the
      groups. If a significant interaction between time and participant group will be found, time
      trends will be summarized separately within each participant group. Post-hoc pair-wise
      comparisons will be made using Tukey's method to control the type I error rate. A two-sided
      0.05 alpha level will be used to define statistical significance. Analyses will be performed
      using SAS (SAS Institute Inc., SAS v9.4, Cary, NC: SAS Institute Inc.).
    
  