
    
      Background: Current data from studies and registries involving pediatric Crohn's disease
      indicate that 50-80% of children will receive an immunomodulator (IMM) as a maintenance
      therapy within 12 months of diagnosis, and between 60-80% by 18 months. The common use of IMM
      early in the disease also leads to a high proportion of patients with active disease despite
      IMM (IMMfailure).

      Infliximab has become a standard of care in North America, Europe and Israel, and is
      recommended at present for steroid dependent or refractory patients, fistulizing disease,
      active disease despite an immunomodulator.

      Infliximab was originally prescribed as an add on therapy to IMM, because of concerns
      regarding IFX side effects and loss of response due to development of antibodies to
      infliximab (ATIs). An early study clearly showed an advantage in long term remission with
      thiopurine co administration.However, subsequent studies in adults with CD showed that with
      scheduled IFX treatment, AZA could be safely discontinued after the first 6 months of therapy
      , lowering the risks associated with dual immunosuppressive therapies, and the risks of
      co-therapy. Monotherapy subsequently became the recommended method of treatment with IFX,
      despite a decrease in trough levels among those who discontinued IMM.

      IFX mono-therapy became the method of choice for treatment in pediatric CD, though this
      strategy has been called into question due to frequent loss of response to IFX requiring dose
      escalation of IFX or decreased intervals of IFX. This loss of response has been attributed to
      development of ATIs and low trough levels of IFX, which can develop after the first
      infusions. Low trough levels of infliximab at 14 weeks were predictive of LOR. The second
      reason for questioning IFX mono-therapy is a trial that compared mono-therapy to combined
      AZA+IFX therapy in adults with moderate to severe thiopurine naïve disease. This study
      clearly showed improved long term remission rates and mucosal healing in an unselected cohort
      of patients with combination therapy. Conversely, mono-therapy was associated with low levels
      of sustained mucosal healing, which is troublesome. Lastly, some excellent results obtained
      in a pediatric cohort treated with combined therapy, along with the relatively low risk of
      HTSCL, has left pediatric gastroenterologists at a loss; Should we recommend primary
      mono-therapy , or use IMM for a limited period of time before discontinuing therapy ? When
      should the IMM be discontinued, after the first infusion or after several months? There are
      no controlled data in pediatric IBD to answer this pressing question.

      There is also a movement towards increased use of methotrexate instead of thiopurines as
      immunomodulators because of concerns about neoplasia.

      Recent studies have shown that by adding an immunomodulator to a biologic after LOR, trough
      levels can be improved and ATIs or ADAs decreased, suggesting that IMM may inhibit antibody
      formation.

      The investigators hypothesize that by continuing IMM with IFX for the first 6 months, the
      investigators will detect a benefit . The investigators hypothesize that early cessation of
      an IMM will increase the risk of LOR (Loss of response), decrease trough levels at 14 weeks,
      and be associated with lower rates of corticosteroid free sustained remission by one year.

      In a parallel study , using the same data base, We also hypothesize that low trough levels at
      week 14 ( parallel study) will predict LOR- This study, called Predict Study; Prediction of
      Loss of Response to Infliximab in Crohn's Disease Based on Week 14 Trough Levels.will enable
      open label enrolment of patients receiving infliximab with an immunomodulator, but will not
      require randomization, and patients may be allocated to group one or group 2 at the
      physicians or patients discretion.

      Methods: It is a prospective open label phase 4 RCT in pediatric patients with active CD,
      defined by the Porto criteria, despite >10 weeks of prior treatment with an immunomodulator
      (thiopurines/Methotrexate) ,requiring infliximab, involving 2 arms, and intention to treat
      analysis after the first infusion.
    
  