
    
      9-ING-41 is a small molecule potent selective GSK-3β inhibitor with antitumor activity. It
      acts through downregulation of NF-κB and decreases the expression NF-κB target genes cyclin
      D1, Bcl-2, anti-apoptotic protein (XIAP) and B-cell lymphoma-extra large (Bcl-XL) leading to
      inhibition of tumor growth in multiple solid tumor cell and lymphoma lines and patient
      derived xenograft (PDX) models. 9-ING-41 may also function as an immune modulatory agent by
      decreasing checkpoint expression and enhancement of T-cell / NK-cell effector function. This
      is a phase 2, open-label, non-randomized, single institution study investigating the novel
      glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) inhibitor 9-ING-41 in combination with carboplatin
      chemotherapy in patients with incurable, recurrent or metastatic salivary gland carcinomas
      (SGC). The safety of this combination has been established in the Actuate 1801 study.
      Thirty-one evaluable patients with advanced SGC (including all histologic subtypes and
      adenoid cystic carcinoma [ACC]) will receive 9-ING-41 intravenously (IV) along with
      carboplatin IV at standard dosing together on Day 1, and 9-ING-41 alone on Day 4 of a 21-day
      cycle. Participants will be enrolled to two histologic cohorts: Cohort 1 will be comprised of
      those with ACC, and Cohort 2 will include patients with non-ACC SGC (or all other salivary
      gland cancer histologies). Treatment will continue until progression of disease, death, or
      discontinuation of therapy for any reason.

      The primary aim of the study is to assess the overall response rate (ORR) as defined by
      RECIST v1.1 in the overall study population (including both Cohorts 1 and 2). Secondary aims
      include assessing progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), determining safety
      and tolerability, measuring patient-reported quality of life metrics, and correlating
      efficacy with molecular and immunologic predictors of response. We hypothesize that the novel
      combination of a GSK-3β inhibitor with carboplatin chemotherapy will result in an ORR of 25%
      or greater in this patient population where no approved therapies have been established.
    
  