
    
      Ventilator Associated Pneumonia (VAP) is a common complication in patients treated by
      mechanical ventilation, supposedly related to development of bacterial colonization on the
      endotracheal tubes. Therefore many devices were designed to address this issue.

      NanovibronixTM Company developed "UROSHIELD®" a device which generates low energy ultrasound
      wave in the nanometer range, and delivers these waves by an actuator which is connected
      externally to a urinary catheter. It was shown that using UROSHIELD®, there was reduction in
      development of bacterial colonies, and lower rate of resistance of bacteria to antibiotics.

      Aim of the study:

      To examine the effect of UROSHIELD® on development of bacterial colonies on endotracheal
      tubes, in patient receiving mechanical ventilation, and to determine whether this device
      lowers the rate of bacterial resistance to antibiotics.

      Methods:

      Consecutive patients, with newly begun mechanical ventilation, will be connected to
      UROSHIELD® within 48 hours. Endotracheal secretions will be collected for culture and
      antibiotic sensitivity every 3 days for 15 consecutive days or until disconnection from the
      mechanical ventilation. Half of the devices will be active for the study group; the other
      half will be sham for the control. The devices will externally look identical and will have a
      serial number which will remain secret.

      Primary end point: The time to convert the sputum culture from negative to positive.

      Secondary end points: The number of positive cultures with virulent bacteria and the rate of
      development of resistance to antibiotics will also be compared.

      By statistical analysis the investigators conclude that enrollment of 33 patients into each
      group will allow significant results to be detected.

      Should the study group show longer time to convert to positive bacterial culture and/or lower
      antibiotic resistance, the use of UROSHIELD®, should be examined in a larger study, with
      reduction of VAP as a primary end point.
    
  