
    
      It is important that the long-term wellbeing of patients who have been admitted with Covid-19
      during the pandemic is addressed. A newly published meta analysis (Rogers et al 2020) has
      looked at the neuropsychiatric consequences of all coronavirus epidemics, including Serious
      Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory (MERS) outbreaks, as well as
      the first emerging studies from SARS-CoV-2. These studies demonstrate that postillness
      neuropsychiatric complications including anxiety and depression can persist up to 36 months
      after the original illness. This is a naturalistic cohort trial with a digital intervention.
      The study population consists of those patients who were admitted with Covid-19, during the
      SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, who at 8 weeks after discharge were found to have symptoms relating to
      anxiety and depression. In this context Covid-19 refers to the disease caused by the virus
      (named SARS-CoV-2). The study population does not include those who required intensive care
      admission during their stay. Excluding usual community psychiatric services (for example
      improving access to psychological therapies) and some specialist intensive care follow up
      services, no interventions at the Royal Free have been set up to address the long-term
      psychological impacts of admission to hospital with COVID-19. The digital intervention is an
      app that consists of twelve audio tracks that combine applied relaxation, mindfulness,
      cognitive behaviour therapy and positive visualisation. It is a validated guided self-help
      tool for treatment of anxiety and depression in the NHS, and recommended by NHS digital.
      Participants are asked to listen to one or two tracks daily for the initial 14 days, and as
      they find beneficial thereafter. They are then followed up, at 2 and 12 weeks, with their
      anxiety and depression scales (the GAD-7 and PHQ-9). The trial is a single site study that
      will take place at the Royal Free, with discharged patients in the community
    
  