
    
      Introduction The dehiscence of the esophagojejunal anastomosis is one of the most serious
      complications after a total gastrectomy not only in the short term but it has been shown to
      be an independent risk factor for survival. The rate of esophagojejunal anastomosis leakage
      after cancer gastrectomies is described to be between 1-12.3%.

      Any method to prevent this complication would be of vital importance to improve the evolution
      of these patients. Likewise, when the dehiscence has been established, early detection could
      contribute to an early intervention, avoiding more serious consequences and, therefore,
      improving the short and long term prognosis.

      Little progress has been made during recent decades in the prevention of anastomotic leakage
      in high-risk digestive tract anastomosis. Some authors have tried the use of new methods of
      suture, reinforcements or patches in the anastomosis. Fibrin adhesives were introduced more
      than 30 years ago, in order to favor hemostasis and tissue adhesion. Numerous studies have
      demonstrated their effectiveness in reducing surgical bleeding in cardiovascular surgery but
      its role as a sealant in gastrointestinal anastomosis is more debated. There have been some
      experimental studies that have shown a possible protective effect of this material in enteric
      anastomoses. With the evolution of bariatric surgery and with the high volume of surgeries
      handled, several studies have been published that assess the effect of fibrin sealants on
      gastrojejunal anastomoses. In esophagogastric surgery, the number of published studies is
      reduced and there are only 2 studies that assess the effect of fibrin sealants on
      esophagojejunal anastomosis. The results of these studies seem to indicate that the
      application of fibrin sealants in this anastomosis could have a favorable effect in reducing
      the number of anastomotic dehiscences.

      There are different definitions for the concept of "anastomotic dehiscence". The dehiscence
      of the esophago-jejunal anastomotic can be defined as any clinical and / or radiological
      evidence of dehiscence of the anastomosis. Although early diagnosis is key to avoiding major
      consequences, in clinical practice, the diagnosis of anastomotic dehiscence is often delayed.
      Direct observation of the debit of surgical drainage, fever or persistent ileus or clear
      symptoms of peritonitis are indirect signs that make us suspect a possible anastomotic
      dehiscence. The possibility of having a parameter that allows us to diagnose early a problem
      in the suture would allow us to act earlier and, therefore, improve the prognosis of these
      patients in the short and long term.

      In colorectal surgery, serological parameters such as procalcitonin or C-reactive protein
      have been studied as early predictors of anastomotic dehiscence. In esophagogastric surgery,
      publications are scarce and all of them analyze results in esophagogastric anastomoses.

      Furthermore, the determination of amylases in drainage has also been used for the detection
      of postoperative fistula. It is a simple and low cost method and is a parameter widely used
      in pancreatic surgery for the detection and evolutionary control of pancreatic fistulas. It
      has also been shown to be useful in esophageal surgery and in bariatric surgery. However, in
      gastric cancer it has only been used for the diagnosis of pancreatic fistula as a
      complication in total gastrectomies with associated splenectomy.

      Finally, the use of radiology with oral contrast routinely in the postoperative period of
      esophagogastric surgery has been shown to have a low sensitivity for the early detection of
      anastomotic dehiscence. CT with oral contrast seems to have greater sensitivity and positive
      predictive value in esophageal surgery for this purpose, but the need to perform a
      postoperative test to evaluate the anastomosis without clinical evidence of dehiscence is
      unclear.

      For all these reasons, we believe that a multicenter randomized study will contribute to
      improve the clinical results of esophagogastric surgery and the knowledge of the diagnosis of
      complications, by studying the efficacy of Tisseel® in reducing the rate of anastomotic
      leakage, but also analyzing the role of drain amylases, serum CRP (C-reactive protein),
      procalcitonin and white blood cell levels in the early detection and prediction of
      anastomotic leak, and the role of CT with oral contrast as a routine assessment of
      anastomotic integrity.

      Objective Analyze the efficacy of Tisseel® in reducing the rate of anastomotic leakage
      diagnosed in the postoperative period using clinical and / or radiological parameters.

      Methods This is a prospective, randomized and multicenter trial, within the Spanish EURECCA
      Esophagogastric Cancer Project, to investigate the efficacy of Tisseel® in reducing the rate
      of esophagojejunal anastomosis leakage in patients with gastric cancer.

      Participation study will be offered to all centers that are currently part of the Spanish
      EURECCA Esophagogastric Cancer Group. Those hospitals that show their desire to participate
      must sign the Letter of Commitment. In the same way, the study must sign off by European
      Medicine Agency and Spanish Agency of Medicines.

      Once the patient is included in the study the surgeon performs a total gastrectomy as usual
      procedure. Once the esophagojejunal anastomosis is done the patient is randomized (Tisseel®
      vs no product). Surgeon dispenses Tisseel® all over the anastomosis following data sheet if
      applicable. The rest of the surgical procedure is as usual. In the postoperative period the
      investigator collects the data commented in following sections.

      The evidence of an anastomotic leak will be tested with analytical and radiological
      parameters:

        1. Blood samples will be taken from patients at:

             -  Immediate preoperative (blood count, procalcitonin and C-reactive protein)

             -  Days 1, 3, 5 and 7 postoperative (blood count, procalcitonin and C-reactive
                protein).

        2. A sample of surgical drainage will be collected for the determination of amylases on
           days: 1,3,5, and 7 postoperative or until drainage is withdrawn.

        3. An abdominal CT with oral contrast will be performed within the first 5 postoperative
           days. The date and the result will be collected.
    
  