
    
      Every year 10 to 15 percent of infants born in the United States, totaling roughly half a
      million babies, are admitted to a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). Although survival
      rates are generally high, as many as half of these infants require a prolonged hospital stay.
      For parents, the admission of a newborn to the NICU is among the most emotionally distressing
      situations that they can face. A prolonged hospital stay can further impact the mother and
      family physically, psychologically, and financially.

      During admission in the NICU it is often difficult for families to be present at bedside
      rounds on a daily basis due to transportation challenges or competing demands of work and
      care for siblings. Conflicting schedules between families and doctors make it more difficult
      to discuss and collaborate with families in the care of their child. The investigators
      hypothesize that this deficiency of communication and perceived loss of control can have
      significant impacts on maternal stress, satisfaction, engagement, and attachment.

      Outside of the medical field, technology continues to advance as rapidly as ever. The medical
      field continues to struggle with adapting and using new technology and continue to lag behind
      many other fields. In recent years telemedicine has been used to facilitate patient care
      delivery, improve accessibility of health care services, and reduce healthcare costs however
      this use remains largely in the outpatient sector.

      In the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Telemedicine has been used by one group to improve
      parent satisfaction in a variety of areas. A pilot study of the concept of remote or virtual
      rounding in a Pediatric Intensive Care Unit has been recently published in the literature.
      This project seeks to expand upon this knowledge to define and measure the impact on several
      aspects of neonatal care.
    
  