
    
      BACKGROUND Smokers with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) recognize the dangers of
      continued smoking and would like to quit, but for most of them the idea of going 'cold
      turkey' is too intimidating. Many of these smokers would like to cut back on the amount that
      they smoke as part of a longer term path to quitting. Long-term nicotine replacement therapy
      (NRT) might allow them to do this. Long-term NRT is safe; it can reduce the rewarding effects
      of cigarettes, reduce the amount that people smoke, and increase quit rates. Long-term NRT
      has not, however, been studied in patients with COPD, and smokers in the United States with
      COPD are still asked to choose between immediate quitting or continued smoking. The purpose
      of this study is to evaluate the relative benefits of a third option: guided maintenance
      therapy with long-term NRT. We believe that long-term NRT could reduce overall exposure to
      cigarette smoke, reduce harm related to smoking, and ultimately lead to greater quit rates.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. Compare the benefits of traditional smoking cessation (SC) versus guided maintenance
           therapy (GMT) with NRT for smokers with COPD.

        2. Estimate rates of smoking cessation and other patient-desired outcomes based on
           patient-specific characteristics and treatment choice (SC or GMT).

      METHODS In this study, we will randomize 398 smokers with COPD to one of two treatment arms:
      1) traditional smoking cessation (SC) or 2) long-term, guided maintenance therapy with NRT
      (GMT). Participants in the SC arm will receive a standard approach to smoking cessation,
      including smoking cessation counseling supplemented with combination NRT (nicotine patch plus
      choice of gum or lozenge) if they are willing to make a quit attempt. Participants in the GMT
      arm will receive counseling focused on medication adherence and smoking reduction plus 52
      weeks of combined NRT. Outcomes will be measured at 3, 6 and 12 months post-randomization and
      will assess rates of smoking cessation, number of cigarettes smoked, exposure to carbon
      monoxide and smoking-related carcinogens, and clinical outcomes including respiratory
      symptoms, respiratory function, and smoking-related hospitalizations or death. In addition to
      directly comparing outcomes in the two treatment arms, our novel classification and
      regression tree analysis will allow us to identify subgroups of patients most likely to
      benefit from treatment and will allow patients to estimate their projected outcomes given
      their personal history and their choice of therapy.

      PATIENT OUTCOMES (PROJECTED) This study will show how long-term NRT compares to a traditional
      smoking cessation program in helping smokers quit, reduce cigarette exposure, lower exposure
      to carcinogens, and reduce risk for death and hospitalizations. If our hypothesis is correct,
      this program could dramatically alter treatment choices for the millions of smokers in the
      United States with COPD that have been frustrated in their attempts to quit.
    
  