
    
      Although underweight has been the traditional nutritional concern in patients with COPD,
      overweight and obesity are becoming important issues in this disease. In a rehabilitation
      study, investigators found that 66% of patients with moderate to severe COPD were either
      overweight or obese according to the WHO obesity classification (BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2). Obesity and
      COPD being two frequent conditions, it is important to understand the nature of their
      interactions.

      Obesity, particularly in its visceral form is associated with a plethora of metabolic
      consequences that increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases. This would seem relevant to
      COPD which is in itself an important risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. The presence of
      obesity, particularly visceral obesity, may thus define in patients with COPD a clinical
      phenotype at high risk of cardiovascular diseases. In this context, it is relevant to note
      that the prevalence of metabolic syndrome is increased in COPD. Although fat distribution has
      not been precisely assessed in COPD studies, increased waist circumference is common in this
      disease suggesting that visceral obesity is part of the obesity syndrome seen in COPD.

      Given the relationship between COPD, obesity and the metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular
      diseases, it is tempting to suggest that visceral obesity is likely to be frequent in COPD
      (as in the general population) and that the profound metabolic and inflammatory perturbations
      associated with this form of overweight/obesity could play a central role in the link between
      COPD and cardiovascular diseases.

      Roflumilast, a Phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor, has been recently evaluated as an
      anti-inflammatory medication in patients with COPD. Roflumilast, alone or in combination with
      long-acting bronchodilators, provide modest but significant improvement in lung function
      along with reductions in the rate of exacerbation in patients with moderate to severe COPD. A
      very interesting observation that was made in these 12-month duration studies was that the
      use of roflumilast was associated with an average reduction in body weight of 2 kg that took
      place during the first 6 months of the trials and remained relatively stable throughout the
      rest of the trials. The mechanisms and the precise effects of roflumilast on body composition
      and adipose tissue distribution have not been studied in great detail. However, available
      data suggest that roflumilast induces a preferential loss in body fat mass in comparison to
      fat-free mass. It remains to be seen whether roflumilast specifically affects visceral versus
      subcutaneous adipose tissue. The improved insulin sensitivity reported in one study in the
      presence of an apparently trivial weight loss (0.7 kg compared to placebo) may suggest that a
      selective loss of visceral adipose tissue may have been produced in response to roflumilast
      therapy.

      These observations, although not definitive, suggest that roflumilast could be used not only
      to treat the respiratory component of COPD but also to modulate the metabolic aspect of this
      disease including visceral adiposity, features of the metabolic syndrome and significant
      co-morbidities of COPD.
    
  