
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the benefit of postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy in
      patients with an early oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) having a tumor depth of invasion
      more than or equal to 5mm.

      Primary objective:

      To determine the impact of postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy on locoregional
      recurrence-free survival in patients with early-stage oral tongue cancer with tumor thickness
      ≥ 5 mm.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To compare disease-free survival and overall survival between the two groups.

        2. To assess and compare the quality of life changes between the two groups.

        3. To assess the acute and long-term radiation toxicity.

      We will be conducting a Phase III Open-Label Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial using
      stratified randomization. Patients will be randomized into two groups:

      Group I: Control arm (Observation only) Group II: Study arm (Postoperative adjuvant
      radiotherapy)

      Patients will be stratified on the following factors

        1. Presence of Perineural Invasion (PNI)/Lympho-Vascular Emboli (LVE)

        2. Histological grade (well-differentiated/moderately differentiated vs poorly
           differentiated)

        3. Tongue/Floor of Mouth vs Buccal Mucosa.

      Study procedures:

      The study population will consist of patients who have been treated by surgery for
      early-stage oral cancers. Patients satisfying the inclusion-exclusion criteria will be
      included in the study after obtaining a valid, written and informed consent. The depth of
      invasion will be assessed microscopically by measuring the maximum vertical bulk of the tumor
      from the normal mucosal surface to the deepest point of invasion. After reviewing the
      histopathological report, patients will be randomized to one of the 2 arms. Patients
      belonging to study arm (Group II) will receive adjuvant radiotherapy 60 Gray, 30 fractions
      for 30 days over 6 weeks as routinely prescribed at Tata Memorial Center (TMC) and will
      receive the treatment within or by 6 weeks after surgery.

      Both the groups (Group I and Group II) will be under regular follow-up with 3 monthly
      intervals for the first 2 years and 6 monthly for the next 3 years and once a year
      thereafter. At each follow-up, patients will be evaluated clinically for evidence of
      locoregional tumor recurrence. The locoregional recurrence-free survival will be calculated
      based on the difference between the date of randomization and the date of biopsy-proven
      recurrence. We will also record the overall survival in both groups. The quality of life will
      be assessed at each follow-up regular intervals using the European Organisation for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ H&N-35 ) and EORTC QLQ-C
      30. The radiation toxicity will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events (CTCAE) v4.0.
    
  