
    
      Postmenopausal women (N=255) aged ≥50 years were randomly selected from community centers in
      Changsha City, Hunan Province, China in September 2017. Menopause was defined as the absence
      of menstrual cycles for at least one year. All subjects were noninstitutionalized and in good
      health.The criteria for exclusion were morphological abnormalities or skeletal distortions
      that prohibited either clinical measurements or morphometric assessments of skeletal
      radiographs All participants were interviewed using a standard questionnaire. Body weight and
      height were measured to the closest 0.1 kg and 0.5 cm, respectively, with subjects wearing
      light clothing and no shoes. Current height was measured using a wall-mounted stadiometer,
      with a horizontal plate pressed on the head, and hair flattened. All subjects provided basic
      information, including current age, age at the start of menopause, years since menopause
      (YSM), weight, and their tallest recalled height. The current measured height subtracted from
      the tallest recalled height was subjects' HHL.The RPD, which was the vertical distance
      between the lowest margin of the ribs and the superior surface of the iliac crest along the
      mid-axillary line, was measured twice by a physician who stood behind the subject. For the
      kyphosis assessment, subjects were measured without shoes, with their heels, buttocks, and
      back to the wall, and head in a horizontal position with a double chin shown. The
      wall-occiput distance was defined as the horizontal distance between the wall and the back of
      the head. The distance between the prominence of the 7th cervical vertebra and the wall was
      defined as 7th cervical vertebra-wall distance (C7WD) , and wall-tragus-distance (WTD) was
      defined as the horizontal distance from the participant's tragus to the wall . All RPD and
      anthropometric indicators of kyphosis were measured in increments of 0.1 cm by two trained
      physicians.BMD of the lumbar spine, left femoral neck, and total hip were measured using dual
      energy X-ray absorptiometry. VFs were assessed using lateral spine imaging from T4 to L4 on
      X-ray.
    
  