
    
      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular edema (DME) are the primary cause of
      irreversible blindness and visual impairment in working-age adults. Nearly 80% of patients
      with diabetes will experience some degree of DR and DME 15-20 years after diagnosis. Altered
      blood parameters (glucose, lipids, and pressure) influence disease development and
      progression; however, the combined values of these parameters account for only 10% of the
      risk of DR. Laser therapy is effective for preserving sight but is poor for reversing visual
      loss. Anti-angiogenic therapies are effective and less destructive but require frequent
      intravitreal delivery, which raises the risk of infection and ocular complications.
      Therefore, the prevention and treatment of DR and DME should include other modifiable
      factors. Data from preclinical studies support a protective role for the serum levels of the
      hormone prolactin. The trial investigates a new specific therapy for DR and DME based on
      elevating the circulating levels of prolactin with the prokynetic, dopamine D2 receptor
      blocker, levosulpiride. It is a prospective, randomized clinical study in patients with DR
      and DME in which ophthalmologic and health parameters evaluated before and after starting the
      study medication will determine the efficacy and safety of treatment.

      Patient registries: Patients are enrolled at the time of a routine health care service. The
      caregiver and patient together, in a standardized uniform manner for every patient, will
      collect the data. Data collection procedures are clearly described and include protocols,
      policies, and the formatted listing of all the data elements, their full definitions and
      validation rules. All personnel involved in data collection are qualified registry trained.
      The same physicians, laboratory technicians, and graduate students will evaluate and collect
      the data from all patients. An individual fully knowledgeable of all protocols, policies,
      procedures, and definitions in the registry will be designated as Accountable for Data
      Quality. This individual (coordinator) should ensure that all collected data are complete,
      accurate, and valid. Data logically inconsistent will be confronted to information in
      external database. Data collected on formatted paper forms are entered into a computer and
      electronic registries carefully reviewed by a third party to identify missing data, invalid
      or erroneous entries, and inconsistent data. Any data review activity and remediation efforts
      will be documented. Amelioration of data problems may include querying the personnel
      uploading the data, the coordinator, the interviewer, or the patient. The proposed sample
      size and study duration are the minimum required and are based on biological models of DR and
      on clinical experience evaluating primary data associated with the study. These parameters
      may have to be modified to accommodate the sample size required to obtain clinically
      important differences and their statistical evaluation, access to eligible patients, lack of
      adherence to therapy at specific calendar dates (holidays), etc. Statistical methods include
      those evaluating continuous and categorical variables, incidence and prevalence, the
      association between a risk factor and outcome, and the relative contribution of confounding
      factors.
    
  