
    
      Objective: To evaluate alcohol memory retrieval-extinction, a novel behavioral procedure for
      reduction of craving and drinking, in problem drinkers.

      Study population: We will collect evaluable data from up to 75 participants. Participants are
      evaluable if they complete geographical momentary assessment (GMA, described below). All
      participants will be adult alcohol drinkers (men: > 14 drinks/week or > 4 drinks/day; women:
      > 7 drinks/week or > 3 drinks/day) whose drinking scores as hazardous on the Alcohol Use
      Disorders Identification Test. Participants will not be seeking treatment for an alcohol-use
      disorder, be physiologically dependent on alcohol, or have other drug use disorders.

      Design: A randomized study with three groups. Participants will use smartphones to provide
      geotagged reports of alcohol craving and drinking in daily life (GMA reports) before,
      between, and after a series of laboratory sessions. During sessions, participants will drink
      an alcoholic beverage (individualized to produce a 0.06 g/dL blood alcohol content) or a soft
      drink. Participants will then be repeatedly presented with alcohol- or soft-drink-associated
      cues without further drinking. These are the memory retrieval and extinction portions,
      respectively, of memory retrieval-extinction. Previous studies suggest this procedure can
      robustly reduce Pavlovian associations between cues and responses such as craving. The
      mechanism seems to involve memory reconsolidation, in which freshly retrieved associations
      (e.g., drink cues and consumption - pleasant effects ) become more vulnerable to disruption
      by extinction.

      Three groups will be tested: (1) alcohol retrieval / alcohol extinction will be compared to
      (2) soft-drink retrieval / alcohol extinction and (3) alcohol retrieval / soft-drink
      extinction. Before and after retrieval-extinction, participants will be tested for alcohol
      craving and cue-induced physiological responses in laboratory sessions. Retrieval-extinction
      will be followed by 1 week of follow-up GMA reporting, with telephone contact 30 days
      thereafter.

      Outcome parameters: The co-primary outcome measures are: self-reported alcohol craving in the
      laboratory sessions before and after retrieval-extinction, and GMA reports of alcohol craving
      and drinking. Daily-life responses are important because the version of retrieval-extinction
      we will be using, with retrieval induced by drinking alcohol itself, rather than alcohol cues
      alone, may be especially likely to have effects that generalize from the laboratory to daily
      life. Secondary outcome measures are: (1) self-reported alcohol craving and drinking at
      30-day follow-up, (2) physiological reactivity during sessions, and (3) urine biomarkers for
      alcohol consumption.
    
  