
    
      Investigating tumor infiltrating lymphocytes in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) is of
      clinical importance for multiple reasons. Cellular, antigen, and cytokine profiles associated
      with favorable clinical outcomes after therapy are currently lacking in lung cancer, and
      these results may lead to the development of clinically important prognostic and predictive
      biomarkers. Additionally, by determining the specific cell types and antigen targets of
      effector cells in the microenvironment, strategies can be devised to alter mechanisms
      regulating tumor immune tolerance. These data may ultimately enable future, novel
      combinational approaches of anti-tumor therapies through early phase clinical trials designed
      to improve clinical outcomes for patients with lung cancer. Finally, by correlating
      immunologic profiles with clinical outcomes (including pathologic response and progression
      free survival), signatures can be derived to help predict benefit from cytotoxic chemotherapy
      for patients receiving these treatments.

      This study will plan to enroll a total of 30 patients. This number will consist of a
      combination of early stage NSCLC patients receiving no neoadjuvant therapy, standard
      neoadjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy, or immune checkpoint therapy as well as patients with
      metastatic disease undergoing tumor resection that have received prior systemic therapy of
      interest, including but not limited to anti-PD1/PDL agents.

      Standard diagnostic and staging work up will be performed, including pathologic/histologic
      diagnosis of cancer. Patients will receive therapy as deemed appropriate by their treating
      physician as per standard clinical care or as part of a clinical cancer trial. There is no
      randomization nor stratification. Patients will not receive any information about the
      assays/research performed as these are for research purposes only.

      Data from patients will be extracted from medical records and images. Data elements that will
      be extracted include the following: age, sex, tumor histology and stage, chemotherapy
      regimens and immune-modulating therapy dose and schedule, disease response (outcomes).

      Tumor specimen samples will be collected at the time of definitive surgical resection of
      tumor. After the specimen has been processed for margin status and the frozen section
      assessment of the specimen is complete, a specimen of excess tumor (at least 1gm) will be
      released and acquired by the tumor immunology correlative science staff for isolation of
      tumor infiltrating lymphocytes for purposes of this protocol with any remaining tissue to be
      processed by the Duke Biorepository staff if the subject has consented to biobanking. For
      those subjects that decline participation in this biorepository tissue will be processed as
      outlined above.

      Blood will be collected prior to surgery to assess activated CD8+ T cells with specificity
      against tumor antigens and CD4 and CD8 functional memory.
    
  