
    
      The Northern Ireland Cohort for the Longitudinal Study of Ageing (NICOLA) is an opportunity
      to conduct methodology research relevant to many features of a large prospective study.
      NICOLA will begin in earnest in Northern Ireland in 2013 and is being conducted by a
      multidisciplinary team in the Centre for Public Health at Queen's University Belfast. It is
      an omnibus programme of research on ageing that will continue for at least 10 years and will
      recruit 8500 middle-aged people in Northern Ireland and follow them into old age, providing a
      comprehensive assessment of their physical and mental health, their lifestyles, and their
      social and economic decision making. NICOLA will look at how they perceive disability and
      health, and how this differs between well-off and disadvantaged groups. NICOLA will also
      study various genetic, biological and psychological factors, including how participants
      perceive risk and value their time, and the effect of this on their retirement behaviour
      (including how they manage their money and their health). People over the age of 50 will be
      invited to take part and asked to complete detailed interviews and questionnaires every 2
      years and health assessments every 4 years. In this randomised trial, we will assess the
      effect of given them the self-assessment questionnaire at different time points, and on paper
      or online.

      Cohort and other studies with longitudinal designs often struggle to maintain their recruited
      participants across all the study time points and to obtain complete data. The problems
      reduce the effective sample size quality of the evidence and robustness of the findings, and
      can undermine the often substantial investment in such studies. Researchers are devoting
      increasing amounts of time and resources to understand how participants decide to take part
      in research and what researchers can do to make their work appeal to potential participants.
      We will explore some of these issues within NICOLA and, to our knowledge, no similar work has
      been conducted solely within an over 50 population.

      Establishing rapport with the participants has been mentioned as another method to increase
      response rate and we will explore this by examining whether receiving a questionnaire in a
      face-to-face exchange increases the likelihood of completion - a topic that was not addressed
      in the aforementioned systematic review.

      Our randomised comparison of online versus paper questionnaires will gauge the interest in
      online methods among the over 50s, and the effects of the different modes on completion and
      completeness. Embedding this research at the beginning of a large cohort study allows the
      opportunity to test different methodologies to discover what works best at with regards to
      the delivery of questionnaires

      The overall aim of this research is to examine the impact of differing times and formats of a
      self assessment questionnaire on completion rates. Specific objectives include:

        -  Assessing the effect of being given a questionnaire during a face to face interview with
           a researcher compared to receiving it by post

        -  Exploring the potential impact of interview fatigue on completion rates

      The proposed study is a randomised trial of different timings and methods of offering a
      self-completion questionnaire. It will be embedded in an ongoing cohort study. All
      participants who complete the CAPI (Computer Assisted Personal Interview) will be invited to
      fill in a self-completion (paper) questionnaire whose contents will include measures of:
      participation in social activities, including organised structured and informal activities;
      relationship quality (partners/relatives/friends); loneliness; perceived stress; resilience;
      quality of life; alcohol intake and a measure of food poverty.

      After participants have agreed to take part in the study, they will be randomised into one of
      two different trial arms:

        1. Receive a paper based questionnaire immediately after their CAPI, handed to them by
           their Interviewer

        2. Receive a paper based questionnaire in the post approximately one week after their CAPI
           interview
    
  