
    
      Background:

      Several large-scale studies enrolling CKD patients discovered that low BMD is still an
      important risk factor for developing fragility fractures, while chronic dialysis patients are
      reported to have 4 to5 fold higher risk of fracture compared to general population. However,
      the relationship between bone mineral density (BMD) by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)
      and fracture and other adverse events in patients with CKD patients is still unclear. In
      addition, declining of renal function could affect the normal physiological regulating of
      blood levels of calcium, phosphate, fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), parathyroid hormone
      (PTH), and vitamin D, which could influence the bone mineral density of chronic dialysis
      patients. Recently, it is well known that serum FGF23 is already elevated at the early stage
      of CKD patients and independently related to CKD. However, there are a limited number of
      reports indicate that the effects of the interactions among FGF23, calcium, phosphate, PTH
      and vitamin D on low bone mineral density and sacropenia in CKD patients.

      Aims:

        1. To determine whether BMD by DXA was associated with fractures and other adverse events
           in dialysis patients.

        2. To explore the effects of the interactions among FGF23, calcium, phosphate, PTH and
           vitamin D on low bone mineral density and sacropenia in dialysis patients.

      Method:

      In this study, the investigators plan to use DXA to screen for BMD, relevant novel bone
      microstructure parameters, and body composition in chronic dialysis patients. Also, the
      investigators plan to use blood testing to measure the blood level of FGF23, calcium,
      phosphate, PTH and vitamin D. The investigators conduct a prospectively follow up program for
      these participants to evaluate clinical courses and outcomes.

      Patient characteristics

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Age >20 years and one of the below

        2. Chronic hemodialysis

        3. Chronic peritoneal dialysis

      Exclusion Criteria:

      get pregnant or planning a pregnancy

      Anticipated results:

        1. The investigators expect that results and findings discovered from this study could show
           the effects of interactions of FGF23, calcium, phosphate, PTH and vitamin D on low bone
           mineral density and sacropenia in CKD patients, which should be an important step on
           improving clinical decision for osteoporosis and fracture risk in renal dialysis
           patients.

        2. Publishing results in an academic journal.
    
  