
    
      In our study, changes that may arise from individual differences will be tried to be
      controlled using repetitive measurements in the same individuals. Evaluation results will be
      recorded without any cold application in order to determine the circumstances prior to the
      application. In the following weeks, doses to both Quadriceps muscles will be recorded
      immediately after cold application of 5 minutes, 10 minutes and 20 minutes. Each of the
      applications will be held on the same day of the week and at the same time in 4 consecutive
      weeks. Nutritional and fluid trains (such as stimulant substances, amount of coffee tea),
      ambient conditions (temperature and humidity) that may affect individual performance will be
      recorded. Keeping room conditions under control will benefit from air conditioning.
      Individuals will be informed about the equipment and test protocol to be used in the tests. A
      sufficient number of trials will be done before the test so that the participants are
      familiar with the equipment and test protocol. All assessments will be performed by the same
      physiotherapist.

      Participant Evaluation:

        -  Body composition will be assessed by height, weight, body fat percentage and skin
           thickness measurements. (TANİTA and Skinfold measurements)

        -  Bruce protocol with the aim of determining the exercise capacity (Bruce protocol
           installed on the treadmill), fatigue (lactate measurement device), heart rate (Polar
           wireless heart rate index), blood pressure (manual sphygmomanometer), saturated oxygen
           level (pulse oximetry) and oxygen consumption (metabolic gas analyzer) measurements.

        -  Respiratory Function Test (Spirometer, FEV1, FVC, FEV1 / FVC, FEF (25-75), PEF, MVV)
           should be performed for evaluation of respiratory functions.

        -  Respiratory muscle strength will be assessed by in-mouth pressure measurements (MIP-MEP
           device) during inhalation and exhalation.

        -  The application area will be assessed by dual laser infrared non-contact superficial
           temperature measurement thermometer and general body temperature infrared in-ear
           thermometer.

        -  Assessment of muscle strength and muscular endurance will be assessed with an isokinetic
           dynamometer.

      Application Program:

      Keeping room conditions, temperature and humidity under control will benefit from air
      conditioning. Temperature and humidity percentage indicator will be used when room conditions
      are monitored. Cooled ice packs of gel will be used to cool the quadriceps muscles. The
      amount of heat of the gel packets, before and after application of the application area, will
      be recorded by measuring with an infrared non-contact thermometer.
    
  