
    
      Approximately 5 to 8% of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions requires
      chronic anticoagulant therapy due to atrial fibrillation or other clinical entities. These
      patients pose particular problems when undergo percutaneous coronary intervention with stent
      implantation (PCI-S), because of the different antithrombotic and oral anticoagulant (OAC)
      strategies required after the procedure when dual antiplatelet therapy is recommended.
      Consequently, this scenario requires careful consideration balancing bleeding, stroke and
      acute coronary syndrome risks.

      New oral anticoagulants (NOAC) have been compared to warfarin for stroke prevention in the
      setting of atrial fibrillation and all these drugs showed a similar or improved efficacy over
      warfarin in term of ischemic events as well as bleeding complications reduction. In
      particular, an important safety issue is the reduction of intracranial bleeding compared to
      warfarin. Currently, four different NOAC have been approved for the treatment of patients
      with atrial fibrillation: apixaban, edoxaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran. The first three
      drugs are anti Xa inhibitors whereas the last one is a direct thrombin inhibitor.

      Data regarding the combination of NOAC and antiplatelet therapy after PCI-S in patients
      requiring chronic anticoagulant therapy are currently scarce.

      The aim of our study is to perform a prospective, multicenter, observational, controlled
      study on patients requiring chronic anticoagulant treatment with either vitamin K antagonists
      or NOAC undergoing PCI-S for concomitant coronary disease.

      The primary objectives of the study are:

        1. To describe the contemporary antithrombotic management during and post PCI-S in patients
           treated with oral anticoagulant therapy

        2. To evaluate, in this context, the efficacy and safety of the different NAOC compared to
           warfarin regimens.

      According to the observational design of the study, anticoagulant therapy (vitamin
      antagonists or new oral anticoagulant drugs), other pharmacological therapy as well as
      procedural device utilized, before, during the procedure and at follow-up will be left to the
      physician decision.

      The events will be adjudicated by a clinical event committee (CEC) comprised of qualified
      physicians. The CEC is responsible for adjudicating all potential endpoint events, including
      death, bleeding, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis, stroke, and coronary
      revascularization
    
  