
    
      1. Objective(s): The key goal of this project is to develop methods for objectively
           monitoring and, ultimately, predicting outbursts of aberrant behaviors commonly seen
           among patients with a variety of neuropsychiatric conditions: dementia, PTSD, TBI, and
           schizophrenia. This initial study will be on patients with dementia. The analytic focus
           is on the measurement of electrodermal activity (EDA), a widely-studied physiological
           recording that indicates sympathetic tone; the central hypothesis in this approach is
           that sympathetic tone will increase prior to an outburst and, therefore, may allow
           therapeutic interventions to prevent it. Alterations of sympathetic activity have been
           implicated in the literature for each of these four conditions. Here, EDA recording
           holds the advantages of requiring neither effort nor communication on the part of the
           subject, and of being a noninvasive procedure. These factors make EDA potentially useful
           for the clinical assessment of arousal among patients with dementia, which will be the
           first of the specific groups studied under this protocol.

        2. Research Design: The general design of all of these studies is the monitoring of EDA in
           subjects with a small device that can be worn on the wrist, ankle or arm; patterns of
           spontaneous EDA will then be assessed for features that may predict the occurrence of an
           outburst. In the initial study of dementia patients, the investigators will first survey
           EDA responses in commonly used paradigms (e.g., visual stimulus, EDA response).
           Currently, little is known about EDA in this population, and the investigators redress
           this by (1) establishing behavioral and physiological baselines for each subject in the
           study, (2) determining how these two classes of dependent measures cohere, and (3)
           evaluating whether patterns of EDA differ as a function of aberrant behaviors that are
           often seen in dementia: wandering, combativeness, and "sundowning" (agitation that
           typically develops late in the day). These behaviors are often grouped in the literature
           under the term "disorders of arousal", and are clinically well known to present as signs
           of disorientation and in some cases, distress. (4) Moreover, quantitative assessment of
           EDA change conceivably may reveal patterns that may signal the onset of problem
           behaviors.

           Each subject will serve as his/her own control, providing within-subject measures of EDA
           signal over time and its correlation with aberrant behaviors. It is worth noting that
           the key EDA measures are not subject to bias based on experimenter ratings. Further, the
           aberrant behaviors will also be rated over time, using quantitative rating scales for
           each of them. In a second class of analyses, the investigators will perform group
           contrasts of subjects with and without these aberrant behaviors, as operationally
           defined by rating scales, to determine if patients with these problem behaviors are
           distinctive as a group with respect to EDA patterns. All statistical analysis will be
           performed on anonymized data, blind to group membership.

        3. Methodology: EDA will be measured by standard techniques in all subjects: electrodes may
           be placed on the hands, feet, ankles, wrists, or arm according to preference and
           configured to measure conductivity or potential. In one portion of the study, a wearable
           device to measure EDA will be used to determine whether EDA predicts the occurrence of
           an outburst. In the study with dementia patients, assessments will be performed at an
           inpatient dementia care facility at the Bedford VAMC (GRECC). Over a two-year period,
           the investigators anticipate enrolling 60 subjects. Recruitment criteria include
           toleration of the EDA recording device worn on the wrist (similar to a watch) or the
           ankle. Skin potential, skin conductance, and membrane electrical power will be monitored
           and data recorded electronically. Data will be de-identified by assigning the serial
           subject number to each patient; a table linking the number to the subject's identity
           will be kept on a secure VA server, allowing re-identification after data analysis.

        4. Findings: If successful, EDA may predict an outburst of aberrant behavior with enough
           lead time to permit a preventive intervention.

        5. Clinical Relationships: The investigators hypothesize that: (a) stable physiologic
           baselines can be obtained for EDA measures, (b) EDA signals are altered as a function of
           aberrant behaviors ("disorders of arousal") on a within-subject basis, and (c) group
           differences will emerge between samples of patients with and without these aberrant
           behaviors.

        6. Impact/Significance: If the EDA were borne out as a sensitive measure of disorders of
           arousal, this measure may find application in the assessment and treatment of dementia.
    
  