
    
      General intervention scheme:

      The decision to start IFX is the sole decision of the treating physician based on the
      patient's immediate need. Eligible patients are those who are planned to start IFX. All
      patients will undergo clinical and laboratory evaluation for IFX eligibility (PPD, infectious
      serology). If the tests have already done in the last 3 months, we will use these data, there
      is no need to repeat. Patients must have a negative stool culture, stool for parasites and
      clostridium difficile toxin test performed over the last week in order to be eligible. The
      screening visit may be performed concomitantly with the enrolment visit if all inclusion and
      exclusion criteria are met.

      Patients will be enrolled at the first screening visit. Informed consent will be signed by
      both parents is required during enrollment. Informed assent will be offered for patients 14
      years old and older. Eligible patients, ambulatory UC patients, requiring IFX for
      corticosteroid dependent or refractory moderate to severe disease (excluding acute severe
      UC), meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria, after obtaining informed consent, will be
      randomized (1:1 ratio in blocks of four, stratified by immunomodulators use) at enrollment
      visit (week 0, prior to IFX initiation) to either group 1 or group 2 using opaque, numbered
      and sealed envelopes. Prior corticosteroid treatment is allowed as a taper-down schedule
      during induction with IFX and must be terminated by week 10 (otherwise will be defined as
      induction failure). At each visit all patients will be examined and have height, weight, and
      PUCAI performed as well as comprehensive laboratory examinations including CBC, albumin, AST,
      ALT, ESR and CRP (CRP will be measured and registered in mg/dL) and fecal samples (4 grams)
      for bile acids and microbiome/virome. Fecal sample for fecal calprotectin (FC) will be
      obtained as well at weeks 20 and 52. Extent of disease will be registered using the Paris
      classification (Levine A et al, IBD, June 2011) and will be based on the latest colonoscopic
      evaluation (described only by macroscopic involvement). Patients who undergo a colonoscopy at
      any time as standard of care before initiating biologic therapy should register the results
      of colonoscopy (according to the Mayo score- A score of ≤1 is considered complete mucosal
      healing). In addition, every colonoscopy that will be performed during the study period based
      on physician discretion, should be register in the CRF (Colonoscopy is not part of this
      specific protocol).

      The study period is composed of two distinctive phases: Intervention phase: week 0-20 and
      follow-up phase: week 21-52.

      Group 1 (intervention group): Patients in group 1 will receive an accelerated induction at
      0,1,3 weeks (5 mg/kg) and then at week 7,11,15.

      Group 2 (control group): Patients in group 2 will receive a per protocol induction at 0,2,6
      weeks (5 mg/kg) and then at week 14.

      Intensification by shortening intervals between infusion rather than dose increment was
      chosen based on the pharmacokinetics of IFX in severe disease favoring this strategy in-order
      to maintain adequate trough drug-levels and avoid intermittent exposure (23).

      Drug levels will be obtained prior to each infusion in each group in the intervention phase.
      Further maintenance will be planned according to drug levels at weeks 15 and 14,
      respectively. A visit concluding the intervention phase will be performed at week 20. The
      follow-up phase will continue without further interventions till week 52. During the
      follow-up phase (maintenance) treatment will be administered according to the treating
      physician discretion, with no restrictions.

      Patients with induction failure in the control arm (defined as a lack of improvement of at
      least 20 points from the baseline PUCAI score OR PUCAI≥35 at 3 weeks following induction)
      will be able to undergo treatment intensification by decreasing infusion intervals according
      to the treating physician discretion.
    
  