
    
      Treatment options for permanent mature molars with deep carious lesions and a preoperative
      diagnosis of reversible pulpitis are varied among clinicians. In the last few years, a more
      biological approach is arising interest in the field of Endodontics through the development
      of calcium-silicate based cements that are used in vital pulp therapy.

      A great variety of materials have been employed for indirect pulp capping. Although calcium
      hydroxide has been the "gold standard" for decades for this procedure, nowadays
      calcium-silicate based cements such as Mineral Trioxide Aggregate (MTA) are preferred. The
      second generation of these cements, among which Biodentine (Septodont, Saint Maur-des-Fossés,
      France) and TheraCal LC (Bisco, Schaumburg, IL, USA) stand out, try to overcome the first
      generation limitations.

      On the other hand, there is a paradigm shift in caries removal techniques. Nowadays, the
      non-selective technique is not longer recommended and a selective removal technique until
      soft dentin is preferred in deep cavitated lesions.

      The study will be carried out at the dental clinic of the Master of Restorative Dentistry and
      Endodontics (Medical and Dental School) of University of Valencia (Spain).

      The study protocol that will be followed is:

        1. Sample size estimation: 212 participants (106 per group).

        2. Informed written consent will be obtained from all participants.

        3. A full dental and medical history will be obtained from all patients.

        4. Clinical (thermal and electric pulp tests, and palpation and percussion) and a
           radiographic examination (periapical radiograph and a small-volume cone beam computed
           tomography (CBCT).

        5. Anesthesia administration and rubber dam placement.

        6. Selective caries removal technique with high-speed diamond burs with air/water spray for
           enamel and Cariosolv gel and hand instruments until soft dentin.

        7. Allocation to one of the two groups: Biodentine (control) or TheraCal LC (experimental)
           for indirect pulp capping procedures.

        8. Final direct composite restoration using the selective etching technique and an
           universal adhesive.

        9. Baseline periapical radiograph.

       10. Follow-up: clinical and radiographic follow-up examinations will be conducted at one
           month, six months and twelve months (±2 weeks). In the one-year follow-up examination, a
           small-volume CBCT will be taken.
    
  