
    
      This was a prospective, single-center, single-blind, randomized, controlled, parallel group,
      pilot trial of an 8-week hatha yoga program as mono-therapy in major depression. Recruitment
      occurred from May to October 2010, and the trial was concluded in January 2011.

      We recruited 38 adults from the San Francisco community who met criteria for major depression
      of mild-to-moderate severity, as per screening diagnostic evaluation with the Mini
      International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) and scores of 14 through 28 on the Beck
      Depression Inventory-II (BDI). At screening, individuals engaged in psychotherapy,
      antidepressant pharmacotherapy, herbal/nutraceutical mood remedies, or any mind-body
      practices were excluded.

      Eligible participants were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of two instructor-led
      intervention groups: a hatha yoga practice group assigned to 90-minute hatha yoga practice
      sessions twice weekly for 8 weeks, versus an attention control education group assigned to
      90-minute yoga history seminars twice weekly for 8 weeks. Participants in the hatha yoga
      group learned and practiced a specific sequence of classical yoga breathing techniques,
      mindful body postures, and a final deep relaxation pose. The attention control education
      group explored the history and philosophy of the main branches of yoga through seminars
      featuring lectures, documentary films, and interactive dialogue between instructor and
      participants; the seminars were designed to control for non-specific mood benefits of the
      hatha yoga intervention, such as attention from study personnel, peer interaction, time spent
      away from routine activities, and anticipation/interest related to mastering novel
      yoga-related information.

      Stratified block randomization was undertaken to ensure that each intervention group had
      equal numbers of participants with mild depression (per screening BDI scores of 14 to 19)
      versus moderate depression (per screening BDI scores of 20 to 28).

      Participants were informed at screening that anyone randomized to the education group would
      be offered 16 free hatha yoga classes, upon completion of the study, to learn and practice
      the same exercises taught to the hatha yoga practice group.

      The primary outcome was depression severity, measured by BDI scores at 2-week intervals from
      intervention start at 0 weeks until intervention end at 8 weeks. Secondary outcomes were
      self-efficacy and self-esteem, measured respectively by scores on the General Self-Efficacy
      Scale (GSES) and the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES) at 0 weeks and at 8 weeks. Blinded
      assessors analyzed outcome data from both intervention groups, testing whether change in
      outcome measures would be statistically comparable between the two groups.
    
  