
    
      Kidney cancer is one of the ten most common malignancies, and the incidence is increasing in
      recent year. From Hong Kong Cancer Registry, there was about 670 new cases diagnosed in 2016,
      and had been increased by 46% compared to 2007. The rapid increase in incidence is partly due
      to the greater prevalence of putative risk factors including smoking, obesity, and
      hypertension, as well as improvements in diagnostic imaging. Within the broad classification
      of kidney cancers, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for approximately 85% of all cases and
      greater than 90% of all renal malignancies.

      Despite the improved understanding and also diagnosis for kidney cancer, still about one
      fourth of patients will presented at metastatic stage or developed recurrence after initial
      treatment and required further systemic therapy. Fortunately, with recent advances in the
      development of novel therapeutic agents, there are many potential effective treatments
      available for patients, including tyrosine kinase inhibitors, mammalian target of rapamycin
      (mTOR) inhibitors, immune checkpoint blockers etc. Facing the wide range of available options
      for systemic therapy, the current challenge is how to select the most effective treatment for
      individual patients, in particular as the first line therapy.

      Currently, there are some guidelines, basing on the clinical parameters and tumor subtype and
      grading, for selection of therapy for patients.Unfortunately, there is no good biomarkers
      available to aid treatment selection. As there is increasing recognition of inter-tumor
      variation, therefore, there is a need to develop more personalized approach to assess the
      treatment response of individual patient / cancer to the panel of available drugs, in order
      to select the best options for each patient.

      Three-dimensional (3D) organoid culture model and its potential advantages Organoid
      technology has recently emerged to become an independent research tool and can provide
      opportunities for new drug development and drug screening. Organoids are cell-derived in
      vitro 3D organ constructs which allow the study of many biological processes. This specific
      model can be developed from embryonic stem cells (ESCs), induced pluripotent stem cells
      (iPSCs), somatic SCs, and cancer cells in specific 3D culture systems. These groundbreaking
      3D tissues were first created in the laboratory in small scale and closely resembled the
      parent organ in vivo in terms of its structure and function. The major benefits of the 3D
      organoid culture model include, firstly, it contains multiple cell types comparable with the
      in vivo counterpart; secondly, the cells inside the 3D structure can organize similarly to
      the primary tissue; and lastly, it functions specifically like the parent organ. With the
      scaffold supporting and the nascent phenotype needed, emerging 3D culture methods can improve
      our ability to model tumor behavior in vitro and provide a native environment for different
      research purposes, such as cell behavior, tissue repair, drugs screening and mutation
      monitoring. Development of kidney cancer organoid Different studies have demonstrated that
      gastrointestinal cancers organoid models provide better prediction to a patient's treatment
      responses. There is limited publication on successful 3D kidney cancer organoid recently, and
      the one published by Batchelder CA in 2015 had analyzed limited amount of genes. Besides,
      majority of the cases reported had been undergone 2D culture on plasticwares before
      implanting inside the 3D scaffold, which may offer the chance of cells selection.Lacking a
      widely acceptable 3D kidney cancer model, this pushes the need to develop a reproducible
      kidney cancer organoid system for better drug selection on significant heterogeneity cancers.
      In our study, total cells will be mixed with the Matrigel scaffold without any manipulation
      or culture selection, and more advance Next Generation Sequencing will be used to evaluate
      the genetic similarity of the culture organoids and the primary tissues. Starting as a major
      technological breakthrough, 3D organoids are now more firmly established as an essential tool
      in biological research and have important implications for clinical use. In the future,
      successful expansion of the model can provide a platform to identify the most effective
      personalized treatment option and improve the treatment outcome of kidney cancer patients.

      Therefore, investigator proposed to establish a sustainable human kidney tumor 3D Matrigel
      culture system with a stable phenotype from local population. Investigators hypothesize that
      the successful of our project would produce reliable and effective method to cultivate kidney
      cancer cells from our local patients, and will provide personalized and targeted therapy on
      kidney cancer for local Hong Kong patients.
    
  