
    
      Study Overview This is a single-centre prospective randomised control trial at (Great Ormond
      Street Hospital) with concealed allocation. A randomised controlled trial was chosen to allow
      equal distribution of confounding factors including age, gender and previous experience of
      orthodontic or surgical procedures.

      Enrollment Patients identified by the cleft team as needing an alveolar bone graft are booked
      onto joint maxillofacial - orthodontic clinics which run several times a week. The clinical
      notes of these clinics will be screened for patients by a member of the study team (who are
      also part of the clinical care team) two weeks before a clinic The parents/guardian of
      patients identified as meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be called by identified
      members of the research team to explain the study. They will seek consent for Patient
      Information Sheets (PIS) to be posted to their registered address at least one week before
      the appointment date (Appendix D&E).

      On the day of the assessment, children deemed suitable will be invited to participate. The
      researcher will go through the PIS verbally in detail allowing the participants to ask any
      questions. Verbal and then written consent will be obtained from those willing to
      participate. They will be allocated into a control or intervention group using a random
      number generator to ensure a randomised and concealed allocation process.

      The sample size calculation has been carried out, using previous studies that have used the
      primary outcome measure. 56 children will be recruited accounting for a 20% drop out rate.

      The Null Hypothesis:

      The "ACE" animation does not reduce the anxiety of patients between the age of eight and
      twelve years undergoing an alveolar bone graft (ABG).

      Alternative Hypothesis:

      The "ACE" animation reduces the anxiety of patients between the age of eight and twelve years
      undergoing an alveolar bone graft (ABG).

      Intervention A control group will receive standardised verbal and written information (the
      current protocol). The study group will additionally be given the "ACE" animation.

      A control arm will be utilised, so the investigators can ascertain if the animation does make
      a difference to the anxiety and understanding of children/adults. As the animation is not
      routinely provided to children, this group will not be disadvantaged when compared to our
      current practice and patient cohort.

      However, if the alternative hypothesis is true the control group will be disadvantaged. The
      investigators will mitigate this by showing all those in the control group the animation
      (during the pre-assessment appointment).

      Outcome Measures The primary outcome measure is the State Anxiety Section of State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory for Children (STAIC -S)- a validated measure of child anxiety (Appendix B).
      This will be given to both groups on enrolment (T1) as a baseline. At the end of the
      assessment appointment during which participants will have received the control or
      intervention they will be asked to fill this questionnaire again (T2). The patient will be
      asked to fill this anxiety assessment when they attend for their pre-surgical assessment
      which is usually 2-3months later (T3). This will allow us to ascertain whether there is a
      short and/or long-term change in anxiety.

      The secondary outcome measures will be assessed by the State Anxiety section of State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory (Appendix Bii), to be filled in by the parents at the same time points
      (T1,T2,T3).

      In addition, participants and parents of both intervention and control will fill in their
      respective parts of a questionnaire that assesses their self-reported understanding of the
      procedure (Appendix Ci and Cii). This will happen at time points T2 (end of assessment
      appointment) and T3(end of pre-surgical appointment).

      This questionnaire has been developed by an expert panel of Consultant Orthodontists,
      Restorative Dentists, Paediatric dentists, Maxillofacial and Oral Surgeons and Clinical
      Psychologists, followed by a Patient and Public Involvement session with the GOSH London
      Young Person's Advisory Group - a group of 8 to 21 year olds.

      This group was invited to recommend changes to the Participant Information Sheets,
      Consent/Assent forms and Questionnaires to improve their acceptability and readability. They
      were also asked to make changes to the questionnaire to better reflect what they wanted to
      know as patients and the public. Changes to the layout and wording were presented to the
      Expert panel and broadly accepted. The YPAG voted this project as being the most interesting
      and informative of their session.

      Bias in the study will be minimised by randomisation and concealed allocation processes.
      Patients/parents will be blinded, they will not be told if they are in the control or
      intervention group. The Participant Information Sheets do not mention an animation.

      Statistical analysis This will be undertaken by a statistician independent from the clinical
      care team who is blinded to which group is the intervention and the control.

      A narrative description of the protocol is given in Appendix N.
    
  