
    
      Fluid management is one of the most important treatments for stabilizing hemodynamics in
      patients after cardiac surgery.Electrical Cardiometry is a method for the non-invasive
      determination of stroke volume (SV), cardiac output (CO), stroke volume variation (SVV) and
      other hemodynamic parameters in adults, children, and neonates based on measurement of
      thoracic electrical bioimpedance and has been validated against "gold standard" methods such
      as thermodilution method of deriving CO using a pulmonary artery catheter (PAC).

      The IJV is, technically, much more easily accessible for sonographic visualization than the
      IVC, and measurement of the IJV does not require transesophageal echocardiography (TEE).
      Internal jugular vein distensibility index (IJVDI) has been studied in several studies but
      its reliability has not been well confirmed in patients during cardiac surgery.

      This is a prospective observational study of adults undergoing coronary artery bypass graft
      surgery . The primary aim of the study is to assess the reliability of predicting fluid
      responsiveness in adults undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery using sonogram of
      the internal jugular vein for assessment of vessel distensibility in relation to stroke
      volume variation (SVV) measaured by electrical cardiometry.The secondary aim is to evaluate
      the ability of thoracic fluid content (TFC) measured by electrical cardiometry to be an
      additive value for the assessment of fluid responsiveness.

      Volume responsiveness will be independently assessed by IJV sonogram and electrical
      cardiometry in following times

        1. After induction of anesthesia.

        2. After transfusing 6 ml / kg of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 6% before sternotomy.

        3. After closure of the sternum and transfusion of patient's blood.

        4. Immediately before transferring the patient to ICU and stabilization of hemodynamic
           parameters by giving fluids needed to patient.

        5. Immediately after transferring the patient to ICU and stabilization of hemodynamic
           parameters by giving fluids needed to patient.

        6. After 2 hour of ICU admission.

        7. Before weaning from mechanical ventilation Fluid responsiveness will be assessed by
           examining SVV with a threshold of the SVV = 12% allow discrimination between Responders
           and Non-responders
    
  