
    
      The prevalence of obesity and associated diseases have been increasing in recent decades.
      From 1980 to 2013, the number of adults with BMI more than 25 kg/m2 increased from 28.8% to
      36.9% in men, and from 29.8% to 38% in women. According to World Health Organization (WHO),
      the prevalence of overweight among adults in Thailand in 2016 was 32.6%, markedly increased
      from 2011 which was 23.9%. To date, the most effective long-term treatment for obesity is
      bariatric surgery because of significantly reducing body fat, the development of new
      obesity-related conditions, and overall mortality. However, postoperative complications,
      particularly respiratory complication, are concerned because obesity is associated with
      respiratory compromise and sleep-disordered breathing. The 2016 guideline for perioperative
      care in bariatric surgery developed by enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) society state
      that, regarding to current evidence, there is no specific anesthetic agents or techniques for
      bariatric surgery, however, multimodal analgesia should be used to reduce opioid consumption
      and opioid-related complications such as respiratory depression, postoperative nausea and
      vomiting and ileus. Moreover, several studies supported opioid-sparing technique to avoid
      respiratory complications.

      Intravenous lidocaine is widely used to reduce postoperative pain and to reduce perioperative
      opioid as a multimodal analgesia. From Cochrane review, perioperative lidocaine can decrease
      pain at rest, postoperative ileus and postoperative nausea and vomiting in elective and
      urgent surgery. Few trials in obese patients underwent laparoscopic bariatric surgery found
      that lidocaine infusion can decrease opioid consumption. However, the supported evidence is
      still limit. Ketamine has been used for postoperative analgesia as well, as an effective
      adjunct to decrease opioid consumption in various types of surgery, including open bariatric
      surgery. Moreover, the recent retrospective study (Tovikkai P, in press) found that there was
      a positive interaction between intraoperative lidocaine infusion and ketamine for decreasing
      opioid consumption in obese patients underwent laparoscopic bariatric surgery. However, the
      benefit of lidocaine and ketamine for postoperative pain in obese patients underwent
      laparoscopic bariatric surgery is still debated.

      Therefore, we designed this study to examine the effect of intraoperative lidocaine infusion
      and intraoperative lidocaine infusion combined with intraoperative low-dose ketamine infusion
      on opioid consumption in obese patients undergoing laparoscopic bariatric surgery.
    
  