
    
      Clinical studies have shown that adding selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)
      antidepressants to antipsychotics can improve negative symptoms of schizophrenia in patients
      unresponsive to antipsychotics alone (Silver and Nassar, 1992; Spina et al., 1994; Goff et
      al., 1995). However, the effect of SSRI augmentation on cognitive impairments of the illness
      has not been adequately tested.

      The mechanism of SSRI augmentation is not known and is the focus of research interest.

      We have recently shown that in animals, combined treatment of SSRI antidepressant and
      antipsychotic drug resulted in biochemical changes, different from the effects of the
      individual medications. Changes unique to the combined treatment were found in GABAergic
      components (GABA-Aβ3 receptor, glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 and PKCβ (Chertkow et al.,
      2005)) and changes unique to the combined treatment were found in selected areas of rat
      brain.

      Studies of drug mechanisms in humans have utilized blood products and PMC which are readily
      accessible and may reflect molecular processes in the central nervous system (CNS) of
      schizophrenic patients (Kronfol and Remick, 2000; Avissar et al., 2001; Ilani et al., 2001;
      Rothermundt et al., 2001). In a recent study (Chertkow et al., 2007) which examined the gene
      expression profile of PMC's from antipsychotic-treated patients before the addition of the
      SSRI fluvoxamine, we found that mRNA expression of chemokine receptors, IL8RA and CCR1, and
      of RGS7 was significantly down-regulated following fluvoxamine augmentation. Additionally,
      the clinical assessments showed improvement in negative symptoms following the combined
      treatment. These findings suggested that gene expression changes in PMC's may be useful in
      investigating the mechanism of drug action in schizophrenia.

      In this study we will examine RNA and protein expression in the course of fluvoxamine
      augmentation treatment. 15 chronic schizophrenic patients who have persistent negative
      symptoms and cognitive impairment despite adequate treatment will participate. Fluvoxamine
      100mg/day will be added to the treatment regimen and continued for 6 weeks. Clinical state
      will be assessed using validated rating scales and cognitive performance will be assessed
      with a cognitive test battery. Blood samples will be taken at baseline and at 1, 3 and 6
      weeks. The PMC's will be assayed using microarray, RT PCR and proteomic techniques. Changes
      in RNA and protein expression will be detected and compared with changes in clinical symptoms
      and cognitive function. Identification of biochemical changes related to augmentation treated
      and their relation to symptomatic and cognitive changes will be the major potential benefit
      of the study.
    
  