
    
      Aim The purpose of this study is to evaluate the connection between sleep quality and
      duration and athletic performance among young athletes living and training at the
      Sport-Gifted Centre at the Wingate Institute.

      Methods 50 athletes of the Sport-Gifted Centre at the Wingate Institute, ages 13-20, male and
      female, from the branches of triathlon and swimming. Participants and their parents will be
      asked to give informed consent.

      The proposed study will have two stages:

        1. Baseline assessment: In the first stage there will be an evaluation of sleep quality and
           duration of the athletes over the course of two weeks, in parallel their athletic
           performance will be evaluated using accepted measures such as: swimming times over set
           distances, running times over set distances, etc.

        2. Assessment of intervention's effect of prolonging the duration of nighttime sleep on the
           athletic performance of the participants, using the same measures as above. This stage
           will take four weeks.

      Stage 1:

      Before beginning the study each participant will fill out a general health questionnaire.

      Each participant will receive a Suunto heart monitor belt to sleep with for two weeks. Each
      participant will be asked to wear the belt before going to bed and take it off upon waking up
      in the morning. Heart rate data stored on the belts will be transferred each morning to a
      computer. Analysis of sleep architecture and duration over the course of the two weeks will
      be carried out using the HC1000P system from HypoCore Inc. (see attached documents). In
      addition average heart rate and maximal heart rate can be assessed while training at baseline
      by recording heart rate using the Suunto belts. Sleep data will be analyzed and each
      participant will receive a personalized analysis of his/her sleep. At this stage the
      investigators will evaluate the baseline characteristics of the participants including sleep
      duration, sleep efficiency, presence and duration of the different sleep stages, in
      particular slow wave sleep during which it is known a growth factor is released which is
      important for muscle recovery, times and durations of training sessions and athletic
      performance.

      Evaluation of athletic performance will be done using standard tests that are routinely
      carried out as part of the athletes' training program in every branch of sports. For
      triathletes running times for 3000 meters are measured, for swimmers their times for set
      distances (50 meters,100 meters, 400 meters, etc). All these measures will be done without
      deviation from the regular training routine. Also general parameters will be measured like
      standing heart rate and reclining heart rate, and heart rate at awakening in the morning.

      Stage 2:

      At this stage the participants will be divided randomly into two groups. In the course of an
      additional training cycle of two weeks one group labeled 'A' will be given additional sleep
      time of one to two hours. The second group (group 'B') shall continue with no change. In the
      course of the two weeks sleep parameters of both groups will be assessed and analyzed, and
      athletic performance during routine training will continue to be measured and tabulated.
      After these two weeks the two groups will be crossed over, group 'A' will return to a routine
      sleep schedule, i.e. the extra sleep time will be removed and group 'B' will get additional
      sleep time. All the aforementioned measures will be collected during two weeks (sleep
      quality, athletic performance during training).

      After analysis of the results further testing will be recommended as needed as well as
      changes in training programs, daily scheduling and sleep schedules.

      During the entire study there will be close monitoring of injuries among participants. Events
      will be defined as injuries (according to the number of treatments by a physiotherapist or
      visits to a doctor) or near injuries and will be quantified, and correlations will be sought
      between performance, injuries and sleep duration.

      In both stages in addition to wearing a heart rate belt, the participants will be asked to
      fill out a questionnaire before and after sleep during the entire study (see attached
      document).

      Note: Suunto is a Finnish company that makes advanced sports watches and sensitive heart rate
      belts used by athletes in their training. The belt is soft, of very high quality, lightweight
      and contains a sensor and memory unit to store the heart rate data of the participant. It is
      approved for routine use for monitoring heart rate in people engaged in physical activity.

      Expected benefits:

        -  Better understanding of the physiology associated with sleep among adolescents involved
           in regular, competitive physical activity.

        -  Improved performance by building a sleep program, optimal wakefulness and training.
    
  