
    
      Overall

      COVID-19 is a multisystemic disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 that has become a pandemic largely
      due to a combination of favorable transmission and infection characteristics for its spread,
      including prolonged preclinical or also asymptomatic yet transmitting period, relatively
      highly resistant to mechanical and physical barriers and prolonged survival in the air, and
      transmission patterns not yet fully elucidated.

      While vaccines are not widely available, the number of new cases should not decrease
      dramatically, unfortunately, since a large percentage of the population has not been infected
      by the SARS-CoV-2 yet, reinfection becomes increasingly plausible with mutations in the
      virus, and virus contention policies failed to be 100% effective.

      Considering potential antiviral approaches for COVID-19, their effectiveness only make sense
      if tested and given early in the disease, during viral dissemination. The learning that
      oseltamivir is only effective for Influenza A in the first three days of disease finds strong
      plausibility, and reinforces the expected lack of effectiveness of any drug with in vitro or
      preliminary antiviral activity reported when tested in hospitalized or non-mild patients,
      once COVID-19 presents tend to present mild symptoms during the viral dissemination stage.

      An actual early detection of COVID-19, i.e., before its progression to further inflammatory
      stages, is challenging, once the earliest symptoms tend to be unspecific, mild, and hardly
      attributable to COVID-19. By suspecting of COVID-19 in the presence of any symptom, specific
      to COVID-19 or not, sensitivity was met to be above 90% while specificity was also relatively
      high (above 50%). In addition, time-to-treat, rather than which drug to choose, could better
      determine the effectiveness of a specific approach.

      Ivermectin: potential antiviral activity for COVID-19

      Among drugs potentially effective for COVID-19, despite the classical antiparasitic and
      anti-scabies use, ivermectin has demonstrated antiviral activity for a variety of viruses by
      inhibiting and reducing the viral shedding duration, including chikungunya and other
      alphaviruses, zyka virus, dengue virus and other simple-strain RNA viruses.

      In the search for drugs with anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity, considering its effects on other
      viruses, ivermectin was tested in a Vero-hSLAM cell model and demonstrated potent in vitro
      action, by reducing viral load by 5000x after 48 hours of incubation. However, after initial
      promising results, simultaneous pharmacokinetics simulations suggested that the minimum
      effective concentrations would be unfeasible to be reached within safety range (EC-50 = 2
      Micromol).

      Although the theoretical minimum concentration required for antiviral action was apparently
      at least 17 times higher than the lethal dose and up to 10,000 times the usually prescribed
      doses for humans ( IC50 of 2.2 - 2.8 µM for monkeys), which would reduce the chances of
      ivermectin efficacy for COVID-19, preliminary observational yet well-structured studies
      demonstrated substantial synergistic action of ivermectin when added to "standard of care",
      usually hydroxychloroquine with or without macrolides. In a specific study, the use of
      ivermectin, even in low doses, reduced by 40% the absolute risk of death among patients more
      severely affected by COVID-19.

      Some randomized clinical trials (RCTs) demonstrated efficacy of ivermectin when combined with
      hydroxychloroquine, doxycycline or azithromycin, in both mildly (and presumedly early) and
      more severely affected subjects with COVID-19. Demonstrated benefits included lower disease
      progression and reduced COVID-related mortality.

      In comparative analyses, combinations between ivermectin and azithromycin, doxycycline or
      hydroxychloroquine demonstrated superiority compared to combinations between
      hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin or hydroxychloroquine alone.

      The exact mechanisms of action remain nuclear. At least one study employing higher doses
      (0.6mg/kg/day) demonstrated in vivo antiviral activity, but only when maximum concentration
      reached serum levels above 160 ng/ml, which only occurred in 45% of subjects, even at higher
      doses. The antiviral mechanisms include modification in the ACE-2 glycation patterns,
      inhibition of the viral Helicase (NSP13) and disruption of the alpha-importin heterodimer.

      In a recent systematic review and metanalysis, a dose-response correlation has also been
      observed in terms of endpoints, reinforcing the role of ivermectin as actins as an
      anti-SARS-CoV-2 action drug. However, even in lower doses ivermectin was able to demonstrate
      clinical benefits, allowing the hypothesis that ivermectin also exerts anti-inflammatory
      effects, which could include the blockage of STAT-1 migration to the nucleus, and could
      justify its use even at later stages of the disease.

      Collectively, higher yet safe ivermectin doses find stronger plausibility and preliminary
      evidence to be tested in RCTs. In addition, approaches to increase ivermectin absorption and
      bioavailability should be encouraged.

      Based on the scientific rationale combined with preliminary evidence, ivermectin has
      sufficient evidence to be tested at higher doses in a RCT for COVID-19. The investigators
      propose to test ivermectin at high doses as a treatment for patients recently diagnosed with
      COVID-19. This study is intended to explore the possible protective role of high-dose
      ivermectin in SARS-CoV-2 infection in terms of reduction of clinic and virologic disease
      duration, and prevention of oxygen use, hospitalization, mechanical ventilation, death, and
      post-COVID persisting symptoms.
    
  