
    
      Discovery of the viral etiology of cervical cancer has opened up the possibility of primary
      prevention through vaccination. High-risk sexually transmitted types of human papillomavirus
      (HPV) have been identified as a necessary agent in cervical carcinogenesis, and work on
      vaccine development has progressed rapidly. Vaccines for HPV types 16 and 18, which are
      implicated in ~70% of cervical cancers, as well as types 6 and 11, which cause genital warts,
      have been shown to be effective and have been licensed in the last year. Modeling studies
      have indicated that an HPV vaccine could be cost-effective even alongside existing screening
      programs. Ideally, girls should be vaccinated before the onset of sexual activity, and
      estimates suggest that introduction of an HPV vaccination at age 12 could reduce lifetime
      cervical cancer incidence by up to 94%. As with any new technology, the success of HPV
      vaccination will be dependent on levels of acceptability and uptake. Given the need for
      parental consent in India, research into parental acceptance is of vital importance.

      Although parental acceptance of vaccination against sexually transmitted infections (STI)
      including HPV, appears high in other parts of the world, there is little data in India. In
      previous research from other parts of the world, the biggest concern identified was that
      vaccinations may disinhibit risky sexual activity among adolescents. Other attitudes and
      beliefs that may influence parental uptake of an HPV vaccine include fear of potential side
      effects, concern about giving children too many vaccinations, the belief that vaccinations
      may cause disease, and religious and cultural taboos against vaccination. There is a critical
      need to develop data and experience that will provide the information needed by policymakers
      prior to the introduction of a cervical cancer vaccine in India.

      The present research will be guided by the ecological framework and identify where the locus
      of HPV vaccine decision-making lies in an Indian setting. This project will explore
      household, peer and authority figure influencers in vaccine uptake. This process will include
      qualitative research methods such as focus group discussions and one-on-one interviews..
    
  