
    
      BACKGROUND Physician-guided moderate sedation, administered by a Registered Nurse has been
      the standard of practice for patients undergoing a wide range of electrophysiology procedures
      during the past decade. Currently a subjective sedation assessment tool is the standard of
      practice within the Electrophysiology Lab (EP Lab). Bispectral Index monitoring (BIS) is an
      objective measure of the depth of sedation presently employed at Baystate Medical Center in
      the Intensive Care Unit and within the department of anesthesia.

      AIM The aim of this research study is to assess the utility of BIS monitoring in measuring
      the depth of sedation in patients undergoing defibrillation threshold testing (DFT). Our
      primary endpoint is: A change in Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation Scales (OAAS)
      scores of one point at the 30 minute data collection time period.

      Our secondary endpoints are: Lack of explicit recall of DFT testing and measurement of
      perioperative level of comfort.

      STUDY DESIGN AND SCOPE The population to be studied is those patients receiving a primary ICD
      implant or an ICD battery change with defibrillation threshold testing (DFT).

      All patients who have consented for ICD placement and DFT testing with moderate sedation will
      be invited to participate in this research study. Patients who are not candidates for DFT
      testing, as is determined by the EP physician, will be excluded from the study.

      Demographic data including: age, gender, BMI, current medications and history of sleep apnea
      will be collected. Data detailing the amount of drug administered during the procedure and
      any use of reversal agents, will be retrieved from the medical record.

      The study will be conducted within the Electrophysiology lab at Baystate Medical Center. An
      enrollment of 60 subjects is expected to be completed within 6 months. 30 patients will
      originate from the outpatient population and 30 from the inpatient.

      Follow up assessments using the OAAS scale will be completed at 30 min, 1 hour and 4 hours
      post procedure. Also, perioperative comfort and recall of DFT testing will be assessed at the
      4 hour mark.
    
  