
    
      Study design Random, parallel and control method is adopted.

        1. Group division: random group division SM intervention group: SM intervention +
           varenicline Non-SM intervention group: varenicline

        2. Method design Random, parallel and control method is adopted. In intervention group, SM
           is delivered by a standard designed SM platform system. The interactive SM supports are
           involved and trained professional staff will provide guidance regularly. The drug usage
           in two groups are the same.

      Group Baseline 1st week 2nd week 3rd week 4th week 8th week 12th week 24th week Intervention
      Record Smoking history, consulting SM SM SM SM + Visit SM + Telephone visit SM + Visit SM +
      Visit Control Visit Telephone visit Visit Visit

      Study population In this research, professional biostatistical staffs adopt SAS program to
      divide groups in the trial. The sample size is calculated based on drug compliance rate.
      Since lack of the data related to varenicline combined SM intervention, the similar trials in
      the past are taken as reference, but mostly based on the experiences of the investigator's,
      the mean treatment time for patients using Varenicline is 4 weeks, the proportion of patients
      who use Varenicline for 4 weeks is about 40%; when combined SM intervention, it supposed to
      increase to 60% . When use 80% power and 0.05 significance for calculation, the sample size
      is 192, 96 for each group. Considering the drop rate is about 15%, 220 qualified subjects are
      included in random group division.

      Treatment program

        1. Treatment program The drug administered is varenicline. This drug has been recommended
           as the first-line smoking-cessation drug by American smoking-cessation guide in 2008.
           The abstinence rate is 3.1 times higher than that of placebo [3]-109, which is the
           highest rate among smoking-cessation drugs at present. This drug is manufactured by
           Pfizer Company and should be used strictly in light of the use instruction.

        2. Intervention

      1) Contents of psychological behavior intervention 2) SM intervention

      Regular SM for smoking cessation

      It is active SM delivery, no need of reply. SM is delivered at 9 o'clock on the assigned day
      to mobile phones of target people. The frequency of delivery is as follows:

      Time Frequency

      1 day before smoking cessation 1pcs/d The 1st week of smoking cessation 2pcs/d The 2nd week
      of smoking cessation 1pcs/d The 3rd to 4th weeks of smoking cessation 1pcs/d The 2nd to 6th
      months of smoking cessation 1pcs/w

      Objectives Primary observation index 1) Drug compliance for 4 weeks: defined as the
      proportion of patients who use Varenicline for 4 weeks to all the patients in this group.

      Secondary observe index

        1. Drug compliance for 6, 8, 10 and 12 weeks: the proportion of patients using varenicline
           for 6, 8,10 and 12 weeks to all the patients;

        2. Continuous abstinence(CA) rates: These rates are defined as the proportion of
           participants who met abstinence criteria for weeks 9 through 12 and reported no smoking
           or use of tobacco products at clinic or telephone visits, confirmed by exhaled carbon
           monoxide measurement of 10 ppm or less at clinic visits only.

        3. Long-term abstinence rates: it is the rate at the follow-up of the 24th week and
           verified by exhaled CO test.

      Safety The safety indexes include i. General items: blood pressure, heart rate, respiration
      ii. Blood and urine routine, liver and kidney functions iii. ECG iv. All of the recorded
      adverse events v. Severe adverse events: terminate trial immediately and deal with them in
      time.

      Record and report of adverse event

      1. Definition

        1. Adverse event: any untoward medical conditions occurrence in a patient administered the
           drug.

        2. Serious adverse event: below adverse events occurrence in drug use: death, life
           threatened, prolong hospitalization, disabled and teratogenic.

      2. The relationship between adverse event and trial drug Data management

        1. Filling-up Case Report

        2. Data input

        3. Data lock

        4. Data management Statistical analysis SPSS 10.01 statistical software is adopted.
           Differences in treatment period between two groups were evaluated using Kaplan-Meier
           survival curves, with log-rank test, Cox proportional hazard models, Bilateral test is
           used in all of statistical test, P<0.05 is viewed to be statistical significant
           difference.

      Parametric method is adopted for normality data and the data of homogeneity of variance,
      including mainly independent t test, paired t test, variance analysis, analysis of
      covariance, etc. For the data of non-normal distribution and uneven variance, non-parametric
      method is adopted, including Chi-square test, exact probability method, rank test, etc.
    
  