
    
      The implementation steps of the proposed RCT are as follows:

        1. The staff will introduce the study to all eligible participants either in person or
           virtually and consent interested families for the study.

        2. All participants and their families will receive training on the use and application of
           the CGM. All equipment will be distributed to the participants, who will download the
           CGM app onto their smartphone and set up an account with a pseudonym.

        3. All participants will wear the CGM for a 7-day period prior to being randomized.

        4. All participants and their families will receive standard nutritional counseling
           promoting low added sugar and carbohydrate intake (Healthy Eating through Reduction of
           Excess Sugar (HEROES) intervention R01 MD010358-A1) and will be randomized to one of two
           meal-timing schedules at week 0: (a) Control: 12-hour eating window; (b) TLE: 8-hour
           eating period (16 hours of daily fasting 5 days per week). Participants will be
           randomized 1:1 via stratified, blocked randomization to ensure the groups are balanced
           in terms of number of participants and the distribution of potential confounding
           variables including sex, age, and ethnicity. Block size will be blinded from the PI
           performing the study. During the eating window, participants will not be required to
           count calories or monitor food intake in any way. Participants will choose and pay for
           their own food during the intervention. All participants will record their eating window
           daily and submit it to the study staff via email. All participants will receive standard
           advice for physical activity, and screen and sleep time as per the American Academy of
           Pediatrics age appropriate recommendations.

        5. The study staff will conduct study assessments of participants at weeks -1, 0, 1, 4, 8,
           and 12. Based on institutional research restrictions, these visits will either be
           conducted in-person or virtually via a HIPAA compliant platform.

        6. The study staff will perform weekly phone encounters with the participants to assess
           barriers to adherence and review CGM data. The study staff will record any medication
           changes or health encounters that have occurred in the last 7 days.

        7. The PI and research team will complete and oversee data management and analysis.

      Intervention Components

      Dietary counseling low added sugar and carbohydrate (all participants): The dietary
      counseling is modeled after the Healthy Eating through Reduction of Excess Sugar (HEROES)
      intervention (NIH R01 MD010358-A1), which is currently used by Dr. Michael Goran's lab at
      CHLA as a method to reduce added sugar intake in diets of youth with fatty liver disease. The
      intervention consists of recommendations for low added sugars (approximately equal to 5% of
      daily energy for a teenager and roughly equivalent to the American Heart Association and
      World Health Organization recommendations for patients with T2D) and a moderate
      carbohydrate-restricted (<100 grams per day) daily diet. Added sugars consumed from juices
      are included in the recommended daily amount; however, sugars from whole fruit or sugar in
      regular unsweetened milk and dairy are not. No specific caloric restriction will be
      recommended, and participants will not be required to keep logs of daily consumption. They
      will be provided with culturally appropriate, general recommendations for low sugar and low
      carbohydrate food options to reference.

      Time-Limited Eating (TLE): This intervention arm will involve TLE, in which participants are
      instructed to only eat from 11 AM to 7 PM for 5 days per week and to consume food within
      their habitual eating period for the remaining 2 days per week. The investigators conducted a
      cross sectional analysis of a cohort of 100 adolescents with obesity and found that most
      total calories, carbohydrates, and added sugars were consumed between 11 AM and 7 PM (Vidmar
      AP, Raymond JK, Goran MI, 2020, Pediatr Obes, under review). Therefore, to align with the
      normal developmental eating patterns seen in adolescents, the investigators will implement an
      afternoon/evening-based TLE approach. Participants will be allowed to consume non-caloric
      beverages (water, tea, coffee) during the fasting period. No energy restriction will be used,
      but participants will be given the low added sugar/carbohydrate guidelines described above.
      All participants will be asked to record their eating windows daily.

      Control: The control arm will involve no mealtime restrictions. Participants will be
      instructed to consume food over a 12-hour or more eating window. No energy restriction will
      be used, but participants will be given the low added sugar and carbohydrate guidelines
      described above. All participants will be asked to record their eating windows daily and
      submit to the study staff.

      Exercise: No structured exercise intervention will be included. However, regular physical
      activity is encouraged, consistent with guidelines for T2D management in youth.71
      Participants will complete the Physical Activity Questionnaire throughout the study period to
      monitor physical activity.

      Continuous Glucose Monitor: Participants will wear Dexcom G6 continuous glucose monitors
      (CGM, Dexcom, San Diego, CA, USA) continuously for 13 weeks (week -1 to week 12). All
      participants will be blinded to CGM for seven days prior to commencement of the dietary
      intervention for baseline data collection, and then randomized to either TLE or control.
      Participants and their family member will be educated on the use of the Dexcom G6 Mobile CGM
      system at the first visit. Participants will receive training on the system using prepared
      training materials. All initial sensor insertions will be performed at the clinic by
      participants and/or family member, under the supervision of the study team, using the
      automated sensor applicator. The sensor will be changed every 10 days. Diurnal glucose
      profiles derived from interstitial fluid readings performed every 5 minutes over back-to-back
      10-day cycles for 91 days will be collected using the CGM device. The CGM data will be
      uploaded to the cloud platform, Clarity, into a research clinic group to be reviewed by the
      research team. The Dexcom app will be downloaded to the participants and family members'
      personal smart phone and an account will be created with a pseudonym of the subjects' choice.

      Measurements: The study team will conduct all assessments at week -1, 0, 4, 8 and 12. All
      data will be collected and stored in REDCap.

      Primary Outcomes

      Quantifying glycemic control: Using a CGM, the investigators will capture glucose readings
      every 5 minutes and obtain the percent time in range (TIR: defined as glucose levels from 70
      mg/dL to 180 mg/dL72) for the 7 days prior to the intervention period compared to the last 7
      days of the intervention period between groups. HbA1c will be measured using a DCA 2000
      (Bayer Corporation, Elkhart, IN) and compared pre- and post- intervention between groups.

      Quantifying change in β-cell function: To improve participant burden and decrease project
      cost, the modified MMTT will be utilized.83 Therefore, the investigators will evaluate the
      effect of TLE on changes in C-peptide and insulin levels measured after MMTT. The MMTT will
      be performed at weeks 0 and 12. The MMTT will occur after an overnight fast. Participants
      will be instructed to not take their Metformin for 48 hours prior to their MMTT. Following
      baseline sampling (0 min), a test meal (470 kcal, ∼66% carbohydrate, 18% fat, and 16%
      protein) composed of one 8-fluid-ounce Boost nutrition supplement drink (Nestlé Health
      Science) and one Power Bar (Nestlé Nutrition) will be administered. The meal will be consumed
      within 10 min, with the bar consumed first and repeat sampling for C-peptide, glucose and
      insulin levels performed at 60-, 90- and 120- minutes post-meal. Baseline plasma C-peptide
      concentration divided by the baseline plasma glucose concentration will be calculated as a
      pragmatic marker of β-cell function.

      Secondary Outcomes

      Quantification of total body fat percentage: Using a Hologic QDR 5400 densitometer (Hologic,
      Inc., Bedford, MA) DEXA scan, the investigators will measure TBF% change at 12 weeks compared
      to baseline. The results will be reported as fat mass (kg) and TBF%.

      Quantification of liver fat fraction: Change in visceral and liver fat will be measured by
      MRI-PDFF. Participants will undergo MRI screening examinations at baseline and 12 weeks using
      an advanced magnitude-based spoiled-gradient-echo MRI-PDFF estimation technique previously
      validated to measure hepatic steatosis in children.84-86

      Participant's weight change: Height and weight will be assessed at all in-person visits with
      the study team for all participants. Height will be measured using a Quick Medical
      stadiometer, accurate to 0.1 cm (Quick Medical, Issaquah, WA). Weight will be measured on a
      self-calibrating Mobile Stand Digital Scale, accurate to 0.1 kg. Participants will wear
      minimal clothing during the height and weight measurements. BMI will be calculated as
      kilograms per meter squared from which zBMI and percent over the 95th percentile (%BMIp95)
      will be determined utilizing the CDC growth charts.

      Nutrient Data System Recall (NDSR) 24 Hour Dietary Recall: Twenty-four-hour dietary recalls
      will be conducted for all participants at 3 time points throughout the study. For the control
      group, one weekday and one weekend day will be collected. For the TLE group, one TLE day and
      one non-TLE day will be collected. One recall will be completed at each study visit,
      in-person, for the day prior to the visit and the second recall will be completed over the
      phone to ensure the recalls are capturing the 24-hour period prior to completion of the
      recall.

      Psychosocial and Behavioral Metrics of Disease: Participants will complete a battery of
      self-reported questionnaires, described below.

      Pediatric Quality of Life Scale (PedsQL): Quality of life will be measured utilizing the
      Pediatric Quality of Life Scale (PedsQL) which is a 10-item questionnaire designed to assess
      quality of life parameters for youth under 19 years of age. The PedsQL is a brief,
      standardized, generic assessment instrument that systematically assesses patients' and
      parents' perceptions of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in pediatric patients. The
      PedsQL is based on a modular approach to measuring HRQOL and consists of a 15-item core
      measure of global HRQOL and eight supplemental modules assessing specific symptom or
      treatment domains.

      Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS®): Physical Activity: The
      Physical Activity Questionnaire component of PROMIS® will be utilized to evaluate
      self-reported levels of physical activity in all study participants. PROMIS® pediatric
      instruments have been developed and validated to assess domains of health in children less
      than 18 years of age.

      Binge Eating Disorder Screener (BEDS): Given that adolescents with obesity and T2D are at
      high risk of binge-eating disorder (BED) symptoms; our goal is to screen participants at
      baseline to ensure appropriate referrals are made in a timely manner.
    
  