
    
      STUDY HYPOTHESIS

      The study hypothesis is that standardized triggers for initiation of curative treatment of
      men who are in active surveillance will reduce overtreatment without increasing disease
      progression and prostate cancer mortality.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Randomized multi-centre open-label clinical trial

      INTERVENTIONS

      Computerized randomisation (1:1) within 12 months from diagnosis of prostate cancer, either
      to active surveillance according to current practice at the trial centre (reference arm), or
      to a standardised active surveillance protocol applying specific criteria for repeat biopsies
      and the initiation of curative treatment (experimental arm). Patients are stratified by
      centre and Gleason score.

      Follow-up both groups: PSA every 6 months, clinical examination (with PSA test) annually, and
      MRI every second year.

      Repeat biopsies (reference arm): Current practice

      Repeat biopsies (experimental arm), standardised triggers:

        1. A systematic repeat biopsy if PSA density increases to > 0.2 ng/ml/cc, and then at every
           0.1 ng/ml/cc increase

        2. MRI progression in men with previously only Gleason grade 3+3: 5 mm or more increase in
           size in any dimension of a measurable lesion, increase in PI-RADS score to 3-5, a new
           lesion with PI-RADS score 3-5, or high or very high suspicion of extra-capsular
           extension or seminal vesicle invasion

        3. MRI progression in men with Gleason grade 3+4: 5 mm or more increase in size in any
           dimension of a measurable lesion, or a new lesion with PI-RADS score 3-5

      Curative treatment (reference arm): Current practice

      Curative treatment (experimental arm), standardised triggers:

        1. MRI progression in lesions with confirmed Gleason grade 4: increase in PI-RADS score to
           4 or 5, or high or very high suspicion of extra-capsular extension or seminal vesicle
           invasion

        2. Pathological progression: Gleason pattern 5, primary Gleason pattern 4 in any core with
           5 mm or more cancer, Gleason 3+4 in 3 or more cores or 30% if more than 10 cores are
           taken, or Gleason 3+4 in 10 mm or more cancer

      Patients will be followed continuously until initiation of treatment, the event of
      metastasis, to a break point where active surveillance is considered terminated and watchful
      waiting starts, or to death of any cause. After the initiation of curative treatment,
      watchful waiting, or palliative treatment for cancer progression, the patient is followed
      according to the standard protocol of the participating centre.
    
  