
    
      Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) is the most common neoplastic condition afflicting
      middle-aged and elderly men. BPH is a non-cancerous condition in which the prostate becomes
      enlarged which can cause lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). These symptoms include:
      frequency, urgency, weak urinary stream, difficulty starting or stopping to urinate and
      feeling the need to urinate even after just finishing urinating.

      One of the minimally invasive treatments for BPH is a Laser TURP. The men going into this
      study would be planning on having a Holmium Laser TURP at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in
      Chicago, Illinois.

      Another treatment for BPH is the use of a class of drugs called 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors
      (5ARI). Dutasteride is a 5ARI that has been approved by the U.S. Food and drug Administration
      (FDA) for the treatment of BPH.

      Each participant in this study will be randomized into ONE of the treatment groups below:

        1. Laser TURP combined with Dutasteride

        2. Laser TURP combined with placebo.

      This study is double-masked which means neither the participant, nor the study staff will
      know who is receiving active study drug or placebo. There will be a 50% chance of receiving
      the study drug, Dutasteride, and a 50% chance of receiving a placebo.

      Dutasteride or it's placebo comes as a 0.5mg capsule to be taken by mouth once a day at
      bedtime.

      There will be a screening period that may last up to 8 weeks. It will include:

        -  There will be 2 or 3 screening visits to the clinic with each visit lasting
           approximately 2.5 to 3 hours.

        -  Each participant will be asked to complete various forms and questionnaires regarding
           their lower urinary tract symptoms and how they effect them and their sexual function.

        -  No study drug will be taken during this time.

        -  The Laser TURP at Northwestern Memorial Hospital will be scheduled.

      If each requirement has been met and it is determined that the participant is eligible to
      participate in this trial the participant will come to the clinic for a randomization visit.

      At this visit the participant will be randomized into one of the two treatment groups noted
      above. Randomization is like a flip of a coin and neither the participant, nor the study
      staff chooses which treatment will be given.

      Each participant will start taking the study drug everyday for six weeks before undergoing
      the Laser TURP and will continue taking the study drug every day for one year after the Laser
      TURP.

      If the Laser TURP requires having a catheter in place, the participant will be seen by the
      urology clinic staff for follow up visits for this catheter. This follow up schedule may
      require weekly visits.

      There will be follow up visits with the research staff. The participant will be asked to come
      to the research clinic every three months for one year. Each follow up visit will last
      approximately 1.5 hours.

      A final visit will take place at one year. This will be identical to the first screening
      visit. This visit will last approximately 2 hours.

      If the participant decides to withdraw from this study early he will be asked to come into
      the office for an early withdrawal visit.

      Please note: The above detailed information regarding this research study is not in it's
      entirety. All of the above and more will be discussed in complete detail upon meeting with a
      research staff member or by calling the contact person mentioned in this protocol
      registration below.
    
  