
    
      Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a syndrome defined as an intermediate stage between
      cognitively intact and clinically diagnosed dementia. The progression rate from MCI to
      dementia ranges from 10 to 15% each year, resulting in increased family care and medical
      expenses. Therefore, providing effective interventions are necessary. Combining cognitive
      training and physical exercise training appears to have effects to prevent the progression of
      MCI to Alzheimer's disease or other severe cognitive impairment. It was proposed that
      cognitively challenging stimulations can increase the neural network and promote neural
      plasticity, which are essential for preventing cognitive decline in patients with MCI. The
      studies also showed that physical exercise induces positive effects on cerebral blood flow
      and induces brain activation changes of the frontal, parietal, and temporal areas; these
      cortical areas are especially important for memory and other cognitive functions. However, it
      is yet not clear the appropriate frequency of the effective intervention for patients with
      MCI. Thus, this study aims to compare the intervention effects of high frequency sequential
      and low frequency sequential training for patients with MCI.

      Investigators anticipate recruiting a total of 80 participants with MCI. The participants
      will be assigned into 2 groups: high frequency sequential training (HF) and low frequency
      sequential training (LF) groups. The participants of HF will receive a total of 36 training
      sessions, and each session will contain 90-105 minutes of training. The participants of LF
      will receive a total of 12 training sessions, and each session will contain 90-105 minutes of
      training. The BrainHQ program, self-made teaching aids and board games will be used to train
      different cognitive functions of the participants. For physical exercise, Investigators
      design the programs that involve balance or strength training components in the aerobic
      exercises. All participants will first perform 45-55 minutes of physical exercise followed by
      45-50 minutes of cognitive training. Investigators plan to assess the participants before and
      after the intervention programs. The primary outcome measures are cognitive functions,
      including visuospatial processing, attention, memory, and/or executive functions. The
      secondary outcome measures include physical functions and activities of daily living (ADLs).
      Investigators expect to use the paired-t test and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) to analyze
      differences in baseline characteristics and baseline outcome measures between the groups and
      determine the intervention effect for the 2 groups.
    
  