
    
      The ABIRISK (Anti-biopharmaceutical Immunization: Prediction and analysis of clinical
      relevance to minimize the risk) consortium, within the IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative),
      is a Public Private Partnership between pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions and
      clinical centers. The ABIRISK aims are to better analyze and predict the phenomenon of
      immunogenicity in order to reduce its occurrence. One of the main objectives of ABIRISK is to
      set up prospective cohort (ABI-RA) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or juvenile
      idiopathic arthritis (JIA) to provide, using an integrated approach, new tools for being able
      to detect earlier and even before the beginning of the therapy, immunization to
      biopharmaceutical (BP). The introduction of BP has been a critical step forward in care for
      RA/JIA and 9 BP are now licensed for the treatment of RA/JIA. In spite of this progress,
      failure of response to BP is frequent and in most of the registries, less than 50 % of
      patients are still on drug at 5 years. These failures may be primary failures or secondary
      failures. The fact is that the low level of responses becomes insufficient compared to the
      expectations. One of the main potential causes of these failures of BP therapy response is
      the development of Anti-drug Anti-body (ADAb) in some patients. ADAb may decrease the
      efficacy of BPs by neutralizing them or modifying their clearance and they may be associated
      with BP-specific hypersensitivity reactions. The prediction, prevention and cure of anti-drug
      (AD) immunization are thus major goals in BP development. This prospective study (ABI-RA)
      will assess the occurrence of ADAb using standardized and validated assay(s) and also
      cellular, genetic and molecular parameters in RA/JIA patients treated with adalimumab,
      etanercept, infliximab and rituximab or tocilizumab, to address the mechanism of
      immunogenicity. Patient-related factors that might predispose an individual to an immune
      response will be taken into account: underlying disease, genetic background, immune status,
      including immunomodulating therapy and dosing schedule.
    
  