
    
      Introduction:

      Spina bifida is a congenital malformation characterized by a failure in neural tube closure.
      Unprotected fetal neural tissue at the spine level undergoes not only progressive
      neurodegeneration in spinal cord, but also the impairment in brain development, hindbrain
      herniation or Chiari II malformation probably due to pressure disturbances resulting from a
      continuous leakage of cerebrospinal fluid through the defect. The neurological consequences
      at birth are irreversible and sometimes devastating, including paraplegia, sphincter urinary
      and fecal incontinence, hydrocephalus, cranial nerve disturbances, respiratory problems and
      death due to spinal cord injury and brain maldevelopment.

      Intrauterine fetal open repair of the defect has proved to improve hindbrain herniation and
      decrease the need of cerebrospinal shunting.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that minimally invasive surgery of spina bifida is feasible and
      may minimize surgical aggression and obstetrical complications, with similar neonatal and
      neurological results.

      Intervention:

      In this study the investigators propose a fetoscopic skin closure technique. After a maternal
      laparotomy the uterus is exteriorized, the amniotic cavity is accessed by fetoscopic
      approach. The placode is dissected from the surrounding tissue and dropped into the opened
      spinal canal, untethered. Part of the cystic tissue is resected. The edges are then closed to
      the midline.

      Follow up:

      After surgery patients are followed up at the Fetal Medicine Unit every one or two weeks.

      The mode of delivery is decided according to obstetric criteria. Neonates will be examined at
      birth, and followed up regularly at least until 30 months. Patients are lifetime followed up
      by our Multidisciplinary myelomeningocele (MMC) Committee that comprises professionals from
      the Spina Bifida Unit, Neonatologists, Pediatric Surgeons, Pediatric Urologist, Pediatric
      Orthopedic Surgeons, Radiologists, Rehabilitation, Pathologists, Pediatric Neurosurgeons,
      Obstetricians and Fetal Therapists.
    
  