
    
      Distraction is a growing and large public health problem with estimated societal harm due to
      distracted driving alone at $123 billion. In the age of texting, social media and computer
      pop-ups, distractions are unavoidable. There are no known interventions specifically
      developed to reduce distractions from interfering with attention. This project will test a
      treatment that combines virtual reality (VR) technology with habituation learning and
      exposure therapy to reduce the ability of distractors to interfere with learning and
      attention in children who are highly susceptible to being distracted. The investigators will
      test the treatment in children with symptoms of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder
      (ADHD) as they represent an enriched sample experiencing impairing distractibility that
      interferes with their daily functioning. The investigators hypothesize that children who
      suffer from severe distractibility can learn to ignore the distractors and improve their
      attention in VR therapy that simulates environments requiring focused attention. The neural
      targets of the therapy are both proactive and reactive control mechanisms used to suppress
      distractor processing. The investigators will assess how well VR therapy is at modulating
      distractor suppression via saccade metrics and measure the frequency of oculomotor capture by
      distractors as well as the efficiency of distractor suppression before and after therapy.
      Changes in head movement toward distractors, parent and teacher ADHD rating scales and
      improved performance on attention-demanding tasks will further assess success of the therapy
      and its ability to generalize to novel environments. Children will practice computer
      exercises at home using a VR headset that simulates a classroom environment with a high rate
      of distractors. Children will be performing attention-demanding tasks as if they were in a
      classroom with the intensity and rate of presentation of the personalized distractions (e.g.,
      peers talking, teacher walking by) adapted according to the child's performance. With today's
      low-cost VR-gaming technology, children will be able to participate in habituation treatment
      sessions at-home, several times a week, using a lightweight and comfortable VR gaming
      headset.

      In this "fast fail" test of the VR therapy, the project will assess the preliminary success
      and feasibility of VR training to modify saccades to distractors in an adaptive training
      versus nonadaptive training scenario. Data from this trial will determine whether to go
      forward for a subsequent confirmatory study.
    
  