
    
      Background:

        -  We have constructed a single retroviral vector that contains a chimeric T cell receptor
           (CAR) that recognizes the Her-2 tumor antigen, which can be used to mediate genetic
           transfer of this CAR with high efficiency (greater than 30%) without the need to perform
           any selection.

        -  In co-cultures with Her-2 positive tumors, anti-Her-2 CAR transduced T cells secreted
           significant amount of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) (Her-2 high specificity).

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the safety of the administration of anti-Her-2 -CAR engineered peripheral
           blood lymphocytes in patients receiving the non-myeloablative conditioning regimen and
           aldesleukin.

        -  Determine if the administration of anti-Her-2 -CAR engineered peripheral blood
           lymphocytes and aldesleukin to patients following a nonmyeloablative but lymphoid
           depleting preparative regimen will result in clinical tumor regression in patients with
           metastatic cancer that expresses the Her-2 antigen.

      Secondary objective:

      - Determine the in vivo survival of CAR gene-engineered cells.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are 18 years of age or older must have

        -  metastatic cancer whose tumors express the Her-2 antigen;

        -  previously received and have been a non-responder to or recurred after standard care for
           metastatic disease;

      Patients may not have:

      - contraindications for high dose aldesleukin administration.

      Design:

        -  Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) obtained by leukapheresis (approximately 5
           times 10^9 cells) will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (OKT3) and aldesleukin in
           order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of approximately 10^8 to 5 times 10^8 cells to
           retroviral vector supernatant containing the anti-Her-2 CAR genes .

        -  Patients will receive a nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous (IV) infusion of
           ex vivo tumor reactive, CAR genetransduced PBMC plus IV aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg q8h
           for a maximum of 15 doses).

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor with physical examination, computed
           tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and clinical laboratory evaluation four
           to six weeks after treatment. If the patient has stable disease (SD) or tumor shrinkage,
           repeat complete evaluations will be performed every 1-3 months. After the first year,
           patients continuing to respond will continue to be followed with this evaluation every
           3-4 months until off study criteria are met.

        -  The study will be conducted using a Phase I/II optimal design. The protocol will proceed
           in a phase 1 dose escalation design, with three cohorts. Should a single patient
           experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) at a particular dose level, three more
           patients would be treated at that dose to confirm that no greater than 1/6 patients have
           a DLT prior to proceeding to the next higher level. If a level with 2 or more DLTs in
           3-6 patients has been identified, three additional patients will be accrued at the
           next-lowest dose, for a total of 6, in order to further characterize the safety of the
           maximum tolerated dose prior to starting the phase II portion. If a dose limiting
           toxicity occurs in the first cohort, that cohort will be expanded to 6 patients. If 2
           DLTs are encountered in this cohort, the study will be terminated.

        -  Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been determined, the study then would proceed
           to the phase II portion. Patients will be entered into two cohorts based on histology:
           cohort 1 will include patients with metastatic breast cancer, and cohort 2 will include
           patients with other types of metastatic cancer that express Her-2.

        -  For each of the 2 strata evaluated, the study will be conducted using a phase II optimal
           design where initially 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled. For each of these two
           arms of the trial, if 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a clinical response, then no
           further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the first 21 evaluable patients
           enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will continue until a total of 41
           evaluable patients have been enrolled in that stratum.

        -  The objective will be to determine if the combination of high dose aldesleukin,
           lymphocyte depleting chemotherapy, and anti-Her-2 CAR-gene engineered lymphocytes is
           able to be associated with a clinical response rate that can rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in
           favor of a modest 20% partial response (PR) + complete response (CR) rate (p1=0.20).
    
  