
    
      Thirty eyes of diabetic patients with diabetic retinopathy with macular edema will be
      randomized using simple randomization method into two groups; A and B.

      Group A will undergo intravitreal injection of 500µg Diclofenac, repeated monthly for 3
      months. Electroretinogram will be performed before the injections, 4 weeks after first
      injection and 4 weeks after third injection to assess any risk of toxicity.

      Colored photography and fundus fluorescein angiography will be done before the first
      injection to assess the extent of macular leakage at late phases, and to exclude cases with
      macular ischemia.

      Optical coherence tomography will be done to measure the central macular thickness, before
      the first injection, and before each injection.

      Visual acuity will be assessed before and after each injection.

      Group B will undergo intravitreal injection of 0.5 mg Ranibizumab, repeated monthly for 3
      months. Colored photography and fundus fluorescein angiography will be done before the first
      injection to assess the extent of macular leakage at late phases, and to exclude cases with
      macular ischemia.

      Optical coherence tomography will be done to measure the central macular thickness, before
      the first injection, and before each injection.

      Visual acuity will be assessed before and after each injection.

      All patients will be examined weekly for one month and then monthly for three months after
      the injection. At every visit, visual acuity, intraocular pressure, and a dilated fundus
      examination will be performed.

      All patients will be required to instill topical antibiotic Gatifloxacin postoperatively 3
      times per day for 5 days.

      Patients will be warned about the signs and symptoms of complications (endophthalmitis,
      retinal detachment, vitreous hemorrhage, lens trauma) and asked to seek medical attention
      immediately.
    
  