
    
      Vitamin D plays an important part in calcium absorption needed for calcification of hard
      tissues such as bone. Lack of vitamin D can lead to growth retardation in children and a
      variety of bone related problems in adulthood such as osteopenia, osteoporosis and increased
      risk of bone fracture. Vitamin D deficiency has also been associated with a variety of other
      health problems. In relation to oral health, studies have suggested that lack of vitamin D
      may interfere with tooth development resulting in development defects of the enamel, which in
      turn increase the risk of dental caries. As teeth begin to calcify around 14 weeks in utero
      and continue until the enamel on the last primary tooth is completed around ten months after
      birth, it is plausible that both pre- and postnatal vitamin D levels can have an impact on
      the development of the enamel in primary teeth in the offspring, which in turn may be related
      to the risk of developing enamel defects and dental caries. Furthermore, vitamin D may play a
      role in the immune system and thereby affect the oral microflora. Vitamin D could therefore
      also affect the risk of caries through immunological pathways. Few previous studies have
      investigated the associations between vitamin D and oral health outcomes, such as these.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the potential associations between maternal pre- and
      postnatal vitamin D levels and oral health outcomes, such as caries and dental enamel defects
      in the offspring at 7-9 years of age.

      The current study is a follow-up study of a previous study conducted in Trondheim and
      Stavanger, Norway. In 2007-2009 a total of 855 pregnant women participated in the Training in
      Pregnancy (TRIP) study, a randomised controlled trial study conducted to investigate whether
      exercise during pregnancy would help prevent or treat various pregnancy related illnesses.
      The women were included between weeks 18-22 of pregnancy and were followed-up at week 32-36
      of pregnancy and at 3 months post-partum. An additional follow-up was also conducted among
      the participants from Trondheim at 18 months post-partum. The data collection included both
      questionnaires, clinical examinations and blood samples. The blood samples taken from the
      mothers at 18-22 weeks and 32-36 weeks of pregnancy have been analysed for levels of vitamin
      D, calcium, phosphate, magnesium, creatinine, albumin and PTH. In the current study, the
      children are invited to a dental examination, including a saliva sample. These clinical
      examinations will be conducted from June 2016 through to August 2017.
    
  