
    
      This cross-sectional study was conducted in Shiraz. Clinical data were collected from the
      patients of Professor Kojuri cardiovascular clinic in Shiraz, Iran ( Iran, Fars Province,
      Shiraz, Niayesh Boulevard, Email: kojurij@yahoo.com, webpage: http://kojuriclinic.com/ )who
      came to clinic from March 2018 to March 2020. Inclusion criteria was all of the new patients
      who referred to Professor Kojuri cardiovascular clinic. Exclusion criteria were patients with
      more than 100ng/ml 25-hydroxy vitamin D3 serum level, parathyroid disorders,
      end-stage-renal-disease (ESRD) and paraneoplastic syndromes. Patients with more than 10mg/L
      Hs-CRP serum level also were excluded.

      Complete history and physical exam were taken from the patients and risk factors such as
      hypertension, diabetes mellitus, age and gender were considered. 25-hydroxy vitamin D3 was
      checked for all patients. Blood pressure and took electrocardiography (ECG) for all patients
      were done. The dependent variable was the prevalence of Coronary Artery disease; the
      independent variable was vitamin D deficiency; and intervening factors were age, gender,
      hypertension, diabetes mellitus and level of Hs-CRP.

      All Patients were undergone selective coronary angiography from radial artery approach by an
      expert interventional cardiologist. Angiography videos were reviewed by a team of expert
      cardiologists. Based on the results of coronary angiography, patients were classified as
      non-significant CAD with stenosis less than 50% and significant CAD with stenosis more than
      50% stenosis. In this review diabetic and hypertensive patients is considered by criteria of
      American diabetes association 2018 & American heart association 2017 . Patient's serum level
      of 25-hydroxy vitamin D on their first visit was considered as index of vitamin D level.
      Vitamin D deficiency and sufficiency are defined respectively as serum level of 25-hydroxy
      vitamin D less than 30ng/ml and serum level of 25-hydroxy vitamin D more than 30 ng/ml .
      Patients with Parathyroid disorders and paraneoplastic syndromes were excluded
    
  