
    
      Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is a disorder of the autonomic nervous
      system. The autonomic nervous system regulates major bodily functions, such as blood
      pressure, heart rate, body temperature and sweating. Patients with POTS experience heart
      palpitations, lightheadedness, and increased heart rate upon standing as well as other
      symptoms, such as nausea, foggy headedness or inability to concentrate, sensitivity to light,
      migraine headaches, and trouble sleeping that may occur even when these patients are not
      standing. Because many POTS symptoms are attributed to excessive activity in parts of the
      brain, the investigator would like to study whether some of these symptoms can be reduced
      with a proven seizure medication, gabapentin.

      The investigator will perform several simple tests on a group of POTS patients both before
      and after they have been treated with this drug. The tests will include non-invasive heart
      rate and blood pressure monitoring during a maneuver that requires the participant to exhale
      in a continuous manner as if blowing up a balloon, an assessment of sensitivity to light, and
      completion of several questionnaires that assess sleep behavior and sensitivity to heart,
      bowels, and bladder. Participants will take gabapentin for one week and placebo for another
      week. Neither the investigator nor the participant will know beforehand whether the
      participant is taking gabapentin or placebo. The investigator will then compare the results
      of pre-trial tests to post-trial tests to determine how effective gabapentin was at
      alleviating symptoms. If the trial is effective, the investigator expects gabapentin to
      reduce palpitations, decrease sensitivity to light, and improve sleep behavior.

      Risks of this study may include participants developing side-effects due to the drug.
      Side-effects of gabapentin may include dizziness, drowsiness, diarrhea, dry mouth,
      constipation, vomiting, loss of balance, allergic reaction, fatigue, and indigestion. If any
      side-effects occur, the investigator anticipates that they will be mild because the drug will
      be administered at a very low dose. Any side-effects that occur are expected to resolve
      quickly after stopping the medication. Furthermore, by gradually increasing the dose and
      restricting the trial to a relatively short period of time, the investigator will limit the
      risk of side-effects.

      Doctors and patients alike could benefit from this study by learning about a new use for an
      established drug to treat several of the symptoms of POTS, thereby improving patients'
      quality of life.
    
  