
    
      You may be eligible to participate in this one month research study if you are:

        -  An adult with metastatic cancer (especially breast, colon, cervical, endometrial,
           ovarian; others may qualify) that has resisted prior attempts to treat it with courses
           of chemotherapy; or if you decline chemotherapy or are looking for a break, or you seek
           an alternative to medicines or therapies due to toxic effects.

        -  Your tumor has shown up on a PET scan.

        -  Willing to closely follow a diet and strictly limit your carbohydrate intake.

      You will not be eligible to participate if you:

        -  Have heart or liver condition or any other disease or condition that makes it difficult
           or medically hazardous (determined by your doctor) for you to follow the diet
           recommended for this study.

        -  Have kidney or kidney stone disease.

      Procedures:

        -  We will obtain a PET/CT scan to determine your eligibility if you are otherwise
           interested in this protocol.

        -  We will also obtain a second PET/CT scan at the end of the dietary trial (28 days).

        -  We will also obtain blood and urine tests at weekly intervals during the trial.

      Visits and contacts:

        -  We will see you once/week for four weeks on the Albert Einstein, or Montefiore Medical
           Center Campus (your choice) for a total of 5 visits, and will call you on the phone at
           least one additional time each week. The first visit will take approximately one hour or
           as long as is needed to understand the diet correctly. The remaining visits will take
           approximately one-half hour. The PET/CT scan will take approximately 25 minutes in the
           camera. Waiting time varies for the procedure but is usually less than 20 minutes.

      Compensation:

        -  Low carbohydrate supplement shakes will be given to all participants.

        -  All procedures and visits are without cost to the subject.

        -  There are no funds for direct compensation.

      Description of the Intervention:

        -  The diet will severely restrict carbohydrates (that is, NO sugars or starches; no bread,
           pasta, rice, sugary drinks, potatoes or potato chips, cake, cookies, ice cream, etc).

        -  You will be allowed to eat AS MUCH AS YOU LIKE of foods that have very small amounts of
           carbohydrate, such as eggs, beef, poultry, fish, salads (except potatoes and other
           starchy vegetables).
    
  