
    
      Endoscopic biliary drainage with a self-expandable metal stent (SEMS) is an accepted form of
      palliative therapy for distal malignant biliary obstruction (MBO); it is a low invasive
      procedure with a long-term patency.

      Covered SEMSs have a longer patency than uncovered SEMSs in patients with MBO, because
      covered SEMSs can prevent tumor ingrowth. However, complications of covered SEMSs include
      stent occlusion, migration, kinking, non-occlusion cholangitis, liver abscess, pancreatitis
      and cholecystitis.

      Nonsurgical decompression of the gallbladder is urgently needs to prevent sepsis, perforation
      and death in patients with acute cholecystitis. Several risk factors of cholecystitis after
      SEMS placement for distal MBO have been reported: however, tumor involvement to the orifice
      of the cystic duct (OCD) is the major predictive factor for cholecystitis after endoscopic
      SEMSs placement for distal MBO palliative treatment .

      Acute cholecystitis related to SEMSs deployment was evaluated in 2009, by using endoscopic
      trans-papillary gallbladder drainage (TPGBD) in 11 individuals in whom SEMSs covered the OCD.
      None episode of cholecystitis was reported, however TPGBD is a difficult technique with a
      high rate of stent dislodgement and reintervention needed.

      EUS-GBD by using a lumen apposing metal stent have been proposed, but only for acute
      cholecystitis treatment or symptomatic gallbladder hydrops, never as a prophylactic
      technique.

      The aim of this study if to determine if primary prophylaxis EUS-GBD in patients with distal
      malignant biliary obstruction and the OCD involvement is superior than conservative
      management. Also, a cost-effectiveness analysis will be done in both arm groups.

      This would be the first trial to study the effect of prophylactic EUS-GBD prior SEMSs
      deployment in patients with distal malignant biliary obstruction.
    
  