
    
      Two waves of the E4E intervention will be delivered to family physicians who have Aboriginal
      patients with type 2 diabetes on and off reserves. A mix-method approach will be employed in
      this evaluation study. Evaluation instruments include: (1) chart reviews and (2) patient
      experience surveys.

        1. Chart review: A randomized, controlled, pre- and post intervention study design will be
           used to evaluate the effect of the E4E intervention on type 2 diabetes clinical outcomes
           of the Aboriginal patients. A retrospective chart audit will be used to gather the
           clinical data from 12 months prior to and 12 month after the intervention, not including
           the time during intervention.

           Sample Size for chart review: The primary outcome measure of HbA1C value will be used to
           identify the impact of E4E intervention on the clinical outcome of Aboriginal patients
           with type 2 diabetes. It is hypothesized that the A1C value would be reduced in the E4E
           Intervention Group's patients whose A1C values are at or above 8.0% prior to the E4E
           intervention (baseline) compared to the patients in E4E Late Intervention Control Group.
           A 0.5% difference of patients' A1C values between these two groups will be a clinically
           significant difference. The sample size needed to detect such a difference is estimated
           to be 98 eligible patients charts with A1C at or above 8.0% from E4E Intervention Group
           and 98 eligible patient charts from E4E Late Intervention Control Group, with an a=0.05
           and ß=0.15. Given the proportion of 61.1% of Aboriginal patients with type 2 diabetes
           having A1C at or above 8.0%, we need to review 163 patient charts to obtain 98 eligible
           charts from each group. When 10 charts extractions per physician are performed, we need
           17 physicians from each group. Considering a possible 20% loss to follow up, we need to
           recruit 20 physicians from E4E Intervention Group and 20 physicians from E4E Late
           Intervention Control Group, a total of 40 physicians to be invited to participate in
           chart reviews.

           Recruitment of physicians: After obtaining ethics approval from Queen's University
           Research Office, we will recruit 8-10 physicians to participate in the project at each
           potential site. Once recruitment is completed on each site, physicians will be
           randomized into E4E Intervention Group and E4E Late Intervention Control Group (sham
           comparator) who will participate in the second wave of E4E intervention 12 month later.
           Letters of information and consent form will be sent to the physicians to obtain their
           signed consent to participating in E4E chart review, patient survey and patient
           interview.

           Data collection regarding chart reviews for diabetes: The evaluation team will require
           the consenting physicians to create a list of all of their Aboriginal patients with type
           2 diabetes using billing code 250, removing non-Aboriginal patients. This process can
           either be managed by the practice (with staff being reimbursed for time required) or can
           be conducted by the research staff at time of the chart audit. Each physician will then
           be asked to review the list for accuracy. Random number generation will be used to
           select charts at random from the list until the required number of eligible patient
           charts has been identified. Chart reviewers will be trained staff from the evaluation
           team and travel to each selected location to conduct chart audits.

        2. Patient experience survey: Two (2) patient experience surveys will be conducted to
           evaluate the experience of Aboriginal patient with type 2 diabetes with his/her
           physician, respectively at the point of 3-month after the E4E intervention and at the
           point of 12-month after the intervention.

      Sample size for patient experience surveys: An effective sample size needed for patient
      experience survey, with an a=0.05 and power 85% (ß=0.15), is estimated to be 102 eligible
      Aboriginal type 2 diabetic patients from E4E Intervention Group and the same number of
      eligible Aboriginal patients from E4E Late Intervention Control Group. We will recruit 10
      eligible Aboriginal patients from each of the physicians in E4E Group A and 10 eligible
      Aboriginal patients from each of the physicians in E4E Group B. A total of 400 patients will
      be recruited to participate in Patient Experience surveys. This sample size (200 from each
      group) is more than sufficient to achieve 85% power even after allowing for drop out of
      physicians and any unanticipated difficulties in patient recruitment.

      Data collection regarding patient experience surveys: The Patient Experience Surveys will
      take approximately 15-20 minutes to complete and will be completed on the day of patient
      visit. Patient Experience Survey is designed in two sections: pre-visit section and post
      visit section. Consent needs to be obtained from patients in pre-visit section.

        -  The receptionist of the selected practice will notify eligible patients about the study,
           and ask if they are willing to discuss with support/research staff about participating
           in a Patient Experience Survey. If the patient is interested, the receptionist will
           refer her/him to the onsite support/research staff, or provide access to a private phone
           with toll free number to contact support/research staff.

        -  Support/Research staff will review the information letter with the patient and obtain
           informed consent.

        -  The patient completes the pre-visit section and sign on the consent before seeing the
           doctor.

        -  After seeing the doctor, the patient will be asked to complete the post-visit survey and
           return it to the support/research staff before leaving the clinic. For patients who are
           not able to do so, they will be offered a choice to complete the survey by toll free
           telephone or fill in a hard copy of questionnaire and mail it out by pre-paid mail.

        -  Regular updates will be performed during data collection process to keep tack of
           patients participation in the survey.
    
  