
    
      Patients undergoing hip arthroscopy for hip impingement at the investigator's institution
      often have regional anesthesia (a nerve block) prior to the procedure to help prevent and/or
      reduce pain following the procedure. The investigators are interested in determining benefits
      as well as potential adverse effects of utilizing regional anesthesia in patients undergoing
      hip arthroscopy for impingement. To do so, they plan to enroll patients aged 18-50 undergoing
      hip arthroscopy, and randomize them to one of two groups with one group receiving regional
      anesthesia pre-operatively and the second control group, that does not. The surgical
      procedure and the post-operative management will be the same for both groups.

      Regional anesthesia prior to orthopaedic procedures has been widely adopted in many fields of
      orthopaedics. While it is generally considered safe and an excellent adjuvant for pain
      control, there have been few studies exploring outcomes beyond pain control. In many centers,
      the use of regional anesthesia in hip arthroscopy is reserved for post-operative management
      of pain. There are multiple studies indicating that patients receiving regional anesthesia (a
      fascia iliaca or femoral nerve block) had significantly greater improvements in pain score
      and even an excellent alternative to routine narcotic medication in patients undergoing hip
      arthroscopy. Other orthopaedic procedures, such as knee arthroscopy, utilize similar
      techniques to achieve post-operative pain control through a femoral-sciatic nerve block.

      There have also been studies looking at the utilization of regional anesthesia via lumbar
      plexus blocks with hip arthroscopy. One study found that patients undergoing hip arthroscopy
      with higher levels of preoperative psychological distress frequently utilized a lumbar plexus
      block to achieve adequate pain control. Other studies found that lumbar plexus blocks
      significantly improved pain while in the PACU. While serious complications of lumbar plexus
      block were rare, minor complications such as falls, persistent paresthesias, and unexpected
      admissions do occur. At our institution, we do not utilize lumbar plexus blocks for regional
      anesthesia in patients undergoing hip arthroscopy. Rather, our standard of care is to have an
      anesthesiologist perform a single shot fascia iliaca block using ropivicaine while the
      patient is in the pre-operative holding bay.

      To the investigative team's knowledge, there are no studies comparing the difference in pain
      control, as well as the differences in narcotic requirements in PACU, duration of stay in
      PACU, reported falls, unplanned admissions and/or readmissions, Harris hip score and nerve
      pain/paresthesias/numbness in patients who have undergone hip arthroscopy with and without
      regional anesthesia. A better understanding of pain and functional outcomes following hip
      arthroscopy with and without regional anesthesia can help providers better assess
      circumstances when regional anesthesia can be beneficial or detrimental to a patient's
      post-operative course.
    
  