
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety profile, maximum tolerated dose, and recommended phase II dose of
           docetaxel when administered with imatinib mesylate in patients with locally advanced or
           metastatic breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the potential effects of this regimen on CYP3A4 activity and docetaxel
           metabolism in these patients.

        -  Correlate docetaxel and imatinib mesylate exposure (utilizing total and unbound
           docetaxel and imatinib mesylate plasma concentrations) with drug response (e.g.,
           pharmacodynamic effects, drug toxicity, and response) in these patients.

        -  Determine response rate, duration of response, and time to treatment failure in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate proteomic profile changes in serum with tumor burden and response in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate pharmacokinetic parameters, tissue expression of specific receptor tyrosine
           kinases (e.g., c-Kit, platelet-derived growth factor receptor [PDGFR], and
           phosphorylated PDGFR) in paraffin blocks, and pharmacodynamic assays with antitumor
           activity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of docetaxel.

      Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and oral imatinib mesylate
      (STI571) on days 8-28 of course 1 and days 1-28 of all subsequent courses. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity*. Patients with
      stable or responding disease after at least 2 courses of therapy may discontinue docetaxel
      and continue therapy with single-agent STI571 until disease progression.

      NOTE: *Patients experiencing excessive docetaxel-related toxicity who have completed at least
      2 full courses may continue on single-agent STI571 in the absence of disease progression or
      excessive STI571-related toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of docetaxel until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional cohort of 6-12 patients
      receives treatment at the MTD.

      Patients are followed at 30 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately of 18-30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  