
    
      Consecutive inclusion of patients hospitalized at North Zealand University Hospital (NOH) in
      Denmark between December 2019 and June 2020 with the diagnosis acute severe Ulcerative
      Colitis (UC) (expected 14-28 patients). The included patients will be matched with historical
      controls 1:3 (matched on age and sex). Controls will be extracted from medical records
      (2015-2019). Only historical controls who meet the inclusion criteria as well as receive
      Infliximab rescue therapy, when admitted to hospital due to the diagnosis acute severe UC,
      are included. This means that patients, who are responders to high dose glucocorticoids are
      excluded as historical controls.

      At Day 0 all the included UC patients will receive an introduction and their own personal
      login to the Constant-Care (CC) web-application (Two Factor Authentication) as well as
      receive standard treatment with IV glucocorticoids. When the patients have received an
      introduction to CC, they will register their disease activity; Simple Clinical Colitis
      Activity index (SCCAI). This tool captures the patient's illness experience (Patient-Reported
      Outcomes, PROs). Furthermore, the patients are introduced and assisted with Fecal
      Calprotectin (FC) testing kit (CalproSmart). For this analysis, patients will receive a
      personal login to CalproSmart.

      Beside the CC monitoring initiated at Day 0, the patient will be followed through standard
      monitoring (DSGH guidelines) such as vital parameters daily (minimum three times a day),
      conventional FC Elisa (send to Hvidovre), blood samples and the frequency of bowel movements.
      In addition, fecal samples will be collected from all patients to microbiome analysis for
      future use (I Suite nr: 03719, ID no: NOH-2015-017). A separate written informed consent is
      collected when patient want to participate in future research with microbiome analysis.
      Furthermore, the patients' medical history, disease course and Montreal classification will
      be examined. At follow-up (week 52) it is considered if the patient had a colectomy.

      While hospitalized patients register in CC everyday as well as perform the FC test with
      CalproSmart. This is continued until discharge or whenever the patient is categorized as
      "green". A patient is classified as "green" when either SCCAI or FC are in the green zone
      (cut-off values: SCCAI; ≤ 2 (green), > 2 - 5 (yellow) and > 5 (red), FC; ≤ 200 mg/kg (green),
      201-600 mg/kg (yellow), > 600 (red)).

      On or around Day 3 it is considered if patient is a responder to the initial treatment with
      glucocorticoids. In case only partial or no response is observed the patient is considered
      rescue therapy (Infliximab, IFX) if no contraindications are present. This divides the
      patients in two arms; responders and partial/non-responders.

      Both groups will continue daily registration in CC and perform FC test while admitted to
      hospital or until classified as "green". After discharge the responder group will register in
      CC and perform FC on demand in case of relapse in disease. At follow up (week 52) responders
      will register in CC and perform the FC test.

      Partial/non-responders will, after discharge, register in CC and perform FC test once every
      week in the following 7 weeks. Afterwards registration is done on demand in case of relapse
      in disease. A final registration in CC and FC test is done at follow up.

      In CC, patients will register: SCCAI, S-IBDQ, WEB-DI and FC via CalproSmart.
    
  