
    
      Research and experience document that caregivers of children with cancer encounter
      extraordinary stresses during the child's illness. These stresses are particularly severe
      during diagnosis and early therapy and can interfere significantly with a caregiver's ability
      to make reasoned and timely decisions on their child's behalf. With increasing survivor
      rates, it has become evident that decisions made in the early stages of cancer management can
      have profound long-term effects, adding to the distress caregivers feel trying to make the
      "right" decisions. Too help mothers of newly diagnosed children cope more effectively with
      these challenges, the investigators conducted randomized controlled trials (R25CA65520,
      R01CA098954) to develop, field test, and evaluate the efficacy of the Bright IDEAS paradigm
      of problem-solving skills training (PSST), a cognitive-behavioral therapy shown to decrease
      anxiety and depression - two symptoms of post-traumatic stress commonly experienced among
      this group of mothers. Our findings clearly show that PSST significantly increases
      problem-solving skills (primary effect) and decreases negative affectivity (secondary effect)
      in mothers from a variety of racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic backgrounds. Particularly
      powerful and long-lasting effects were noted in Spanish-speaking mothers, an especially
      underserved population. In March 2010, the NCI designated Bright IDEAS as a Research-based
      Therapy/Intervention Program (RTIP) and entered it into the National Registry of
      Evidence-based Programs and Practices (NREPP). As an 8-session, in-person intervention,
      Bright IDEAS is labor intensive and, to date, has only been available at a few institutions
      with trained personnel. However, as a part of the RTIPs evaluation process, the Dissemination
      Capability of Bright IDEAS was rated 5/5. This proposal is designed to meet the challenge
      inherent in this perfect score. The investigators will also immediately broaden the scope of
      users by including fathers as eligible participants in this study of a new delivery paradigm
      the investigators believe they will find appealing. Aim 1 is implementation of an engaging,
      easy-to-use on-line version of Bright IDEAS that would be available 24/7 to any person
      anywhere who has access to the Internet. Aim 2 is the use of "Diffusion of Innovations"
      theory to craft a framework for disseminating not only Bright IDEAS but other similar
      interventions with the greatest effectiveness and efficiency. In past studies, the
      investigators have shown that the human element (time and attention) inherent in in-person
      interventions is effective in bringing immediate relief of distress but not sufficient to
      maintain its benefits over time. In contrast, mothers receiving PSST increase their skills
      and continue to improve their sense of well-being 3 months after the intervention. What the
      investigators have not investigated is whether a computer-based intervention is as effective
      as (not inferior to) an in-person intervention. The results will have significant
      implications for future dissemination strategies, especially the use of Internet II and other
      emerging technologies.
    
  