
    
      This preliminary, prospective, dose escalating clinical study will evaluate the safety and
      potential efficacy of Autologous Muscle Derived Cells for Gastro-Intestinal Repair (AMDC-GIR)
      for the treatment of tongue dysphagia (TD) that develops following treatment for head and
      neck cancer.

      Surgery, chemo- and radiotherapy can induce significant TD resulting in long-term TD.
      Therefore, augmenting tongue muscle function may be beneficial to patients. Autologous muscle
      cell therapy, which involves isolation of cells from skeletal muscle biopsies, ex vivo
      expansion, and subsequent injection into the tongue, may serve as a potential durable
      therapy. In animal studies, muscle derived cells have successfully integrated within tissue
      to improve tongue strength and function. Intramuscular injection of AMDC-GIR is expected to
      produce localized tissue changes near the injection site and is not expected to produce a
      systemic effect.

      Patients will receive a single treatment intramuscular injection of 1 of 2 doses of AMDC-GIR.
      Patients will have quantitative and qualitative measures of dysphagia assessed before
      treatment and at various times after treatment.

      The study will treat up to 20 patients at 1 clinical site. Enrollment is expected to be
      completed within 2 years of initiating the study. Patients will be followed for 24 months
      post-treatment. The first 3 patients at each dose must reach 1-month follow-up before
      subsequent patients can be treated.

      Male and female patients at least 18 years of age who have undergone surgery and/or chemo-
      and or radiotherapy for primary treatment of oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer and who
      present with symptoms and findings of TD will be eligible for participation. Eligible
      patients will have muscle tissue harvested using a needle biopsy technique during an
      outpatient procedure. The harvested muscle tissue will be transported to the manufacturer for
      cell processing. The muscle derived cells (MDC) will be isolated and expanded in culture over
      several weeks.

      After reaching the desired concentration, the isolated and expanded AMDC-GIR will be frozen
      and shipped back to the investigating physician. The physician will thaw the AMDC-GIR and
      dilute the sample with an approximately equal volume of physiological saline. Under direct
      vision, the resulting suspension will be injected into the patient's tongue in a brief
      outpatient procedure.

      Patients will be assessed for improvement in TD symptoms at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and
      24 months following treatment. Adverse events will be assessed at those visits, as well as
      during follow-up calls at 1-2 days, 1 week, 15 months, 18 months and 21 months.
    
  