
    
      TREATMENT PLAN:

      Pre-operative pembrolizumab will be administered intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes at the
      dose of 400 mg according to recent summary of product characteristics (SPC). A single dose
      will be administered 6 weeks before the planned surgery, as close as possible to inclusion,
      and whenever possible during standard visit (surgery, anesthesia or other).

      Surgery will be performed during the 6th week after pembrolizumab injection, as per standard
      practices.

      An adjuvant treatment will be administered upon the Investigator decision, depending on the
      results and tolerance of pre-operative treatment and ability of the patient to receive the
      treatment regarding his general post-operative condition.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      A total of 120 patients will be enrolled in this study

      Sample size was thus evaluated by analogy with an A'Hern's single stage phase II design with
      P0=25%, P1=50% and 85% power, leading to the inclusion of a maximum of 30 patients by cohort.

      A sequential Bayesian design will be used to allow continuous monitoring of the primary
      endpoint and update knowledge gradually.

      For each cohort, interim analyses are planned after 6-week follow up of the first 10 patients
      (i.e. after surgery) and then every 10 patients.

      Early stopping will be recommended if there is a high posterior probability (≥90%) given
      observed data that the rate of pathological response is lower than 50%.

      DATA ENTRY, DATA MANAGEMENT AND STUDY MONITORING:

      All the data concerning the patients will be recorded in the electronic case report form
      (eCRF) throughout the study. Serious adverse event (SAE) and Adverse Event of Specific
      Interest (AESI) reporting will be also paper-based by e-mail and/or Fax.

      The sponsor will perform the study monitoring and will help the investigators to conduct the
      study in compliance with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practices (GCP) and local
      law requirements.
    
  