
    
      All patients will receive inhalational anaesthesia induction with a mixture of oxygen/nitrous
      oxide and 6% sevoflurane. Nitrous oxide will be discontinued after loss of consciousness.
      Standard monitoring will be applied including electrocardiography, pulse oxymetry,
      capnography and non-invasive blood pressure monitoring. After establishing intravenous
      access, anaesthesia will be deepened using propofol 1 to 3 mg/kg and fentanyl 1 mcg/kg before
      laryngeal mask airway insertion or intubation. Neuromuscular blockade will not be
      administered. Maintenance of anaesthesia will be provided with sevoflurane with an end tidal
      sevoflurane between 1 and 1,5 MAC.

      Five regional anesthesia experienced anesthesiologists not involved in the subsequent
      intraoperative or postoperative care of the patient will perform blocks.

      Pudendal nerve block patients will be positioned dorsally with the legs in the " frog "
      position (hips in abduction, knees flexed and sole of the feet together). An
      ultrasound-guided technique will be used as described previously. A linear probe will be
      positioned horizontally between the ischiatic tuberosity and the rectum. The ischiorectal
      fossa is then located between these two landmarks. Using a sterile technique, an echogenic 22
      gauge, 50 mm block needle will be inserted out of plane on the superior edge of the probe,
      midline between the ischiatic tuberosity and the rectum. After feeling two distinct fascial "
      clics " and confirmation of correct needle positioning in the ischiorectal fossa under
      ultrasound, 0,2 mL/kg (max 10mL) of ropivacaine 0,25% will be injected under real-time
      ultrasound-guidance after negative aspiration. The same technique will be repeated on the
      contralateral side.

      Penile nerve block patients will be positioned in the supine position. An ultrasound-guided
      technique will be used as described previously. A linear probe will be placed transversely at
      the base of the penis while an assistant applies caudal traction to the penis. The penile
      neurovascular sheath is then located just above the corpus cavernosum. The dorsal penile
      nerve, dorsal penile artery and penile deep dorsal vein are visualized deep to Buck's fascia.
      Using a sterile technique, a 25 gauge, 1,5 inch needle will be inserted in-plane from lateral
      to medial so that the needle tip is placed into the penile neurovascular sheath, 0,1 mL/kg
      (max 4 mL) of ropivacaine 0,25% will be injected under real-time ultrasound guidance while
      retracting the needle so that the local anaesthetic solution spreads bilaterally filling the
      neurovascular space.

      The heart rate and blood pressure will be recorded before the block and every 5 minutes after
      block completion by the anaesthesiologist unaware of block assignment involved in the
      intraoperative and postoperative care of the patient. Surgical incision will be delayed for a
      minimum of 15 minutes after block completion. Three surgeons will perform all circumcisions
      using the same surgical technique. Any in-crease in blood pressure or heart rate of more than
      20% above baseline within 20 minutes of block completion will be treated with an additional
      propofol bolus (1mg/kg) or by increasing end-tidal sevoflurane to allow for onset of the
      block. Any increase in blood pressure or heart rate of more than 20% above baseline 20
      minutes or more after the block will be considered inadequate analgesia and will be
      supplemented with fentanyl 1 mcg/kg. All patients will receive dexamethasone 0,1 mg/kg (max 8
      mg) and ondansetron 0,1 mg/kg (max 4 mg). Ketorolac 0,5 mg/kg (max 30 mg) will also be
      administered at the end of the surgery.

      Pain scores using the FLACC score(16) will be recorded in the post-anesthesia care unit
      (PACU) and ambulatory step down unit at 5, 30, 60 and 120 minutes postoperatively by trained
      and blinded nurses. A pain score of 4 or higher in the PACU will lead to analgesic
      administration. A first dose of nalbuphine 0,1 mg/kg will be administered. If inadequate,
      incremental doses of morphine 0,05 mg/kg will be given until adequate analgesia is achieved.
      Pain will also be evaluated by parents at home using the parent postoperative pain measure
      (PPPM) scale at 6, 12 and 24 hours postoperatively. The parents will be instructed by a
      trained nurse on how to assess the child's pain using this pain measure. Patients will be
      prescribed acetaminophen 15 mg/kg q 4h regularly (maximum 5 doses/24 hours), ibuprofen 10
      mg/kg q 8h regularly and morphine 0,1 mg/kg q 4h as needed.
    
  