
    
      Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the primary cause of cervical cancer, a major public
      health problem in Africa. Currently there are three vaccines (Cervarix, Gardasil® and
      Gardasil-9®) that offer excellent protection against HPV infection with vaccine-related HPV
      genotypes. The objective of this trial is to demonstrate non-inferiority of immune responses
      with 1 dose of HPV vaccine compared with the recommended 2 or 3 doses of the same vaccine by
      evaluating HPV 16/18-specific seropositivity, antibody avidity and memory B cell responses at
      M36. Specifically, the investigators will determine whether a single dose of the 2-valent HPV
      vaccine (Cervarix, that protects against HPV 16/18 genotypes) or of a new 9-valent HPV
      vaccine (Gardasil-9,that protects against HPV 6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58) produces immune
      responses that are non-inferior to those observed with 3 doses of vaccine when given to
      HIV-negative 9-14 years old girls in a malaria-endemic region of Tanzania.

      The trial will also determine whether the World Health Organization's (WHO) recently
      recommended 2 dose strategy for girls aged under 15 years produces similar immune responses
      in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) compared to the previously recommended 3 dose schedule. In
      addition, the cost-effectiveness of alternative dosing schedules and of the two vaccines will
      be explored.

      The trial will enrol 900 girls who are resident in Mwanza into an un-blinded,
      individually-randomised trial with 6 arms. Arm A will comprise participants randomised to
      receive 3 doses of the 2-valent vaccine, Arm B those randomised to receive 2 doses of the
      2-valent vaccine and Arm C those randomised to receive 1 dose of the 2-valent vaccine. Arms
      D, E and F will be those participants randomised to receive 3, 2 or 1 dose of the 9-valent
      vaccine, respectively.

      The effect of different dose schedules and type of HPV vaccine on a range of immune responses
      will be measured up to 36 months after the first dose. In a trial extension that will extend
      follow-up, we will also determine whether the one dose schedule of these vaccines produces
      non-inferior immune responses to the recommended two dose schedule for up to 60 months, and
      examine the long-term stability of the immune responses to 5 years after the first dose.

      The protocol will be harmonised, and laboratory procedures and immunological endpoints will
      be cross-validated, with those of a large HPV vaccine dose-reduction efficacy trial being
      planned by the NIH in Costa Rica to examine the protective effect of the same vaccines given
      as 1 or 2 doses.This trial will allow the examination of quality and durability of antibody
      responses, and safety and cost-effectiveness of reduced dose schedules compared to the
      originally recommended 3 dose schedule in a population with high burden of malaria and other
      infections that may affect vaccine immune responses.
    
  