
    
      -  A total of 105 chronic stroke survivors with moderate to severe shoulder pain will be
           enrolled. Subjects will be enrolled in the study for 13 weeks. Subjects who complete the
           protocol will visit MetroHealth five times.

        -  Visit 1: Baseline information about demographics, past medical history, and
           inclusion/exclusion issues will be collected for study participants. Pertinent lab work
           will be performed to determine initial eligibility.

        -  Visit 2: All initially eligible participants also will undergo a test injection of
           lidocaine to localize the pain to the subacromial bursa (Neer's Test). A positive Neer's
           test is required to finalize eligibility for further participation. Participants who
           satisfy inclusion/exclusion criteria (including a positive Neer's test) will be
           randomized to high dose steroid, standard dose steroid, or low dose steroid via a
           computer generated random number table. The study participants and the observer will be
           blinded as to these groupings.

        -  After the initial Neer's test and randomization, participants will receive their
           assigned injection the same day. Participants then will be followed for an additional 12
           weeks, including three follow-up visits (Visits 3-5). The total participation time in
           this study will be 13 weeks.

        -  The primary outcome measure will be the BPI 12. The BPI is a pain questionnaire, which
           assesses the "worst pain" in the previous 7 days. Secondary outcome measures also will
           be assessed together with BPI 12. There will be 3 additional secondary outcome measures,
           Fugl-Meyer Motor Assessment (a measure of poststroke motor impairment), pain free
           external rotation range of motion (ROM) and pain free abduction ROM.

        -  A blinded therapist will administer all outcome measures. The primary outcome will be
           assessed on a weekly basis via telephone (or in person during weeks of MetroHealth
           visits) starting on the day of Visit 1 and continuing to 12-weeks after steroid
           injection (i.e., for the 13 weeks of the subject's participation). The remaining
           secondary outcomes will be assessed in clinic visits at least every 4 weeks starting
           with Visit 2 (Visits 2-5).
    
  