
    
      SNS involves a two-stage procedure. The initial phase is considered the test stimulation
      period where the patient is allowed to evaluate whether or not the therapy is effective in
      controlling her symptoms. There are two techniques that exist in performing the test
      stimulation. The first is an office-based procedure termed the percutaneous nerve evaluation
      (PNE). This involves placing a temporary electrode wire through the S3 sacral foramen under
      local anesthesia. The wire is secured with tape and connected to an external generator the
      patient wears for a trial period of 3-7 days. If patients have at least 50% improvement in
      their symptoms during the test phase, they are candidates for chronic implant of the lead and
      implantable pulse generator (IPG). The advantage of the PNE is that it is an incision free
      procedure performed in the office utilizing local anesthesia, and does not require
      hospitalization. The disadvantage comes from the fact that the wire is not securely anchored
      in place, and has the propensity to migrate away from the nerve with physical activity. The
      second alternative is known as a staged implant introduced by Spinelli in 2003 (15,16) This
      is typically performed as an outpatient procedure using local anesthesia, intravenous
      sedation, and intra-operative fluoroscopy. This procedure involves placement of the chronic
      quadripolar lead wire adjacent to a sacral nerve root (typically S3). The lead is
      self-anchoring and therefore reduces the potential for migration. The patient goes through a
      test phase that can last from 7-21 days. The advantage of this technique is that it allows
      for a longer trial period with minimal risk of lead migration. The chronic wire also has 4
      electrodes that can each be trialed as the active electrode to achieve optimal improvement in
      patients' symptoms. In addition, during the 2nd stage, or final implant the previously placed
      tined-lead remains in place and is simply connected to the IPG. This eliminates the chance of
      variable lead placement from the test and implantation phases. The disadvantage of the staged
      implant is that it requires two visits to the operating room and may be more costly to the
      health care system. However, in a prospective study comparing the PNE to the staged implant,
      there was a significantly higher rate of conversion to implant with the staged procedure vs.
      the PNE (88% vs.46%). In addition, infection rates are not higher with the staged implant
      when compared to the PNE (17).
    
  