
    
      Purpose and Background

      Schizophrenia is a serious mental health disorder with a constellation of positive, negative,
      and cognitive symptoms. Negative symptoms can include characteristics such as affective
      flattening, avolition, and alogia. Positive symptoms can include delusions, hallucinations,
      and disorganized speech or behavior. Auditory hallucinations (AH) are a hallmark of
      schizophrenia. They are reported in as many as 50-75% of patients with this diagnosis. The
      hallucinations experienced by patients vary greatly and can severely impact an individual's
      ability to function on a daily basis. In approximately 25-30% of patients diagnosed with
      schizophrenia, medication is an ineffective mechanism for managing these symptoms. These
      hallucinations are known as medication refractory auditory hallucinations (MRAH). They are
      defined as "the persistence of daily hallucinations without remission despite antipsychotic
      medication at an adequate dosage for at least three months".

      For those whose AH do not respond to medication, non-surgical brain stimulation (NBS) has
      recently shown promise as a therapeutic intervention. Specifically, the use of conductive
      electrical approaches termed transcranial electrical stimulation (tES). One method of tES
      that has received renewed interest due to its high portability, safety, and modulatory
      effects is transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). tDCS involves applying a weak
      electrical current using saline soaked electrode sponges, causing either increases or
      decreases in cortical excitability, respectively. Research has shown in both healthy subjects
      and patients (e.g. Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, and depression) that
      tDCS has the potential to modulate synaptic and neurotransmitter-dependent plasticity
      underlying changes in behavior and learning. Brunelin et al utilized tDCS to successfully
      reduce MRAH in a population diagnosed with schizophrenia. They were able to reduce AH by
      approximately 30% in their sample after 5 days of twice-daily treatment and this effect was
      maintained for approximately three months following treatment. This finding has yet to be
      replicated in a similar study.

      Along with tDCS, other new methods of NBS are being investigated across various disease
      states. One such study looked at the impact of tES on tinnitus. They tested whether type of
      tES made a difference in efficacy. They compared tDCS to tRNS. tRNS is very similar to tDCS
      except that it superimposes a random "white noise" gaussian waveform (from 0.1 hz to 640 hz)
      on top of the DC current. They found that tRNS induced a larger suppressive effect on
      tinnitus loudness and tinnitus-related distress when compared to tDCS. While their findings
      were in tinnitus, there are now multiple scholarly works describing a relationship of
      tinnitus and AH, possibly as a continuum or dimension underlying a variety of normal and
      disease states. This relationship suggests strategies found to be efficacious for tinnitus
      may in fact also be efficacious for AH. Recently, there was a case series showing possible
      efficacy in AH using tRNS.

      The purpose of the study is to examine the efficacy of tES in the treatment of MRAH of
      schizophrenia. The hypothesis is that tRNS will provide a larger reduction of AH in those
      with schizophrenia as compared to tDCS and no treatment (i.e. sham). Confirmation of this
      hypothesis would provide an exciting new option for treatment and may provide an even higher
      level of efficacy than is seen in tDCS. Further, this study would also provide replication of
      the work by Brunelin et al. and further support of tES as a compelling tool for the
      management of severe MRAH.

      Specific Aims

        1. Determine efficacy of tES as a treatment for MRAH. Hypothesis 1a: tDCS is more effective
           than sham in the treatment of MRAH shown by a reduction in both total and subscores of
           the AHRS. Hypothesis 1b: tRNS is more effective than both sham and tDCS in the treatment
           of MRAH as shown by a reduction in both total and subscores of the AHRS.

        2. Demonstrate safety and tolerability of tES in the treatment of MRAH. Hypothesis 2a: tDCS
           is safe and well tolerated in the treatment of MRAH as demonstrated by the TSEQ.
           Hypothesis 2a: tRNS is safe and well tolerated in the treatment of MRAH as demonstrated
           by TSEQ.

        3. Exploratory: Detect tES sensitive subtypes of AH based on the MUPS.

      Study Design

      This study is double-blind, between group, and sham-controlled. Subjects will be randomized
      to one of three arms (tRNS, tDCS, or sham) and will remain in that arm for the duration of
      the study. All subjects will complete an enrollment visit, ten treatment visits (2 visits per
      day), and 1, 3, and 6 month follow-up visits. Given that durability of effect has been
      suggested in the literature to be less than 6 months, patients will not be followed beyond 6
      months. The outcome of this study will be measured by standard auditory hallucination rating
      scales including the Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale (PANSS), Auditory Hallucinations
      Rating Scale (AHRS), and psychotic symptom rating scales (PSYRATS). Both the AHRS and PSYRATS
      are included as outcome measures to ensure generalizability to existing studies on tES (which
      use the AHRS) along with the broader body of AH research (which use the PSYRATS). The primary
      efficacy parameter will be the PSYRATS as this has shown the most evidence for accurate
      representation of AH.

      Clinical Significance

        -  This study will replicate and expand on previous research regarding the use of tES as a
           treatment for medication refractory auditory hallucinations

        -  Based on the findings, this study could have potential application as a non-invasive
           clinical intervention for treating MRAH which affect 25% of medicated patients with
           schizophrenia.

      Subjects

      This study will recruit individuals who are receiving outpatient services at the Minneapolis
      VA Medical Center, the University of Minnesota Department of Psychiatry, or the University of
      Minnesota Medical Center--Fairview. Patients will be referred by clinical staff from multiple
      departments including Mental Health, Polytrauma, and Social Work. Referral will be based on a
      clinical diagnosis of Schizophrenia or Schizoaffective disorder with medication refractory
      auditory hallucinations as assessed by the patient's clinical provider. Subjects will also
      have the ability to self-identify to flyers and local newspaper ads. Brunelin et al found a
      large and significant effect size (d=1.58, p<0.001) which the investigators have used to
      guide our power analysis. The investigators power analysis was performed for three arms using
      an alpha of 0.025, a power of 0.8, and a desired effect size of 1.00. This analysis results
      in a need for approximately 20 subjects per arm.

      Pre-screening.

      In order to reduce subject burden, the investigators will obtain a waiver of HIPAA
      authorization and informed consent for recruitment and screening to allow potential subjects
      to be pre-screened by chart review and in person or by telephone prior to scheduling
      potential participants for initial visit. Potential participants will be provided with
      information about the study and asked a series of questions to determine if they meet basic
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, such as a history of MRAH. They will be told about the basic
      aims of the study, and those interested in participating will be scheduled for an initial
      visit at which time they will complete consent paperwork.

      Initiation Visit

      The initiation visit (visit 1) starts with completion of informed consent, HIPAA, and the
      Modified Dysken Tool to assess capacity to consent. The participant must score 7 / 10 on the
      Dysken Tool in order to participate in the study. Should the participant score less than 7,
      s/he will be offered remedial teaching and re-assessment. Should the subject agree via
      consent and demonstrate capacity to consent, s/he is enrolled into the study. A full baseline
      evaluation is then performed. This includes assessment via MINI, MUPS, PANSS, AHRS, PSYRATS
      and Edinburgh Handedness Inventory.

      Treatment Visits

      Visits 2 - 10 are exclusively treatment visits. At each visit the participant completes the
      tES Side Effect Questionnaire (TSEQ) both pre and post treatment. Visits occur twice daily
      for 5 days. Visits must be spaced at least 2 hours apart. Depending on the arm participants
      have been randomized into, s/he will receive treatment with either tDCS, tRNS, or sham.
      Treatment will be provided using the Starstim Neurostimulator (Neuroelectrics, Inc.) This
      device has been approved for use in research in the United States without an investigational
      device exemption due to meeting criteria for non-significant risk. The same energetic
      parameters are used for both tDCS and tRNS (2mA for 20 min) as well as the same electrodes
      (SPONSTIM-25 25cm2 electrodes). Both tDCS and tRNS are initiated in a ramp-like fashion over
      10s from 0mA to 2mA. Once at 2mA, tDCS is held constant for the entire session whereas the
      tRNS consists of an alternating current of 2mA with a 0mA offset applied at random
      frequencies over a range of 0.1 to 100 Hz. The sham procedure involves only 40 sec
      stimulation at 2mA and then drops to 0mA with 15msec pulses every 550msec. Should the
      participant not be able to tolerate a current of 2mA due to pain or irritation, the current
      will be decreased down to a minimum of 1.5mA. If 1.5 mA is still not tolerable, the
      participant will be removed from the study. Electrode placement is based on the international
      10-20 electrode placement system. The anode is placed at the midpoint between F3 and FP1, a
      location corresponding approximately to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and the
      cathode placed at the midpoint between T3 and P3, a location corresponding to left
      temporo-parietal junction. Placement and parameters in tDCS are consistent with Brunelin et
      al, 2012). Placement and parameters in tRNS are consistent with. Stimulation setup and
      administration takes approximately 30 minutes.

      Visit 11 is run the same as visits 2 - 10 but after completion of the final (10th)
      stimulation session, the subject will again complete the PANSS, AHRS, and PSYRATS. This visit
      typically takes 90 minutes.

      Follow-Up Visits

      Visits 12 - 14 are follow-up assessment only visits and occur at 1 month, 3 month, and 6
      months post treatment. Participants will not receive stimulation but instead will be assessed
      via PANSS, AHRS, and PSYRATS.

      Missed Visits

      In the event that a participant misses a session of treatment, the session will be
      re-scheduled and treatment continued as soon as possible. The deviation from treatment will
      be noted in the study record.

      Informed Consent Process

      Consenting will take place in a private office at the Minneapolis VA Health Care System,
      University of Minnesota 717 Delaware office, the Ambulatory Research Center of the University
      of Minnesota Department of Psychiatry, or the UMPhysicians MINCEP clinic, depending on
      patient preference. Only the study staff obtaining consent, the subject, and any family
      members invited by the subject will be present. The research coordinator or other trained
      research staff will explain the study to the participants. After explaining the study, the
      participants will be allowed as much time as needed to review the HIPAA and consenting
      documents and ask any questions that might arise before making the decision to participate.
      If necessary, participants can delay participation for up to a week. Subjects will be allowed
      to review the consent form in private for as long as they need. Subjects will be allowed to
      ask any and all questions prior to providing consent. Study personnel obtaining consent will
      emphasize first and foremost that the study is voluntary and will not influence that
      subject's clinical care through the VA Medical Center, University of Minnesota Medical
      Center--Fairview, or the University of Minnesota Department of Psychiatry. To ensure
      comprehension of the information provided in the informed consent forms, participants will be
      asked to complete the Modified Dysken Tool and answer 7 out of 10 questions correctly.

      Indications of Lack of Capacity to Consent

        1. Potential participant has severe formal thought disorder that does not allow him or her
           to ask understandable questions or to answer the questions on the Dysken Tool

        2. Potential participant is unable to maintain attention to the description of the consent
           form long enough to perceive the individual basic points in the consent form

        3. Potential participant, either due to catatonia or otherwise, the potential participant
           cannot ask questions or respond sufficiently to indicate agreement

        4. Potential participant expresses delusions related to the research protocol that
           significantly distort his or her basic understanding of the research.

      No participant will be under legal commitment at the time of their consent or during their
      participation in the study.

      Data Analysis

      Data will be analyzed for group by time effects of stimulation method as compared to sham.
      Tolerability will also be assessed by looking at total side effect score compared to
      stimulation type. The data will be further analyzed using a clustering technique to
      understand the impact of symptom cluster and severity on overall treatment response.

      Potential Risks and Benefits

      This study involves the use of a tES device. With tES, both tDCS and tRNS are considered to
      be safe brain stimulation techniques that rarely result in adverse events. There is currently
      no evidence of serious side-effects. Criteria for discontinuation that may rarely occur are
      sores at the tCS administration site, headaches that impair global functioning, and worsening
      psychosis. Mild side-effects that typically resolve upon discontinuation tCS include light
      itching under the electrode at the beginning of administration, headache, fatigue, and
      nausea. The participant may choose to discontinue stimulation at any time during the session
      if experiencing discomfort or side effects. No other risks are anticipated. Nonetheless, in
      order to minimize risks, study staff will be using standards of administration that have been
      shown to be safe in numerous other studies and across more than 2000 studies using tES; this
      includes length of administration, magnitude of the current, size of electrode sponges used,
      and method of applying stimulation. Any unanticipated problems or adverse events will be
      reported according to MVAHCS standard operating procedure.

      Study staff will use private (medical or educational) records during the recruitment process.
      Therefore, the use of protected health information may be associated with negative feelings
      about sharing medical/educational history. Participants may experience mild stress and/or
      discomfort with completing surveys/interview. Participants could also experience temporary
      feelings of stress or mental fatigue due to the behavioral assessment measures used in the
      study.

      In addition, breach of confidentiality is a potential risk due to the use of sensitive
      private information. The results of this study may be published or presented but the
      participant's identity and records will not be revealed unless required by Federal Law. A
      Federal Law allows the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Office for Human Research
      Protections, Government Accountability Office and other Federal agencies, the Research and
      Development Committee, representatives of USAMRMC, Henry M. Jackson Foundation, and/or the
      Institutional Review Board (IRB)/Human Studies Subcommittee of the VA Medical Center or
      University of Minnesota to review records. Because of the need for these inspections,
      absolute confidentiality cannot be guaranteed. However, every effort would be made to
      minimize these risks by providing the participant with a unique numerical identifier at the
      beginning of the study in order to protect their actual identification and maintain complete
      confidentiality.

      It is possible that a participant may have a reduction of symptoms from the tES treatment but
      there are no anticipated direct or societal benefits to participation in this research
      project.

      Research Monitor

      A MVAHCS or University of Minnesota staff will act as an independent research monitor for
      this study. Her/His duties may include discussing the research protocol and recruitment with
      the investigator and staff, monitoring utilization of the tES device, follow-up with any
      participants in which an adverse event was reported, and reporting findings to the IRB.

      Discontinuation Criteria

      Sores at the tES administration site Headaches that impair global functioning Worsening
      psychosis

      Privacy, Confidentiality, and Information Security

      Self-report data will be collected on paper and scanned and stored in a password protected
      database behind the MVAMC or University of Minnesota firewalls. All personal identifiers will
      be stored on the consent form and in a master participant list within the database. All other
      documents will contain the unique participant ID. All paper documents related to this study
      will be stored in a locked file cabinet within locked research study offices. Access to
      research data and documents will be restricted to research personnel listed on the study
      protocol.

      All data will be maintained at the MVAHCS and University of Minnesota indefinitely per
      requisite data retention policies. No data will be destroyed. Information regarding research
      results will not be shared with study participants.
    
  