
    
      This is a single-blind (participants are blinded), pilot study with no therapeutic or
      diagnostic intent and limited drug exposure. The study will be conducted at Baylor College of
      Medicine in normal, healthy, and non-drug using male volunteers who have not received the Td
      vaccination in the past 5 years.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and surrogate efficacy of low dose
      entolimod in normal, healthy, non-patient subjects by comparing anti-tetanus (TT) antibody
      levels between patients getting entolimod vs no entolimod combined with tetanus-diphtheria
      (Td) vaccine. Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two arms in a 3:5 ratio (for every
      8 subjects, 3 will be randomly assigned to the control group and 5 to the treatment group) to
      receive a single dose of:

      Arm 1: Td (4 ug) (n=15), Arm 2: Td (4 ug) + Entolimod (1 ug) (n=25)

      We propose to give the normal dose of Td given routinely to humans (i.e. TT at 2μg and
      diphtheria toxoid at 2 ug) for a total protein dose of 4 ug. The proposed dose of entolimod
      at 1 ug is 30-40 times lesser than that previously given safely to humans. We expect that Td
      + entolimod will double the anti-tetanus toxoid antibody (anti-TT AB) and anti-diphtheria AB
      levels over Td alone. We predict that this low dosing of entolimod (1μg) produces no
      difference in adverse effects from giving Td vaccine alone and that any adverse events will
      be no different than what is typical as reported in the Physicians' Desk Reference for Td
      vaccine in humans.

      For purposes of this trial, study population age cut-off will be 40 years of age. The reason
      for this cut-off is that the body produces higher antibody levels in response to vaccines in
      younger age groups compared to older groups. Further, this study is restricted to males only
      as a safety measure so that women of child-bearing age are not exposed to entolimod, which
      has not been given to women of childbearing potential.

      We consider our strategy adequate for human safety for several reasons related to risks for
      this new combination of an existing vaccine and new adjuvant. First, our proposed
      Td-Entolimod starting dose is the usual approved clinical dose of Td (4 μg containing 2 ug TT
      + 2 ug diphtheria toxoid). Second, the proposed dose for the adjuvant entolimod (1 μg) is
      supported by both animal toxicology studies and human safety/PK/PD studies cross-referenced
      from IND 100480. The results of these safety studies, which have given humans up to 30 μg and
      animals up to 100μg, strongly support that entolimod at 1μg is a safe human dose. The other
      adjuvant is aluminum phosphate, which is contained within the standard Td vaccine in humans.
      Third, further support for safety comes from the recent recommendations to boost pregnant
      women with Td at each pregnancy regardless whether or not they have recently received a Td
      shot. This recommendation of acceptable enough safety for ACIP to recommend it for pregnant
      women, supports that this study's single dosing with Td even at less than a 5 year interval
      would be relatively low risk. Fourth, other FDA approved conjugate vaccines using TT have
      contained 8 to 10 times greater doses of TT than in our planned dose. Fifth, we will have a
      randomization of 25 subjects to the Td-Entolimod combination vaccine, which will provide
      sufficient numbers of subjects to detect common adverse events such as fever and local site
      reactions in more than one human subject in our vaccinated group compared to the Td alone
      control group. Local injection site and systemic inflammatory changes also will be monitored
      in planned clinical study trials with later TT conjugate anti-addiction vaccines.

      The close monitoring of objective and subjective drug effects by direct observation, blood
      work (CBC and Comprehensive Metabolic Panel), weekly telephone check-ins over a 6 week period
      from point of vaccination to close-out visit to monitor for potential adverse reactions, and
      a close-out physical will allow objective evaluation of the effects of the vaccines in these
      normal subjects. We will also have post treatment follow up period with monthly telephone
      visits up to 1 year from vaccination to further monitor for adverse reactions.

      At 6-weeks post-vaccination, we will analyze level of anti-TT AB and anti-diphtheria AB and
      compare both study arms compared to baseline AB levels to determine the immune potentiating
      capability of entolimod. In addition to not expecting any difference in adverse events (AE)
      from giving Td alone compared to those AE listed in the Physicians' Desk Reference for Td in
      normals, we also expect the AB levels at 6 weeks post vaccination and the ratio of 6-week to
      baseline AB levels from Td+entolimod (n=25) to be at least double the levels from Td alone
      (n=15).
    
  