
    
      This is a prospective interventional randomized controlled cohort study to determine the
      safety and benefit of intracameral dexamethasone injection at the conclusion of
      phacoemulsification in diabetic patients with cataract.

      All patients will undergo full ophthalmological examination including best corrected visual
      acuity (BCVA), intraocular pressure (IOP), anterior segment examination and fundus
      examination. History and control of diabetes mellitus will be recorded. Patients ≥ 40 years
      old with a visually significant cataract, who are known to be diabetic for more than 10 years
      and are free of exclusion criteria will be included in our study.

      In addition to routine pre-operative cataract evaluation and investigations, patients will
      also undergo non-contact Specular Microscopy (Konan Medical, Inc., Hyogo, Japan) to record
      the pre-operative corneal endothelial cell density in the central cornea, as well as
      anterior-segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT, Optovue Inc., Fremont, CA, USA) to
      record pre-operative central corneal thickness (CCT).

      Standard phacoemulsification will be performed using the Infiniti machine (Alcon, Fort Worth,
      Texas, USA) with the stop and chop technique, and 0.2 mg of dexamethasone in 0.05 ml will be
      injected intracamerally at the conclusion of surgery in half of the study eyes, assigned
      using a randomization method.

      Post-operative examination will include BCVA, IOP measurement and level of anterior segment
      inflammation on days 1,7 and 30 of follow up. Specular microscopy and AS-OCT will be
      performed at day 30 of follow up. Ophthalmologist performing examinations and investigations
      will be masked to whether dexamethasone was injected or not to avoid bias.

      The difference in mean corneal endothelial cell density before and after phacoemulsification
      will be compared between both groups. The difference in CCT, post-operative inflammation and
      IOP will also be compared between both groups.

      All statistical analyses will be done using IBM SPSS v20.0 statistical software (IBM
      Corporation, NY, USA). Descriptive statistics will be calculated, and the data will be
      summarized as mean ± SD for numerical data, and as frequencies and percentages for
      categorical data. When the p-value is < 0.05 this will be considered as statistically
      significant.
    
  