
    
      Patients with subfertility due to hormonal disorders are at increased risk of endometrial
      cancer and hyperplasia . Such conditions are associated with chronic anovulation, obesity
      and/or hyperinsulinemia. Presumably, the mechanism relates to constant, unrelenting estrogen
      stimulation of the endometrium, predisposing to abnormal patterns of growth. Hence, patients
      with long standing anovulation presenting for infertility evaluation, are often subjected to
      endometrial biopsy to rule out any underlying hyperplasia or malignancy.

      The polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most obvious and common condition associated with
      chronic anovulation. It is characterized by hyperandrogenism, ovulatory dysfunction, and
      polycystic ovarian morphologic features. Based on National Institutes of Health (i.e.
      hyperandrogenism plus ovulatory dysfunction), "classic" polycystic ovary syndrome affects 10%
      of women of reproductive age but the prevalence may be twice under the broader Rotterdam
      criteria . Women with PCOS are at increased risk of infertility, endometrial hyperplasia and
      cancer. The risk of endometrial cancer in a woman with PCOS is reported to be 2.7 times
      higher than someone without this syndrome. Other uncommon conditions associated with chronic
      anovulation are Cushing's syndrome, congenital adrenal hyperplasia secondary to 21
      hydroxylase deficiency, thyroid or liver disorder leading to decreased clearance of estrogen
      from the body. Similarly, obese postmenopausal women are also at increased risk for
      developing endometrial cancer.

      In these patients, elevated plasma levels of androgen precursors increase estrogen level
      through aromatization of androgens in adipose tissue. In addition, it has been seen that non
      cycling patients with grossly increased endometrial thickness (greater than 12 mm) are also
      at high risk of endometrial hyperplasia. So these are the indications, which warrants
      patients to undergo endometrial biopsy. Literature shows that the prevalence of minor
      intrauterine abnormalities identified at hysteroscopy in cases with a normal transvaginal
      sonography (TVS) can be as high as 20-40%. Similarly, the prevalence of unsuspected uterine
      cavity abnormalities, diagnosed in an unselected group of patients undergoing IVF can be 11%.
      In this study, they identified endometrial polyps in 6% women, submucous myomas in 1%,
      intrauterine adhesions (2%), and septa (2%) . Another study also reports 16% intracavitary
      lesion in patients with infertility. It has been seen that in an IVF population, obesity (BMI
      >30) is also an independent risk factor for developing endometrial polyps. The prevalence of
      polyps in patients with BMI > 30 is 52% as compared to 15% among patients with BMI <30.
      Similarly, PCOS patients also show a higher incidence of endometrial polyp (29%) diagnosed by
      hysteroscopy as compared to the nonPCOS population and the presence of 2 or more such polyps
      is associated with significant premalignant or malignant condition. So, missing the diagnosis
      of polyps in PCOS patients renders them to higher risk of developing malignancy in future.
      With this background, an important clinical question is if it is clinically justified to
      combine office hysteroscopy and endometrial biopsy as part of the comprehensive evaluation of
      these patients? It is possible that prompt diagnosis and treatment of these unsuspected
      uterine abnormalities could optimize the condition of the uterine environment and thereby the
      outcome of treatment.

      In spite of all the advantages office hysteroscopy offers, one of the reasons for avoiding
      office hysteroscopy has been the apprehension that adding office hysteroscopy will lead to
      higher pain score. But based on our literature review we propose that adding flexible office
      hysteroscopy to endometrial biopsy will not lead to any increase in pain score. In routine
      practice, endometrial biopsy is usually performed with "Pipelle" and is a simple office
      procedure. It is an excellent tool for evaluating the histopathology of the endometrium. The
      mean pain score during endometrial biopsy is 3 in a VAS scale of 1-10 with only 6.7% patients
      reporting severe pain . In a more recent study, the pain score during endometrial biopsy has
      been reported to be 6.2, which is higher than the previous reports. Similarly, office
      hysteroscopy is also a simple procedure with high patient acceptability and safety. The pain
      score reported during office hysteroscopy using flexible scope range from 2.3 -3. During
      traditional hysteroscopy where speculum and tenaculum is used, the pain score has been
      reported to be as high as 5.3. In fact, a comparative study of endometrial biopsy and office
      hysteroscopy showed that the pain score is higher during endometrial biopsy (5.1) as compared
      to diagnostic hysteroscopy (2.7). Hence, it seems very reasonable to add office hysteroscopy
      to endometrial biopsy for patients undergoing endometrial evaluation. This combined approach
      will have better diagnostic yield without increasing the pain perception.
    
  