
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Gemcitabine plus carboplatin is an accepted first-line therapy in patients unfit for
           cisplatin chemotherapy with metastatic urothelial carcinoma or other solid tumor
           malignancies.

        -  Both non-clinical and clinical data support targeting angiogenesis in urothelial
           carcinoma and other solid tumors.

        -  Both non-clinical and clinical data support targeting the immune system in urothelial
           carcinoma and other solid tumors.

        -  Lenalidomide has both anti-angiogenic and potent immunomodulatory properties.

        -  Lenalidomide has been safely coadministered with cytotoxic therapy in patients with
           solid tumors and non-clinical studies demonstrate possible synergy with gemcitabine.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      - To establish the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      lenalidomide which can be safely combined with gemcitabine and carboplatin in patients with
      advanced/metastatic UC and other solid tumors that are unfit for cisplatin.

      Secondary

        -  To preliminarily evaluate the progression free survival, response rate and overall
           survival in patients with advanced/metastatic UC and other solid tumors treated with the
           combination of lenalidomide, gemcitabine, and carboplatin.

        -  To determine the effects of treatment on a set of 4 laboratory parameters (including
           Treg, sIL-2R, VEGF and CTC.) in the expansion cohort of patients with bladder cancer
           treated at the MTD.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Adult patients with histologic documentation of an advanced solid tumor with
           unresectable or metastatic disease.

        -  Urothelial cancer patients should be ineligible for cisplatin based on one or more of
           the following:

        -  Calculated creatinine clearance of < 60 mL/min (but greater than or equal to 30 mL/min)

        -  Solitary kidney

        -  Karnofsky Performance Status < 80%

        -  No prior combination systemic chemotherapy for metastatic disease allowed for patients
           with UC, except single agent radiosensitizing chemotherapy (not considered prior
           systemic therapy), or prior neoadjuvant or adjuvant systemic chemotherapy (including
           cisplatin-based) is allowed provided if it was completed (Bullet) 6 months prior to
           diagnosis of metastatic disease; or prior intravesical therapy is permitted. Up to 1
           line of chemotherapy in the metastatic setting is permitted for non UC patients.

        -  Laboratory evaluation must meet safety requirements, including a creatinine clearance
           greater than 30 using the Cockroft-Gault formula; may not be pregnant or breast-feeding.

      DESIGN:

        -  This is a single-institution phase I study of gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8)
           and carboplatin (AUC 5 on day 1) plus escalating doses of lenalidomide (GCL) in patients
           with advanced/metastatic UC and other solid tumors ineligible for cisplatin therapy.
           Lenalidomide will be administered once daily on days 1 through 14 every 21 days at
           escalating dose. An expansion cohort at the MTD of an additional 15 patients with
           bladder cancer will be enrolled in order to determine whether there are differences
           between pre-treatment and post-treatment levels of the following parameters: Treg, sIL-
           2R, VEGF and CTC.

        -  Patients will receive a total of 6 cycles of gemcitabine and carboplatin in combination
           with lenalidomide unless disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. Patients
           who achieve stable disease, a partial response, or a complete response after completion
           of 6 cycles will be eligible to continue lenalidomide alone at the same dose and
           schedule until disease progression. Restaging evaluations will occur after every 3
           cycles of treatment (approximately 9 weeks).

        -  Based on a standard 3+3 design with 4 dose levels per cohort, a maximum of 24 patients,
           with the potential for an additional 3 patients with CrCl>60 mL/min, may need to be
           evaluated to determine the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) of lenalidomide in this combination therapy. With an expansion cohort of 15
           patients at MTD, a total of 42 subjects may be enrolled over 1.5 -3 years.
    
  