
    
      The design is a prospective controlled open-label multicenter intervention study. General
      practitioners in region of southern Denmark are responsible for the treatment, while central
      visits for additional data sampling are located at Odense University hospital, Holbaek
      Hospital, Naestved Hospital, and hospital of south west Denmark, Esbjerg.

      The inclusion phase will run for 2 years. The follow-up phase is 10 years from inclusion.

      Registries will be employed in both the characterization of patients and in the sampling of
      end-points. Concomitant medication will be sampled from the National Prescription Database.
      Concomitant illness and identification of endpoints will be sampled from the Registry of
      Patients, Registry on Cause of Death, the Danish Registry on Regular Dialysis and
      transplantation, the Danish general practice database, The National Indicator project,
      Statistics Denmark, The National Indicator Project, The Danish Cancer Registry, the
      DD2-database and local databases.

      Treatment The control group will be treated according to national guidelines. The
      intervention group will be treated according to individual assessment. Several approaches
      will be employed to achieve individualization.

        -  Identification of pathophysiological traits in order to chose the correct medication
           targeting hyperglycaemia. Identification of pathophysiological traits, through genetic
           testing, GAD antibodies and C-peptid level, will individualize the treatment of
           hyperglycaemia according to the following groups: MODY (maturity onset diabetes of the
           young), LADA (latent autoimmune diabetes of adults), steroid-induced diabetes,
           insulinopenic diabetes, secondary diabetes and patients with insulin resistance.
           Specific treatment algorithms will be applied in each group.

        -  Individualized targets for all patients with regard to hyperglycaemia. The target will
           be chosen on the basis of age, motivation, skills, risk of hypoglycaemic events, therapy
           resistance, initial hba1c and concomitant illness. As these factors change the target
           can be adjusted accordingly.

        -  Hemodynamic characterization by impedance cardiography will be used in order to
           individualize anti-hypertensive medication.

        -  Individualized targets for all patients with regard to hypertension. The target will be
           chosen on the basis of concomitant risk factors.

      Further individualization will be achieved by discontinuing drugs which have not proven to be
      effective within a three-month period or have proven to have side-effects.

      Treatment algorithms for the intervention group.

      Hyperglycemia

        -  MODY (characterized by genetic test): Glimepiride or repaglinide for type 1 and 3. 1)
           diet, 2) basal insulin for type 2. Basal insulin for type 5

        -  LADA (GAD positive> 30UI/ml): basal bolus insulin-regime. Metformin if BMI > 25

        -  Secondary diabetes (HOMA-beta < 78.45 % AND history of pancreatitis or similar): basal
           bolus insulin regime

        -  Steroid induced diabetes: 1) meal time insulin 2) metformin 3) basal insulin if fasting
           blood glucose is above 7

        -  Insulinopenic type 2 diabetes (HOMA2-beta<78.45 % AND HOMA2-S>105.5%): 1) metformin 2)
           insulin, basal 3) meal time insulin

        -  Classical type 2 diabetes (HOMA2-beta<78.45% AND HOMA2-S<105.5%): 1) metformin 2) GLP-1
           analogues* 3) basal insulin 4) meal time insulin.

        -  Hyperinsulinemic type 2 diabetes (HOMA2-beta>78.45% AND HOMA2-S<105.5%)

      In patients with BMI>35 kg/m2 both gastric bypass and pharmacological treatment can be
      considered equally. In patients with BMI<35 kg/m2 only pharmacological treatment is an
      option:

        1. In patients with BMI>35 kg/m2 gastric bypass should be considered according to the
           current national criteria and the preference of the patient.

        2. 1) metformin 2) GLP-1 analogues* 3) Glitazones (pioglitazone is currently registered) 4)
           insulin, basal 5) meal time insulin If marked oedema develops in relation to institution
           of glitazones the treatment should be terminated. If patients have osteoporosis,
           glitazones should generally not be used.

      If patients have heart failure glitazones should not be used.

      *In cases were patients are reluctant to inject themselves or have economical objections,
      DD4-inhibitors can be chosen.

      Premixed insulins can be used instead of basal insulin or instead of basal insulin+mealtime
      insulin whenever deemed relevant by the treating physician

      Hypertension Hemodynamic characterization by impedance cardiography will be used in order to
      individualize anti-hypertensive medication. By impedance measures of vascular resistance,
      intravascular volemia and inotropy will be obtained.

      All patients will be treated with ACE inhibitors. Secondary medication will in general be
      achieved by the following algorithm:

      High vascular resistance:

        1. Use ACE-inhibitor or add a calcium-channel blocker (CCB) to an existing ACE-inhibitor.

        2. In case the resistance are increased by more than 100% and neither ACE-inhibitor or CCB
           is given, consecutive add both according to blood pressure. If hypervolemia is present
           address this before CCB is introduced.

        3. If intravascular volume is normal and blood pressure is high after ACE-inhibitor; use
           CCB - also when resistance is normal

      High intravascular volume:

      1) Use hydrochlorthiazide 12.5mg combined with ACE inhibitor in one pill if possible. Else
      use bendroflumethiazide 2.5mg. If the patient is already receiving diuretics, spironolactone
      is used. Start with 25mg, maximum dose is 50mg. If kalium is above 4.3 or impaired kidney
      function is present start with 12.5mg. Control of kalium is paramount.

      High inotropy

      1) High inotropy might change with the institution of other drugs. Introduce CCB first and
      secondly thiazide if the patient is normovolemic. In reverse order if the patient is
      hypervolemic and with normal vascular resistance. Therefore high inotropy should only be
      treated with carvedilol if 1) the patient is receiving ACE inhibitor, thiazide and CCB and
      the impedance measure of high inotropy is made after ACE-inhibitor, thiazide and CCB is
      started.

      Lifestyle A dietician will be employed to make written material regarding the diet. A
      Cookbook will be made available online, together with accompanying grocery lists. The diet
      will be done according to a composition of 20% protein, 40% fat and 40% carbohydrate to
      improve glycemic control. The extra percentage of fat, compared to current recommendations
      should come from polyunsaturated fat.

      To facilitate exercise an accelerometer will be handed out and an individual goal of exercise
      will be set. A novel interface of the accelerometer will be used to monitor the exercise done
      and thereby enable the patient and the physician to evaluate the effort. Interval walking
      will be the general focus of the exercise guidance, if the patient does not have other
      individual exercise preferences. Individual goals of the exercise effort will be set and
      software will modify the goals according to current fitness.

      Goal setting in the intervention group Treatment of hyperglycaemia should be made according
      to the following goals

        -  Optimal control of HbA1c < 6.5 % (48 mmol/mol)

        -  Acceptable control of hba1c < 7.5 % (58 mmol/mol)

        -  Free of symptoms, with the best possible Hb1ac within this restraint

      The general practitioner is free to choose which goal is applicable, according to the above
      mentioned criteria. In patients with neuropathy or former cardiovascular disease extra
      vigilance should be taken if optimal control is chosen. If the patient develops a severe
      hypoglycaemic event, repeated measures of blood glucose below 4.0 mmol/l or is therapy
      resistant, the goal should be reassessed.

      Treatment of hypertension should be made according to the following goals

        1. BT < 135/85 in patients with microalbuminuria, increased creatinine or established
           cardiovascular disease

        2. BT < 140/90 in patients without complications

      First visit at primary physician In the control group this will be scheduled as deemed
      necessary by the physician In the intervention group this should be scheduled to be located
      after the baseline visit at the central hospital, in order to achieve collection of all
      relevant data for individualization.

      Periodic visits at primary physician These are to take place every 3 month. At these visits
      treatment will be instituted according to the specified algorithms. If the goals are not met,
      intervals of 1 month are recommended in the intervention group.

      Once a year the following will be collected for the study:

        -  Smoking habits, blood pressure, cholesterol levels, weight, HbA1c, Urine
           albumin-creatinine ratio, creatinine Visits for measurements of organ damage The initial
           visit will be scheduled within 4 weeks of the screening visit. Longitudinal measurements
           will be done after 2 and 4 years. The measurements will include

        -  ECG for assessment of ventricular hypertrophy

        -  Intima media thickness of the carotid artery along with assessment of plaque presence

        -  Measurement of calcification of the coronary arteries by heart CT (only year 0 and 4)

        -  Blood borne and urine markers of cardiovascular disease

        -  Automated office blood pressure (used to direct treatment)

        -  Ambulatory 24 hours blood pressure

        -  Questionnaire on quality of life, (at baseline: cardiovascular hereditary, former
           gestational diabetes or pancreatitis and prednisolon treatment within the last 3 month
           of debut)

        -  Thoracic impedans measurements

        -  Adverse events (side effects)

        -  medication

        -  Waist to hip ratio

        -  Fundus photo

      These visits will be organized centrally. In a subset of patient echocardiography and pulse
      wave velocity will be performed.

      Visits for measurements of thoracic impedans The measurement will be done after 0, 2, 4 (also
      after 1 year in the intervention group) years throughout the follow-up period and will be
      organized centrally.

      Time schedule Oct 2013: Inclusion of patients Oct 2015: inclusion ends Oct 2019: analysis of
      surrogate markers of cardiovascular disease Oct 2025: sampling and analysis of endpoints

      Cooperation between primary care and project coordinators Daily management and coordination
      will be handled by investigators at the 3 central hospitals. Data-sampling at central visits
      will be their responsibility. The central investigators will have an advisory role in the
      treatment of the patient. Initial pathophysiological characterization will be managed
      centrally and the results will be forwarded to the primary physician. The coordinating
      investigator will be responsible for gathering of data from registries.

      The daily treatment of the patients will be managed by the primary physician according to the
      algorithms. Recruitment will also be done by the primary physician. Serious adverse events
      will be reported centrally by the GP.

      TAP will be employed to do conduct the investigations at the central visits.

      Concomitant illness and identification of endpoints will be sampled from the Registry of
      Patients, Registry on Cause of Death, the Danish Registry on Regular Dialysis and
      transplantation, The Danish general practice database, The National Indicator project, The
      Danish Cancer Registry, the DD2-database and local databases at time of analysis.

      Concomitant illness will be established at the baseline visit through patient interview,
      aided by records from the Registry of Patients.

      Endpoints will also be sampled real time as part of the sampling of SAEs.

      Statistical considerations An incident rate of 2.5% per year of macro- and microvascular
      complications, of 1.5% for cancer and approximate 1% of over-all mortality is expected.
      Hypoglycaemic event rate is expected to be less than 0.4%. The expected incident rate of the
      composite endpoint is 5%, a power of 80% and a type I error of 0.05. A benefit of 20% with
      intervention is expected. Loss to follow-up: the database approach will limit this to a
      minimum. For a cumulated event rate of 5% during 10 years the estimated sample size is 1123
      patients per group.

      Ethical considerations The patient physical and mental integrity will be safeguarded. The
      participants will be protected by the law on personal data and the Danish health legislation
      act. The study will be conducted in compliance with the principles set forth in the
      declaration of Helsinki and the guidelines for god clinical practise (GCP). The Study will be
      conducted in compliance with this protocol as well as according to national legislation. The
      study will be approved by the regional committee on medical health ethics, the Danish data
      protection agency and the Danish Health and Medicines Authority. The study will be submitted
      at ClinicalTrial.gov.
    
  