
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare two ureteral access sheaths in how the sheaths damage
      the ureter during flexible ureteroscopy.

      Condition Intervention Kidney Stones Nephrolithiasis Urolithiasis Device: Cook Flexor or
      Boston Scientific Navigator HD

      Study Type: Interventional Study Design: Intervention Model: Two group randomized assignment
      Masking: Single blind Primary Purpose: Treatment

      Primary Outcome Measures:

      • Successful placement of sheath (yes or no).

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

        -  Subjective rating of damage to ureter. At the completion of the procedure, video of the
           intraluminal ureter is recorded as the sheath is withdrawn. Videos are analyzed by two
           blinded staff endourologists to score ureteral injury on a standard 5-point scale (0 to
           4); reference Traxer and Thomas.

        -  Ease of placement of each sheath. Surgeons will be asked to subjectively rate the ease
           of placement on a standardized scale from 0 to 4, 4 being easiest which will be rated by
           the surgeon who inserted the sheath immediately after placement.

      Arms Assigned Interventions Device: Cook Flexor and Boston Scientific Navigator HD Device:
      Cook Flexor or Boston Scientific Navigator HD Patients will be assigned to one of two
      ureteral access sheaths. If the first sheath is failed to be placed, the backup sheath will
      be attempted.

      Standard ureteroscopy will take place. The intervention takes place before the ureteral
      access sheath is placed. The patient will be randomized to one of the two sheaths. The
      randomized 12/14Fr sheath will be attempted. If placed successfully, the rest of the
      operation continues as planned. If the initial sheath is unable to be placed, a second backup
      sheath (opposite brand) will be used, also in size 12/14Fr. The surgeon will be asked to rate
      the ease of placement of the sheath on a standardized scale. If these sheaths fail, it is the
      surgeon's discretion to continue with the smaller sheath, continue without sheath or place
      stents and attempt the procedure at a later date. The operation is then continued in standard
      fashion. Once the ureteroscopy is completed, before the scope and access sheath are removed,
      video recording of the ureter will be conducted as the ureteroscopy and sheath are removed.

      Videos will be analyzed by blinded urologists who will rate the extent of ureteral damage on
      a standardized scale of 0 to 4 according to the study published by Traxer et al. 2013.
      Intra-operative data includes total time of initial sheath insertion (in seconds), total time
      sheath is in place (minutes) from placement to removal, and use of laser. Differences in
      operative time, ease of placement, ability to maintain access, and ease of instrument passage
      are also evaluated between devices, as well as success rates, and device failure rates and
      post-operative complications. Means are compared using a t-test and proportions are compared
      using a chi-squared test. An intention to treat model is used for statistical analysis. When
      video ratings differ between surgeons, the higher rating of damage will be used. Inter-rater
      reliability is assessed with Cohen's kappa coefficient.

      After the study, subjects will not be contacted. The investigators will collect data from
      participants' medical records including information of whether participants develop
      complications or return for a subsequent procedure as well as size and location of kidney
      stones prior to the surgery.
    
  