
    
      A priority focus in oncology and palliative care is preparing the 3.2 million U.S. family
      caregivers of persons with cancer to effectively partner with patients in health-related
      decision-making from diagnosis to the end of life, particularly in underserved settings. Over
      70% of patients with cancer involve relatives, friends, and partners in healthcare decisions,
      including choices about cancer treatments, surgery, transitions and location of care,
      accessing palliative and hospice care, and many others. Patients making healthcare decisions
      with unprepared family caregivers may experience inadequate family decision support leading
      to heightened distress and receipt of care/treatments inconsistent with their values and
      preferences. This in turn may increase distress for family caregivers. Hence, there is a
      critical need to train cancer family caregivers to effectively support patient
      decision-making; however, few interventions exist that enhance caregiver skills in providing
      decision support.

      We have developed and successfully pilot tested CASCADE (CAre Supporters Coached to be Adept
      DEcision partners), a lay navigator-led, telehealth early palliative care intervention to
      train advanced cancer caregivers how to effectively partner with patients in health-related
      decision-making. Evolving out of our prior early palliative care caregiving interventions,
      decision partnering relevant content for family caregivers includes principles of effective
      social support in decision-making, decision support communication, and Ottawa Decision Guide
      training; however we do not know which of these components and component interactions
      influences patient and caregiver decision-making outcomes. Traditional research approaches
      typically treat interventions as "bundled" treatment packages, making it difficult to assess
      definitively which aspects of an intervention can be reduced, eliminated, or replaced to
      improve efficiency. Using traditional research methods (e.g., two-arm randomized controlled
      trials that test new features one at a time) requires conducting multiple studies, which is
      an exorbitantly expensive and time consuming process. This paradox prompts us to consider
      methodologies that offer a more efficient way to test multiple intervention components
      simultaneously. The research question we raise is: "What set of decision support training
      components best optimizes family caregiver support of patient healthcare decision-making?"

      Using a highly innovative methodology, the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST), the
      purpose of this study is to conduct an optimization trial to develop and refine the decision
      support skills of family caregivers of persons with newly-diagnosed advanced cancer (CASCADE:
      CAre Supporters Coached to be Adept DEcision partners). Using a 2x2x2 factorial design, 352
      family caregivers of persons with newly-diagnosed advanced cancer will be randomized to
      receive one or more lay coach-delivered decision support training components, based on the
      Ottawa Decision Support Framework and Social Support Effectiveness Theory: 1) psychoeducation
      on effective decision support and social support principles (1 vs. 3 sessions); 2) decision
      support communication training (yes vs. no); and 3) Ottawa Decision Guide training (yes vs.
      no).

      The specific aims of this study are to:

      Aim 1: Identify CASCADE decision support training components (main effects/interactions) that
      contribute meaningfully to improvement over 24 weeks in the primary outcome, patient-reported
      decisional conflict, measured by the Decisional Conflict Scale and secondary outcomes,
      including:

      Caregivers: a) distress (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale),42 b) quality of life (PROMIS
      Global 10) Patients: a) distress (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale), b) quality of life
      (PROMIS Global 10), c) healthcare utilization, d) advance directive completion. A component
      will be considered effective if its presence produces a statistically significant main effect
      or two-way interaction of Cohen's d ≥.30.

      Aim 2: Apply results obtained in Aim 1 to build: (1) an intervention made up of only active
      components and (2) a second intervention that is optimized for scalability and cost.
      Intervention (1) will be made up of the best set of component and component levels, based on
      Aim 1 results. Intervention (2) will be comprised of the set of components for the smallest
      cost that still yields a clinically meaningful effect in outcomes (d≥.30).

      Exploratory Aim: Explore mediators and moderators (e.g., sociodemographics, decision
      self-efficacy, social support) of the relationship between intervention components and
      patient and caregiver outcomes.
    
  