
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free survival probability in patients with previously resected
           recurrent or metastatic colorectal carcinoma treated with adjuvant thalidomide vs
           placebo.

        -  Compare the time to recurrence in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine whether serum/plasma levels of vascular endothelial growth factor and basic
           fibroblast growth factor preresection and postresection correlate with tumor recurrence
           and determine if these levels, as well as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) measurements,
           aid in predicting time to recurrence in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics and toxicity of long-term thalidomide therapy in these
           patients.

        -  Determine whether patients receiving thalidomide develop measurable antiangiogenic
           activity.

        -  Measure the presence of circulating tumor cells preresection and postresection and
           determine if this type of analysis can be used to predict recurrence in this patient
           population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to site of most recent lesion resection that rendered no evidence of
      disease (lung vs liver with no more than 3 lesions vs liver with more than 3 lesions vs lung
      and liver vs all other sites[including sites that were both resected and ablated]). Patients
      without evidence of residual disease are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral thalidomide once daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive an oral placebo once daily. Treatment continues in both arms
           for 2 years in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 94 patients (47 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3 years.
    
  