
    
      It is still unknown the pathogenesis of low back pain and a lot of hypothesis were discussed
      for a long time. Because non-invasive imaging modalities greatly underestimate the prevalence
      of epidural pathogenesis an endoscopic examination of the epidural space has been advocated
      as both a diagnostic and therapeutic modality.

      It seems that immune-inflammatory factors play a more substantial role in pain status.
      Myeloscopic investigation have shown how morphological pictures of the epidural area in
      patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP) are much more complex and heterogeneous than what
      can be identified with traditional investigation suggesting a biochemical involvement.

      Endoscopy of the epidural space (epiduroscopy) is a minimally invasive technique, which can
      be used to directly visualize pathological features inside of the lumbar spinal canal to
      locate tissues responsible of eliciting pain and realize an effective therapeutic approach in
      a lot of different CLBP status as those due to spinal stenoses or failed back surgery
      syndrome.

      Minimally invasive endoscopic exploration of the lumbar epidural cavity in patients suffering
      from chronic low back pain has been used to identify the presence of any pathological
      structures within the vertebral channel, such as fibrous adherences, inflammatory processes,
      severe fibrosis and/or stenosis. The need to visually inspect the epidural space originally
      arose as conventional imaging, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), has been shown to be
      significantly less sensitive in identifying epidural pathology compared with direct
      visualization. In a cohort of failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS) patients, 80% of those
      having severe epidural fibrosis diagnosed with epiduroscopy had a normal MRI examination.
      More, when used to identify the exact spinal level of painful pathology, neither clinical
      examination nor MRI evaluation strongly correlated with the endoscopy findings.

      The combination of a disposable and easily steerable small video-guide, high-resolution
      optics and specifically designed tools such as mechanical dissectors, electric knife and
      graspers, makes this technique as a valid option to diagnose and treat epidural pathology in
      the lumbar region.

      To deepen the molecular causes of interindividual variability of epiduroscopy outcomes in
      terms of decrease of pain, it is useful to analyze the DNA variants encoding IL6 and IL1
      cytokines and to relate them with gene expression levels and with the cytokine dosage. By
      this technique, it is possible to collect a biopsy of the epidural tissue (usually performed
      during epiduroscopy) analyzing the specific expression of the cytokines: there is already
      evidence that inflammatory factors may be involved in the genesis of LBP. At this regards, it
      would be really important to compare systemic cytokine levels before the epiduroscopy with
      those detected immediately post procedure and after one month, to understand if the cytokines
      could play a key role and be a biomarker of the epiduroscopy outcome.

      Concerning DNA polymorphisms, it has been demonstrated, in many disease-state meta-analyses
      that the IL6 variant rs1800795 affect IL6 gene transcription and influences the IL-6 levels
      ensuring the statistical robustness of the associations.

      Moreover, interleukin 1 (IL-1) is a major factor controlling the inflammatory response. The
      IL-1 gene family includes the IL-1α, IL-1β and the IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) genes
      that mediate immune and inflammatory responses. The IL-1Ra molecule has been shown to be a
      powerful anti-inflammatory agent inhibiting the activities of IL-1 α and IL-1β. Moreover,
      SNPs in IL-1α, IL-1β and IL1Ra modify bone mineral density promoting intervertebral disc
      disease (IDD). Literature data showed that the simultaneous carriage of the IL-1bT3954 and
      the IL-1Ra A1812 alleles significantly enhances the risk of low back pain (LBP) occurrence,
      the number of days with pain, and the number of days with limitations in daily activities due
      to pain.

      The investigators will try to identify if it there is a correlation with success of the
      epiduroscopy approach in terms of freedom from pain with genetic and cytokine expression
      patterns.

      Finally, the investigators will compare the cytokine gene expression and the DNA methylation
      status of IL6 promoter in patients with favorable outcome and in no responders, to study its
      role in gene expression. In fact, a recent study suggested for the first time that
      methylation status of a single CpG site in the IL6 promoter is related to IL6 messenger RNA
      levels and that lower methylation contributes to the risk of developing Rheumatoid Arthritis.

      This study is addressed to detect if the genetic variability might be used in near future in
      clinical setting, to predict the success of epiduroscopy.

      The main aim of this study consists in identifying whether a particular genotype associated
      with inflammation is able to detect which patients will have a positive epiduroscopy outcome,
      in terms of decrease of pain.

      To achieve it, the investigators will investigate the frequency of some IL1 and IL6 gene
      polymorphisms: we will analyze and compare IL1β, IL1Ra, IL6 and IFNγ blood cells gene
      expression (before, immediately post the epiduroscopy and after one month) with that obtained
      by epiduroscopy biopsy cells.

      The investigators will also measure IL1β, IL1Ra, IL6 and IFNγ levels from patient serum
      before the epiduroscopy, immediately post the procedure and after 1 month.
    
  