
    
      Objective: Goal is to evaluate the (cost-)effectiveness of a short term intensive DBT
      treatment program (12 weeks) versus outpatient DBT, in terms of reduction of suicidal and/or
      self-harming behavior, and of general BPD symptomatology severity.

      Study design: A randomized trial, analyzed by a intention-to-treat (ITT) approach, with two
      parallel groups: a) intensified adapted DBT program (12 weeks inpatient program, plus six
      months standard outpatient DBT, n=36); b) standard outpatient DBT for 12 months (n=36).

      Study population: All borderline patients (18-40 years), who will be admitted from January
      2013 till June 2014 for treatment in the Jelgersma Treatment Centre, or the outpatient DBT
      programs of Rivierduinen, who: (1) receive a diagnosis of BPD, (2) have shown suicidal and/or
      self-harming behavior in the year preceding the admission/ start of DBT treatment, including
      the last month preceding baseline measurement, and (3) show a severe level of borderline
      symptomatology (> 24 on the BPDSI).

      Intervention:

      All patients receive DBT according to the basic DBT treatment protocol. Treatment integrity
      is established by supervision in both groups.

      Outcome measures Main study parameter is the number of suicide attempts/self-harming acts
      (the Life Time Parasuicide Count and the Parasuicide Scale of the Borderline Personality
      Severity Index). Second study parameter is the severity of borderline symptomatology (BPDSI).
      Quality of life as measured on the SF-36, and the EQ-5D and psychopathological symptoms (BSI)
      will also be taken into account. The cost-effectiveness of the inpatient program compared to
      the outpatient program will be examined (TiC-P).

      Sample size. The researchers expect that after 12 weeks of treatment, 20% of the patients of
      the intervention group still show suicidal and/or self-harming behavior compared to 60% of
      the patients in the control condition, and that this difference sustains after 24 weeks and
      will be gradually reduced between 24 and 52 weeks by the additional reduction in suicidal
      and/or self-harming behavior in the control group. To be able to detect a difference of 40%
      after 12 weeks, with a power of 0.80 and α = 0.05, 36 patients per experimental condition are
      required. The researchers expect to recruit about 150 patients, which guarantees enough
      power, even with a 20% drop out rate.
    
  