
    
      Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary central nervous system malignancy in adults,
      and accounts for over half of all malignant brain tumors. The prognosis for newly diagnosed
      GBM is extremely poor even with Stupp protocol consisting of surgery followed by temozolomide
      and radiotherapy. Present therapies are inadequate, as evidenced by the low 5-year survival
      rate for brain cancer patients, with median survival at approximately 12 months and treatment
      for GBM remains a significant unmet clinical need in oncology.

      All subjects included in the study will initially undergo standard surgical resection for
      newly diagnosed GBM. Following the resection, the surgical cavity will be lined with a long
      pedicled, autologous piece of tissue called a temporoparietal fascial flap or pericranium.
      The patient's dura, bone and scalp will be closed as is customary. The permeability of the
      blood vessels of the TPF or pericranial flap should allow for improved delivery of
      therapeutics and immune cells (macrophages and T cells) into the vicinity, extracellular
      space and microenvironment of the resected tumor cavity including the brain adjacent to the
      GBM. The TPF or pericranial flap would easily conform to many resected GBM cavities in our
      human patients with acceptable risk. The TPF and pericranial flap with its predictable and
      rich vascular anatomy have been shown to be an ideal flap for cases of previously irradiated
      and/or infected wound beds.

      The investigators hypothesize that a TPF or pericranial flap that is harvested in our
      patients with resected GBM may be used as a readily available and accessible means of
      circumventing the blood brain barrier selectively and focally. The investigators aim to prove
      that this surgical technique is safe in a small human cohort of patients with resected newly
      diagnosed GBM and may improve progression-free survival (PFS).
    
  