
    
      The schedule is the following:

      • In a first step a run-in phase of 6 patients will be conducted to test the safety and
      feasibility of the combination of durvalumab with standard carboplatin-paclitaxel
      chemotherapy.

      Cycle 1 : chemotherapy alone (day1) Cycle 2 : chemotherapy + durvalumab (day1) Cycle 3 :
      chemotherapy + durvalumab (day1)

      • In a second step, if first-step was found feasible, a run-in phase of 6 patients will be
      conducted to test the safety and feasibility of the combination of durvalumab plus
      tremelimumab with standard carboplatin-paclitaxel chemotherapy.

      Cycle 1 : chemotherapy alone (day1) Cycle 2 : chemotherapy + durvalumab + tremelimumab (day1)
      Cycle 3 : chemotherapy + durvalumab (day1)

        -  After the run-in phase, patients will be randomized in a ratio 1:1 between those
           included in the durvalumab-chemotherapy expansion phase (arm A) and those included in
           the durvalumab + tremelimumab-chemotherapy expansion phase (arm B).

        -  This study will also allow to explore the feasibility of a salvage therapy personalized
           according to the results of interval surgery and type of previous neo-adjuvant therapy.

             1. In those patients who achieved a complete surgical resection at interval debulking
                surgery, adjuvant treatment will include 3 cycles of durvalumab + chemotherapy and
                then a follow-up period.

             2. In patients with residual tumor at interval debulking surgery, salvage therapy will
                depend on the initial treatment arm allocated.

                  1. In arm A, the tremelimumab will be added to the durvalumab-chemotherapy
                     combination at day 1 of cycle 2 before a salvage surgery. Durvalumab (with one
                     cycle of tremelimumab post S3) will be pursued in maintenance treatment, up to
                     1 year or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient
                     withdrawn.

                  2. In arm B, the therapy will be according to the Investigator choice and managed
                     according to local practice.
    
  