
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine if a one-year disease free survival of 40% and a day 200 transplant-related
           mortality of less than 25% can be achieved in patients with high-risk acute
           lymphoblastic leukemia in complete remission treated with a nonmyeloablative
           conditioning regimen comprising fludarabine and total body irradiation followed by
           allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell or bone marrow transplantation.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of donor lymphocyte infusion in the treatment of
           minimal residual disease after nonmyeloablative allografting in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive a nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen comprising fludarabine IV on days -4
      to -2 and total body irradiation (TBI) on day 0. Children undergo allogeneic peripheral blood
      stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) or bone marrow transplantation after TBI on day 0. Adults
      undergo filgrastim (G-CSF)-mobilized allogeneic PBSCT after TBI on day 0.

      Patients also receive graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis therapy comprising oral
      cyclosporine twice daily on days -3 to 56 and then tapered and oral mycophenolate mofetil
      once at 5-10 hours after transplantation on day 0 and then twice daily on days 1-27.

      Patients who have no evidence of grade 2 or greater acute GVHD or clinically extensive
      chronic GVHD, have been off GVHD prophylaxis therapy for 1-2 weeks, and have stable or
      increasing minimal residual disease after discontinuation of GVHD prophylaxis therapy receive
      donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) IV over 30 minutes. DLI repeats every 4 weeks for a total of
      3 doses (if necessary).

      Patients without a history of CNS leukemia and patients with a history of CNS leukemia
      previously treated with prophylactic craniospinal irradiation receive methotrexate (MTX) or
      cytarabine (ARA-C) intrathecally (IT) for a total of 2 doses before transplantation and for a
      total of 6 doses beginning on day 32 after transplantation. Patients with a history of CNS
      leukemia not previously treated with craniospinal irradiation undergo craniospinal
      irradiation for 11 days before conditioning regimen and then MTX or ARA-C IT for a total of 6
      doses beginning on day 32 after transplantation. Male patients also undergo testicular
      radiotherapy for 7 days.

      Patients are followed at 1, 2, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients (20 adults and 10 children) will be accrued for
      this study within 2 years.
    
  