
    
      Patients who are referred to the Northern Sydney Cancer Centre for radiotherapy for treatment
      of their prostate cancer will be screened at the initial consultation for suitability for
      participation in the study. Following informed consent, those who agree to participate in the
      study will undergo the following procedures. Blood tests will be performed to ensure normal
      coagulation profile and renal function prior to any procedure. Under transrectal ultrasound
      guidance, patients will have insertion of fiducial gold seeds into the prostate under
      anaesthesia. While the patient is in theatre and under anaesthesia, the PEG hydrogel
      (SpaceOAR) will be inserted by Dr Thomas Eade, who will be competent in the procedure. The
      patient will be in the dorsal lithotomy position and prepared and draped. A transrectal
      ultrasound (TRUS) will be used for alignment of the needle and to ensure safe delivery. The
      hydrogel precursor and accelerator solutions will be mixed and connected to the Y connector
      that has been flushed with saline and to a syringe holder that ensures both syringe barrels
      are injected at the same time (comes with commercial product). The solutions will be injected
      within 30 minutes of mixing. After aspirating to ensure the tip of the needle is not
      intravascular, the perirectal space will be adequately dissected from the apex to midgland by
      injecting saline into the space between denonvilliers fascia and the anterior rectal space
      under TRUS guidance. This hydrodissection, prior to delivery of the hydrogel, should create a
      distance of 3-4 mm between the prostate and the rectum. Maintaining the needle position and
      angulation, the saline syringe is disconnected and the hydrogel system connected. After
      aspirating to ensure the needle tip is not in a blood vessel and under TRUS guidance, the
      hydrogel is injected in a smooth, continuous technique. The gel sets up within approximately
      8 seconds.

      In order to compare the effect of the PEG hydrogel (SpaceOAR) on the dose of radiation
      received by the rectum, two radiotherapy plans will be created. One planning CT scan will
      therefore be performed prior to the injection of the PEG hydrogel and one one week following
      injection of the hydrogel. The two treatment plans will be created by the same radiation
      therapist.

      As the hydrogel is clearly visible on MRI and not on CT scans, we will obtain a pelvic MRI
      scan following injection of the hydrogel.. The MRI scans will be used in planning and fused
      to the planning CT scans to aid voluming.

      Treatment:

      Patients will undergo standard prostate cancer planning and treatment using image guided dose
      escalated IMRT as per the RNSH Department protocol and guidelines to a dose of 80Gy in 40
      fractions 14.

      Rectal Dose Analysis:

      Two plans with dose-volume histograms will be created, one using the planning CT scan from
      prior to the PEG hydrogel (SpaceOAR) injection and one using the planning CT and MRI
      performed one week post hydrogel injection. MRI scans will be obtained on the same day as the
      CT simulation using the same bladder filling and rectal emptying protocols. Each patient will
      have two plans created by the same Radiation Therapist. This will allow for comparison
      between the 2 plans. The patient will be treated according to the post PEG hydrogel injection
      plan, with the initial plan for comparison purposes only. The volume of rectum receiving
      80Gy, 75Gy, 70Gy, 65Gy, 60Gy, 40Gy, 35Gy and 25Gy will be compared with the two plans.

      Patient assessment:

      Patients will be assessed immediately post injection of the hydrogel, 24hrs later by
      telephone and 1 week later by telephone to determine if there has been any adverse event
      related to the PEG hydrogel (SpaceOAR) injection. This will include questions regarding pain
      or discomfort, infection, bleeding, and changes in bowel or bladder function. Information
      about every adverse event will be collected and recorded on the appropriate case report form.
      Adverse events will be described by duration (start and end dates), severity grade, and
      action taken. A follow-up report will follow the initial report within 5 working days. Any
      reports where the adverse event has not resolved at this time will be followed up to
      resolution of the event or until it becomes chronic and a statement is made to this effect.

      During radiotherapy treatment patients will be assessed weekly in the clinic and their
      toxicity will be recorded using the modified RTOG and National Cancer Institute Common
      Terminology Criteria (v4.0) for adverse events.

      Patients will be reviewed in the clinic 3 months, 9 months, 15 months and 21 months post
      completion of treatment and rectal toxicity will be assessed using the modified RTOG and
      National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria (v4.0) for adverse events.

      Adverse events:

      An adverse event is any undesirable experience associated with the use of a medical product
      in a patient. All adverse events will be appropriately reported by duration (start and end
      dates), severity grade, and action taken on the appropriate case report form.

      Grade 1 or mild events are easily tolerated. Grade 2 or moderate events cause enough
      discomfort to interfere with usual activity.

      Grade 3 or severe events result in inability to carry out usual activities. Grade 4 events
      are life threatening or disabling. The serious adverse event will be documented and medically
      assessed by the investigator. As the PEG hydrogel cannot be removed following injection,
      patients will be treated medically and symptomatically. A follow-up report will follow the
      initial report within 5 working days. Any reports where the adverse event has not resolved at
      this time will be followed up to resolution of the event or until it becomes chronic and a
      statement is made to this effect.
    
  