
    
      If you are eligible and you choose to participate in this study, you will be asked to come to
      the Bone & Joint Clinic of Baton Rouge in Baton Rouge between 7:00 and 11:00 am after at
      least a two-hour fast (nothing to eat or drink besides water for 2 hours prior to your
      appointment). You will be asked not to exercise, shower, or use a steam room or sauna at
      least two hours prior to evaluation. The study visit will take approximately one hour. During
      the visit, you will complete the informed consent process and then complete the baseline body
      measurements and body composition procedures immediately afterwards. Adult pre-menopausal
      women will have a urine pregnancy test prior to evaluation. Study procedures are not for
      diagnostic or treatment purposes and the DXA scan is intended for research purposes.

      Description of study procedures

      Body Measurements (about 15 minutes):

      A series of body measurements will be taken by trained staff. These measurements include
      height, weight, and vital signs. The weight and height measurements will be completed twice
      during this time. The subject will wear a hospital gown and tight fitting garments for these
      procedures and the subject's BMI will be calculated from these measurements.

      Body Composition Measurements

      Whole Body DXA Scan, about 20 minutes This scan measures the amount of bone, muscle, and fat
      in your body. The scan will be performed using a whole-body scanner. The subject will be
      required to wear a hospital gown, to remove all metal-containing objects from the body, and
      to lie down on the table. The subject will be carefully positioned on the table, and the legs
      will be placed together using two Velcro straps. A scanner emitting low energy X-rays and a
      detector will pass along the body. The subject will be asked to remain completely still while
      the scan is in progress. The scan takes approximately ten minutes.

      Impedance Analysis (BIA) (about 10 minutes):

      These tests will measure the amount of fat in the body. These procedures will vary depending
      on the measurement system and several different BIA systems will be used during this test.

      Some examples are presented in the supplementary material at the end of this protocol.

      Specifically, the following systems will be used in this study:

      Samsung Health Cover; Measure 3 times; Standing Posture

      Marketed systems:

      InBody720 (http://www.biospaceamerica.com/Product/ib720.html; measure one time; Standing
      Posture Omron 306; Measure 1 time; Standing Posture Omron 510; Measure 1 time; Standing
      Posture
    
  