
    
      To date, there is no clear consensus on the method that is best for closure of surgical
      wounds in orthopaedic surgery. Orthopaedic surgeons have a multitude of wound closure habits.
      A recent meta-analysis comparing staples to sutures in wound closure demonstrated a
      three-fold increase in infection in stapled wounds compared to sutured wounds. The studies
      used in the meta-analysis were primarily of poor methodological quality.

      A large, well-designed randomized, controlled trial is needed to guide orthopedic surgeons in
      their choice of wound closure materials. This study would attempt to provide information on
      the use of sutures versus skin staples and the effect on the development of surgical site
      infections in adults undergoing orthopaedic procedures.

      A parallel group randomized controlled trial with institutional review board approval will be
      conducted. Patients will be randomized intraoperatively to have skin wounds closed with
      sutures or staples. Dressings will be used to maintain blinding of participants and outcome
      assessors. The primary outcome measure will be infections adjudicated by a blinded data
      safety monitoring committee. Suspected infections will be defined by: Use of antibiotics or
      reoperation for infection at the operative site within three months (six months for
      arthroplasty subgroup) The independent review, board blinded to treatment assignment, will
      adjudicate suspected infections based on clinical data. A cost analysis will also be
      performed to compare the costs associated with wounds closed with sutures and staples from a
      health care institution perspective.

      All data will be analyzed by a blinded epidemiologist. Dichotomous primary and secondary
      outcome measures will be analyzed using the Chi-squared statistic. Continuous outcome
      measures will be analyzed using Student's t-test. Subgroup analysis will compare infection
      rates using sutures versus staples in each anatomic area (upper extremity, pelvis/acetabulum,
      hip/femur, knee, ankle). A further subgroup analysis will be conducted comparing trauma
      patients to elective patients. Non-infected revision surgery will also be compared to primary
      surgery.

      It is hypothesized that wounds closed with sutures and staples will have similar infection
      rates as defined by the use of antibiotics or reoperation.
    
  