
    
      Physical activity in patients with coronary heart disease improves health, quality of life,
      and reduces risk of coronary events, morbidity and mortality. Aerobic training is preferred
      as a part of cardiac rehabilitation with its well established evidence-based guidelines. On
      the other hand, the resistance training was first introduced as a part of cardiac
      rehabilitation just over a decade ago, due to its positive effects on performance, quality of
      life and muscle hypertrophy and strength. Despite the positive effects of resistance
      training, there still lacks evidence about its effect on cardiovascular health. Furthermore,
      guidelines still do not specify the exact training volumes, doses and types of resistance
      training for patients with coronary heart disease.

      In clinical practice, it is often difficult and contraindicated to use near-maximal loads
      (e.g., in the early stages of cardiac rehabilitation, after sport injury, etc.). Muscle
      atrophy and weakness often occur rapidly in the affected area due to the effects of trauma
      (or disease) and inactivity. Consequently, training modalities that promote hypertrophy or
      counteract atrophy without the use of heavy loads should be of special interest in the
      rehabilitation of some chronic diseases for which high musculoskeletal forces are
      contraindicated.

      Occlusive strength training with tourniquet cuffs was first used nearly twenty years ago.
      Studies have shown that low to-moderate intensity (20-50% of 1RM) resistance training with
      vascular occlusion leads to gains in muscle strength and volume comparable to those seen
      after conventional heavy resistance training. This effects suggest, that ischemic strength
      training may be a useful method in rehabilitation and other contexts.

      To conclude, the aim of this study is to compare the effect of low intensity resistance
      training with vascular occlusion vs. normal physical activity on:

        1. muscle hypertrophy, strength and neuromuscular parameters;

        2. vascular function;

        3. and blood parameters (anabolic and catabolic hormones, catecholamines, inflammations
           factors, parameters of oxidative stress etc.)
    
  