
    
      All patients with benign uterine pathology at preoperative examinations (pelvic ultrasound
      and / or magnetic resonance and / or CT) and with indication for total laparoscopic
      hysterectomy with consequently need for laparoscopic suture of the vaginal cuff, will be
      enrolled in the study.

      - I TIME/OUT OF PROTOCOL TIME (performed by expert surgeons) While under general anesthesia,
      the patient is positioned in the dorsal lithotomic position with both legs supported in
      stirrups with a Trendelenburg tilt and arms along the body. A four disposable or reusable,
      sterile trocar transperitoneal approach is used. A 10 mm port is inserted at the umbilicus
      for the telescope. Once pneumoperitoneum (12 mmHg) is achieved, intra-abdominal visualization
      will be obtained with a 0° 4K high-definition telescope (VISERA UHD 4K 10 mm, Olympus Winter
      & IBE GMBH, Hamburg - Germany) or with 0° 3D laparoscopy high-definition (Olympus Winter &
      IBE GMBH, Hamburg - Germany).

      Two additional 5 mm ports are placed under direct visualization, in the right lower abdomen
      medial to the right obliterated umbilical artery and in the left lower abdomen lateral to the
      inferior epigastric vessels. One more 5-mm trocar is inserted in the right mid abdomen at the
      level of the umbilicus. The instruments used include bipolar grasper, monopolar scissors,
      monopolar hook, various graspers and a suction irrigation system. Clermont Ferrand uterine
      manipulator (Model K.Storz Endoskope,Tuttlingen, Germany) is optionally used to move the
      uterus.

      Total hysterectomy is then performed according to standard technique.

      - II TIME/PROTOCOL TIME (performed by surgeon in training) The vaginal vault is closed with a
      0 Vycril suture laparoscopically (continuous suture). In order to avoid excess operating
      time, 15 min was allocated for completion of cuff closure by surgeons-in-training, after
      which time the attending surgeon took over this task.

      Operative time, estimated blood loss, incidence of intra or post-operative complications,
      postoperative pain, days of hospitalization and costs will be recordered
    
  