
    
      Nearly 5 million people in the United States have congestive heart failure (CHF). Although
      medical therapy such as beta-blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors,
      angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) and aldosterone antagonists has improved prognosis, the
      overall rate of hospital admissions has continued to rise in the last decade and the
      mortality for patients with symptomatic heart failure remains worse than the majority of
      cancers in this country. Accordingly, significant opportunities exist for the improvement in
      outcomes of patients with CHF, both from a morbidity and mortality standpoint. Such
      opportunities may lie in the outpatient medical management of patients with CHF. Specifically
      acute CHF represents a particularly underserved area of CHF care.

      In this regard, the investigative group and others have demonstrated the utility of
      extracellular RNAs (short, 20-22 nucleotide RNA molecules stable in circulation in humans) to
      predict cardiac structural changes and fibrosis in patients post-myocardial infarction with
      significant changes in cardiac structure. However, little has been done looking at the acute
      CHF setting. Specific questions include:

        1. What RNAs change in the acute CHF setting, and how do these change over time with
           diuretic therapy?

        2. Are these changes in RNA functional? That is, do they cause characteristic changes in
           the heart in vitro and on heart phenotypes in patients?

        3. Do these RNAs predict outcomes in long-term follow-up?

      To answer these questions, the investigators will enroll patients who are currently admitted
      at MGH or BIDMC with acute CHF. The study protocol involves:

        1. Venous blood draw, 40 ml anytime within their hospitalization

        2. Venous blood draw, 40 ml within 48 hours of planned hospital discharge

        3. Venous blood draw, 40 ml at follow-up (within one year of discharge)

      Eligible patients (e.g., absence of standard MRI contraindications, GFR > 40ml/min/1.73m2)
      will be asked pre-discharge or by telephone contact after discharge about coming in for a
      cardiac MRI study at any point within one year of discharge to examine cardiac
      structure/function and fibrosis. MRI imaging will be performed by Partners investigators (Dr.
      Ravi Shah, Dr. Michael Steigner, Dr. Michael Jerosch-Herold) at the 221 Longwood BRIC Imaging
      Facility (at the Brigham and Women's Hospital, BWH).
    
  