
    
      Atherosclerosis is the underlying cause of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), the major cause of
      death worldwide. Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease of the arteries in which
      activated macrophages are abundant in the atherosclerotic lesions. Macrophages play key roles
      during early atherogenesis. After differentiating from peripheral blood monocytes, the formed
      intimal macrophages take up oxidized/modified lipoproteins and are transformed into
      lipid-rich foam cells, the hallmark feature of early atherogenesis. In addition to
      lipoprotein uptake, lipid accumulation in macrophages can also result from alterations in
      cellular lipid metabolism, e.g. attenuated reverse lipid transport or enhanced rates of lipid
      biosynthesis. Although much progress has been made in understanding the role of different
      lipids (fatty acids, cholesterol, phospholipids or triglycerides) in macrophage foam-cell
      formation and atherosclerosis development, little is known about the potential impact of
      other nutrients, such as amino acids (AAs).

      Previous studies have demonstrated an association between specific AAs and increased CVD risk
      or higher prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD). For instance, the role of the branched
      chain AAs (BCAAs; valine, leucine, and isoleucine) in atherogenesis and CVD has been recently
      studied. Association studies showed that the plasma levels of BCAAs significantly and
      independently correlated with dyslipidemia and CAD. However, BCAAs were found to possess
      cardio-protective effects in a heart failure rat model. Specifically, leucine was reported to
      attenuate atherosclerosis development in the atherosclerotic apoE-deficient (apoE-/-) mice
      model, by improving the plasma lipid profile and by reducing systemic inflammation. Other
      studies have indicated the ability of some AAs to exert anti-atherogenic effects. Glycine,
      the simplest AA, was inversely associated with the risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI)
      in patients with high apolipoprotein B (apoB) and LDL-cholesterol levels. Cysteine is an
      essential AA in the biosynthesis of glutathione, a key endogenous anti-oxidant known for its
      anti-atherogenic properties in macrophage lipid metabolism leading to the attenuation of
      atherosclerosis development. Cysteine analogues such as N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) or ribose
      cysteine were shown to be anti-atherogenic. Arginine, a basic AA, is the main precursor for
      nitric oxide production in the vascular endothelium. Arginine was shown to protect
      endothelial cells from lipid peroxidation, and to delay or reduce atheroma formation.
      Arginine anti-atherogenicity includes its anti-oxidant properties and its ability to improve
      endothelial function in CVD or overweight patients.

      The aim of the proposed study is to investigate the effects of one month of supplementation
      with specific AAs on changes in the macrophage atherogenicity and lipid metabolism together
      with other risk markers of atherosclerosis development, such as serum oxidative status and
      lipid levels, on healthy subjects. Findings from the current proposed study may shed light on
      yet unknown mechanisms by which specific AAs affect atherosclerosis development and CVD risk
      and hence could possibly assist in the future development of anti-atherogenic strategies
    
  