
    
      A liver resection is the surgical removal of all or a portion of the liver. It is also
      referred to as a hepatectomy, full or partial. A complete liver resection is performed in the
      setting of a transplant a diseased liver is removed from a deceased donor (cadaver). A living
      donor may also provide a piece of liver tissue which is procured through a partial
      hepatectomy, The procedure may be performed through a traditional open procedure or using
      minimally invasive techniques.

      When is Liver Resection Performed Most hepatectomies are performed for the treatment of
      hepatic neoplasms, both benign or malignant. Benign neoplasms include hepatocellular adenoma,
      hepatic hemangioma and focal nodular hyperplasia.The most common malignant neoplasms
      (cancers) of the liver are metastases; those arising from colorectal cancer are among the
      most common, and the most amenable to surgical resection. The most common primary malignant
      tumour of the liver is the hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatectomy may also be the procedure of
      choice to treat intrahepatic gallstones or parasitic cysts of the liver.

      Liver surgery is safe when performed by experienced surgeons with appropriate technological
      and institutional support. As with most major surgical procedures, there is a marked tendency
      towards optimal results at the hands of surgeons with high caseloads in selected centres
      (typically cancer academic medical centers and transplantation centers).

      Partial hepatectomy is surgery to remove part of the liver. Only people with good liver
      function who are healthy enough for surgery and who have a single tumor that has not grown
      into blood vessels can have this operation.

      Imaging tests, such as CT or MRI with angiography are done first to see if the cancer can be
      removed completely. Still, sometimes during surgery the cancer is found to be too large or
      has spread too far to be removed, and the surgery that has been planned cannot be done.

      Can a portion of the remaining normal liver grow back? When a portion of a normal liver is
      removed, the remaining liver can grow back (regenerate) to the original size within several
      weeks. A cirrhotic liver, however, cannot grow back. Therefore, before resection is performed
      for HCC, the non-tumor portion of the liver should be biopsied to determine whether there is
      associated cirrhosis.
    
  