
    
      Background: One million Veterans (25%) who receive health care through Veterans Health
      Administration (VHA) have diabetes and are therefore responsible for daily diabetes
      self-management (DSM). DSM is essential for glycemic control and prevention of potentially
      life threatening and disabling complications such as severe hypoglycemia, kidney failure,
      acute coronary syndrome and stroke. Importantly, 40% of individuals with diabetes suffer from
      diabetes-related distress (DRD) that interferes with their ability to sustain healthy
      self-management behaviors, and may be particularly problematic for Veterans who are at higher
      risk for comorbid negative emotional states such as depression and post-traumatic stress
      disorder.

      Diabetes self-management education (DSME) has traditionally contained little content or
      skill-building directly related to stress management, leaving this critical component of
      diabetes self-management largely unaddressed in DSME. In the investigators' pilot work, the
      investigators have developed a brief stress management intervention known as Mind-STRIDE,
      which contains mindfulness training and home practice and is easily integrated into existing
      DSME. While the investigators have previously demonstrated the feasibility, patient
      acceptability, and initial efficacy of Mind-STRIDE, its effects on diabetes-related
      psychological and physiological patient outcomes remain unknown. There is, therefore, a
      critical need to determine the efficacy of this targeted mindfulness intervention for
      improving DRD, diabetes self-efficacy, DSM behaviors, and metabolic control of Veterans with
      diabetes in order to offer comprehensive, evidence-based DSME that improves Veteran-centric
      diabetes outcomes.

      Objectives: The objectives of this study are to determine the efficacy of Mind-STRIDE for
      improving DRD, diabetes self-efficacy, DSM, and metabolic control, and to characterize
      distinctive Veteran experiences with DRD and Mind-STRIDE.

      Methods: To achieve these objectives, the investigators will conduct a randomized controlled
      trial of 126 Veterans at a large VA medical center in southwest PA. Participants will be
      assigned to one of two study conditions: an experimental group that receives routine diabetes
      education plus Mind-STRIDE, or to a usual care group that receives diabetes education alone.
      DRD, diabetes self-efficacy, and DSM will be assessed using self-report questionnaires.
      Metabolic control (Hemoglobin A1c) will be assessed using standard laboratory procedures.
      Data will be collected at baseline, 12-weeks, and 24-weeks, and will be analyzed using
      mixed-effects models. Telephone interviews will be conducted at 15-weeks post-intervention in
      a subset of participants from the experimental group, and will be analyzed using modified
      Grounded Theory methods. Quantitative and qualitative findings will be compared and
      interpreted using Convergent Parallel Design.

      Status: Recruitment is ongoing as of fall 2016.
    
  