
    
      Each year in the United States nearly 47,000 people die by suicide. Despite over 50 years of
      suicide prevention research, the field is no closer to identifying specific factors which
      influence the transition of suicidal ideation to suicide attempts. Research suggests upwards
      of 60% of individuals with suicidal ideation progress to making suicide plans or attempts
      within 1 year, suggesting a specific, pernicious process is involved in this escalation.
      Identifying which mechanisms contribute to the escalation of new-onset suicidal ideation is
      crucial to developing interventions that target these underlying processes.

      Conceptual models of suicide have long viewed suicidal ideation and behaviors as a form of
      escape or avoidance from psychological distress with which individuals do not know how to
      cope. Indeed, psychiatric disorders are roughly 4 times as prevalent among suicidal ideators
      compared to non-ideators, and it is estimated 90% of suicide decedents evinced at least one
      psychiatric disorder. Several empirical models of psychiatric disorders implicate behavioral
      or experiential (i.e., emotional) avoidance as a driving mechanism of symptom severity (i.e.,
      psychological distress. Similar to other psychiatric symptoms, suicidal ideation is
      distressing insofar as some individuals view such thoughts as incompatible with their natural
      instinct for self-preservation. To the extent that individuals respond to suicidal ideation
      with avoidance, such responses may in part be responsible for the escalation of suicidal
      ideation to plans or attempts.

      Incidentally, models of psychological flexibility indicate a primary role for experiential
      avoidance and have been applied to suicidal ideation and behaviors. Higher levels of
      experiential avoidance are prospectively and concurrently associated with suicidal thoughts
      and behaviors. Moreover, as a cognitive-behavioral indicator of experiential avoidance,
      efforts to avoid or suppress suicidal thoughts are associated with greater concurrent levels
      of suicidal ideation and risk, and relate to a paradoxical increase in the severity of
      suicidal ideation over time.

      Taken together, these studies suggest that individuals high in experiential avoidance with
      concomitant suicidal ideation may benefit from interventions that mitigate experience
      avoidance. Such interventions would ideally limit the psychological distress associated with
      the occurrence of suicidal thoughts, and improve one's ability to adaptively cope with
      suicidal thoughts rather than seeking to avoid, control, or suppress such thoughts. Indeed,
      preliminary evidence suggests treatment modalities that incorporate this approach (i.e.,
      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy [ACT]) reduce suicidal ideation. Unfortunately, as with
      most traditional psychotherapies, this evidence stems from studies that required participants
      to attend numerous in-person sessions with a trained psychotherapist. Outside of treatment
      studies, the time and costs associated with this treatment would likely serve as a barrier to
      individuals with suicidal ideation, who represent a segment of the population that critically
      underutilize these types of mental health services. In order to increase suicide prevention
      efforts, it would be beneficial to develop ACT-based interventions that are more scalable and
      thus have the potential to address the needs of a greater number of individuals with suicidal
      ideation.

      The current study therefore aims to develop and test a brief, web-based intervention
      primarily focused on reducing experiential avoidance of suicidal ideation among individuals
      with current SI (N = 106). The study will consist of one baseline appointment (in person),
      and two follow-up appointments one week (phone/online) and one month (phone/online) following
      their baseline appointment. At the baseline appointment, participants will complete measures
      of suicidal ideation severity and experiential avoidance. They will then be randomized to
      complete either the computerized experiential avoidance intervention or a healthy living
      control video safety planning with a clinician. Per best practices for maintaining
      participant safety, following intervention condition, all participants will receive the
      Safety Planning Intervention. One week after the baseline appointment, participants will
      complete a suicide risk assessment over the telephone, during which time they will also
      complete self-report measures of experiential avoidance and suicidal ideation severity. These
      same procedures will be conducted again one month after baseline.

      It is hypothesized that, compared to healthy living controls, individuals who receive the
      experiential avoidance intervention will report: 1) less experiential avoidance at one week
      follow-up, and 2) less severe suicidal ideation at one-month follow-up.
    
  