
    
      Part I: An exploratory study of educational content of the seminar: a qualitative study
      (started october 2011)

      Part II (RCT)

      The intervention:

      The introduction seminar will be held over one half day, 4 hours. Up to 15 patients can
      participate in each seminar. The content was developed based on study 1. The presentation
      about available treatment options and patient's rights are made by multi professional health
      personnel and user representatives. More specifically, this will be done under the following
      topics:

        1. What is mental health?

        2. Treatment options: orientation about individual and group based treatment modalities.

        3. Former patients experience with their own treatment, self-help and participation.

        4. How to influence and participate actively in the treatment and patient rights.

        5. What can I do while I wait for treatment and where can I otherwise do to avoid
           aggravation?.

      At the end of the day, the patients will be divided into small groups mentored by health
      personnel where they can discuss the presentations and ask questions. In the breaks,
      literature and other kinds of information for patients will be on display. All participants
      will get a folder with details of the program and leaflets from patient organisations and
      governmental agencies.

      Sample size Selected Treatment: The number of patients is calculated based on a significance
      level of 5% and a power of 93%. The numbers needed in each group becomes 25 (calculated using
      IR), and the aim is to include a total of 52 patients in the RCT. It is controlled that it is
      feasible to recruit this number of patients.

      PAM: Number of patients is calculated based on a significance level of 5% and a power of 87%.
      The standard deviation is estimated to be 13.8 and 9.7 (Pilot RCT data). The numbers needed
      in each group becomes 25 (calculated using SamplePower v2.0, SPSS Inc), and the aim is to
      include a total of 52 patients. It is controlled that it is feasible to recruit this number
      of patients.

      Part III Qualitative and quantitative analysis:

      To obtain information about the patients experience after the intervention, a post-seminar
      qualitative evaluation will be conducted:

      15 randomly selected patients will additionally participate in the seminar, and they will be
      take part in Part III and in the quantitative part of the study.
    
  