
    
      Evidence from Low and Middle Income Countries has demonstrated the effectiveness of various
      psychosocial approaches for depression. However, there are no mental health specialists to
      deliver these interventions especially in rural African settings. This study aims at testing
      the effectiveness of mental health Global Action Programme (mhGAP-IG) psychosocial
      interventions among Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) for pregnant mothers seeking the
      services of TBAs and suffering from maternal depression.

      A cluster randomized controlled trial with two sub-counties in Makueni County (rural Kenya)
      as the clusters, randomized into either intervention or control arms will be used. TBAs in
      the intervention arm will receive training on mhGAP-IG while those in the control arm will
      only be requested to refer patients to nearest clinics and continue with their routine care,
      except in circumstances of pregnancy-related complications or severe medical conditions. All
      pregnant mothers will be eligible for inclusion.

      Qualitative measures will be used to explore community and other stakeholder views regarding
      the integration of TBAs into mental health care and promoting dialogue with the formal health
      sector. Various questionnaires will be administered at 0, 3, 6 and 9 months in order to test
      the effectiveness of the intervention at various intervals. Interviews will be conducted at 9
      months for randomly selected mothers receiving the intervention and those in the control arm,
      for purposes of describing and evaluating their experiences regarding use of TBA and health
      care workers' services. The survival and physical wellbeing of the baby will also be measured
      using the labour process, birth and subsequent weight of the baby, completed schedules of
      immunization and developmental milestones until 6 months.

      The outcomes of this intervention will result into depression reduction in the mothers that
      will lead to better care during pregnancy and for their infants, allowing for long-term
      impact on their physical and the psychological wellbeing and that of their children.
    
  