
    
      Introduction Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is among the most common complications of
      preterm birth, and typically becomes manifested soon after birth. The rapid reuptake of fetal
      lung fluids plays an important role in transitional events at birth. Most of this fluid is
      reabsorbed through epithelial alveolar cells by an active sodium transporter. Mechanical
      events play a role in this exchange too. A failure of the rapid reuptake of fetal lung fluids
      after birth, with subsequent liquid retention in the alveolar space, together with the
      deficit of surfactant proteins ensuing from lung immaturity represent the leading mechanisms
      for the development of RDS, which may require different levels of respiratory support,
      ranging from mechanical ventilation to less invasive modalities (nasal cannulas or continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP)).

      An increasingly used method for lung evaluation in the newborn is lung ultrasound, which
      allows to evaluate the alveolar fluid and to differentiate among several pathological
      conditions (transient tachypnea of the newborn, meconium aspiration, respiratory distress
      syndrome, pneumothorax, and pleural effusion) and, in the preterm population, has also been
      proved to predict of the need for respiratory support and for surfactant administration.
      Compared to traditional radiological assessments, this non-invasive technique does not imply
      the use of X-ray; however, it requires specific training, it is operator-dependent and does
      not allow a continuous and trend able evaluation over time, but only serial assessments.

      Transthoracic electrical bioimpedance (TEB) allows continuous, non-invasive and real-time
      monitoring of static and dynamic thoracic fluids. It has been recently introduced in neonatal
      clinical practice to monitor such hemodynamic parameters as cardiac output, providing useful
      clinical information in hospitalized preterm infants, or neonates undergoing hemodynamic
      procedures. This technique allows quantifying static thoracic fluid contents (TFC) in a
      non-invasive and continuous manner. Compared to ultrasound, this method provides continuous
      and non-operator dependent data on the lung fluid status over time and does not require
      specific training for its use and interpretation.

      Current literature reported a significant correlation between TFC values and respiratory
      distress, but, to date, it has not been investigated whether this parameter may predict RDS
      evolution, or if it is influenced by specific neonatal characteristics associated with
      pulmonary overflow, such as the presence of a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), which is a
      common finding over the transitional period, defined as the first 72 hours of life.

      Combining lung ultrasound to transthoracic electrical bioimpedance could open to new
      diagnostic and prognostic perspectives in preterm infants with RDS during the first days of
      life.

      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the correlation between TFC, measured by transthoracic electrical
           bioimpedance (TEB), and a pulmonary ultrasound score, used for the evaluation of lung
           fluids in preterm infants with RDS in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.

        2. To assess whether the combination of TFC with a pulmonary ultrasound score can be
           predictive of RDS evolution over the next 24 hours (need for surfactant, need for
           mechanical ventilation vs. suspension of ventilatory support).

        3. Evaluation of pulmonary ultrasound score, TFC levels and left cardiac output in relation
           to the status of the ductus arteriosus (hemodynamically significant, restrictive or
           closed).

      Methods:

      Infants born at S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital and Niguarda Hospital and admitted to the local
      Neonatal Intensive Care Units are consecutively enrolled in this observational prospective
      study if fulfilling the following eligibility criteria: gestational age ≤34 weeks' gestation,
      diagnosis of respiratory distress (defined by the need for respiratory support with nasal
      cannulas, nasal CPAP or mechanical ventilation), 0-24 hours of life, written informed consent
      obtained from parents/legal guardians of each infant.

      The following conditions are considered as exclusion criteria: main congenital malformation,
      including congenital heart disease, meconium aspiration, pneumothorax, perinatal
      asphyxia/hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, concomitant use of experimental dugs.

      Enrolled infants undergo serial lung and cardiac ultrasound evaluations at 0-24 (V1), at
      24-48 (V2) and at 48-72 (V3)hours of life. A simultaneous evaluation of hemodynamic
      parameters and TFC by means of TEB is also performed.

      Lung ultrasound findings are classified according to a validated pulmonary ultrasound score
      that takes into account six pulmonary fields (right upper anterior, right lower anterior,
      right lateral, left upper anterior, left lower anterior, left lateral). For each field a
      number is assigned:

        -  0: only A lines or <3 B lines

        -  1: ≥3 B lines

        -  2: crowded and confluent B lines with or without consolidations

        -  3: important consolidation If at 72 hours of life a hemodynamically relevant patent
           ductus arteriosus is still evident at cardiac ultrasound, the ultrasound and TEB
           monitoring are carried on until PDA closure.

      Outcome: need for surfactant administration (and number of surfactant administrations),
      inhaled oxygen fraction, need for diuretic therapy, duration of ventilatory support with
      nasal canula/nasal CPAP/mechanical ventilation, duration of oxygen therapy, bronchopulmonary
      dysplasia at 36 weeks, duration of hospitalization and time for reach total enteral
      nutrition.

      Statistic analysis: SPSS will be used for the statistical analysis. The diagnostic accuracy
      of TFC and of the ultrasound score for predicting the need for ventilatory support and for
      surfactant administration will be evaluated by area under ROC curve in order to find the
      optimal cut off value. The cardiac output values will be analyzed in relation to the state of
      the ductus arteriosus with Kruskal-Wallis test and included in a multivariate model in order
      to rule out the influence of confounding factors (for example the modality of ventilatory
      support). Significance level is set at p<0,05.
    
  