
    
      TextToMove (TTM) was a dynamic text messaging program which the investigators developed in
      2012 with the goals of increasing physical activity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
      (T2DM), improving self-management of the disease, and lowering HbA1c levels. TTM has since
      been evaluated in a PHRC-approved randomized controlled trial. In our current proposed study,
      the investigators plan to convert TTM into a mobile application for smartphone use, with
      increased and improved functionality and with the potential for easy translation to
      additional use cases. The investigators used feedback gathered from users and observations
      from the previous trial to shape the development plan for this second iteration, aptly named
      "FeatForward." The FeatForward app will be hyper-personalized to users and to respond
      specifically to individual users' behavior patterns so that the application feels like an
      intelligent health coach partnering with users to achieve better health outcomes. What
      defines FeatForward from TTM are additional features, including the incorporation of machine
      learning components for the messaging algorithm, tailoring of message frequency based on
      users' activity levels, integration of patient data into the electronic medical records
      through the Remote Monitoring Data Repository, inputs to improve the generalizability of
      feedback regarding health metrics (e.g., weight, blood glucose), as well as a community
      feature to enable interactions with other similar patients and a comprehensive educational
      library.

      FeatForward's primary goal is to help users increase their level of physical activity.
      Physical inactivity has been identified as one of the leading risk factors contributing to
      the rising rates of chronic diseases. And despite being the most common cardio-metabolic risk
      (CMR) factor, it also happens to be the easiest to target. Current estimates suggest that
      over half (52%) of adults in the United States do not meet the recommended physical activity
      levels. A number of studies to date have demonstrated the dose-response protective effect of
      increasing physical activity on the development of diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
      Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that FeatForward will help users to increase their
      physical activity levels and also lead to improvements in cardio-metabolic risk factors
      compared to usual care controls that will not use the intervention.
    
  