
    
      Stage 1

      After a patient declares their consent, a doctor or another member of the study team trained
      by the sponsor will perform procedures in the following order:

        -  Define the unique patient ID to be recorded in the CRF with the patient's demographic
           data

        -  Assess the quality of CCTA imaging data according to guidelines agreed upon with the
           sponsor and record the number and location of the significant (≥50%) stenosis sites in
           the CRF based on CCTA

        -  No later than one hour before ICA starts, perform a physical examination consisting in
           instantaneous peripheral blood pressure (systolic and diastolic) resting measurement
           performed with a standard sphygmomanometer and Continuous Non-Invasive Blood Pressure
           measurement (1-3 min).

      Stage 2

      After the procedures mentioned above are performed, the patient will undergo elective ICA
      with the outcomes, i.e.:

        -  video material showing the location of the wire during the FFR measurement,

        -  digital pressure signals exported from the FFR measuring device used to determine the
           value of the invasive FFR,

        -  values of FFR measurements obtained during ICA will be entered after being anonymised in
           a dedicated HEMOFLOW PMS_2020 reference database.

      Stage 3

      Within 48 hours of ICA completion a doctor or another member of the study team trained by the
      sponsor:

        -  will enter the following data in the iSIL-FFR system:

             1. Patient's data, i.e. patient's ID, gender, height, body mass, exercise
                tolerability, information on used medications and smoking cigarettes. Optionally,
                i.e. if upon admission for ICA a blood test was performed as a part of the standard
                diagnostic workup - haematocrit levels and total protein concentration

             2. Files containing CCTA imaging data in the DICOM format.

             3. Values of instantaneous peripheral blood pressure (systolic and diastolic) resting
                measurement performed with a standard sphygmomanometer as well as the digital
                signal obtained during the CNBP measurement (1-3 min)

        -  Based on the CCTA description or meta data contained in the imaging data the doctor or
           another member of the study team will record the following information in the CRF:

             1. Radiation dose during CCTA

             2. Contrast medium dose during CCTA

        -  Will enter the following information in the CRF:

             1. Radiation dose during the diagnostic part of ICA

             2. Contrast medium dose during the diagnostic part of ICA

             3. Number and type of adverse events

             4. Duration of the diagnostic workup.

      Stage 4

      Within 48 hours of entering all the stage 3 data the investigator (a cardiologist) trained by
      the sponsor will measure the value of the virtual FFR with the iSIL-FFR system at locations
      corresponding to ICA FFR measurements (based on video recording entered in the database
      during stage 2)

      Based on results obtained from the iSIL-FFR system vs reference data an analysis will be
      performed on meeting the primary and secondary end points of the trial.
    
  