
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the relapse-free survival (RFS)-benefit from the addition of a maintenance
      olaparib following completion of chemotherapy in patients with resected pancreatic carcinoma
      and a pathogenic germline or somatic mutation in BRCA1, BRCA2 or PALB2.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate RFS in patients with olaparib after perioperative chemotherapy compared to
      those treated with perioperative therapy alone among patients who received prior
      platinum-based perioperative chemotherapy.

      II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in patients treated with olaparib after adjuvant
      chemotherapy compared to those treated with adjuvant treatment alone.

      III. To analyze the efficacy of olaparib after chemotherapy in patients with a pathogenic
      germline BRCA or PALB2 mutation compared to those with a somatic mutation.

      IV. To analyze survival differences between patients who received neoadjuvant or
      perioperative chemotherapy compared to those who received adjuvant therapy alone.

      V. To analyze RFS and OS differences in those who received =< 3 months of perioperative
      platinum chemotherapy compared to those who received > 3 months of perioperative platinum
      chemotherapy.

      VI. To analyze RFS and OS differences in those who received any platinum-based perioperative
      chemotherapy compared to no-platinum based perioperative chemotherapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze RFS and OS differences in patients who had R1 versus (vs) R0 resections, lymph
      node positivity at resection, and/or elevated or rising CA 19-9 or CEA at time of study
      enrollment in the post-operative setting.

      II. To analyze RFS and OS differences with those who had resectable disease at diagnosis
      compared to those who did not.

      III. To analyze RFS and OS differences in those with gBRCA1 mutations compared to those with
      gBRCA2 mutations and gPALB2 mutations.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 4 months for
      year 1, then every 6 months for years 2-10.
    
  