
    
      This randomized clinical trial research experimental design was performed with pediatric burn
      patients on May 2018-May 2019. Routine treatment of any child was not interfered with during
      the data collection phase of the study.

      Sample

      The minimum sample size in each intervention and control group was considered 36 using G
      power formula with a = 0.05, power of 80%, 95% confidence interval (Gpower 3.1.9.2.,
      Germany). Allocation to the groups was performed using the Stratified Randomization. The
      absence of differences in age, vital signs and pain levels between groups prior to the
      intervention was achieved using Stratified Randomization method.

      Intervention Protocols

      In the clinic where the study was conducted, all children are routinely given hydrotherapy
      treatment for the examination of the burn area as of 10 am every morning and then dressings
      are applied.

      Besides routine care, the Control Group was treated with jojoba oil (Simmondsia Chinensis-
      produced by Arifoğlu, obtained from jojoba fruits by cold squeezing method) inhalation
      aromatherapy 15 minutes before Hydrotherapy. Jojoba oil was used as a placebo because it had
      no specific odour. Besides routine care, Intervention-15 Group received lavender oil
      (Lavandula angustifolia Miller Oleum-produced by Arifoğlu, obtained from lavender flowers by
      water vapour distillation method) inhalation aromatherapy 15 minutes before Hydrotherapy and
      besides routine care, Intervention-60 Group received lavender oil inhalation aromatherapy 60
      minutes before Hydrotherapy. 0.5 ml (8.44 minim-imperial) of aromatherapy oil, which had been
      dripped into 7.5x7.5 cm gauze 15 or 60 minutes before the start of Hydrotherapy, was placed
      20 cm (7.87 inches) away from the child's nose by the clinical nurse. To conceal the
      allocation, the group in which the child belongs is only known to the clinical nurse who has
      placed the aromatherapy oil-soaked gauze in the child's room and this clinical nurse did not
      carry out any assessment of the child's outcomes.

      Data Collection

      Before randomization, the characteristics of all participants were collected using the
      Turkish version of the FLACC Pain Scale, Demographic Data Collection Form, and the Vital
      Signs Follow-up Form which were developed by the researchers.

      By the clinical nurse 0.5 ccs of aromatherapy oil, which had dripped into the gauze, was
      placed 20 cm away from the child's nose. The child who inhaled the oil was then taken to
      hydrotherapy and then dressing. The pain and vital signs of the child were evaluated and
      recorded 1 minute and 30 minutes after the child returned to bed by a researcher who was
      blind to the study groups.
    
  