
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To optimize the dose of veliparib combined with fixed doses of gemcitabine hydrochloride
      (gemcitabine) and cisplatin in a (non-randomized, lead-in portion of Part I).

      II. To evaluate the response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]
      criteria) of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and veliparib (Arm A) and gemcitabine, cisplatin (Arm B)
      in BRCA and PALB2 mutation carriers with advanced pancreas adenocarcinoma. (Part I) III. To
      evaluate the response rate (RECIST criteria) of single-agent veliparib (Arm C) in BRCA and
      PALB2 carriers with previously treated pancreas adenocarcinoma. (Part II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the progression-free survival of patients in study Arm A and Arm B. (Part I)
      II. To describe the safety and tolerability of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and veliparib and
      gemcitabine and cisplatin in BRCA and PALB2 carriers with advanced pancreas adenocarcinoma.
      (Part I) III. To determine the disease control rate (complete response [CR] + partial
      response [PR] + stable disease [SD]) and duration of response in study Arm A and Arm B. (Part
      I) IV. To evaluate overall survival in study Arm A and Arm B. (Part I) V. To evaluate
      progression-free survival for single-agent veliparib in BRCA and PALB2 mutation carriers with
      previously treated pancreas adenocarcinoma (Arm C). (Part II) VI. To describe the safety and
      tolerability of single-agent veliparib in BRCA and PALB2 mutation carriers with previously
      treated pancreas adenocarcinoma. (Part II) VII. To determine the disease control rate (CR +
      PR + SD) and duration of response in Arm C. (Part II) VIII. To evaluate overall survival in
      Arm C. (Part II)

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the genotype of BRCA1, BRCA2 and PALB2-mutated pancreas adenocarcinoma.

      II. To assess pre and post therapy biopsies for novel or persistent genetic alterations in
      genes identified in aim I.

      III. To quantify levels of PAR in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and tumor
      tissues at sequential time points before and following therapy with veliparib.

      IV. To quantify levels of gammaH2AX and RAD51 foci in PBMCs and tumor tissue (where
      available) at sequential time points to assess for formation of double-stranded
      deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) breaks, stalled/collapsed replication forks and evaluate
      homologous recombination competence.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate the results of genotyping with gene expression to provide functional
      information on mutations identified.

      II. An exploratory assessment of differential expression of genes involved in DNA repair
      pathways pre and post treatment to identify candidate genes predictive of response or
      resistance to therapy for further study in preclinical models of disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a randomized, open-label
      study.

      Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-12 or 1-21. Patients also
      receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and cisplatin IV over 30
      minutes on days 3 and 10. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED AS OF 12/13/13)

      PART I: Once the maximum-tolerated dose of veliparib has been established, patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A (no prior therapy or >= 6 months since adjuvant therapy): Patients receive veliparib PO
      BID on days 1-12 and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes and cisplatin IV over 30
      minutes on days 3 and 10. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (no prior therapy or >= 6 months since adjuvant therapy): Patients receive gemcitabine
      hydrochloride IV and cisplatin IV as patients in arm A. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PART II: Patients who are eligible receive treatment in Arm C.

      ARM C (prior therapy): Patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  