
    
      All potential participants for this study will be identified by an Orthopaedic Shoulder
      Consultant in the shoulder clinics run at the Royal Devon and Exeter NHS trust. The patients
      will be screened for eligibility by a research associate (SG). The eligibility criteria will
      be that the patient is medically fit for an operation, and has severe primary frozen shoulder
      in the acute painful stage, that is deemed suitable for intervention by the consultant
      surgeon. The patients will be informed verbally and in writing about the trial by the
      research associate and informed consent will be taken.

      The participating patients will be randomised in a 1:1 allocation to arthroscopic capsular
      release (ACR) or hydrodilatation (HD). The randomisation will be administered by a central
      independent randomisation service, provided by a medical secretary using a computer generated
      randomisation sequence, who is completely independent of the trial.

      All patients will be asked to fill out a number of questionnaires prior to surgery: the
      Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS) and the EQ-5D. The range of movement within the shoulder joint
      will be documented in a standard fashion.

      Each patient will then undergo the assigned procedure according to the randomisation. The ACR
      would be performed by one of the Consultant Shoulder surgeons in their standard manner. The
      Hydro-dilatation would be performed by one of the Consultant Musculoskeletal radiologists in
      their standard manner. This would ensure that the options at each step of the operation or
      procedure, such as patient positioning, approach to the shoulder joint, and the closure of
      the wound etc are left entirely to the discretion of the Consultant performing the procedure.
      This will ensure that the results of the trial can be generalised to as wide a group of
      patients and surgeons as possible.

      After the operation, patients will be reviewed using the range of movement, OSS, a patient
      satisfaction score and EQ-5D at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months post-operatively. A record
      will be kept of any complications associated with the treatment. This data will be collected
      with by the research associate, who is independent of either intervention.

      The main analysis will investigate differences in the primary outcome measure the OSS,
      between the two treatment groups (ACR and HD) on an intention-to-treat basis, at 6 months
      post-operation. Secondary outcome measures will be analysed in a similar manner. Statistical
      analysis will be undertaken by a statistician blinded to the interventions. Advice will be
      sought from an independent statistician provided by the trust to confirm the statistical
      methodology.

      The economic evaluation will investigate the comparative cost-effectiveness of ACR versus HD.
      Health outcomes within 6 months follow-up will be assessed using the EuroQoL data collected
      within the trial, which will be valued using the standard UK TTO tariff to produce
      Quality-Adjusted Life-Year (QALY) estimates.
    
  