
    
      Acute tinnitus is the phenomenon of ringing or buzzing in the ears without an external sound
      source that is persisting for a maximum of three month. Several pharmacological treatment
      options for acute tinnitus have been established. Nonetheless, after initial medical
      intervention, tinnitus symptoms are often persisting and leading to substantial distress.

      The objective of the present study is to examine the efficacy of the "Heidelberg Model of
      Music Therapy" for patients with recent onset tinnitus whose tinnitus symptoms are enduring
      after pharmacological treatment. The "Heidelberg Model of Music Therapy" is a manualized
      short term music therapeutic intervention lasting for 9 consecutive 50-minutes sessions of
      individualized therapy. It strives for an integration of strategies to manage the
      psychological state and possibly restore the underlying neurophysiological reorganisation. At
      the basis of this music therapy concept is the notion that tinnitus is experienced as an
      auditory percept - just as musical stimuli are experienced as auditory percepts. An
      outstanding feature of this treatment approach is the way in which patients actively
      influence their symptoms. This leads to an improved self-efficacy and a more differentiated
      picture of their symptomatology.

      For patients with chronic subjective tinnitus the "Heidelberg Model of Music Therapy" has
      proven to be an efficient means to reduce tinnitus distress and loudness. Prior studies
      indicate that these positive results are due to the beneficial influence of the music therapy
      on the neuronal structures underlying tinnitus pathology.

      In the present study the effects of the music therapeutic intervention on tinnitus severity
      and tinnitus distress for patients with acute tinnitus are evaluated on the basis of a
      battery of psychological tests as well as psycho-physiological measurements. A task-based
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm is used to investigate alterations in
      neuronal networks supposed to be involved in tinnitus perception and chronification.
    
  