
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine safety and feasibility of ipilimumab-nivolumab (Bristol-Meyers-Squibb,
      Opdivo), a cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA4) and programmed death 1 (PD-1)
      inhibitor in the treatment of local-regionally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the clinical outcomes of treatment with ipilimumab-nivolumab concurrent with
      radiation therapy in patients with local-regionally advanced NSCLC.

      II. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. III. To identify potential predictive and
      prognostic biomarkers for early recurrence using circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) (cfDNA).

      IV. To identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers for early recurrence using
      tumor tissue PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      V. To identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers for early recurrence using
      tumor tissue tumor mutational burden (TMB).

      VI. To identify potential resistance mechanisms using immune biomarker and genetic analysis
      in post-progression biopsies.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Tumor tissue/blood biomarkers will be assessed for tumor mutation burden (TMB) and PD-L1
      immunohistochemistry.

      II. Patient microbiomes will be evaluated with stool specimen collection kits.

      OUTLINE:

      CONCURRENT THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1
      and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with nivolumab repeats every 21 days
      for up to 8 cycles, and treatment with ipilimumab repeats every 42 days for up to 4 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 1 day of starting
      nivolumab and ipilimumab, patients also undergo radiation therapy 5 days a week
      (Monday-Friday) over 6-7 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  