
    
      Music therapy has been applied in a variety of clinical settings to reduce stress, provide a
      distraction for patients from unpleasant procedures or symptoms, and improve the overall
      atmosphere and general comfort of patients.

      In a preliminary study, investigators have found that subjects experience symptoms of anxiety
      and stress. It is the investigators hope that providing music as an intervention will alter
      subjects' recollections of their time in the ICU and creates a more positive ICU experience.

      The investigator aims to provide the music intervention, receive full questionnaire
      completion and recall of subjects' experiences from a total of 40 subjects. Some subjects,
      however, will not have recall of either the ICU or mechanical ventilation and, therefore, it
      is predicted that it will require enrolling approximately 75 subjects to reach this goal.

      The music intervention will begin after surrogate consent is obtained. Each day while
      mechanically ventilated, the subject will receive a morning and an afternoon music session
      lasting one hour. If available, single subject use, disposable headphones may be utilized, or
      music may be played directly through the computer speakers. Music sessions will occur each
      day while the subject is mechanically ventilated or up to seven consecutive days. During each
      music session, study staff will complete a clinical assessment(consisting of vital signs,
      ventilation data and medications) at three time points during each music session. It is
      anticipated that some subjects may only have 1 music session per day, or have to skip a day
      due to clinical condition. If a subject is only able to have one music session on a specific
      day or a day is missed, a subject will not be considered withdrawn from the study or
      ineligible for further participation. This will be recorded on the source documents, and the
      total number of music sessions will be analyzed during analysis. In addition, study staff
      will not preclude additional music sessions if requested by surrogates. This will also be
      documented in the source documents by study staff.

      Subjects that receive any music sessions during mechanical ventilation will be approached
      after their discharge from the ICU and before discharge from the hospital. At this point in
      the study, subjects will be asked to sign the consent form themselves, indicating that they
      agree to continue with the study and complete the questionnaires. The Mini Mental Status Exam
      will be done to assess capacity to complete the ICU Stressful Experiences Questionnaire. A
      score of 25 or higher will be used as a marker to determine if a subject will be administered
      the questionnaire as was done in the prior study. If potential candidates are deemed to have
      capacity they will be administered the 32-item, previously validated, ICU Stressful
      Experiences Questionnaire with the addition of a few questions specific to their recall and
      experience with the music while critically ill. If a subject receives music sessions, but is
      not able to provide consent for the questionnaires (due to clinical limitations or hospital
      discharge) they will not be excluded from the study. A limited data set will be utilized for
      these subjects.

      After the questionnaire has been administered, medical record data will be abstracted from
      the chart.
    
  