
    
      The present study is a longitudinal, randomized clinical trial with a composite sample of
      physically active individuals, 10 male volunteers and 10 female volunteers, with no history
      of lower limb injuries and pain complaints at the time collection. The collection will
      started after the signing of the free and informed consent form. The study was approved by
      the Research Ethics Committee of the State University of Londrina (UEL), Londrina, Paraná
      (Resolution 466/2012).

      The sample size was calculated using the Power and Sample Size software, with a 95%
      confidence interval, 5% alpha force and 90%, considering the raw data (mean ± SD) of the
      surface temperature in the study, "The Magnitude of Tissue Cooling During Cryotherapy With
      Varied Types of Compression ", where it presented 11.02 and 15.51 as mean, 4.34 of standard
      deviation and p <0.05. sample was composed of 20 individuals per group.

      Initially, a pre-intervention evaluation will performed, where the superficial skin
      temperature of the ankle region will collected from the participants with a professional Flir
      C2® thermal camera and two functional tests will be performed: Y test and Side Hop Test (SHT)
      . After the baseline assessment the participants performed will walk at a constant and
      comfortable pace.

      Immediately after walking, subjects will referred to one of three cryotherapy techniques to
      be tested: Game Ready® cryotherapy (CGR), ice pack cryotherapy (PG) or cold water ankle
      immersion (IAF).

      For the CGR group, maximum dynamic intermittent compression will used, programmed to maintain
      a temperature at 1 ° C. In the PG group, the ankle joint will surrounded by three plastic
      bags containing crushed ice. The IAF group will remain with the ankle joint submerged in cold
      water at approximately 10 ° C, being controlled by the thermal camera. All treatments were
      performed for 20 minutes.

      The same temperature assessment will performed immediately after 10 minutes, 20 minutes, 30
      minutes and 60 minutes after cryotherapy, while the functional tests were re-evaluated
      immediately, 10, 20 and 30 minutes. The participants will attend for data collection on three
      distinct days, randomizing one of three interventions each day.

      For the performance of the functional tests, the order of onset will randomized. The SHT will
      analyze the agility of the participant, submitting it in unipodal support with the dominant
      lower limb without shoes, performing 10 distal mid-lateral jumps about thirty centimeters, as
      fast as possible, being performed three times. The balance will analyzed through the Y test,
      with the barefoot participant positioned the dominant foot, at the intersection between all
      diagonals, so that the malleolar line would be in the center of them, and with the other foot
      the participants pushed a small, light box as far as he can without removing his support
      foot. Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS software version 2.2, and the level
      of significance was set at 5%. It will used and test and Shapiro Wilk to test the normality
      of the data. From this, the ANOVA test will be used to compare study groups and moments
      studied.
    
  