
    
      Excess cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality among Black Americans with CKD is a significant
      US public health disparity. Compared to their White counterparts, Blacks develop CKD earlier
      in life and Blacks with CKD are 3 times more likely to progress to kidney failure
      necessitating dialysis or kidney transplantation, and are 1.5 times more likely to die
      prematurely from CVD. Hypertension, which is also more prevalent, more severe, and less often
      controlled in Blacks with CKD compared to Whites, is a leading cause of CKD and CVD, and a
      major contributor to the racial disparity in CVD mortality. Thus, improving hypertension in
      Blacks with CKD could have a profound positive impact on an important minority health issue.

      The DASH diet lowers BP and reduces CVD risk in patients with hypertension and has a greater
      effect on BP in Blacks compared to Whites. However, the effect of the DASH diet on BP in
      Blacks with CKD has not been established. First, investigators will conduct a qualitative
      study to identify self-perceived barriers and facilitators of DASH diet adherence among
      Blacks with moderate CKD. Then, investigators will conduct feasibility, acceptability, and
      preliminary efficacy testing of a disease-sensitive, culturally-appropriate diet counseling
      intervention on DASH adherence and blood pressure in Blacks with CKD.

      Prior to the clinical trial portion of this project Qualitative Focus Groups were held to
      identify self-perceived barriers and facilitators of DASH diet adherence among African
      Americans with CKD. Three to 4 groups of 6-8 participants were asked semi-structured
      questions to determine self-perceived sociocultural barriers and facilitators of DASH diet
      adherence and disease-specific factors that may influence their ability and willingness to
      follow a DASH-style diet. The information in the rest of this record pertains to the clinical
      trial portion of the project.
    
  