
    
      Obesity is a major cause of morbidity and mortality within the VA medical system accounting
      for the majority of cases of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, coronary artery disease and
      cerebrovascular accidents. An improved understanding of the regulation of body weight in
      Veteran obese patients will improve the quality of life by avoidance of serious medical
      complications and by suggesting novel therapeutic approaches.

      The large proportion of the Veteran population that frequent the VA health care system and
      who suffer from obesity or have obesity-related illnesses can benefit from this research.

      Obesity is associated with early mortality in the United States. It has been estimated to
      result in about 280,000 deaths per year in U.S. adults and the expenses related to obesity
      are in excess of $80 billion. Obesity is a major cause of morbidity and mortality within the
      VA medical system accounting for the majority of cases of diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
      coronary artery disease and cerebrovascular accidents.

      The proposed studies will address important physiological questions regarding the mechanisms
      of gut peptides regulating satiety and food intake, as well as provide potentially important
      clinical treatment strategies. The release of GI hormones in response to meal stimuli plays
      an important role in the regulation of body weight homeostasis. The neural pathways
      interconnecting gut signaling of satiety to the brain in response to nutrient intake are
      regulated by neuropeptides and GI hormones.

      The investigators have a long history in the study of GI hormones. In the current
      application, the investigators plan to elucidate the impact of a high protein diet on the
      profile of gut hormones released postprandially in obese subjects and the underlying changes
      at the neuronal (vagal afferent) level that take place in response to a high protein diet in
      a relevant experimental model.

      Understanding the regulatory mechanisms involved in satiety will provide clues for existing
      and novel forms of therapies. Studies may also provide insight into underlying mechanisms
      responsible for weight loss induced by gastroplasty and bariatric procedure used for the
      treatment of obesity.

      The study design is a three-group randomized, controlled study. This randomized controlled
      study lasting 24-30 months will assign approximately 198 volunteer subjects (ages 30, BMI
      27-40 kg/m2) (66 subjects each) to the following three groups who will adhere to diets with
      the same number of calories:

        1. Very high protein diet group based on 1.4 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass,

        2. High protein diet group based on 1 gram of protein per pound of lean body mass, and

        3. Standard protein diet group as control based on 0.5 gram protein per pound of lean body
           mass with same calories.

      All participants will meet with a Registered Dietitian (who it is anticipated will join the
      research study team), to assist them with their diet efforts in all the arms.

      In the study, the percent energy from fat will be held constant at 30% and the differences in
      the diets relate only to the protein and carbohydrate contents (35% protein and 35%
      carbohydrate, 25% protein and 45% carbohydrate, and 12.5% protein and 57.5% carbohydrate
      respectively).

      We will assess the efficacy of a high protein diet on satiety and pattern of postprandial gut
      hormone in obese patients. All the subjects will be followed by a dietitian and determination
      of circulating gut hormone and biochemical assays will be performed.
    
  