
    
      Conventionally, gait retraining is necessarily implemented in a laboratory environment
      because evaluation of biomechanical markers, such as KAM, requires sophisticated motion
      capturing system and force plates. With advancement of wearable sensor technology, it is
      possible to measure gait biomechanics and provide real time biofeedback for gait retraining
      using inertial measurement unit (IMU), which is a lightweight and portable wireless device.
      In an ongoing government funded project, the investigators have developed IMU embedded
      footwear that measures KAM during level ground walking. The investigators have compared Least
      Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression and Random Forest in the
      prediction of KAM from IMU recordings. The investigators found that Random Forest could
      provide much higher KAM prediction accuracy than LASSO regression. The agreement between
      conventional laboratory-based and sensor-based measurement of KAM was approximately 90%.
      Based on investigators' previous research work, it is meaningful to extend the newly
      developed technology for KAM measurement during stair ascent and descent without the use of
      laboratory equipment. With the wearable sensors connected to the smartphones, gait retraining
      outside laboratory environment will become feasible but the effects of gait retraining using
      wearable sensors have not been directly verified.

      Given these considerations, this project has two primary aims. The investigators will: (1)
      first establish a machine-learning algorithm to predict KAM using IMU sensors during stair
      ascent and descent; and then (2) conduct a three-arm randomized controlled trial to compare
      the biomechanical and clinical difference between patients receiving a course of conventional
      laboratory-based stair retraining, sensor-based stair retraining, and walking exercise
      control (i.e., walking exercise without gait retraining).

      Primary hypothesis

      Hypothesis 1: The wearable IMUs will accurately predict KAM during stair negotiation using
      machine-learning algorithm, with at least 80% measurement agreement with conventional
      calculation of KAM.

      Hypothesis 2: Patients randomized to the laboratory-based and sensor-based stair retraining
      conditions would evidence similar (i.e., weak and non-significant differences) reduction in
      KAM (primary outcome) and an improvement of symptoms (secondary outcomes), but that these
      subjects would evidence larger reductions in KAM than subjects assigned to the walking
      exercise control condition.
    
  