
    
      Glaucoma is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive dying of retinal
      ganglion cells, axonal loss and damage to the optic nerve. This leads to a gradual loss of
      the visual field, and in the final stage to blindness. High intraocular pressure is
      considered to be the main risk factor for glaucomatous neuropathy. In the treatment we use
      pharmacological therapies and surgical treatment. The trabeculectomy has been the golden
      standard for the treatment of glaucoma for many years. This procedure consisting in the
      creation of a filtering bleb, which allows drainage of aqueous humor from within the eye to
      underneath the conjunctiva where it is absorbed. in addition to the surgery,
      anti-proliferative substances play a significant role in suppressing the physiological
      healing process. Bleb insufficiency observed in the postoperative period results to a large
      extent from progressive scarring of the follicle, which is responsible for excessive
      fibroblast proliferation and subconjunctival fibrosis.

      Mitomycin is an antineoplastic antibiotic produced by Streptomyces caespitosus. It is one of
      the bi- or tri-functional alkylating agents causing cross-linking of DNA and inhibition of
      DNA synthesis. Its properties cause that mitomycin is now a popular medicine used to support
      trabeculectomy, with proven effectiveness of inhibiting the unwanted healing process of the
      fistula, and thus extend its period of its proper functioning.

      Aflibercept is an inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Its properties
      cause inhibition of the pathological process of formation of new vessels and their excessive
      permeability, as well as reduction of leukocyte infiltration and inflammation.

      The aim of the research:

      Comparison of the effectiveness of primary trabeculectomy in patients with open angle
      glaucoma supported with Eylea (Aflibercept) compared to the group of patients treated with
      mitomycin.

      Materials and methods:

      The research conducted at the Department of Glaucoma Diagnostics and Microsurgery in Medical
      University of Lublin will include patients treated with antiproliferative substances and
      trabeculectomy. Two groups of patients will participate in the study:

      Group I - patients qualified for mitomycin trabeculectomy Group II - patients qualified for
      Eylea assisted trabeculectomy (Aflibercept) Mitomycin will be administered in the first group
      of patients during an operation at a dose of 0.3mg / ml for 3 minutes on a soaked sponge.
      Aflibercept will be applied intraoperatively in a dose of of 0.05 ml (40 mg / ml)
      subconjunctival and one week after surgery in the same dose.

      Criteria for inclusion:

        1. Open angle glaucoma or capsular glaucoma.

        2. Patient's age> 40 years

        3. Local treatment ineffective due to:

             1. intraocular pressure more than 21mmHg with maximum pharmacological therapy (using
                B-blocker + carbonic anhydrase + prostaglandins) or

             2. intolerance to topical treatment or

             3. progression in the visual field examination (assessed on the basis of MD, PSD).

        4. Lack of previous ophthalmological surgical interventions.

        5. No previous laser gonioplasty.

        6. No previous laser trabeculoplasty or laser trabeculoplasty performed for more than a
           year.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Patient with angle-closure glaucoma or secondary glaucoma (except for glaucoma in the
           course of pseudoexfoliation syndrome).

        2. One-eye patient.

        3. A patient with pseudophakia or aphakia.

        4. Patient after previous ophthalmic procedures (phacoemulsification with intraocular lens
           implantation, traditional pars plana vitrectomy, keratoplasty).

        5. A patient diagnosed or suspected of having uveitis or intraocular inflammation.

        6. Any corneal abnormalities or other conditions that make it impossible to reliably test
           with an applanation tonometer in the treated eye, including earlier refractive surgery
           of the eye

      The efficacy of surgery in both groups will be assessed at subsequent postoperative controls
      based on the following diagnostic tests:

        -  Visual acuity examination;

        -  Intraocular pressure examination;

        -  Evaluation of the filtering bleb in the slit lamp;

        -  A photo of the filtering bleb;

        -  Optical coherence tomography of the filtration bleb;

        -  Visual field;

        -  Study of corneal endothelial cell density.
    
  