
    
      Only few studies have investigated anxiety level, bariatric surgery and nutrition knowledge
      and weight loss expectations prior to bariatric surgery. No studies have been published on
      how preparation lectures prior to bariatric surgery impact on anxiety level and on patients'
      knowledge. A better preparation process prior to the bariatric surgery may have an impact on
      higher success rates of bariatric surgeries.

      Our study is an interventional prospective study on 200 bariatric surgery candidates from the
      Assuta Medical Center (AMC). The first 100 patients will be assigned to the control group and
      the later 100 patients will be assigned to the experimental group. All the participants will
      receive standard care, and only those participants who will assigned to the experimental
      group will be asked to watch a videotaped lecture of 30 minutes 1-2 weeks prior to the
      surgery date. The videotaped lecture will include information and guidelines of bariatric
      surgery preparation. Topics includes: types of surgeries, preparation to the hospitalization
      process and to the surgery (e.g. what to expect, personal equipment needs, description of the
      surgery admission process, etc.), dietary guidelines pre- and post-surgery (e.g. low carb
      diet 2-3 week prior to the surgery, post-surgery diet progression, techniques of eating and
      drinking, recommended dietary supplements), recommendation and tips for long term surgery
      success (e.g. definition of weight loss expectations, physiological, nutritional and
      life-style strategies for long-term weight loss). All participants will complete Bariatric
      surgery knowledge questionnaire and The state-trait anxiety inventory (STAI) questionnaire at
      the bariatric committee and once again at the pre-surgery clinic which take place 1-10 days
      pre-surgery. In addition, 20 participants be recruited to a pilot study for the validation of
      the Bariatric surgery knowledge questionnaire.
    
  