
    
      BACKGROUND: Complications after pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) are common and pancreatic fistula
      (PF) is among the most relevant ones. There are few studies analyzing blood parameters
      determined in the early postoperative period which behave as morbidity predictors. One of
      them defined a new and simple prognostic score based on lymphocytes count on the first
      postoperative day (POD1) and reactive C protein (RCP) on POD2. The internal validation
      statistics of the score designed in the mentioned work were satisfactory. However, that score
      was described in a short unicentric series

      EXPECTED SAMPLE SIZE: Expected sample size is approximately 500 patients, which will show
      error <7.2% (with 95% confidence) for estimation score´s sensitivity and specificity. We have
      assumed that the PF rate is around 30%.

      QUALITY CONTROL: The STrengthening the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology
      (STROBE) guidelines for the correct communication and publication of observational studies
      will be followed. Likewise, in order to validate the aforementioned score, Transparent
      Reporting of a Multivariable Prediction Model for Individual Prognosis or Diagnosis (TRIPOD)
      will be added. The only expected failure of the 20 items that compose the TRIPOD is 6b
      ("notify the actions for masking the analysis"), since it is not applicable in our case.

      The inclusion of patients operated on with a mini-invasive approach (laparoscopic or robotic)
      or the use of other anastomoses (pancreatogastrostomy) or reconstruction (Roux-en-Y) differs
      from the technique used in the series with which the score was originally defined (allof
      them, open PD with pancreato-jejunostomy and, mostly part, tutored ducto-mucosal suture and
      Child's single loop reconstruction). If discrepancies are detected, the corresponding
      subgroup analysis will be performed. Cases of conversion from a mini-invasive to open
      approach will be counted as such (intention-to-treat analysis).
    
  