
    
      Comparability of discontinuous non-invasive (sphygomanometric) and continuous semi-invasive
      and invasive (Masimo©; Nexfin© Monitoring ; FloTrac © Edwards Lifesciences) beat to beat
      measurement methods for the determination of cardiac output and fluid responsiveness in
      patients undergoing bariatric surgery.

      Bariatric patients show limitations regarding the conventional monitoring options with ECG
      derivation, pulse oxymetric oxygen saturation and sphygmo-manometric blood pressure
      measurement. From a clinical point of view this results in an invasive arterial blood
      pressure monitoring. In addition to that, intraoperative extreme changes of the patients
      position on the table combined with the applied pneumoperitoneum during the minimally
      invasive laparoscopic surgery can significantly influence the cardiovascular parameters. An
      invasive arterial blood pressure monitoring is able to reproduce the blood pressure by
      stroke, but it does not give any information about the cardiac output. The sphygmomanometric
      blood pressure measurement also entails the risk of insufficient detection of a hypotonic
      phase in the measurement. Additional monitoring systems are currently available, which are
      capable of measuring completely non-invasive or semi-invasively different cardiovascular
      parameters such as cardiac output (CO) and volume responsiveness. In this study, the
      investigators will compare continuous and discontinuous cardiovascular monitoring procedures
      and their parameters. The measurements take place at specific times, under defined changes in
      the body position with the additional influence of the pneumoperitoneum.

      These changes are recorded and compared at the same time during different measuring methods
      preoperatively, intraoperatively and postoperatively. The non-invasive Nexfin © Monitoring
      (Edwards Lifesciences) is to be evaluated and compared with further measurement methods
      (FloTrac © (Edwards Lifesciences)) as well as the sphygmomanometric upper arm blood pressure
      measurement. The investigators also compare the non-invasive and invasive continuous beat to
      beat blood pressure measurement with conventional, discontinuous sphygomanometric upper arm
      blood pressure measurement.

      The planned study is the comparison of 3 different hemodynamic monitoring procedures. For the
      evaluation we use the method used by Bland and Altmann for calculating the mean deviation
      (bias) and the precision (mean value ± 2 standard deviations. In the case of multiple
      measurements , the modification of the Bland-Altman method is applied (repeated
      measurements). The number of cases was determined with n = 60 patients, followed by an
      intermediate evaluation. For a Bland-Altman analysis, the width w of the confidence interval
      for the Limits of Agreement is calculated as w = 6.79 • σ • 1 / √n, where n is number of
      cases and σ is the standard deviation. For a case count of n = 60, the result is w = 0.88 • σ
      and thus for this explorative study a sufficiently large number. In case of the dynamic
      variables, the percentage matching and the calculation of the kappa index are also used for
      the statistical evaluation.
    
  