
    
      Short bowel syndrome (SBS) is a malabsorptive disorder mostly caused by surgical
      interventions, which may result in chronic intestinal failure (cIF). The incidence is
      progressively increasing due to more aggressive surgical and medical approaches. Parenteral
      nutrition is still the mainstay of treatment for patients with irreversible cIF. New hormonal
      therapies hold promise by romoting mucosal growth and intestinal absorption and thereby
      leading to a consequent reduction in parenteral support and symptoms related to large stomal
      or faecal losses. Outside the typical primary endpoints of cost data, quality of life (QoL)
      is an important and yet underappreciated consideration of the effectiveness of targeted
      therapies. In the clinical STEPS trial, Jeppesen et al. have previously shown a significant
      improvement of the SBS-QoL total score after 24 week treatment with teduglutide
      longitudinally but could not identify a statistical significance to the placebo group.
      Accordingly, Chen and colleagues carried out a post hoc analysis of the afore mentioned
      clinical trial data based on 86 patients and could confirm the results auf Jeppesen et al.
      Taken together, these clinical trial data did not show a direct benefit of teduglutide
      treatment on QoL in these patients, while real life data on QoL changes are not available
      yet. During the release of teduglutide in Germany, the PNLiver trial (DRKS00010993) recruited
      chronic intestinal failure patients with parenteral nutrition from 2014 till 2019 to evaluate
      the capability of non-invasive liver function tests in cIF patients in a cross-sectional
      (n=90) and longitudinal study (n=20. All participants underwent study visits including
      clinical examination, dynamic liver function assessment, comprehensive blood tests,
      nutritional status assessment and quality of life assessment (Short Form 36 [SF-36] and
      SBS-QoL). Therefore, we have a comprehensive data set of a large monocentric cIF cohort prior
      to teduglutide treatment. Consequently, our unique QoL data from the PNLiver trail enables a
      followup assessment for an observation period above 24 weeks of patients who were in the
      meantime exposed to teduglutide in a real life setting. Nevertheless, QoL also tends to
      improve with longer duration on HPN. Therefore, we are aiming to extend the results with a
      pairwise matched control group from non teduglutide-treated PNLiver trail patients and
      collect follow-up data from this group accordingly.
    
  