
    
      Sleep Problem in Dialysis Patients Sleep apnoea is a significant issue in patients with end
      stage kidney disease. Evidence suggests that up to 80% of dialysis patients have sleep apnoea
      [1], yet the standard haemodialysis treatment does not improve the symptoms of sleep
      disturbance in most patients [2].

      Sleep disturbance is specifically associated with poor quality of life (QoL) [4]; decreased
      mental and physical function, and adversely impact survival [5-7]. Recent data also suggest
      that the low oxygen state resulting from sleep apnoea can exaggerate the deterioration of
      kidney function and increase risk of high blood pressure, cardiovascular abnormality and
      overall death rates [8]. Despite the significance of sleep apnoea, it is acknowledged that
      there is insufficient evidence for clinicians to manage this common symptom burden in the
      dialysis population [9]; and patients who receive maintenance dialysis today still experience
      poor QoL and worse survival rates compared with most common cancer sufferers [10].

      Knowledge Gap It is believed that the mechanism of sleep apnoea in dialysis patients are
      related to overactive chemoreceptors, which cause destabilisation of the respiratory drive
      and periodic breathing during the night [13]. Since the chemoreceptors can be triggered by
      inflammatory blood toxins, which accumulate in kidney failure [14], it is proposed that
      better clearance of these molecules can improve symptoms and outcomes of sleep apnoea. These
      molecules are poorly removed by standard haemodialysis [15] and are thought to cause the
      symptomatic effects of poor kidney function and inflammation, which are associated with poor
      sleep quality [16].

      Better dialysis treatment may play an important role in the management of sleep apnoea.
      Previous studies have suggested that sleep apnoea may be improved by nocturnal dialysis; an
      intensive treatment which patients undergo at home, during sleep, for 8-10 hours every night.
      It provides better blood purification, compared with standard haemodialysis treatment.
      However, nocturnal dialysis is a home therapy which is not viable for the majority of
      haemodialysis patients who require care in a clinical setting. There is clearly a need to
      explore the effectiveness of dialysis treatment on sleep apnoea using a different dialysis
      model.

      Modern dialysis technology, such as Haemodiafiltration (HDF), allows for better removal of
      toxic molecules such as beta 2 microglobulin (B2M) and C-Reactive protein (CRP), than
      standard haemodialysis treatment, and may offer the benefits of nocturnal dialysis to all
      dialysis patients. No one has examined the effect of HDF on sleep apnoea in haemodialysis
      patients, and the investigators will answer this question in this study.

      Research Aims

        1. To determine the prevalence of sleep apnoea in the local dialysis population using a
           validated questionnaire and sleep study. Although sleep apnoea is recognised as common
           in the dialysis population, there is a need to reproduce this data in the context of
           local dialysis services to accurately identify affected patients

        2. To examine the effect of HDF compared conventional haemodialysis on health status and
           sleep quality in patients with sleep apnoea, using a randomised cross-over trial (RCT)

        3. To determine if the clearance of middle-sized uraemic toxins improves symptoms of sleep
           apnoea. The middle-sized molecules to be assessed in this study include C-Reactive
           protein (CRP), beta 2-microglobulin (β2M), tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α),
           interleukin 6 (IL-6), and interleukin 8 (IL-8), which are the serum inflammatory markers
           that are commonly found in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea.
    
  