
    
      Patients with histologically confirmed previously untreated NPC are be recruited to join tis
      study. The study has obtained approval from local institutional review board.

      After written informed consent, baseline investigations including blood tests for routine
      hematology, biochemistry and plasma EBV DNA will be taken. Only 3ml of EDTA blood will be
      taken for plasma EBV DNA and other potential biomarkers. Patients will also undergo baseline
      imaging investigations including positron-emission tomography with integrated computed
      tomography (PET-CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head and neck regions. An
      routine nasoendoscopy and nasopharyngeal biopsies will be obtained to confirm and delineate
      the mucosal extent of the disease.

      If confirmed non-metastatic, patients will be treated with IMRT using 7-9 radiation beams. A
      total dose of 70Gy in 33-35 fractions over 6.5 to 7 weeks will be given. For advanced stage
      III to IVB diseases, concurrent chemoradiation using cisplatin 100mg/m2 on Day 1, 22 and 43
      of IMRT followed by 3 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin 80mg/m2 on Day 1 and
      5-FU 1000mg/m2 from Day 1 to Day 4 every 4 weeks for 3 more cycles starting 4 weeks after
      completion of IMRT will also be given. Some patients will also receive induction chemotherapy
      with cisplatin100mg/m2 on Day 1 and 5-FU 1000mg/m2 on Day 1 to 5, administered every 3 weeks
      for 3 cycles before commencement of chemoradiation, at the discretion of treating oncologists
      if the primary tumours are close to critical organs e.g. brainstem, optic chiasm or optic
      nerves.

      After treatment patients will undergo nasopharyngeal biopsies, patients will undergo
      nasopharyngeal biopsies again at 8 weeks after completion of IMRT to confirm histological
      complete local remission. Blood will be taken again on the same day for plasma EBV DNA and
      other potential biomarkers. Additional biopsies and salvage local treatment e.g.
      brachytherapy, stereotactic or IMRT boost will be offered to patients who have persistent
      local disease at 12 weeks after completion of IMRT. If complete local remission is confirmed,
      patient will have regular follow up every 3 to 4 months for surveillance and survival
      outcomes. Regular imaging with MRI and CT scans every 3 to 4 months will also be arranged as
      well. Plasma EBV DNA will be measured at weekly intervals until EBV DNA is undetectable.

      For those with metastatic diseases, systemic chemotherapy (platinum-based chemotherapy) will
      be offered. Blood taking for plasma EBV DNA and other potential biomarkers at baseline before
      chemotherapy commencement and then after every 3 cycles will be arranged. Imaging
      examinations with CT and MRI scans will be arranged at baseline and then after 3-4 cycles of
      chemotherapy for tumour response evaluation.

      The trend of baseline and serial plasma EBV DNA will be monitored prospectively.
    
  