
    
      All participants will asked to complete a bereavement questionnaire quantifying the losses
      they have experienced. All participants will be screened for depression/anxiety as well as
      life outlook using validated tools. Patients who identify that they have experienced the loss
      of someone significant in their life on the bereavement questionnaire will continue with the
      study and complete a battery of validated psychological inventories. They will be asked to
      identify their most significant loss in regards to completion of the remainder of the
      questionnaire. In addition, those who identify losing a friend to cancer will be invited to
      participate in a 30-45 minute semi-structured interview (in person or via telephone) during a
      second session with the study staff. This interview will be audiotaped, to allow for
      transcription and analysis later. Parents will complete demographic information, the
      bereavement questionnaire, and complete inventories of family coping / cohesion regardless of
      child's responses to bereavement questionnaire.

      In addition, those who identify losing a friend to cancer will be invited to participate in a
      30-45 minute semi-structured interview (in person or via telephone) during a second session
      with the study staff.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Estimate the prevalence of loss, with particular interest in the extent of peer loss, in
           adolescent oncology patients who have been on therapy ≥ 12 months (≥ 6 months if
           progressive or refractory disease) or off therapy for ≤ 3 years.

        -  Describe the impact of loss on adolescent oncology patients by focusing on coping
           efficacy, psychological distress, meaning-making, and complicated bereavement.

      Secondary Objective:

        -  Describe parental knowledge of losses experienced by an adolescent child who has
           recently undergone therapy.
    
  