
    
      The surgeon participants in this study will be divided into 2 groups depending upon their
      position and seniority. The 'Expert' group will be composed of Consultant Orthopaedic
      Surgeons and Senior Fellows, and the 'Trainee' group will be composed of Trauma & Orthopaedic
      Specialty Registrars (Residents) on clinical placements in Adult Arthroplasty.

      The intervention to be tested is the simulation-based training and cognitive learning
      package. This will be delivered for 1-2 hours per week over a 4-week period in a supervised
      non-clinical setting to a randomised sub-group of 50% of the Surgical Trainees enrolled into
      this study. Surgeon participants within the Expert/Fellow comparator group will not undergo
      any interventions.

      The outcome measures will be surgeon-specific and patient-specific. These outcome measures
      for the 'Trainee' group will commence following completion of the simulation training (if
      applicable), whereas they can commence immediately following study approval for the 'Expert'
      group. The surgeon-specific outcome measures will be the objective motion-analysis metrics
      generated by validated and extensively used wireless sensors placed on the elbows of surgeons
      under their sterile gowns during the operation; and subjective assessments of surgical
      trainee performance using validated and reliable forms of structured human grading.
      Patient-specific outcome measures will be collected for a pre-determined number of patients
      who have undergone a primary elective THR by any of the surgeon participants in this study.
      All patient participants will be asked to provide their written informed consent for the use
      of their data in this study. The patient-specific outcome measures include: pre- and
      post-operative blood tests and radiograph (X-ray) analysis; the incidence of blood
      transfusions and any other peri-operative complications; the in-patient length of stay; and
      two patient-reported outcome measure (PROMs) questionnaires, namely the Oxford Hip Score
      (OHS) and EQ-5D.

      Statistical analysis will be performed on the data collected, specifically aiming to identify
      any significant differences in either surgeon performance metrics, or patient outcome
      measures between:

        1. The Surgical Trainees who have undertaken additional simulation training versus those
           who have routine training.

        2. The 'Trainee' group and the 'Expert' group. A sub-group analysis may be performed within
           the 'Expert' group also to determine any differences between the Consultants and
           Fellows.

      In summary, this novel research will use validated methodology and routinely collected
      patient outcome measures in order to determine the impact of simulation training on surgical
      trainee performance and patient outcomes following a primary elective THR, and also help to
      benchmark an expert level of performance in this commonly performed and highly effective
      operation. The results of this study will hopefully help in shaping the future of orthopaedic
      surgical training and assessment.
    
  