
    
      The aging process is considered as a result of the decline observed in basic cognitive
      functions such as attention, perception, memory, and causes problems in the communication of
      the elderly with the environment. For these problems, it affects the adaptation of the
      elderly in his environment and himself.

      There are a limited number of studies in the literature to increase the adaptation of older
      individuals to old age. In the studies in the literature, it was stated that the rate of
      depression is higher in female individuals, and being male and having a high education level
      positively affect the adaptation of individuals to old age. In a national study, it was
      determined that as age increases, adaptation to old age decreases.

      Progressive muscle relaxation (PMR), one of the nonpharmacological methods, involves the
      voluntary stretching and relaxation of large muscle groups (hand-starting, foot-end muscle
      groups) in the human body. It is known that PMR exercises are frequently used in nursing
      research because of the effects of reducing anxiety and fatigue and improving sleep quality,
      and reducing nausea-vomiting. However, no study was found on the effect of depression and
      adaptation to old age. Due to these positive effects of PMR determined in the literature, it
      is thought that elderly women can positively affect their levels of depression and adaptation
      to old age.

      Objective: Evaluate the effects of progressive muscle relaxation on the depression and
      adaptation of elderly women to aging.

      Methodology: This is randomized clinical test. The sample was made up of 49 elderly women who
      applying to the family health center (21 in the experimental group and 28 in control group).
      The progressive muscle relaxation was employed. In order to collect the data, we adopted the
      interview with form filling technique, using the introductory information form, Assessment
      Scale of Adaptation Difficulty for the Elderly (ASADE) and Geriatric Depression Scale Short
      Form (GDS-S). Progressive muscle relaxation will be performed for a total of 8 weeks, 3 days
      a week, for 30 minutes.
    
  