
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if there is sufficient evidence to continue to the phase III component by
      comparing progression-free survival (PFS) between patients randomized to afatinib (afatinib
      dimaleate) in combination with cetuximab versus afatinib alone in the first-line treatment of
      patients with advanced EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). (Phase II) II. To
      determine the efficacy of the combination of afatinib and cetuximab compared to afatinib
      alone as measured by overall survival (OS) in the first-line treatment of patients with
      advanced EGFR-mutant NSCLC. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial
      responses) in the subset of patients with measurable disease treated with afatinib plus
      cetuximab compared to afatinib alone.

      II. To assess the safety of each treatment arm when used in the first-line setting.

      III. To compare time to treatment failure and time to treatment discontinuation between
      randomized to afatinib in combination with cetuximab versus afatinib alone.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the molecular mechanisms that confer benefit from afatinib and afatinib
      plus cetuximab by evaluating whether the presence of de novo EGFR T790M mutation or other
      molecular alterations in the pre-treatment tumor influence the clinical outcomes.

      II. To quantitatively assess whether the ratio of sensitizing EGFR (EGFRs) mutation to EGFR
      T790M influences outcome and is altered during treatment.

      III. To evaluate the frequency of known mechanisms of resistance to EGFR-directed therapies
      in the context of afatinib plus cetuximab and afatinib alone treatment.

      IV. To identify potential novel predictors of benefit to afatinib plus cetuximab.

      V. To identify potential new mechanisms of resistance to EGFR-directed therapies.

      VI. To establish patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) from a subset of patients by re-biopsy at
      the time of progressive disease for drug testing and genomic analysis.

      VII. To assess whether circulating tumor markers can be used as indicators of sensitivity and
      resistance to afatinib plus cetuximab and afatinib alone.

      VIII. To determine whether the levels of EGFR protein by immunohistochemistry predict for
      benefit to afatinib plus cetuximab and afatinib alone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive afatinib dimaleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and
      cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive afatinib dimaleate as in Arm I. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.
    
  