
    
      Sepsis is a common syndrome responsible for multiple organ failure. Septic shock, defined as
      sepsis with hyperlactatemia and cardiovascular failure requiring vasopressor infusion despite
      adequate fluid resuscitation has an extremely high mortality rate. Fever is a frequent
      disease process during sepsis. Fever increases oxygen consumption and can worsen imbalance
      between oxygen supply and oxygen requirements. Fever increases inflammation but reduces viral
      and bacterial growth. The beneficial effects of active fever control on inflammation have
      been mainly shown in a context of lung injury. Pneumonia represents the first cause of septic
      shock in developed countries.

      In a pilot study (SEPSISCOOL I), we showed that fever treatment using external cooling
      significantly increased the resolution of shock, improved organ functions and decreased d-14
      mortality. Although reduced, hospital mortality was not significantly different. This study
      was underpowered to allow conclusion on mortality. A more pronounced beneficial effect was
      observed among the most severely ill patients with elevated serum lactate level.

      Fever treatment is commonly applied in septic patients but its impact on survival remains
      undetermined.

      The main objective of the study is to compare two strategies of fever management in febrile
      (body temperature > 38.3°C) septic shock patients requiring invasive mechanical ventilation
      and sedation. These patients will be randomly allocated in two arms:

        1. Fever respect

        2. Fever control by external cooling to obtain normothermia during 48 hours

      A covariate-adaptive randomization will be used to ensure the comparability of the two groups
      at each stage of the study. We will use an adaptive multistage population-enrichment design
      with a pre-specified subgroup of patients with ARDS identified at randomization.

      An independent Safety and Data Monitoring Committee will review data on serious adverse
      events. The decision of study stop for potential harmful effect of one strategy will be let
      at the entire responsibility of the committee.

      One interim analysis will be performed by independent observers after enrolment of half of
      the population. The assumption that fever treatment is more effective in patients with ARDS
      will be confirmed or not. According to pre-defined rules based on the conditional power
      calculated in the two subgroups, the trial will be stopped for futility, continued as planned
      or continued by enrolling only patients with ARDS.
    
  