
    
      Non-specific low back pain (LBP) is a very common condition in developed countries, with a
      point prevalence between 15% and 30% and a lifetime prevalence of about 70%. As a
      non-invasive treatment method, high-velocity, low-amplitude spinal manipulative therapy (SMT)
      is used in the conservative treatment of non-specific low back pain (LBP). Several studies
      suggest an association with favourable outcome. However, the overall effect size of clinical
      improvement following SMT remains modest. Most research on the effectiveness of SMT on back
      pain is conducted on patients suffering from "non-specific" LBP, the diagnosis of which is
      usually based upon the criterium that pain is not attributed to a recognizable pathology
      (e.g., infection, tumor, inflammatory diseases, fractures, disc herniations with nerve
      compression)8. In most of these studies, it is unclear whether patients' diagnoses were based
      upon more than history and clinical examination. The investigators argue that in the majority
      of cases, back pain labelled as non-specific might be more accurately labelled as
      non-specified and does have an attributable source and cause, whether one is able to
      recognize it or not. Therefore, if the diagnosis of non-specific LBP comprises heterogenic
      conditions, it is unlikely that patients will respond to one therapeutic modality equally.

      Diffusion-weighted MR-imaging (DWI) is an application of magnetic resonance imaging that
      allows the measurement of water movement within and between tissues and is increasingly being
      used to study musculoskeletal physiology. Because DWI is sensitive even to small changes in
      fluid flow, it is potentially valuable in the study of the influence of therapeutic
      interventions such as manual therapy, exercise, and physical agents on musculoskeletal
      tissues. Studies using DWI have suggested that changes in diffusion within lumbar
      intervertebral discs occur in response to joint mobilization, prone press-ups, spinal
      traction and spinal manipulative therapy.

      Intravoxel incoherent motion (IVIM) is a method proposed in 1988 by Le Bihan et al. which
      extracts microvascular blood flow information from diffusion-weighted imaging acquired at
      different b-values. It is used to generate separate images of diffusion and perfusion without
      requiring the injection of exogenous contrast agents. Originally developed in brain studies,
      it has been used in recent years to study perfusion in musculoskeletal tissue. There is a
      paucity of research addressing physiological events following a SMT intervention for patients
      with low back pain. A deeper understanding of local biomechanical and neurophysiological
      effects of SMT interventions might help refine its utilization and improve its effectiveness.

      The purpose of this study is to quantify changes in diffusion and perfusion parameters within
      the intervertebral disc and paraspinal muscle tissue of a spinal segment receiving a spinal
      manipulative or sham intervention and to evaluate whether those changes differ in spinal
      segments with or without degenerative changes in 50 low-back-pain patients.

      Additionally, it is of interest to determine the relationships between baseline parameters
      and changes in diffusion and perfusion as well as the degree of degenerative changes.
      Post-intervention changes in segmental spinal muscle perfusion will also be investigated.
      There will be a clinical follow-up immediately after the second MRI and at 1 week,4 and 12
      weeks.

      The repeatability and diurnal variation of IVIM imaging in quantifying perfusion in
      musculoskeletal tissues will be assessed by comparing perfusion parameters of 20 controls who
      will not receive any intervention. The investigators will perform a diffusion- and
      perfusion-weighted MRI at the beginning of the visit in the morning, which is repeated after
      approximately 20 minutes of rest (lying supine). Controls will present for an additional MRI
      approximately 10 hours later in the evening of the same day.

      In participants consenting to venipuncture, approximately 8 ml of venous blood will be
      withdrawn using serum collection tubes, allowed to clot, and then centrifuged. The resulting
      serum supernatant is stored in aliquots at Balgrist Campus at -80°C. It will be analysed at
      the end of data collection for pro- and anti-inflammatory markers (e.g. C-reactive Protein,
      Interleukin 1-beta, Interleukin 6 and Tumor Necrosis Factor) in order to determine the
      relationship between inflammatory markers and degenerative changes, pain duration, and pain
      and disability outcomes.
    
  