
    
      This is a Phase I/II clinical trial of ex vivo hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) gene therapy for
      X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID). XSCID results from defects in the IL2RG
      gene encoding the common gamma chain (gc) shared by receptors for Interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-4,
      IL-7, IL-9, IL-15 and IL-21. XSCID patients generally lack T-lymphocytes and NK cells, and
      their B-lymphocytes fail to make essential antibodies. XSCID is fatal in infancy without
      immune reconstitution, such as by allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). However, many
      transplanted patients achieve only partial immune reconstitution, and consequently have
      recurrent infections, autoimmunity and/or poor growth. Recent successful retroviral gene
      therapy instead of BMT for infants with XSCID indicates that ex vivo gene therapy can provide
      clinical benefit to XSCID patients.

      We will enroll eight older XSCID patients (1.5-20 years-old; greater than or equal to 12 kg
      body weight), who have had attempted BMT, but who have persistent T-lymphocyte and
      B-lymphocyte impairments that compromise their quality of life. Prior to enrollment, these
      subjects will have had autologous CD34+ HSC mobilized by treatment with granulocyte colony
      stimulating factor (G-CSF), collected from peripheral blood by apheresis, immune selected and
      cryopreserved in sufficient numbers to achieve entry criteria (greater than or equal to 1.0 x
      10(6) CD34+ HSC/kg body weight). HSC procurement will be conducted under a separate, approved
      and active NIH protocol, 94-I-0073, 'Recruitment of peripheral blood hematopoietic
      progenitors by granulocyte colony stimulating factor [G-CSF]'.

      Autologous CD34+ HSC will be transduced ex vivo with the gibbon ape leukemia virus (GALV)
      envelope-pseudotyped, replication-defective, murine onco-retrovirus vector, MFGS-gc that
      encodes the common gamma chain. Transductions will occur in flexible gas-permeable plastic
      containers using serum-free medium supplemented with 1% human serum albumin and five
      recombinant growth factors (50 ng/mL Flt3-L, 50 ng/mL SCF, 50 ng/mL TPO, 25 ng/mL IL-6, and 5
      ng/mL IL-3). Subjects who are older than the age of 3 will be given a conditioning regimen
      consisting of Fludarabine and Busulfan then they will receive a single infusion of transduced
      HSC. Prior to the chemotherapy, and following the infusion of the cells, the same patients
      will also be given Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), also known as palifermin. Subjects will
      be monitored for safety and efficacy; the latter evidenced by new development of autologous
      transduced lymphocytes with functional gc. Study endpoints are (1) efficient and safe
      clinical-scale transduction of HSC from post-BMT XSCID subjects; (2) administration of a
      nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen to improve engraftment; (3) administration of
      transduced HSC to eight subjects; (4) administration of KGF to improve thymic function post
      transplant to improve T cell development; and (5) appropriate follow up of treated subjects
      to monitor vector sequence distribution, gc expression in hematopoietic lineages, and
      lymphocyte numbers and function; as well as general health and immune status.
    
  