
    
      Background:

      There is strong internationally confirmed evidence for short-term effectiveness of multimodal
      interdisciplinary specific treatment programmes for chronic back pain. Indeed, the proof of a
      lasting protection of achieved effects is missing so far. For a long-term improvement of pain
      and functional ability high intervention intensity or high extent seems to be necessary (>
      100 therapy hours). Especially in chronic back pain rehabilitation specific aftercare
      programs are absent. Purposeful and differentiated aftercare treatments offer the
      possibility, in particular in the rehabilitation of chronic back pain, to increase the
      sustainability of positive effects of a mostly three weeks taking rehabilitation or to
      intensify them.

      Hypothesis:

      The implementation of a bio-psycho-social exercise based aftercare intervention program,
      specifically structured for the needs of chronic low back pain (CLBP) patients, leeds to a
      better rehabilitation outcome in comparison to current usual aftercare (IRENA) and a control
      group that is given an educational booklet in view of pain-conditioned functional ability and
      back pain episodes.

      Methods/Design:

      A multicenter prospective 3-armed randomised controlled trial is conducted. 456 participants
      will be consecutively enrolled in inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation and assigned to
      either one of the three study arms. Outcomes are measured before and after rehabilitation and
      twelve month after dismissal form rehabilitation into the aftercare program.

      Discussion:

      Special methodological and logistic challenges are to be mastered in this trial, which accrue
      from the engagement of aftercare interventions to their residential district and the fact the
      fact that the proportion of patients, who take part in aftercare programs, is low. The
      usability of the aftercare program lies in the transference into the routine care and is also
      given by developed manuals with structured contents, media and material for organisation
      assistance as well as training draughts for practise therapists in the aftercare.
    
  