
    
      Technology-dependent children, those who rely on medical equipment such as mechanical
      ventilation or feeding tubes for daily care at home, are among the sickest and most
      vulnerable subset of children with complex chronic conditions. An estimated 600,000 children
      in the United States are technology dependent and live at home, and are cared for primarily
      by their parents. These parents report greater levels of depressive symptoms and stress than
      other caregiver groups. In addition, these caregivers report poor psychological and physical
      health that compromise their caregiving capacity and increase their use of emergency rooms
      (ER) for their children's care needs. Despite these adverse consequences, there are no
      interventions to meet the needs of these caregivers and their children. Resourcefulness
      Training, (cognitive-behavioral self-management intervention) has been shown to improve
      psychological and physical outcomes, mediate the effects of stress, and enhance the care
      provided to care-recipients. It will be tested in a randomized trial against an
      attention-only control arm. The intervention arm will receive an intervention that includes:
      a face-to-face session for teaching social (help-seeking) and personal (self-help)
      resourcefulness skills; ongoing access to video vignettes of caregivers of
      technology-dependent children describing resourcefulness skill application in daily life; 4
      weeks of skills' reinforcement using daily journal writing; weekly phone calls for the first
      4 weeks; and booster sessions at 2 and 4 months post enrollment. The Attention Control arm
      will receive weekly phone calls for the first 4 weeks and at 2 and 4 months post enrollment
      plus any usual care. The aims of the study are to: 1) Determine whether Resourcefulness
      Training versus Attention Control improves psychological (general mental health, depressive
      cognitions, depressive symptoms, appraised stress, burden) and physical outcomes (general
      physical health, chronic stress [hair cortisol]) and family functioning over 6 months in
      parents of technology-dependent children, after controlling for the parents' race/ethnicity,
      sex, family income, and children's functional status; and 2) Determine whether changes in
      psychological and physical outcomes and family functioning are mediated by changes in
      parents' levels of resourcefulness (personal and social). Data collection will take place at
      baseline then 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months post-enrollment. Our study will be the first to
      test a resourcefulness intervention for this caregiver population and to include male as well
      as female caregivers. This intervention is distinctive in that it uses web, telephone, and
      journal components for reinforcement-not multiple face-to-face visits that can be labor
      intensive. If shown to be efficacious, it can be easily replicated with other populations
      with strong potential for translation into practice.
    
  