
    
      Patellar tendinopathy ('jumper's knee') is a clinical condition of gradually progressive
      activity-related pain at the insertion of the patellar tendon at the apex patellae. Prolonged
      repetitive stress of the knee-extensor apparatus can lead to this common overuse tendinopathy
      in athletes from different sports, resulting in pain and impaired performance in athletes.
      High prevalence rates have been reported in jumping sports such as volleyball and basketball
      (45% and 32% in elite athletes, respectively). Symptoms can be long-standing if not treated
      appropriately in the initial stages. Furthermore, there is currently no strong evidence for
      second-line treatments such as shockwave therapy and platelet-rich plasma. Therefore, it is
      important to improve exercise protocols as a first treatment of choice.

      Tendinopathy is a widely accepted, generic term that encompasses any abnormal condition of a
      tendon. Clinical symptoms include activity-related pain associated with tenderness, localized
      swelling and impaired performance. Histopathologically, tendinopathy is characterized by
      structural disorganization of the tendon collagen that alters the loading capacity of a
      specific tendon.

      Exercise therapy is considered as the best initial treatment option for tendinopathies as
      histopathological changes and clinical improvements on pain and function have been
      demonstrated. Most studies have been conducted using eccentric exercise protocols and early
      studies showed positive effects, resulting in promoting these isolated painful exercises as
      standard care. One hypothesis behind the potential beneficial effects of eccentric exercises
      is that increased load results in increased collagen synthesis and subsequent healing
      response. However, a recent systematic review demonstrated that the available literature does
      not support observable structural change as an explanation for the response of eccentric
      exercises. Furthermore, eccentric exercises may not be effective for reducing pain and
      improving strength when used in-season and might even increase symptoms in jumping athletes
      with patellar tendon pathology.

      Progressive tendon-loading exercise therapy for patellar tendinopathy constitutes a novel
      concept in sports medicine. A recent publication advocates a progressive 4-stage
      criteria-based exercise protocol within the limits of pain, consisting of progressive
      isometric, isotonic, plyometric, and sport-specific exercises, resulting in a less reactive
      tendon, immediate decreased pain levels, diminished motor cortex inhibition of the quadriceps
      muscles, and potential to restore collagen alignment. These new insights are completely
      conflicting with the painful heavy-load eccentric exercise protocols currently applied as
      usual care. It is currently unknown which exercise therapy is the best strategy for athletes
      with patellar tendinopathy, as adequately powered randomized studies are lacking.

      Although clinical examination represents the gold standard in the diagnosis of patellar
      tendinopathy, it is commonplace to perform diagnostic imaging of the patellar tendon to
      confirm the diagnosis and rule out alternative diagnoses. Furthermore, imaging can be used to
      estimate response to treatment. This diagnostic imaging work-up usually consists of magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound or, occasionally, a combination of both. On "regular"
      MRI, increased tendon size and visually increased signal intensity within the proximal
      patellar tendon can be observed in patellar tendinopathy , but altered tendon microstructure
      is invisible. A novel innovative method to detect tendon abnormalities is the ultrashort echo
      time (UTE) MRI technique. UTE enables accurate detection of changes in a reactive tendon both
      visually and in a quantitative manner by measuring T2* relaxation time UTE MRI has also been
      shown to quantitatively depict changes in tendon microstructure and, therefore, this
      innovative imaging modality allows in-vivo evaluation of tendon regeneration. It is currently
      unknown whether quantitative UTE MRI parameters change after exercise treatment, are related
      to clinical symptoms of patellar tendinopathy, and have prognostic value for exercise
      treatment response.
    
  