
    
      Endothelial dysfunction denotes abnormal contractile function of the inner lining of blood
      vessels. Endothelial dysfunction is associated with hypertension, hypercholesterolemia,
      atherosclerosis and diabetes and is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. In
      normal physiology, endothelial cells synthesize and release factors that modulate blood
      vessel growth, inflammation, homeostasis, and vascular tone. Recently, endothelial
      dysfunction has been recognized as an early event in ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury. IR
      injury causes damage to tissue and is important in many settings including acute coronary
      artery occlusions and cerebral ischemia. A model to examine the physiology of IR induced
      endothelial dysfunction and to test pharmacologic agents to prevent IR induced endothelial
      dysfunction is of paramount importance given the rise in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
      disease. Recently in Protocol 06-H-0024, our group found that 20 minutes of ischemic stress
      causes no absolute endothelial dysfunction to the forearm using venous plethysmography to
      measure blood flow, despite numerous publications that support this model. We believe that
      the previously published data are based on a computational error resulting in an erroneous
      data interpretation (discussed in the introductory section of this proposal). Using NMR
      spectroscopy in protocol 06-H-0024 we have found that by adding exercise to exhaustion
      (usually 1 to 2 minutes of concentric exercise) to a 15-minute period of forearm ischemia
      results in a significantly more robust metabolic stress to the forearm, than 20 minutes of
      ischemia alone. Given the potential utilization of the restoration of endothelial function as
      a therapeutic strategy, we propose this pilot study to examine whether 15 minutes of ischemia
      with exercise to exhaustion (usually 1-2 minutes of concentric exercise) will cause transient
      IR dependent blunting of endothelial vasodilation as measured by venous plethysmography. In
      this study, an extension of Protocol 06-H-0024, we hypothesize that in human subjects the
      addition of concentric exercise to exhaustion, as a means to deplete high energy phosphate
      stores, will contribute to the development of transient endothelial dysfunction when
      performed in parallel with a 15-minute forearm ischemic stress. The establishment of a human
      system to enable the study of transient forearm vessel endothelial dysfunction will enable us
      to explore therapeutic interventions to protect against endothelial dysfunction.
    
  