
    
      Human Cytomegalovirus(CMV), a kind of β-hepersvirus, which is a common opportunistic
      pathogen. The ubiquity of CMV infection in human beings had been verified; and the CMV-IgG
      seropositive rate is 97% among healthy population, most of them are at the state of latent
      infection. When immunosuppressed, such as for renal transplant recipients, the incidence of
      CMV infection and disease increase obviously. The posttransplant CMV infection would induce
      allgraft rejection, impact on allgraft and recipients survival, as well as contribute to the
      serious complications.Many studies show that giving effective antivirus drugs after
      transplantation is benifit to recipients.

      Nowadays,the strategy of intravenous GCV GCV 5mg/kg daily or oral GCV 1g 3 times daily, which
      is the recommended treatment for CMV disease posttransplantation.Resent date show that VGC is
      an oral prodrug of GCV. When VGC is absorbed in the intestinal wall and liver, it is rapidly
      metabolized to ganciclovir. As a contemporary study, IV GCV 5mg/kg/day will approach to a
      similar area under the curve to VGC 900mg daily. The bioavailability of ganciglovir from
      valganciclovir is 10 times of GCV by oral. For recipients, oral therapy is more safety and
      convinient, so that it will reduce frequent hospitalizations. As many researches, it is
      indicated that oral VGC 450mg daily can also reduce the adverse events resulting from
      posttransplant CMV infection, there is no significantly statistic differences when compared
      with oral VGC 900mg daily. Simultaneously, lower dose could decrease the risk of leukopenia
      and ease the burden for recipients.

      This study is a single-center, prospective, observational, corhort study. According to the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, the investigators will recruit 450 patients. And every one
      will be followed up for at least 12 months unless death or graft loss, the specific duration
      is at baseline, weekly within the first 3 months posttransplantation, month 4, month 5, month
      6, month 9, and month 12. Recipients will be followed for CMV-DNA, CMV-pp65, CMV antigenemia,
      blood routine test, urinalysis, liver function, renal fuction and the chest X-ray films.
      Inverstigators should collect the date of recipient as below: general conditions, such as
      age, sex, weight and so on; primary reason for transplant; donor/recipient CMV serostatus;
      biopsy-prove acute rejection; opportunistic infections; NODAT; etc. And Chi-square or
      Fisher's exact test will be used as appropriate to compare categorical variables, and it is
      considered as statistically significant when the 2-sided P-value<0.05. Definitively,
      conclusion will be come out to verify the safety and availability of our protocol.
    
  