
    
      Introduction: Lung transplantation (TxP) is now a validated treatment of end-stage pulmonary
      diseases, but long-term graft and patient survival are still hampered by the development of
      chronic allograft dysfunction (CLAD) affecting > 50% of patients. Obliterative bronchiolitis
      (OB), the obstructive CLAD, is the most common manifestation of CLAD, and affects > 50% of
      recipients who survive the early post-transplant period. OB is thought to arise from repeated
      injury to graft epithelial cells, leading to fibrous scarring and obliteration of the small
      airway lumen, as a result of dysregulated fibrotic repair and loss of peribronchial
      microvasculature. The patchy histopathologic distribution at onset makes it difficult to
      confirm histopathologically the diagnosis of OB from lung specimens. Hence, bronchiolitis
      obliterans syndrome (BOS) has become a generally accepted surrogate diagnostic of OB,
      characterized physiologically by progressive airflow limitation, with a median monthly
      decline of FEV1 of about 50 ml. Survival after onset of BOS is poor, reported as < 50% at 3
      years after onset of disease, due to end-stage respiratory failure. Thus far, there is
      currently no approved treatment to stabilize BOS disease, and especially no treatment
      addressing the fibrotic lung graft manifestation of BOS. The crucial role of a dysregulated
      fibrotic repair has now been demonstrated in BOS, with the following: (i) Architectural
      remodelling with fibrosis and scarring of airways involving myofibroblasts; (ii) Increased
      extracellular matrix synthetic; (iii) Epithelial-mesenchymal transition mechanism; (iv) Role
      of growth factors PDGF, VEGF, FGF, and IGF-1 shown in BO mechanisms (animals and humans
      studies).

      These data strongly suggest the potential role of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) that
      target these growth factors involved in the post-TxP BO. In this axis, the new TKI
      Nintedanib, which has recently been demonstrated as effective in the treatment of idiopathic
      pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) in large-scale randomized studies (8) appears as a candidate
      molecule capable of stopping the fibroproliferative process and stabilize the development of
      a CLAD after TxP. Whereas Nintedanib is a validated and available treatment in patients with
      IPF, paucity of data are currently available in lung-transplant recipients.

      Primary objective: to assess Nintedanib efficacy in the reduction of the rate of decline of
      FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in 1 sec) in BOS post-LTx at a dose of 150 mg twice daily
      (bid) compared to placebo over 6 months.

      Secondary objectives: to assess Nintedanib efficacy and tolerance in the treatment of BOS
      grade 0p-1-2 post-lung transplantation.

      Experimental design: a 2 groups parallel, randomized, prospective multicentric
      placebo-controlled phase III trial to assess Nintedanib superiority versus placebo.

      Eligible LTx recipients with BOS are to be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either
      Nintedanib 150 mg BID or the matching placebo treatment for 6 months.

      The follow-up of patients with BOS included in the trial will be similar to usual and
      standard care in both arms of the study (Nintedanib group and placebo group).

      The intervention group is expected to be beneficial compared to the placebo group.
    
  