
    
      BACKGROUND: Systematic psychological assessment and appropriate psychological support is a
      key aim of NICE guidance for supportive and palliative cancer care. Cancer causes high levels
      of distress during diagnosis, treatment and beyond. 'Distress' is a psychological state that
      may be fuelled by physical (e.g. pain), interpersonal (family tensions), psychological
      (anxiety and depression), social (finances), and existential concerns. Often these concerns
      are not expressed by patients or identified by healthcare staff. Our pilot work suggests that
      the Distress Thermometer and Problem List (DT&PL) is a tool that healthcare staff can use to
      efficiently identify and address these holistic needs. Use of the DT&PL could reduce both
      patient distress and the NHS costs of treating the sequelae of distress.

      AIMS: To demonstrate the feasibility of performing a randomised controlled trial (RCT) in 3
      cancer therapy units and to provide data for the design of a future trial in larger numbers
      of radiotherapy and chemotherapy units. To compare use of the Distress Thermometer and
      Problem List (DT&PL) with usual care and document differences in patients' psychological
      well-being and health-related quality of life. To assess the cost-effectiveness to the NHS
      and society of using the DT&PL in routine clinical practice. To assess patient and staff
      attitudes to completing the DT&PL and identify any perceived gaps in local psychosocial
      supportive services.

      METHODS: A RCT to compare usual psychosocial care with usual care plus DT&PL administered by
      trained radiographers and nurses for cancer patients receiving chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
      The DT&PL will be used during and at the end of chemo/radiotherapy. Baseline questionnaires
      include Profile of Mood States (POMS - primary outcome), European Organisation for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) cancer-related quality of life measure and EQ-5D utility
      score. Qualitative interviews will explore patient, carer and staff views on the DT&PL and
      other aspects of supportive care. Patient follow up will occur at 1, 6 and 12 months to
      determine whether the intervention improves psychological well-being and health related
      quality of life and the impact on NHS and broader societal costs.
    
  