
    
      Trial Rationale: Therapeutic interventions directed towards the damaged endothelium may
      improve outcome for patients with PCAS. Prostacyclin/Iloprost (PGI2) is an endogenous
      prostanoid which is formed and released by endothelial cells with anti-platelet, vasodilatory
      and cytoprotective properties36 and is expected to be beneficial by protecting and
      deactivating the endothelium and by restoring vascular integrity in patients suffering from
      endothelial breakdown.

      Trial Population: Participants in the trial must be adult patients (≥18 years of age) with
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) of presumed cardiac cause admitted to the Dept. of
      Cardiology, 2143, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen.

      Trial Design: Randomized, placebo controlled, double-blind investigator-initiated trial in 40
      OHCA patients. 48 hours of active study drug (Iloprost, 1 ng/kg/min) versus placebo (saline)
      infusion.

      Patients in both randomization groups will be treated in accordance with state-of-the art
      therapy including targeted temperature management. Interventions are considered emergency
      procedures and study drug infusion should be commenced as soon as possible after sustained
      return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC), screening and randomization.

      Patients will only be enrolled after informed consent, but as the treatment has to be
      initiated earliest possible after the out of hospital cardiac arrest diagnosis i.e., at a
      time-point where patients are temporarily incompetent, scientific guardians will co-sign the
      informed consent form before inclusion. Next-of-kin and the patients' general practitioner
      will co-sign as soon as possible and the patient will provide informed consent whenever
      possible.

      During the study, blood samples will be taken at different time points. Patients will be
      observed and assessed continuously with regards to complications including bleeding. Patients
      will be actively assessed as long as the patient is in the ICU. During the extended follow up
      period at day 30, 90 and 180 contact will be made with the patients to follow up on safety
      events and vital status.

      The trial is conducted in accordance with the protocol and is approved by Danish health and
      medicines authority, Danish ethics committee and danish data protection agency.

      Investigational product: The active treatment in the trial is 1 ng/kg/min Ilomedin®
      administered as a 48h continuous i.v infusion. The drugs will be administered according to
      the product specifications.

      Placebo: The placebo is 0.9% saline administered as a 48h continuous i.v infusion. The i.v
      volume of placebo saline to be administered is equal to the administered volume of diluted
      (in 0.9% saline) active drug.

      Sponsor of study and financial support: This research project is investigator-initiated by
      the trial Sponsor Pär I. Johansson in collaboration with the principal investigator Christian
      Hassager.

      It has not received funding from any commercial sponsors.

      Patient recruitment period runs from February 2016 to August 2016. Follow-up data on 30-day,
      90-day and 180-day outcome and adverse events will be collected. Initial data analyses will
      be done after completion of 30-day follow-up for all patients. Secondary data analyses will
      be done after completion of 180-day follow-up for all patients.
    
  