
    
      The incidence rate of pelvic fractures increases dramatically with age, from 5.4 and 3.8 per
      10,000 person-years in women and men aged 65 to 69 years to 93.5 and 44.5 per 10,000
      person-years in women and men aged 90 years and older, respectively. Pelvic fractures are
      accompanied by severe pain, chronic immobility and loss of function and independence in the
      elderly. Pelvic fractures consume substantial healthcare resources, and based on
      administrative claims data, they are one of the most costly osteoporosis related fractures.
      Un-healed fractures, occurring in one-third of pelvic fracture patients at 3 months, can
      cause continued pain and impact mobility. With aging of the population, and expected
      concomitant increase in the incidence of pelvic fractures, there is a pressing need to find
      effective treatments that will accelerate healing. Fracture of the pubic ramus is most
      relevant and practical for randomized double-blinded placebo controlled study as this
      fracture is accompanied by severe pain and immobility in elderly, is associated with delayed
      fracture healing, and is almost always treated non-operatively. The current standard of care
      for pelvic fractures includes pain management, patient mobilization, and the prevention of
      complications associated with comorbid conditions. The investigators hypothesize that
      development of a successful adjunctive therapy to accelerate fracture healing would lead to
      improved care and reduce both direct and indirect costs from pelvic fractures. In the
      proposed trial the investigators will recruit women and men >65 years of age with acute
      osteoporosis-related pelvic fractures and address 3 specific aims over 3 months of treatment
      in a placebo controlled double blind study to determine if standard care and teriparatide 20
      mcg/day versus placebo for pelvic fractures:

        1. Results in earlier evidence of cortical bridging on routine radiographs followed by
           confirmatory Focus CT, a novel method to reduce radiation exposure from CT scans
           (primary outcome).

        2. Leads to a faster reduction in pain as assessed by both the Numeric Rating Scale and a
           reduction in the use of narcotics (secondary outcome).

        3. Leads more rapidly to improved functional outcome using a short physical performance
           battery to assess lower extremity function (secondary outcome).

      The investigators will extend this study with 9 months of open label TPTD to determine if any
      potential differences between the placebo and TPTD groups during the 3 months of treatment
      are evident and persist over time, even in patients who use TPTD after the three month
      placebo controlled intervention. If TPTD can improve fracture healing, this study will have
      an impact on the treatment of persons with pelvic fracture who are not surgical candidates
      and often face severe pain, chronic immobility, and loss of function in the elderly. A
      positive finding of accelerated healing of pelvic fractures would also encourage study of
      TPTD for treatment of other osteoporotic fractures.
    
  