
    
      The study will be conducted in two phases. First phase will be 16 weeks study to assess the
      safety, efficacy & to determine the most appropriate dose. Will consist of following visits:

      Screening I (Day -14) Visit: After obtaining written informed consent, subjects will be
      screened for study eligibility as per the inclusion/exclusion criteria defined in the study
      protocol on screening visit. The screening evaluations will include general examination,
      medical history taking, recording of vital parameters and assessment of frequency of
      symptoms, and Total Nasal Symptom Score (TNSS) calculation. Blood sample will be collected
      for CBC, SGPT & Urine creatinine analysis. Simultaneously urine samples will be collected for
      urine routine & UPT analysis. ECG will be performed.

      Screening II (Day -7) Visit: Laboratory results and ECG reports will be analysed by the
      investigator. Eligible subjects will be entered into 7 days run-in period. Rescue medication
      will be dispensed.

      Baseline Visit/ Randomization Visit (Week 0): At the end of screening period (Baseline visit,
      window period + 3 days), subjects fulfilling the rhinitis frequency and symptom criteria
      (baseline average scores as: average 24-h TNSS 10 over 15 days, and requiring no more than 2
      tablets of rescue medication (Loratidine) daily to control the symptoms) will be randomized
      to one of the 3 treatment groups to receive the following treatment regimens:

        1. Group 1: E-RH-06/ 1 BID: (E-RH-06 + Placebo) Twice Daily

        2. Group 2: E-RH-06/ 2 BID: (E-RH-06 + E-RH-06) Twice Daily

        3. Group 3: Placebo: (Placebo + Placebo) Twice Daily Rescue medication accountability &
           dispensing will be performed. Specially designed rescue medication charts will be
           dispensed. Subjects will be provided with subject diaries. Vitals & general examination
           will be performed. TNS scoring will be performed. IP/ Placebo will be dispensed. IP
           accountability will be performed. Adverse event & serious adverse event monitoring will
           be performed.

      Days 14 (window period plus/ minus 3 days) (Follow Up I Visit): This visit will involve
      general examination & vital signs recording. The frequency and intensity of symptoms as well
      as AE/SAE will be monitored and documented. IP/ placebo accountability & dispensing will be
      conducted. Rescue medication accountability & dispensing will be done. TNS scoring will be
      performed.

      Day 28 (window period plus/ minus 3 days) (Follow Up II Visit): General examination, vital
      signs (Blood Pressure and Pulse) recording, documenting frequency and intensity of symptoms,
      monitoring of AE/SAE will be done. IP/ Placebo & rescue medication accountability &
      dispensing will be done. Subject diary will be assessed.

      Day 56 (window period plus/ minus 3 days) (Follow Up III Visit): The visit will involve
      general examination & vital signs recording, documenting of frequency and intensity of
      symptoms, monitoring of AE/SAE and use of rescue medication. IP/ Placebo accountability &
      dispensing will be performed. Rescue medication will be dispensed for further usage. TNS
      scoring will be done.

      Day 84 (window period plus/ minus 3 days) (End-of-Treatment Visit): General examination,
      vital signs recording, documenting frequency and intensity of symptoms, monitoring of AE/SAE
      will be performed. Dispensed IP/ Placebo & rescue medication will be accounted in
      coordination with the left medication count, rescue medication chart & patients history. TNS
      scoring will be performed. Placebo will be dispensed. Rescue medication will be dispensed to
      continue further. Blood sample will be collected for CBC, SGPT & Serum Creatinine analysis.
      ECG will be performed.

      Day 112 (window period plus/ minus 3 days) (Post Treatment Follow Up Visit): The visit will
      involve general examination, vital signs recording, documenting frequency and intensity of
      symptoms, monitoring of AE/SAE and use of rescue medication. Rescue medication accountability
      will be performed. TNS scoring will be performed.

      In between the follow up clinic visits, weekly scores for intensity of rhinitis symptoms will
      be obtained through subject diaries /telephonic assessments made at each week.

      Telephonic Follow Up: Telephonic follow up will be done on Day 42, 78 & 90 to assess the
      nasal symptoms.

      Phase II (Extended Follow-up): At the end of Day 112, an interim analysis will be conducted
      to assess the sustained efficacy of the investigational product and accordingly the study
      will enter into phase II. In case of more than/ equal to 75% subjects from individual active
      groups demonstrating significant sustained efficacy at week 16, the study will enter in to an
      open label, exploratory, extended follow-up phase for next 36 weeks (total 52 weeks). This
      extended follow-up phase will be conducted to determine if 12-week treatment with E-RH-06
      help to reduce risk of seasonal nasal congestion with-or-without rhinorrhea during the
      extended follow-up period of 52-weeks. No other efficacy or safety evaluations will be
      carried out during this phase (extended follow-up).
    
  