
    
      STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM AND RATIONALE

      Despite several interventions to address the unacceptably high rates of maternal and neonatal
      mortality, the problem still persists. Maternal Mortality ratio in Tanzania has been
      persistently high without signs of declining. Currently it stands between 578 and 950 per
      100,000 live births (TDHS 2005, WHO 2007). The neonatal mortality rate as well in the country
      is 32 per 1,000 live births (TDHS 2005).

      Almost 94% of pregnant women attend antenatal care in health facilities at least once, but
      only 47% deliver in these facilities and skilled attendance at birth is 46% (TDHS 2005,
      Mpembeni et al 2007). Births that occur outside the health facilities are assisted by
      relatives, TBA and some women do not have assistance at all (Kayombo 1995, Kayombo 2008,
      Comonsky 1983 ). Studies in Tanzania have shown that home birth with unskilled attendants is
      often the norm (TDHS 1999, TDHS 2005, Mpembeni 2007). This indicates that there are factors
      that impede these women delivering in the health facilities. Among the factors may include
      socio-cultural, economic activities, family, community factors. If these factors are
      compounded by low awareness of danger signs of obstetric complication then these women and
      neonates are more at risk of death when a complication occurs.

      Previous studies in Rufiji district showed that community has low acceptance of facility
      delivery and referral to hospitals when advised (Pembe 2008b). Furthermore, like in other
      parts of Tanzania women have low knowledge of danger signs of complications during pregnancy,
      delivery and after delivery despite attending antenatal care (Mpembeni 2007, Pembe 2008a). In
      another study on the use of essential obstetric care facilities, a quarter (60/232) of women
      with complications were referred to the hospital level but less than half (48%) arrived at
      their referral points. Out of 60 referred cases 31 (52%) did not arrive in any of the two
      hospitals of the district. Nineteen were traced for their outcome and it was found that three
      died on the way to the hospital (Urassa 2005). Consequently, there is a great need for an
      innovative and empowering community-based intervention whose characteristics address this
      problem.

      METHODOLOGY

      DESIGN

      This will be a cluster randomized trial. The cluster has been chosen because the intervention
      is done in the community in groups rather than individuals. The unit of randomization will be
      the health care facility. Randomly selected facility clusters will receive HBLSS in addition
      to the antenatal care received and the in the control group only routine ANC will be done.

      Study area

      This study will be conducted in Rufiji district. Rufiji district is one of the six districts
      of the Coastal Region in Tanzania. It is situated about 300 km in Southern of the capital
      city Dar es Salaam. The district is more rural with few suburban areas. The district has an
      estimated population of 203,102 according to census results 2002 with a male population being
      98,398 and female 104,704 (BoS 2002). Geographically the Rufiji river divides the district
      into two halves Northern and Southern parts with the formation of flood plain, coastal-delta,
      and plateau zones. Since inauguration of the "Mkapa" bridge in 2003 across the Rufiji river,
      transport between northern and the southern part of the district as well as to the southern
      regions has improved.

      Only the main road from Dar es Salaam to the Southern regions is passable in all seasons,
      while other roads in the district are difficult to pass especially during the rainy season.
      The limited transport system makes people dependent more on the health services available
      within the district.

      According to the administrative structure in Tanzania, the district is divided into five
      divisions, which are further divided into 19 wards. There are eight wards in the flood plain,
      four in the coastal-delta, and seven in the plateau zone. There are 128 villages in the
      district. Each village has 2 to 4 hamlets (Vitongoji) under the leadership of a hamlet
      chairperson. The average population in a village is 1600, therefore with an annual population
      growth rate of 4% it is estimated that 64 women will become pregnant in a year.

      The district has two hospitals, Utete a government district hospital and Mchukwi a private
      not for profit hospital owned by the Pentecostal church. Both hospitals have doctors, nurses
      and midwives providing medical care and surgical care including comprehensive emergency
      obstetric care. There are four rural health centres (RHCs) and 52 dispensaries two of which
      are private not for profit and another two are private for profit. Antenatal care (ANC) is
      provided in hospitals, all RHCs and all dispensaries. The normal practice is for the pregnant
      woman to register for antenatal care at the nearest health facility. Dispensaries and RHCs
      have guidelines for referring women with risks or complications to hospitals.

      Participants Randomly selected facility clusters will receive HBLSS in addition to the
      antenatal care received or only routine antenatal care.

      The unit of randomization is health facility. 28 health facilities will be selected and
      randomised into two groups each with 14 facilities. One group will be provided with HBLSS
      educational programme through their VHW while another group will be monitored for the purpose
      of comparison

      Key participants will be pregnant women together with their immediate relatives such as aunt
      and the husband. They will receive the HBLSS training. Village health workers who will be
      trained by HBLSS trainers, will be used to provide the training in the community Intervention
      The selected clusters will receive HBLSS training. This training is being conducted in some
      other parts of Tanzania.

      The HBLSS procedure

      The HBLSS was conceived as a component of the Community Partnership for Safe Motherhood
      Model. It targets a homebirth team consisting of all of those who can be expected to be
      present at a birth, namely, the pregnant woman, her family caregivers, and the birth
      attendant. The education, motivation, cohesion and mobilization of pregnant women, families
      and communities are seen necessary to improve pregnancy outcomes.

      HBLSS training was designed by the American College of Nurse-midwives has been successfully
      implemented in other developing countries including India and Ethiopia (Sibley et al 2001).
      In Tanzania it was adopted and adapted for use and was launched by Honourable Mohamed Shein
      the Vice President of the United Republic of Tanzania on the 25th of March 2007 in Morogoro.
      The White Ribbon Alliance (WRA) adapted the HBLLS training curriculum taking into
      consideration the major causes of maternal mortality in the region and the Tanzanian context,
      and translated it into Swahili. The training and materials have been field tested and the
      first Training of trainers (TOTs) and the training of community was done in Manyara region.
      Other trainings are ongoing. Recently WRA conducted training in Rukwa rural district that
      involved district health providers, 20 primary health care providers and 500 community
      members from 20 villages. HIV awareness and prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission
      are integrated into the training manual. The strategy is to build on existing practices and
      to negotiate acceptable and feasible safe practices with the homebirth team members to
      develop both a consensus on the appropriate action and a capacity to take that action when
      needed.

      The HBLSS training manual has a flexible, modular design comprised of 12 preventive and life
      saving skill topics. Drawing on best practices and current research, to maximize effective
      communication and learning among community members who may be unable to read, essential
      content is reinforced through pictorial Take Action Cards that are taken home for reference.

      The trainer uses various teaching methods to maximize effective communication and learning
      among participants including:

        -  Stories and case histories

        -  Discussion and demonstrations

        -  Identification of complications using picture cards

        -  Take Action Cards.

        -  There will be one Take Action Card for each topic or problem. These cards will be used
           during training and a booklet made of these cards will be left at woman's home.

      HBLSS sensitization and training

      The HBLSS training in the district will start with ten (10) TOTs training at the district
      level. These will train the research assistants (RAs) preferably community health worker
      (VHW) or health assistants, one from each selected village. The RAs will train the community
      on HBLSS. All pregnant mothers will be identified by the RA. The RA will make appointment to
      the family according to their convenience. The RA will visit the family every month to
      discuss the danger signs, decision making, and birth preparedness and emergency readiness
      with the family. The RA will keep all the records of training each family, the number visits
      made and whether the woman attended antenatal care or develop any complication. When the
      woman delivers the RA will record the place of delivery and whether there was any referral
      given.

      Sample size: Baseline study

      Since the study will employ cluster-sampling, technique, a design effect was taken into
      consideration when calculating the sample size. We used a design effect of 2 a value which
      have been reported in the most recent Demographic and Health Surveys as a design effect of
      the variable "Mothers received medical assistance at delivery" in the Coastal Zone where this
      study will be conducted.

      Therefore using the above formula and taking into consideration the design effect, a minimum
      of 766 women is required for the baseline survey.

      Sample size for Cluster Randomized control trial

      The sample size for the intervention study which is a cluster randomized trial was calculated
      using the Acluster programme methods described by Donner and Klar, 2000. We estimated the
      mean cluster size of 100 pregnant women, an intracluster correlation coefficient of 0.05. We
      further assume that a power of 90% to detect an increase of 15% in the rate of hospital
      delivery. In this case we will need 28 clusters, 14 for intervention group and 14 as control.
      We will need to have 1347 women in intervention group and 1347 in the control group. A 20% in
      increase will be done so as to offset the loss of follow-up.

      Sequence generation

      This will be done by including all women who book for antenatal care during the time of the
      study, both in the control and intervention clusters.

      Allocation concealment

      Four health centers will be chosen randomly for intervention and control (2 each). Then
      random selection of 24 dispensaries will be done by using random number tables. Allocation to
      intervention and control will be done randomly by lottery method.

      Statistical methods

      Analysis will be done taking consideration on clustering. Primary analysis will be undertaken
      as intention to treat at cluster level and individual level. Pearson Chi-square test will
      used to compare variables. The result will be deemed significant if p value < 0.05. Multiple
      logistical regression methods will also be used to see the predictor variables on the use of
      health facility for delivery. This will be done for both cluster and at individual level.

      DATA COLLECTION

      Baseline information

      The provision of emergency obstetric care services using United Nations (UN) signal functions
      and Safe motherhood Initiative (SMI) assessment tool in all the facilities will be done.
      Health workers will be interviewed to determine their capabilities to undertake emergency
      obstetric care in their facilities. Birth preparedness, emergency readiness including
      awareness of danger signs of obstetric and neonatal complications among women, their spouses,
      head of the households and other family members will be done. Information on male involvement
      will also be sought. A structured questionnaire will be used to gather the information.
      Information relating to traditionally preferred and/or recommended discouraged foods during
      pregnancy will also be collected. In addition, information on other traditional practices
      including rituals for the first or the last born child and or twins will be documented.

      Qualitative interviews including focus group discussions (FGDs) and in-depth interviews will
      be conducted. FGDs will be done in the community on perceptions, attitudes, male involvement
      and health seeking behaviour on the use of emergency obstetric care services. In-depth
      interview will be conducted with key informants such as religious leaders and other opinion
      people in the community to compliment the data on perceptions of place of delivery and of
      obstetric and neonatal danger signs. In-depth interviews will also be conducted to health
      care providers to supplements the documentation with focus on factors which make many women
      deliver outside health facilities and efforts made to make them deliver in health facilities.
      In addition review reports of ward health committee to see if maternal and newborn features
      out in the report as a sign of awareness.

      Information on traditional pregnancy management practices, including use of herbal plants and
      their preparation in facilitating child delivery and their perceived safety will be
      collected. Plants used will be collected and botanic identification will be done by a
      botanist for scientific names and for literature review for their safety. In addition where
      possible concoctions used for facilitating child delivery and for managing pregnancy and
      infant health problems will be collected for laboratory screening.

      Information from the qualitative studies will also help in preparing instruments for
      quantitative studies.

      Topic guides will be used during the FGDs and in-depth interviews. We will also conduct an
      economic valuation of the training so as to obtain a cost-effectiveness analysis of this type
      of educational program.

      DATA PROCESSING AND ANALYSIS

      Quantitative data:

      When data collection will be completed, serial numbers will be assigned to the questionnaires
      to facilitate identification of the different patient data. Thereafter responses for the
      open-ended questions will be reviewed, categorized and coded for the computer data entry.
      Data entry into the computer will be done by the principal investigator with the help of an
      assistant using the statistical package for social sciences (SPSS) and EPI INFO6 computer
      programmes. Data cleaning will be done. Chi- squared test will be used to determine
      association between variables. Where the chi-square test will not be valid the Yates
      corrected Chi square test will be used. The results will be deemed significant if p-value
      will be less than 0.05.

      Qualitative data:

      The audio-taped information will be transcribed and then back translated from Swahili to
      English to Swahili. A qualitative content analysis method as described by Graneheim and
      Lundman will be used for analysis (Graneheim 2004). All texts will be read several times to
      identify meaning units, that is, statements that relate to the topic of analysis. The meaning
      units will then be condensed. The condensed meaning units will be coded then the codes will
      be categorized according to similarities and differences in content.
    
  