
    
      Two prophylactic vaccines (Gardasil by Merck, and Cervarix by GlaxoSmithKline) have been
      proven in randomized controlled trials (RCT) to be highly effective in preventing infection
      against the target HPV types (HPV-6, 11, 16 and 18, for Gardasil, and HPV-16/18, for
      Cervarix) and the cervical precancerous lesions caused by them. These vaccines have shifted
      the paradigm of prevention and are expected to have a major impact in reducing the burden of
      cervical cancer and of other HPV-associated malignancies, such as vulvar, vaginal, penile,
      anal, and oropharyngeal cancers, as well as benign HPV-associated conditions (in the case of
      Gardasil), such as anogenital warts and respiratory papillomatosis. However, little is known
      about the extent with which vaccination may reduce transmission between sexual partners; i.e.
      much remains to be understood on the effects of HPV vaccine in preventing transmission of
      target HPV types to sexual partners of vaccinated individuals and its impact on herd
      immunity.

      The investigators propose to conduct a placebo-controlled, double-blinded RCT to measure the
      impact of vaccination in preventing HPV transmission within young (age 18-45) heterosexual
      couples at McGill and Concordia Universities in Montreal, Canada. Individual partners in 500
      couples* will be randomized to a treatment (Gardasil 9) or a control vaccine (Avaxim, a
      hepatitis A vaccine). This control vaccine provides a similar health benefit incentive as HPV
      vaccination while preserving the scientific cogency of a "placebo" comparator. Risk factor
      data will be collected via computerized questionnaires at enrolment (time 0), 2, 4, 6, 9 and
      12 months. At all time points, the investigators will measure HPV DNA infection status by PCR
      in both partners in exfoliated penile, and oral samples from men and vaginal, oral samples
      from women. Assessing pre-enrolment humoral immune response to HPV infection with a
      competitive Luminex immunoassay (CLIA) will be done in an enrolment blood sample from all
      study participants.

      The primary outcome will be the reduction of HPV DNA positivity for the target HPV vaccine
      types (types 6, 11, 16 and 18) in multiple anatomic sites in Avaxim-treated sexual partners
      of participants who received Gardasil 9. The investigators hypothesize that HPV vaccination
      is effective in reducing the risk of HPV transmission to their sexual partners. They will use
      the Kaplan-Meier technique and logrank tests to compare the cumulative probability of HPV
      infection in sexual partners of vaccinated versus unvaccinated individuals against follow-up
      time, and Cox proportional hazards regression to estimate the effect of vaccination and other
      covariates on transmission of HPV to sexual partners. Statistical analyses will follow an
      intention-to-treat approach but additional regression models will examine the role of several
      candidate determinants in mediating transmission and the protective effects. Mixed-effects
      models will also be used to take advantage of the repeated measurements across visits, HPV
      types, and anatomical sites for the same subject.

      In addition to the findings on protection to unvaccinated partners, it is expected that this
      study will provide valuable insights as to whether protection may exist for a vaccine
      recipient in preventing infection in an anatomical site in which a target type has not yet
      established infection. These findings will generate key parameter data to inform the extent
      of herd immunity in cost-effectiveness models of HPV vaccination. Such models are essential
      to arrive at rational science-driven policies of HPV vaccination in girls and boys in Canada.

      As of March 13, 2020, study visits were temporarily suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
      With university approval, study visits were resumed as of May 26, 2020. This interruption in
      study visits lead to slight alterations in the timing of vaccinations, which will be adjusted
      for in the final analyses as required.

      *Due to challenges with participant recruitment, we will complete the study with 500
      participants (250 couples), as opposed to the original target of 1000 participants (500
      couples). This sample size is achievable based on current recruitment rates and will maintain
      enough statistical precision for the 2x2 factorial design of the study.

      (full protocol available upon request)
    
  