
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effects of in vivo rituximab purging and maintenance on progression-free
           survival in patients with relapsed or resistant follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
           undergoing high-dose chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the effects of this regimen on response rate and overall survival in this
           patient population.

        -  Determine the effects of in vivo purging with rituximab on molecular remission rates in
           the hematopoietic product and the patients.

        -  Determine the safety of rituximab in the transplant setting.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to type of remission (complete vs good partial) and which remission (second vs
      third). Patients are randomized to one of four treatment arms.

      All patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 3-4 hours on
      day 0 or a standard induction chemotherapy regimen. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered
      subcutaneously daily beginning on day 1.

      Patients are then randomized to receive either in vivo rituximab purging or no purging
      following restaging after completion of induction. For those patients receiving purging (arms
      I and II), rituximab is administered IV once weekly for 4 weeks.

      Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are collected between days 8 and 12 post induction
      chemotherapy. Within 4 weeks of PBSC collection, patients receive carmustine IV over 2 hours
      on day -6, etoposide IV over 2 hours on days -5 to -2, cytarabine IV over 5 minutes twice
      daily on days -5 to -2, and melphalan IV over 10-15 minutes on day -1. (Alternatively, high
      dose cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation beginning 2-4 weeks after cyclophosphamide
      or standard induction chemotherapy priming is also allowed.) PBSC are reinfused on day 0.

      Patients are further randomized to receive either rituximab maintenance or observation only.
      For those patients receiving maintenance (arms I and III), rituximab is administered IV once
      every 2 months for 4 doses beginning 30 days after PBSC reinfusion.

      Patients are followed at 30 days, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after PBSC transplant, every 6
      months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 460 patients (115 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 5 years.
    
  