
    
      This study will be conducted using a randomized, crossover design with six dietary phases: a
      low GI meal or a high GI meal with saturated fat, monounsaturated fat or polyunsaturated fat.
      All participants will be randomly allocated to the six test meals, with the order balanced.
      Fifteen participants aged between 21 and 40 years will be recruited from the general public
      in Singapore. During the testing session, a maximum of eleven blood samples will be collected
      by fingerpricks and cannulation. Fingerpricks and cannulation may cause minor discomfort and
      there may be some slight bruising around the site. Fingerpricks and cannulation will be done
      by an experienced research nurse or a trained research officer to minimize participant
      discomfort. If bruising does occur, it should disappear within one day and it should not
      affect participants' regular daily activity. Participants will be limited to a maximum of two
      tests per week. In addition, blood collection will be carried out in a sterile designated
      area and thus the risk of infection will be very low. On rare occasions, participants may
      feel unwell during or after the testing session. The investigators have several metabolic
      suites with beds for these individuals to rest on. The research nurse and research officers
      will monitor the individuals' condition and they will be provided with a ride home if
      required.

      All the study foods will be prepared in a hygienic manner in a purpose-built research kitchen
      maintained to the highest hygiene standards. The research staff has undergone basic training
      in food hygiene procedures. Hence, the risk of infective acute gastroenteritis will be
      minimal.

      A number of dietary interventions have aimed to investigate the effect of dietary fat quality
      on glucose, insulin and lipidemia response. Up to now there have been few studies connect the
      glycaemic load and fat quality together. The investigators study's results will help public
      choose fat quality and carbohydrate quality in the diet. Participants will be provided with
      some snacks at the end of each testing session.

      In addition, participants will be provided with their blood glucose, blood insulin, blood
      lipid profile, blood pressure, and body composition results, with a brief interpretation of
      these at the conclusion of the study.
    
  