
    
      Pregnant women at high risk for preterm labor from at least 13 weeks of gestation will be
      tested to detect AVF/BV by taking vaginal smear. Diagnosis will be according to the Nugent
      score criteria. Treatment will be given according to the results:

      Patient with a positive smear for AVF- patients tested positive will be treated with either
      clindamycin or metronidazole. Following treatment another smear will be taken according to
      which the patients will be divided into 2 research groups: (1) Assessing the effectiveness of
      probiotic formula to prevent AVF re-infection (secondary infection) - this group includes
      patients with normal vaginal flora following antibiotic administration. (2) Assessing the
      effectiveness of probiotic formula to eradicate AVF - this group includes patients with
      persistent AVF following antibiotic administration (first and second line). In each group the
      patients will be divided into a research group which will receive the probiotic formula UREX
      PLUS (containing L. rhamnosus GR-1and L. reuteri RC-14) and a control group which will
      receive a placebo twice a day until 36.6 weeks of gestation.

      Patient with a negative smear for AVF - in those patients the effectiveness of probiotic
      formula will be tested for primary prevention. These patients will be divided into a research
      group which will receive the probiotic formula UREX PLUS and a control group which will
      receive a placebo twice a day until 36.6 weeks of gestation.

      Finally, the colonization of lactobacilli in the vaginal flora will be examined by dividing
      patients with normal vaginal flora into one group receiving a probiotic capsule containing L.
      rhamnosus GR-1 and L. reuteri RC-14 twice a day for 2 months and a second group without
      intervention. After two months the group receiving probiotic capsule will receive no
      treatment and the second group will receive probiotic capsule containing L. rhamnosus GR-1and
      L. reuteri RC-14 twice a day for 2 months.
    
  