
    
      Psoriasis is a hyperproliferative, inflammatory, immune-mediated skin disease that affects
      approximately 2% of the United States and European populations (Tutrone 2001, Kipnis 2005).
      This disease manifests as red, scaly plaques that are itchy and/or painful. Patients with
      psoriasis may be socially stigmatized because of their appearance. Currently, there is no
      cure for this condition. Often, repeated medical treatments are necessary and can become
      expensive. Treatment with topical corticosteroids is the mainstay therapy for mild to
      moderate psoriasis. In more severe cases, systemic therapies (e.g., cyclosporine) and
      phototherapy (e.g., ultraviolet B (UVB) irradiation) are used. These treatments, however, are
      associated with toxicities or inconvenience. There is anecdotal evidence to suggest that
      antipsychotic drugs have a beneficial effect on psoriasis (Gupta 2001, 2003).

      Fluphenazine is a phenothiazine antipsychotic drug. In vitro, fluphenazine kills activated
      human T cells under conditions that do not affect resting T cells (Immune Control Inc. data
      not shown). To determine the size of a therapeutic window for human peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC)s, Immune Control Inc. performed the following experiments. First,
      phytohemagglutinin- (PHA)-activated cells were exposed to 2, 10, or 20 µM fluphenazine for 0,
      18, 24, 36, 48, or 72 hours. Second, resting cells were exposed to identical fluphenazine
      concentrations for identical time periods, after which the drug was washed out of the cells,
      and the cells activated with PHA. In all cases, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis was
      measured by exposing the cells to tritiated thymidine, and measuring the incorporated
      nucleotide by scintillation counting. The data show that exposure of activated cells to 10 µM
      fluphenazine for 72 hours, or 20 µM fluphenazine for 36 hours, caused the death of virtually
      all of the activated cells. The ability of the resting cells to initiate DNA synthesis after
      activation, by contrast, was largely unaffected by these fluphenazine exposures. Although we
      cannot precisely control intralesional fluphenazine concentrations, we expect that injections
      of up to 1 mg fluphenazine decanoate will yield local concentrations that exceed 10 µM
      without significant systemic fluphenazine concentrations.

      We propose that fluphenazine will suppress proliferating T-lymphocytes in psoriatic plaques
      in vivo and thus result in healing of plaques. The objective of this study is to assess the
      safety and biologic activity of intralesional injection of fluphenazine decanoate in adult
      subjects with psoriasis.
    
  