
    
      In this program the investigators will include patients with acute heart failure (AHF) with
      left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) lower than 50%, admitted to our clinic.

      Patients prior to being included in this research will sign an informed consent form in two
      samples, one remaining with the patient. This form will contain the study protocol, risks,
      potential benefits as well as assuring patients that personal data will be used strictly for
      research purposes. The inclusion and exclusion criteria are presented below. The patients
      will be randomized into two groups: neuromuscular electrostimulation (NMES) therapy and
      conventional rehabilitation or a conventional rehabilitation program alone (respiratory
      gymnastics and strength / endurance exercises in bed).

      Patients will receive optimal medical therapy for AHF according to current management
      guidelines. Patients will complete different questionnaires (Kansas, Beck for Depression). In
      the first phase, patients will be given a form with questions regarding notions about heart
      failure and cardiovascular recovery to assess the level of knowledge about their disease.

      All patients included will perform the following:

        -  Clinical evaluation

        -  ECG

        -  Biological samples (including NT pro BNP, CK, oxidized LDL plus standard samples)

        -  Cardiac ultrasound

        -  6-minute walk test (6MWT) The duration of NMES therapy will be equal to the duration of
           hospitalization. At the time of discharge, all patients will undergo a 6MWT and
           biological samples (NT pro BNP and oxidized LDL) and receive a cardiac rehabilitation
           program that they will follow at home. They will be given advice on initiating and
           maintaining a healthy diet, as well as discontinuing smoking if this risk factor is
           identified.

      There will be a telephone visit at 30 days and the investigator will note the vital status
      and rehospitalizations.
    
  