
    
      AAT deficiency is a genetic disorder in which individuals have inadequate levels of the AAT
      protein. AAT protects the lungs from white blood cell enzymes that can damage air sacs within
      the lungs, potentially leading to emphysema. Experimental gene transfer procedures, in which
      normal copies of genes are inserted into cells, are being developed to treat many genetic
      diseases, including AAT deficiency. In this study, a modified virus, adeno-associated virus
      (AAV), has been genetically engineered to contain a normal copy of the AAT gene. When AAV is
      combined with the AAT gene, the resulting agent, rAAV2-CB-hAAT, is able to carry normal
      copies of the AAT gene into muscle cells to produce additional AAT. The purpose of this study
      is to evaluate the safety of injecting rAAV2-CB-hAAT into individuals with AAT deficiency.

      This 13-month study will enroll individuals with AAT deficiency. Participants currently using
      AAT protein replacement will discontinue its use for 15 weeks during the study. Participants
      will first attend a baseline study visit, which will include a medical history review; a
      physical examination; an electrocardiogram (ECG) to record heart activity; blood, urine, and
      semen collection; pulmonary function tests; and chest and arm scans. Participants will then
      attend a 5-day inpatient visit, during which they will receive a series of injections
      consisting of one of four different doses of rAAV2-CB-hAAT. Physical examinations will occur
      on all 5 inpatient days; pulmonary function testing, arm circumference measurements, and
      collection of blood, urine, and semen will occur on selected days of the inpatient stay.
      Follow-up study visits, with possible overnight stays, will occur on Days 14 and 90. On Days
      30, 45, 60, 75, 180, 270, and 365, participants will have blood drawn at a local clinic. On
      these same days, study staff will contact participants by telephone to review their medical
      history and symptoms. Unused blood and semen samples will be frozen and stored for future
      research purposes. Participants will have yearly follow-up evaluations by either telephone or
      mail for a total of 15 years.
    
  