
    
      The principal research question to be addressed is: what is the feasibility of a randomized
      controlled trial to assess whether in boys, 1-5 years of age, diagnosed with intraabdominal
      UDT, two-stage GSLO results in fewer postoperative testicular atrophies when compared to
      single-stage GSLO? The results of this study will be used to assess the feasibility of a
      randomized controlled trial on this topic. If our protocol does not require significant
      modifications, then participants assessed in this pilot trial will be included as
      participants in the definitive multicenter trial.

      To the best of our knowledge, the full-scale trial will be the first prospective,
      multicenter, randomized controlled trial to study the success rates of single-stage and
      two-stage GSLO. The results of the definitive multicenter trial will inform guidelines both
      locally and nationally, regarding the efficacy of staged techniques for orchidopexy. The
      results of this study will also inform and improve current care for children with IAT, as
      atrophy rates can be as high as 33% using the traditional laparoscopic approach.

      Furthermore, if it is shown that a single stage approach is more efficacious than a two-stage
      approach, it will limit unnecessary exposure of young children to general anesthetic, which
      may be associated with an increased risk for learning disability or behavioral problems

      The control group will receive single-stage GSLO procedure, while the intervention group will
      receive a two-stage GSLO technique. The first stage of the two-stage technique involves the
      ligation of testicular vessels laparoscopically, or transection of these vessels using
      cautery. Approximately 3-6 months following the completion of the first stage, the patient is
      seen again and the second stage of the procedure is performed. Access is obtained with a
      Hasson technique through an umbilical incision. Dissection begins laterally and proceeds
      along the superior margin of the internal inguinal ring (IIR), extending medially beyond the
      obliterated umbilical artery, while preserving a wide strip of peritoneum between the testis
      and the gubernaculum. Further dissection is then performed proximally, near the bifurcation
      of the iliac vessels, which allows free mobilization of this peritoneal triangle containing
      collateral blood supply to the testis. Next, a laparoscopic grasper is advanced through the
      IIR alongside the gubernaculum, and into the most dependent aspect of the scrotum. The distal
      gubernacular attachments and preserved cremasteric vessels, along with the testis, are pulled
      through the IIR with the assistance of a laparoscopic grasper, following the normal
      testicular descent route into the ipsilateral scrotum. Upon completion of dissection and
      descent, the testis is fixed to the scrotum in a sub-dartos pouch with a single 4-0
      polydioxanone (PDS) stitch. If the patient is randomized to receive single-stage GSLO
      procedure, it is important to note that both the ligation of testicular vessels and the
      mobilization of the testis occur during the same operation.
    
  