
    
      In the event that research must be completed virtually due to coronavirus (COVID-19)
      restrictions at the research site, an Ipad will be provided to participants by clinic staff
      to complete measures, through Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) and the
      intervention/control visits through a Children's Health-approved and HIPAA compliant
      telehealth platform. Due to continued changes in protocols, it is possible that participants
      may begin with in-person research and transition to virtual research, or vice versa.

      Patient list for chronic blood transfusion clinic will be reviewed weekly for eligible
      participants. Eligible participants will be approached at the start of their routine blood
      transfusion (which are part of their clinical care) appointment to minimize interference from
      sedative medications. The researcher will explain the study and answer questions related to
      participation. If the caregiver and youth choose to participate, written consent (and patient
      assent when appropriate) will be obtained.

      At visit one, both study groups will receive a baseline visit (V1), which will include
      completing measures, and participants will be provided a handout of community mental health
      resources to have for future reference if mental health needs arise. During visit two (V2),
      (typically occurs approximately 1 month after V1) caregivers in the intervention group will
      complete the Psychological Outcomes Profiles (PSYCHLOPS) measure, receive a single session
      problem-solving intervention to target an identified problem, and complete the Abbreviated
      Acceptability Rating Profile (AARP) at the end of the intervention. Problem to be targeted
      will be identified collaboratively by the researcher and the caregiver, after review of
      measures completed by the caregiver and youth participant during visit one. The control group
      will receive a visit from the researcher, in which the caregiver participant will complete
      the PSYCHLOPS measure. During visit three (V3), (typically occurs approximately 2 months
      after V1), both groups will complete the same measures from visit one, with the addition of
      all caregiver participants completing the PSYCLOPS measure. At this visit, caregivers in the
      intervention group will also receive a short review of the problem-solving strategy and
      address questions about the skill following completion of measures. The caregiver
      participants in the intervention group will complete the AARP at the end of the intervention
      review. At visit four (V4), (typically occurs approximately five months after V1) both groups
      will complete the same measures as visit one, in addition to the PSYCHLOPS measure, for
      longer-term follow up. In addition, the intervention group will complete the AARP.

      Virtual alternative for all visits:

      All study procedures will remain the same as stated above, except clinic staff will provide
      the handout of community mental health resources to participants and visits with both the
      Intervention Group and Control Group will be conducted through a Children's Health-approved
      telehealth platform.

      Aims and Hypotheses

      Aim 1: Determine the feasibility of utilizing a single-session problem solving intervention.

      Hypothesis 1: At least 70% of participants approached for this study will agree to enroll.

      Hypothesis 2: At least 70% of participants who start the study will be retained through V4.

      Aim 2: Determine the acceptability of a single-session problem solving intervention.

      Hypothesis 3: At least 70% of caregivers will find the single-session intervention to be
      acceptable at V3.

      Hypothesis 4: At least 70% of caregivers will find the single-session intervention to be
      acceptable at V4.

      Aim 3: Determine the efficacy of a single-session problem solving intervention at improving
      the selected problem.

      Hypothesis 5: The intervention group will report a greater decrease in difficulty associated
      with their identified problem [Psychosocial Outcomes Profiles (PSYCHLOPS)] over time (V3 and
      V4) compared to those in the control group.

      Hypothesis 6: The intervention group will report a greater decrease in psychosocial risk
      factor score [Psychosocial Assessment Tool (PAT)] over time as compared to the control group.

      Hypothesis 7: The intervention group will report a greater increase in quality of life
      [Pediatrics Quality of Life_ Sickle Cell Disease Module (PedsQL_SCD Module)], both patient
      and caregiver report) over time as compared to the control group.
    
  