
    
      Specific Objectives:

        1. To assess whether or not the Day care Approach for the management of severe childhood
           pneumonia with or without moderate acute malnutrition and/or severe underweight
           incorporated into the existing urban and rural Health Systems of Bangladesh is safe and
           effective.

        2. To implement the Day care Approach for the management of severe childhood pneumonia with
           or without moderate acute malnutrition and/or underweight within the Health Systems of
           Bangladesh as a cost effective alternative to the Existing Treatment of care for both
           the Health Systems and the families.

        3. To examine and compare the cost effectiveness of the Day care Approach versus Existing
           Treatment of care for the management of severe childhood pneumonia with or without
           moderate acute malnutrition and/or severe underweight.

        4. To identify and assess potential barriers and challenges during the whole implementation
           process.

      Background of the Project including Preliminary Observations:

      At present and depending on clinical presentation, pneumonia is classified as severe
      pneumonia, pneumonia, or no pneumonia, according to the recent guidelines by the World Health
      Organization in 2013. Since pneumonia is the leading cause of death in <5-year-old children,
      interventions to promote the prevention and treatment of pneumonia are an essential part of
      child survival efforts to achieve Millennium Development Goal 4. World Health Organization
      standard management of severe pneumonia requires hospitalization for supportive treatment
      including oxygen therapy for hypoxaemia, airway suctioning, fluid and nutritional management,
      antibiotics, and careful monitoring.

      Most, if not all, developing countries including Bangladesh do not have enough hospitals, or
      pediatric hospital beds to accommodate the demand for admission of all children with severe
      pneumonia with or without malnutrition and other co-morbidity. In addition, mothers of ill
      children have other childcare and household responsibilities that constrain their ability to
      attend the child during hospitalization, which is often mandatory. Furthermore,
      transportation, cost, long distance from the hospital, lack of adequate child-care at home,
      or cultural perceptions represent additional huge limitations to hospitalization.
      Hospitalization also may not be feasible due to inability of parents to stay in hospital for
      the entire duration of illness. The sum total of all these common potential constraints lead
      to failure of hospitalization of children with severe pneumonia and severe malnutrition with
      or without additional co-morbidity. This inadequate availability and use of hospital beds
      leading to failure of hospitalization of children with severe pneumonia and/or malnutrition
      assuredly results in excess and unwanted deaths of children, who, with proper care, would
      otherwise survive. Although Investigators do not have direct evidence (no data available)
      that the bottleneck to pneumonia deaths in Bangladesh is lack of hospital beds mainly. But
      Investigators know from experience that many children with severe pneumonia requiring
      hospitalization are not hospitalized due to the lack of free pediatric beds, as observed
      during the observational day care studies.

      Study Design A cluster randomized controlled clinical trial will be conducted in urban Dhaka
      and rural Bangladesh. The trial areas are pre-selected on the basis of infrastructure
      (adequate space, water supply, electricity, and willingness for performing the study). In the
      urban areas, 16 clusters equivalent to Wards (either whole or partial), with a population of
      50,000 to 80,000 each and in the rural areas, another 16 clusters equivalent to Unions each
      with about 20,000 to 30,000 inhabitants. Children with severe pneumonia, according to recent
      World Health Organization criteria (2013) with or without malnutrition will be enrolled into
      the study in urban Dhaka: (i) Tikatuli, Surjer Hashi Clinic, 12, K.M. Das Lane and (ii)
      Circular Road Circular Road Surjer Hashi Clinic, New Circular Road; and rural Bangladesh:
      (iii) Dhamrai Upazilla of Dhaka District, and (iv) Karimganj Upazilla of Kishoreganj District
      to one of the two management schemes: (i) the Existing Treatment in the control clusters, or
      (ii) the Day care Approach in the intervention clusters. Children with history of cough,
      fever and difficult breathing suggestive of having severe pneumonia will be enrolled at
      primary health facilities such as Primary Health Care Centres or Comprehensive Reproductive
      Health Centres in the urban areas and Health and Family Welfare Centres or Community Clinics
      in the rural areas.

      Methods

      Primary study sites Urban: United States Agency for International Development -Department For
      International Development support Non Government Organization Health Service Delivery Project
      through Pathfinder run by the Population Services and Training Center and Concerned Women for
      Family Development. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare contributes to urban health
      care through the outpatient services offered through its secondary, tertiary and specialized
      hospitals located in the urban settings.

      Rural: Health services in Bangladesh in the rural areas are mostly provided by the
      Government's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), and
      private providers. In the government sector, two community based workers - a family welfare
      assistant and a health assistant - and a community clinic run by a community health care
      provider serve a population of 6000 to 7000. Another first level outpatient clinic - e.g.
      Union Health and Family Welfare Centres - serves a population of about 20,000.

      Randomization and masking The trial field sites have been pre-selected on the basis of
      infrastructure (adequate space, water supply, electricity and willingness for performing the
      study).

      Case Management

      Existing Treatment (control) clusters

      Children in the control Existing Treatment clusters with pneumonia (not severe pneumonia)
      with/without malnutrition will be identified by the Community Health Worker/Community Service
      Providers in the urban areas or Field Research Assistants/Field Assistants in the rural
      areas, or self-referred by the parents/caregivers to the Primary Health Care Centres (Vital
      clinics)/Comprehensive Reproductive Health Centres (Ultra clinics) in the urban areas and
      Community Clinics/Health and Family Welfare Centres in the rural areas.

      Follow-up in the Existing Treatment control clusters

      Community Health Workers/Field Research Assistants/Field Assistants will perform the
      follow-up visits at the clinics on days 2, child's home on day 3, and clinics on day 6 and
      day 14 (window period + 1 day) in the Existing Treatment clusters of all four primary study
      sites.

      In case of treatment failure in control areas children will be referred to hospital from Day
      2.

      Day Care Approach (Intervention) clusters

      Similarly, children of the intervention Day care Approach clusters with pneumonia (not severe
      pneumonia) with or without malnutrition will be addressed in the same manner as the control
      clusters, i.e. be identified by the Community Health Workers in the urban areas and Field
      Research Assistants/Field Assistants in the rural areas. As with the children in the control
      clusters at the 1st level care centres (Primary Health Care Centres/Comprehensive
      Reproductive Health Centres in the urban areas and Community Clinics/Health and Family
      Welfare Centres in the rural areas), the children will be assessed by the
      Physicians/Pediatricians working at the Comprehensive Reproductive Health Centres in the
      urban areas and by the Sub Assistant Community Medical Officers working at the Health and
      Family Welfare Centres in the rural areas and finally evaluated by a trained study physician
      and treated at home with oral antibiotics (syrup Amoxicillin 90 mg/kg three divided doses or
      Co-trimoxazole 40 mg/kg two divided doses per day for 5 days).

      Children with pneumonia (i.e., not severe pneumonia) who fail to the community level oral
      Amoxicillin/Co-trimoxazole treatment for two days as well as those presenting with severe
      pneumonia (self-referred or identified by Community Health Workers/Field Research
      Assistants/Field Assistants) right from beginning will be assessed by the
      Physicians/Pediatricians working at the Comprehensive Reproductive Health Centres in the
      urban areas and by the Sub Assistant Community Medical Officers working at the Health and
      Family Welfare Centres in the rural areas and finally evaluated by a trained study physician
      and directly referred to the Comprehensive Reproductive Health Centres in the urban areas or
      Health and Family Welfare Centres in the rural areas for Day care Approach of management. For
      this purpose, the children will be admitted to a day-care section of the Comprehensive
      Reproductive Health Centres in the urban areas from 08:30 to 17:00 hours and to a day-care
      section of the Health and Family Welfare Centres in the rural areas from 08:30 to 15:00 hours
      on all days of the week including weekends and public holidays, until fulfilling the criteria
      for discharge (clinical end-points, defined as no hypoxemia, no fever, no fast breathing and
      no tachycardia). Parents will bring their children to the Comprehensive Reproductive Health
      Centres/Health and Family Welfare Centres at 8:30 hours in the morning every day and return
      them back home at 15:00 hours in rural areas or 17:00 hours in urban areas.

      Follow-up study up to 3 months after discharge

      After successful management of all enrolled study children belonging to all Existing
      Treatment/Day care Approach clusters will be discharged from the Comprehensive Reproductive
      Health Centres/Health and Family Welfare Centres. The study physicians will inform the
      parents on the dates of follow-up visits for the next 3 months written down in the discharge
      certificate.

      Economic Evaluation of Intervention Alternatives

      Effectiveness trial of severe pneumonia without/with Moderate Acute Malnutrition and or
      severe underweight is planned to implement the Day care Approach of treatment into the urban
      Comprehensive Reproductive Health Centres in Dhaka city or the rural Health and Family
      Welfare Centres of Bangladesh.

      Cost of intervention

      Intervention costs consist of the costs of providers and households.

      Cost of provider Cost to household

      Sample Size Calculation and Outcome (Primary and Secondary) Variable(s)

      Cluster-randomized design for dichotomous outcomes with an equivalency design and the
      explicit expectation that the results on primary outcomes would fall within the 95%
      Confidence Intervals. Because the number of clusters is fixed at 8 clusters per site per year
      including 4 control and 4 intervention and a power of 90%, coefficient of variation of 0.20,
      and an alpha of 0.05. On the basis of these assumptions, 50 children with severe pneumonia
      with or without malnutrition with or without severe under-weight per cluster per year will be
      enrolled over 2.5 years, for an estimated 2000 patients in each study arm including 15%
      drop-outs. 32 clusters will be needed in each study arm. Therefore, for a period of 2.5
      years, a total of 4000 children can be easily recruited within the time frame from 4 primary
      study sites. The estimated incidence of pneumonia is taken as 0.23 episode/ child/ year.

      Outcome Variables

        -  The primary outcome variable will be the following (i) Clinical treatment failure by day
           6 after enrollment (ii) Success rate of the Health System Day acre Approach plus
           referral to hospital verses Existing Treatment plus referral to hospital)

        -  The secondary outcome variables will be:

      (iii) Treatment failure or relapse between day 7 and day 14 in children who are well on day 6
      (iv) Economic evaluation (cost-effective analyses) (v) Referrals to hospitals (vi) Deaths
      (vii) Compliance to treatment (viii) Anthropometrical indices such as body weight,
      length/height, Mid Upper Arm Circumference, Weight-for-Age (%), Weight-for-Height (%),
      Height-for-Age (%) (ix) Morbidity, mortality, relapse and hospitalization during 3-months
      follow-up after discharge from the study (x) Family/patient satisfaction
    
  