
    
      Single-sided deafness (SSD) can be defined as moderate-to-profound sensorineural hearing loss
      with limited speech perception benefit in one ear and normal hearing in the contralateral
      ear. Though one ear is within the normal hearing limits, SSD may result in reduced speech
      perception in noise, variable abilities on localization tasks, increased subjective report of
      hearing handicap, and reduced quality of life.

      This patient population cannot utilize conventional amplification due to the severity of the
      hearing loss and poor speech discrimination abilities in the affected ear. Current treatment
      options include: contralateral routing of the signal (CROS) hearing aids, and bone-conduction
      devices. A CROS hearing aid is a two-part system that includes a microphone/transmitter on
      the affected ear and a receiver on the normal hearing ear. The microphone/transmitter sends
      the acoustic signal from the affected ear to the receiver, which is presented to the normal
      hearing ear. Bone-conduction devices utilize a percutaneous, implanted titanium abutment to
      send the acoustic signal from the affected side to the normal hearing ear via vibrations. The
      goal of both of these technologies is to send the signal from the affected side to the normal
      hearing side, thereby leaving the patient in a unilateral listening condition.

      Though CROS hearing aids and bone-conduction devices provide the patient with auditory
      information from both sides to the better hearing ear, the ability to use binaural cues for
      speech perception in noise is variable.

      It is of interest whether cochlear implantation of the affected ear would benefit the SSD
      population. A cochlear implant is a two-part system, including the internal electrode array
      and external speech processor. The internal electrode array is surgically implanted into the
      affected cochlea. The external speech processor receives sounds and transmits this signal to
      the internal portion. The electrode array presents the acoustic signal via electrical pulses
      within the cochlea, which is interpreted by the brain as sound.

      Presumably, cochlear implantation may provide the SSD population improvements in speech
      perception in the affected ear, which cannot benefit from appropriately fit hearing aids.
      Cochlear implantation may provide a benefit over current treatment options in the SSD
      population, as it stimulates the auditory pathway on the affected side, thus allowing for
      ipsilateral representation of acoustic signals arriving to each ear independently.

      The primary goal of this project is to determine whether subjects with SSD experience an
      improvement in speech perception, localization, and quality of life with a cochlear implant
      as compared to an unaided listening condition. Secondary aims include: 1) a comparison of
      speech perception, localization, and quality of life outcomes in the study population to a
      SSD control group with long-term listening experience with a current treatment option (i.e.
      bone-conduction device), and 2) a within-subject comparison of speech perception and
      localization abilities with cochlear implantation versus the bone-conduction test device.
    
  