
    
      Review of research area Intestinal metaplasia of the stomach (IM) is generally considered a
      precancerous lesion and is associated with a small increase in the risk of developing gastric
      cancer (GC). Endoscopic monitoring has been proposed to control the risk of endangered
      populations. However, due to the lower incidence of GC in the United States and other Western
      countries, there is no specific monitoring protocol. In general, there are no widely accepted
      guidelines for IM management. Recently, the European Endoscopic Society as well as other
      European academic companies have developed documented guidelines for the management of
      patients with IM.

      These guidelines emphasize the increased risk of cancer in patients with gastric atrophy and
      IM and the need for staging in cases of high-grade dysplasia. Risk factors for IM include
      Helicobacter pylori infection, high NaCl intake, smoking, alcohol consumption and chronic
      biliary reflux.

      The development of intestinal-type gastric carcinoma occurs in four stages: non-atrophic
      gastritis, multifocal atrophic gastritis, IM, and dysplasia. The IM of the gastric cardia and
      the Barrett's esophagus differ in the risk of malignancy. Elevated serum pepsinogen levels
      have been suggested as an indicator of extensive gastric atrophy. Currently, there are no
      reliable markers of gastric dysplasia or gastric cancer.

      Based on the available data, it appears that the IM of the gastric cardia is a possible
      precursor to the development of intestinal-type carcinoma of the stomach. It has been found
      that 45% of patients with gastric carcinoma had residual IM, supporting the idea that IM is a
      particularly important precursor to its development. Histologically, the IM may be complete
      or incomplete. Complete (type I) intestinal metaplasia is defined by the mucosa of the small
      intestinal type with mature absorbent cells, cell cups, and a brush-like outline. Incomplete
      intestinal metaplasia (type II) secretes cialomycin and is similar to colonic epithelium with
      columns of "intermediate" cells at various stages of differentiation, irregular mucosal
      droplets and the absence of a "brush" limit. The highest risk of gastric cancer is associated
      with incomplete and / or extensive IM.

      Recent studies show that microbial changes are related to the histological stages of gastric
      oncogenesis. Chronic H. pylori infection can cause inflammation of the mucosa and cause
      histological changes. It is also recognized as an important risk factor for GC. However, only
      3% of patients infected with H. pylori develop GC. In addition, H. pylori has been found to
      be usually undetectable in GC samples. These studies suggest that H. pylori infection may
      only be an early event for the gastric mucosa, which will undergo further oncogenic changes
      and indicate the possible role of mucosal microbes, with the exception of H. pylori in the
      gastric carcinoma.

      The dominant germ type in the gastric mucosa was found to be protein-secreted bacteria, in
      both H. pylori negative and positive for H. pylori samples. Two previous studies have shown
      that the microbial count in IM patients was found to be partially overlapped with the group
      of gastritis and cancer among patients with H. pylori infection. Li et al (2017) found that
      the microbial amount in gastritis samples overlapped mostly with that of IM samples. In
      contrast, the microflora of patients with IM and GC had significantly lower microbial
      richness, while the biodiversity of the microbiology of patients with overt gastritis (EG),
      chronic gastritis (CG) and IM was similar in total, with the exception of those with GC.
      These conflicting results suggest that IM may be the key point in microbial change and that
      there may be other qualitative factors involved in gastric oncogenesis, especially in
      patients with IM.

      Research subject and objectives The study will be performed on patients undergoing
      gastroscopy who have IM and / or GC findings. In patients with IM, the microbiome will be
      analyzed and correlated with the type of IM (complete-incomplete). The same will be done for
      patients with GC (intestinal-type cancer).

      Thematic area The aim of the study will be to analyze the microbiome in the blood and stomach
      in patients with intestinal metaplasia (IM) and / or gastric cancer (GC). As far as IM is
      concerned, it has been found that the incomplete type is related to GC mainly
      intestinal-type. Studies show differences in the microbiome in patients with IM and in
      patients with GC, but do not specify whether these differences are related to histological
      types.

      Our intention is to further analyze the microbiome based on histological types. Most studies
      on stomach cancer have focused on the microbiota of gastric microbiota. Recent data have
      shown that the microbiome of the small intestine, especially the mucosa, can play a key role
      in the condition of the gastrointestinal tract. Disturbance of the microbiome of the small
      intestine has been found in celiac disease, chronic liver disease, diabetes and irritable
      bowel syndrome. However, information on the role of the microbiome in IM remains limited.

      Keywords Gastric intestinal metaplasia, Complete Type, Incomplete Type, Gastric Cancer,
      Microbiome
    
  