
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of letrozole on ovulation induction to that
      of clomiphene citrate in women suffering polycystic ovary syndrome.

      Research question:

      In women with PCOS , dose letrozole effective in ovulation induction as clomiphene citrate?

      Researcher hypothesis:

      In women with pcos , letrozole may be as effective as clomiphene citrate in ovulation
      induction.

      Patients and methods Site: this study will be recruited from women attending infertility
      outpatient clinic at Ain Shams university maternity hospital.

      Design: Randomized controlled trial.

      Study population: 110 infertile women diagnosed as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) at the
      age group of 20-35 distributed randomly:

        -  55 women will receive letrozole 2.5mg twice daily orally from the 2nd day to the 6thday
           of the cycle for three successive cycles.

        -  55 women will receive clomiphene citrate 50 mg twice daily orally from the 2nd day to
           the 6thday of the cycle for three successive cycles.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Age between 20-35

        2. Primary or secondary infertility

        3. Patients diagnosed as PCOS according to Rotterdam criteria :

      Menstrual irregularities:

        -  oligomenorrhea and/or anovulation.

        -  Oligomenorrhea (menses that occur at intervals greater than 35 days)

        -  Excess androgen activity. - Clinically: hirsutism .

             -  Biochemically: elevated serum androgen. polycystic ovaries (by gynecologic
                ultrasound)

      Exclusion criteria:

      Any patients have any causes of infertility other than which mentioned in the inclusion
      criteria as:

        1. Hyperprolactinemia.

        2. Male factor of infertility.

           WHO Guidelines 2010 for Normal seminal fluid analysis :

           - Volume> 1.5 ml

           - ph 7.2 to 8.0

             -  Liquefaction time 20 to 30 min

             -  Sperms concentration >15 million/ml

             -  Total motility 40%(Progressive motility + non progressive motility)

             -  Progressive motility 32%

             -  Morphology > 4% normal forms

        3. Thyroid dysfunction.

        4. Diabetes Mellitus.

        5. Known or suspicious tubal factor infertility ( by hysteroslapingograrhy (HSG) or
           laparoscope.

        6. Endometrioses or pelvic inflammatory diseases .

      Patients will be subjected to:

      Complete history taking:

        1. Details a bout name, age

        2. Menstrual history with determination of menarche

        3. Amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea , Regularity of the cycle

        4. History of endocrine disease.

        5. History of previous operations.

           Physical examination:

           General examination:

           With special concern to:

           --Acne.

           --Hirsutism .

             -  Weight.

             -  Height

             -  BMI was determined :

           Wt. in kg ـــــــــــــــــــ =

           ) Height in m)2

             -  Abdominal examination:

           for scar of previous pelvic or abdominal operations .

             -  Pelvic examination:

           vaginal examination for enlarged cystic ovaries.

             -  ultrasound for diagnosis of pcos.

             -  The patients will randomly assigned to receive either letrozole (2.5 mg twice daily
                ) or clomiphene citrate (50 mg twice daily ) from day 2 to day 6 of menstrual cycle
                .

             -  Follicular monitoring will be done by transvaginal ultrasonography (TVS) on
                alternate days from day 9 of menstrual cycle until a mature follicle detected.
                Follicle considered mature when it attained 18 mm in size or more by averaging
                inner two diameters of the follicle.

             -  A single injection of 10,000 IU human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) will be given,
                if at least one follicle attained 18 mm. TVS will be done after 48 h of hCG
                injection to determine follicle rupture. If the follicle found unruptured, TVS
                repeated after 72 h of the hCG injection to detect whether follicle has ruptured or
                not. Ovulation ascertained by observing rupture of the follicle by ultrasonogram
                (USG).

             -  Endometrial thickness of 8 mm considered a satisfactory response of the
                endometrium.

             -  on day 21 serum progesterone level will measured. A progesterone level of 10 ng/ml
                considered as ovulatory.

           PARAMETERS

           Primary outcome measure :

      (1) Rate of ovulation assessed by number of mature follicles produced per cycle .

      Secondary outcome measures :

      (2) Serum progesterone level on day 21 ( assessed up to 24 weeks). (3) Mean endometrial
      thickness ( assessed up to 24 weeks). (4) Chemical pregnancy ( assessed up to 24 weeks). (5)
      Ongoing pregnancy ( assessed up to 24 weeks).
    
  