
    
      Design:

      This is a prospective, observational study of patients in the University of Utah dialysis
      program.

      Study Procedures:

      Patients new to dialysis at the University of Utah dialysis program will be approached to
      determine whether they want to participate in the registry. If they are interested, the study
      purpose and procedures will be explained and informed consent obtained. Participants will be
      asked to complete a brief questionnaire on demographics (age, gender, race, education),
      co-morbid conditions (diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, hypertension, chronic lung
      disease, malignancies, coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease and peripheral
      vascular disease), physical activity level, cognitive function and sleep patterns. Height,
      weight, and waist circumference will be measured. Annual follow up visits will be conducted
      with each patient until the 5th annual follow-up, death, transplantation or loss to
      follow-up. During these visits, participants will complete questionnaires on physical
      activity level, cognitive function and sleep patterns. Height, weight, and waist
      circumference will be measured. Thirty milliliters (ml) of blood will also be drawn.

      Relevant Dialysis data (cause and duration of kidney disease, duration of dialytic therapy,
      duration and frequency of dialysis sessions, type of dialyzer used, type of vascular access),
      medications (erythropoietin dose and route of administration, iron supplements), laboratory
      markers (hemoglobin, serum calcium, serum intact parathyroid hormone, serum phosphorous,
      white blood cell count with differential neutrophil and lymphocyte counts and urea reduction
      rate) will be obtained from the electronic medical records.

      30 ml of blood will be drawn on a dialysis day before dialysis. Serum/ plasma will be
      separated. DNA will be extracted from the rest of the cells in the baseline visit and stored.
      The samples will be stored in a freezer for future analyses.

      Participants will be longitudinally followed using the dialysis unit electronic medical
      records and with annual follow up visits. In addition, if the participant consents, Medicare
      follow-up data from the United States Renal Data System (USRDS) will be obtained. The USRDS
      is a national registry of dialysis patients. U.S. Medicare regulations stipulate that
      irrespective of their insurance status, all patients starting on chronic dialysis therapy
      must be reported to the USRDS. The outcomes of these patients are tracked by USRDS using the
      Medicare database and national Vital Statistics (maintained by National Center for Health
      Statistics).
    
  