
    
      According to the eligibility and exclusion criteria the patients will be selected and
      randomly divided into two groups. The operator N.S. will complete endodontic treatment of all
      cases in two visits as following:

        1. Anaesthetizing the tooth using inferior alveolar nerve block followed by buccal
           infiltration technique.

        2. Isolation the tooth with a rubber dam and disinfect the tooth using sterile swabs
           moistened with 30% H2O2 (v/v) for 30 seconds followed by 5.25% NaOCl for 30 seconds and
           5% sodium thiosulphate for inactivation of the disinfecting agents .

        3. Performing access cavity preparation in two stage :

             1. The first stage: will be performed to allow removal of contamination which includes
                carious lesions and restoration using high speed sterile round bur and diamond
                stone.

             2. In second stage: before entering the pulp chamber, the access cavity will be
                disinfected .

        4. For endotoxins sampling, the first sample (S1):

           N.S. will take the sample by introducing a sterile paper point (size #15) into the full
           working length of the wider / largest canals or canals that show presence of the
           exudate.

        5. N.S. will place the sample in a sterile glass for further Enzyme-linked immunosorbent
           assay (ELISA).

        6. After the first sampling,Taking working length using electronic apex locator and then
           will be confirmed radio-graphically .

        7. Performing the biomechanical preparation for the two groups in a crown-down technique
           using ProTaper Next rotary system.

        8. Irrigation with 2mL of specified irrigation either 2.5% NaOCl or Neem irrigant will be
           performed each time instrument is changed with 30-gauge side-vented needles.

        9. After complete mechanical preparation, the root canals will be flushed using 5mL of
           sterile saline solution.

       10. Before the second sampling (S2):

           N.S. will irrigate the prepared root canal with 5 mL of 17% EDTA solution for 3 minutes
           followed by a final rinse with 5 mL of a sterile saline solution to remove smear layer.
           NS will seal the access cavity with temporary filling material.

       11. Scheduling the second appointment 1 week after the first appointment;. NS will irrigate
           the root canals with 5 mL of a sterile saline solution.

       12. N.S. will give the patients a pain diary to record the postoperative pain after 6,12,24
           and 48h post-instrumentation.

       13. in second appointment: After master cone fit radiograph and selection of the master
           cone, all canals will be filled using cold lateral condensation technique with
           resin-based sealer.

       14. N.S. will give the patients another pain diary to record the postoperative pain after 6,
           12, 24 and 48 hours post-obturation.
    
  