
    
      Tourette syndrome (TS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder affecting 1% of school-aged children;
      one-third of patients suffer persistent tics into adulthood. Diagnostic criteria rely solely
      on motor symptoms, but sensory phenomena are a nearly universal feature, manifesting as 1)
      premonitory urges (PUs) and 2) sensory hypersensitivity. 1) Ninety percent of patients
      perceive unpleasant premonitory bodily urges preceding tic expression, and 60% find these
      more distressing than tics themselves. As PUs and tics are clinically paired, one would
      expect tight symptom severity correlation; however, published results are conflicting.
      Imaging studies reveal the likely role of a widespread sensory processing network in PU
      formation, but much ambiguity surrounds the precise neural substrates of PUs. 2) In addition
      to PUs, 80% of TS patients report heightened awareness of internal and external stimuli.
      Scant research has been devoted to this aspect of TS, but one small series found this sensory
      hypersensitivity to be independent of both PU and tic severity, delineating it as a distinct
      facet of the syndrome. Despite their ubiquity and detrimental impact on quality of life,
      sensory phenomena in TS remain poorly understood: the clinical relationship with tics is
      unclear, the pathophysiologic mechanisms are imprecisely characterized, and the treatment is
      non-existent. Network oscillations, captured in real-time with EEG, are a promising means of
      addressing this crucial knowledge gap.

      Part 1. Clinical Variables and Scales - Adult TS patients will be recruited to complete a
      battery of validated clinical scales, providing a comprehensive phenotype. The scales include
      the following: Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS); Dimensional Obsessive-Compulsive Scale
      (DOCS); Adult ADHD Self-Report Screening Scale for DSM-V; Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7
      (GAD-7); Patient Health Questionnaire 9 (PHQ-9); Premonitory Urge to Tic Scale (PUTS);
      Sensory Gating Inventory (SGI); Sensory Perception Quotient (SPQ); and GTS-Quality of Life
      (GTS-QOL) Rating Scale. Patients with previously diagnosed autism spectrum disorder,
      developmental delay, cerebral palsy, other significant neurologic disease, schizophrenia, or
      psychotic disorders will be excluded, in order to lessen potentially confounding factors.
      Patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
      (ADHD), anxiety, and/or depression will be permitted, given that these diagnoses are widely
      prevalent in the adult TS population. Age-matched, healthy-controls (HCs) will be recruited
      to complete the mood and sensory instruments. All study procedures will be completed during a
      single testing session. Medical and neurologic history, family history, substance use
      history, developmental history, and current and past psychotropic pharmacotherapies, will be
      reviewed.

      Part 2. EEG Testing - Each participant will undergo a single-session EEG paradigm consisting
      of somatosensory and auditory event-related potentials (ERP), as well as a resting state
      condition. The somatosensory stimulus consists of a non-painful stimulus to the arm, and the
      auditory stimulus consists of a non-painful sound delivered through headphones. The entire
      recording session will take approximately 1-1.5 hours. Participants will be video-recorded,
      to allow for subsequent identification of tics.
    
  