
    
      This is an open-label, phase II, multicentre, randomised (1:1) clinical trial of an
      interventional medicinal product. This study will open at 3 centres across the UK. King's
      College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust will act as the coordinating centre for the study.

      In this study, treatment with Lutathera will be compared to treatment with current best
      supportive care (somatostatin analogues) in patients with inoperable, somatostatin receptor
      positive, histologically confirmed small bowel NENs and these patients should have stable
      disease according to RECIST criteria for a period of 6 months prior to study entry.

      Patients on the treatment arm will receive four administrations of 7.4 GBq (200 mCi) of
      Lutathera (and concomitant amino acids will be given with each administration for kidney
      protection). Patients are scheduled to continue to receive study treatment until any of the
      following occurs:

        1. Unacceptable toxicity;

        2. Progressive disease as determined by RECIST Criteria;

        3. Inability or unwillingness of the patient to comply with study procedures;

        4. Patient withdraws consent to participate Patients on the best supportive care arm will
           receive somatostatin analogue treatment every 4 weeks according to local standard of
           care practices.

      Tumour response in both arms will be assessed after cycles 2 and 4 of 177Lu-Dotatate therapy,
      or every 16 weeks for patients enrolled under the best supportive care arm, according to
      RECIST criteria.

      The study population is comprised of patients with stable carcinoid heart disease (CHD) and
      carcinoid syndrome. King's College Hospital performed surgery on 30 patients with carcinoid
      heart disease over the last 5 years. On review of patient records at King's, a further 30
      patients with carcinoid heart disease were identified during the same time period who did not
      require surgery.

      Other centres participating in this study have similar populations of patients with CHD, with
      specific multi-disciplinary team meetings and outpatient clinics for identification and
      recruitment of suitable patients into the study.
    
  