
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      To evaluate if a long acting injectable form of risperidone offers clinical advantages over
      comparison oral second generation antipsychotic agents following titration and stabilization
      in bipolar subjects. In keeping with current practice, it is expected the vast majority of
      patients will also be receiving either lithium or valproate or other anticonvulsants.
      Following the stabilization phase several clinical events will be evaluated for up to 15
      months in the two treatment groups to examine differences in clinical outcomes between those
      receiving the injectable versus oral medicines.

      RESEARCH PLAN:

      We intend to recruit 50 consenting adult subjects with DSM-IV TR diagnoses of bipolar
      disorder who are about to initiate or to switch their antipsychotic agent. Patients will be
      titrated and cross-tapered during a 3 month titration and stabilization phase. Those who
      transition successfully and show some improvement will be followed for an additional 12
      months. Clinical outcomes such as study drop out, adverse events, worsening of symptoms,
      crisis interventions, need for additional medication, hospitalizations etc. will be evaluated
      from months 3 to 15. The numbers of clinical events (pooled) will be used to evaluate if the
      long acting injectable form of risperidone has an advantage over the oral second generation
      antipsychotic agents in terms of treatment continuity and clinical stability.

      METHODS:

      An open design, but treatment to either the long acting risperidone or to the oral second
      generation antipsychotic agents is randomly assigned. A board independent of the day-to-day
      clinical events will code the primary clinical outcomes of interest without knowledge of
      treatment assignment. The board will be provided clinical summaries of these events without
      revealing the treatment assignment.

      SIGNIFICANCE:

      The use of a long acting injectable second generation antipsychotic agent may offer
      advantages of treatment continuity and adherence in bipolar patients permitting improved
      clinical stability and improved psychosocial and functional outcomes. Such stability is
      difficult to achieve in the face of frequent treatment discontinuations seen with oral
      agents. The improved tolerability of the second generation antipsychotic agents may change
      the perception of long acting injections. For instance, these agents are likely to be more
      acceptable to patients, families and clinicians and therefore likely be used much sooner in
      the treatment algorithms of bipolar patients than in the past. This study will provide a
      treatment effect size to statistically power future comparisons of long-acting injectable vs.
      oral antipsychotic agents in persons with bipolar disorder
    
  