
    
      The first part of this study will try to answer if ultrasound can improve the preoperative
      measurement of depth of invasion in tongue cancer and floor of the mouth cancer. The study
      population is new patients meeting the eligibility criteria presented to the hospital for
      treatment. Participants will be enrolled only after accepting the oral and written
      information and signing the written consent paper.

      The examiner, one of three otorhinolaryngologists experienced in ultrasound, should be masked
      to the results of MRI. The first measurement is depth of invasion as well as thickness of the
      tumour in mm by palpation on awake patient. Thereafter the same measurements by ultrasound
      (BK Medical Medical flex focus 500, 18Mhz) with gel and protective cover is made with 0,5mm
      accuracy. Anesthetic gel or lingual block with carbocaine/adrenaline are provided as needed.

      At the time of surgery the measurements above are done again on the patient in narcosis
      before the resection.

      Images of the ultrasound measurements are saved for documentation. The results are compared
      to the corresponding measurements on MRI and also on PAD from the surgical specimen. PAD is
      considered gold standard.

      Power calculation with help of biostatistician yielded a sample size of 55 patients, using a
      paired test with a 0,050 one-sided significance level will have 80% power to reject the null
      hypothesis that the proportions are not equivalent.

      Analysis if ultrasound correctly classify the tumour´s DOI according to the
      TNM-classification 8th edition (<5mm, >5mm<10mm, >10mm) will be made.

      The second part of the study will investigate if ultrasound during the surgical procedure can
      improve the discrimination of the deep margin of the tumour and thereby increasing the chance
      better surgical margins. The mucosal margins are marked in the usual fashion and the
      resection begins. After one fourth of the resection has been made, ultrasound is used to
      check that the deep margin is at least 10mm. This is repeated after one half and three
      quarters of the resection. At the end of the surgery a final ultrasound examination is made
      on the surgical specimen.

      The margins obtained on PAD from resections done with ultrasound are compared to a matched
      retrospective group where the surgery was done without ultrasound.
    
  