
    
      Main Aim To study the impact of peer support to children with HIV on antiretroviral treatment
      (ART) in relation to adherence, virological treatment failure, HIV drug resistance
      development as well as physical development using a randomised controlled trial (RCT) design
      comparing enhanced treatment support (ETS) and conventional treatment (CT).

      Specific Aims

        1. To assess the rate and risk factors for virological treatment failure among children on
           ART for more than 6 months using HIV viral load in blood in relation to clinical and
           socioeconomic indicators.

        2. To recruit 520 HIV+ children 0-12 years of age on ART and randomize to either enhanced
           treatment support (ETS) or conventional treatment (CT).

        3. To monitor ART adherence, CD4+ T-cell count, HIV viral load, clinical status, physical
           and cognitive development AIDS-associated events and/or mortality during every 6 months
           during a 36 months follow up period.

        4. To assess the effect of ETS compared to CT with respect to the primary endpoint,
           virological treatment failure and specific ART mutations as well as the secondary
           endpoints, immunological failure, ART adherence, physical and cognitive development, and
           mortality and/or AIDS events.

        5. To conduct a cost effectiveness assessment comparing ETS and CT.

      This is a multi center study that includes the National Pediatric Hospital in Hanoi and the
      two major pediatric hospitals in Ho Chi Minh City. A study population of 520 HIV+ children
      receiving ARTs will be recruited from these hospitals. The reason for selecting children on
      ART is to see if treatment support can be initiated successfully after initiation of ART.
      Each HIV+ patient is examined according to WHO guidelines. HIV+ children will receive a
      complete physical examination including clinical staging of HIV infection, opportunistic
      infections and evidence of tuberculosis. Laboratory testing will include full blood count,
      CD4+ T-cell count (for children under five years of age CD4 %), viral load using ExaVirR
      viral load and liver enzymes. If indicated (e.g. prolonged cough and/or fever) chest X-ray,
      sputum microscopy for AFB will be done.

      Opportunistic infections in HIV+ patients will be treated according to national guidelines.
      HIV+ children and their caregivers receive counselling and clinical follow ups. Tuberculosis
      (TB) will be managed in collaboration with the National Tuberculosis Program.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria's are described below. The patients recruited will be
      stratified according to age, sex and identified risk factor, then they will be randomised
      into two different treatment strategies a) Enhanced treatment support (ETS) strategy
      (described below) and Conventional treatment (CT). The patients treated under the two
      strategies will be compared with respect to: (i) virological treatment failure, (ii)
      patient's adherence to treatment strategy, (iii) physical development, and (iv) mortality and
      AIDS event. First drug regimen for all patients includes stavudine or AZT, lamivudine,
      nevirapine or efavirens. All procedures, treatment, and follow up for adverse effects are
      done according to national guidelines. The health care workers are trained in regular
      monitoring of patients and implementation of optimal treatment strategy. All procedures and
      treatment will follow the national guidelines. Follow up visits including physical
      examinations, adherence evaluation and laboratory tests will be done every 3 months.

      The tests will include full blood count and liver enzymes as well as other indicated tests.
      Viral load and CD4+ T-cell count will be monitored every 6 months.

      The number of patients needed for each arm of the experiment was estimated assuming an
      absolute 2-year risk of treatment failure of 15% in the control arm. Assuming proportional
      hazards there is an absolute 2-year risk of failure in the peer-support group of 7%.
      Requiring a power of 80% and a significance level of 5% approximately 480 patients are
      required. In order to account for some losses to follow-up and deviations from our
      assumptions, we will recruit a total of 260 patients into each arm.

      In the ETC strategy caretakers and children with HIV on ART will be supported to achieve
      better adherence through peer support groups at the beginning of treatment and phone
      follow-up later, with an option for home visits or to return to support groups later if
      necessary. The activities will be organized by peer supporters, caregivers of HIV-infected
      children selected by peers, who will undergo a series of training, including medication
      adherence and counselling skills. They will ideally be assigned to patients living in the
      same community or in proximity to patients in the intervention group.

      Peer group meetings with 7-10 caretakers and children will be organized monthly according to
      age groups, e.g. 0-3 years, 4-6 years, 7-12 years, and location. In these meetings caretakers
      will discuss problems related to adherence and receive new information from peer supporters.
      Simultaneously, children above 3 years of age will receive age relevant information about
      their disease and treatment from another supporter as well as do games and play to enhance
      group bounds. The supporters will also have weekly telephone contact with the caretakers, if
      needed more, to assess the condition of the child. To those who cannot make a particular
      meeting or answer the phone home visits (if consent is given) are made. Follow up phone calls
      will be made to those whom the case manager identifies to need more support.

      As children differ very much depending on age the intervention will be adjusted to each age
      group in order to provide the best possible support according to standardized procedures that
      can be replicated. For children with poor adherence individual support to caretakers and
      patients will be arranged where the condition of the child and reason for poor adherence is
      assessed, in case of complications the peer supporter will provide advice and if needed refer
      the child for medical checkup. In CT control group the treatment will be supported according
      to the treatment guidelines. Both groups will receive treatment counseling and be followed
      through regular clinical check-up, the drugs will be provided in a pre-packed dosage form for
      easy remembering and counting of the pills.

      The patients are followed for 36 months and monitored each six months through viral load in
      plasma using ExaVir Load®, CD4+ T-cell count, adherence, clinical examination including
      physical development. Viral load will be assessed using a new ELISA based technique ExaVir
      Load® that detects HIV reverse transcriptase down to 1 fg/ml blood-plasma corresponding to
      200 HIV RNA copies/ml. Adherence will be assessed every three months using questionnaires
      designed specifically for age groups. For infants and young children the Pediatric
      International Adherence Questionnaire (PIAQ) may be used, and for older children the Adult
      AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) Adherence Instruments will be used. The questionnaire
      interviews will be conducted by health personnel at the Out Patient Clinics for Pediatric
      HIV. Adherence will also be measured by pill count, where the patients bring their remaining
      drugs back to the clinic at follow-up, enabling calculation of the proportion of drugs
      remaining out of the total amount of prescribed drugs as well as through pharmacy records if
      the patients have collected the drugs accurately. Assessment of side effects will be done
      according to WHO suggested monitoring and management of ARV drugs together with the clinical
      examination each three months.

      The primary endpoint will be virological treatment failure defined as a viral load
      corresponding to 1000 copies/ml. This could also be expressed as loss of virological response
      taking death and Loss of Follow Up into account. The secondary endpoints immunological
      treatment failure (no rise in CD4+ T-cell count at 1 year or decrease with 50% compared to
      the highest value or CD4+ T-cell count below 100), clinical treatment failure as defined by a
      new AIDS-defining illness or death due to HIV/AIDS (including TB and opportunistic infection)
      after starting treatment, and physiological development.

      Costing of the two different strategies will be carried out by collecting monetary data of
      expense for drugs, test, allowance and other expenses from perspective of the HIV/AIDS
      treatment provider during ART. The investigators follow the basic principles of
      activity-based costing by identifying all activites necessary to provide the ETS and CT and
      then calculate the costs of carrying out each activity. Costs for each activity comprise
      recurrent and capital costs, direct and indirect costs. Recurrent costs are the routine costs
      of resources that are consumed within a year, i.e., non-capital items such as labor and
      medical supplies. Capital costs represent the annual portion of the cost of durable HIV Sida
      DOTARV assets. Effectiveness will be measured by percentages of patients with virological
      treatment failure defined as Viral Load >400 copise/ml.

      The statistical analysis mainly consists in the comparison between the two groups with
      respect to the defined primary and secondary endpoints in relation to the semi-quantitative
      assessments of adherence. Standard statistical methods will be used. Hazard/Survival analysis
      will be conducted including death/loss of follow up as 'failure' in the analysis. Intention
      to treat will be used for analysis. Regression models with outcome as the dependent variable
      and a group indicator together with patient characteristics as independent variables will be
      the main approach. For binary outcomes, logistic regression will be used. Attention has to be
      paid to the particular, often skewed, distributions of variables like CD4+ T-cell counts and
      viral load. Transformations or the use of non-parametric approaches are likely to be
      necessary if such measures are not dichotomized and used in linear regression. The
      correlation between drug resistance and adherence will be statistically analyzed in order to
      study whether the basic mechanisms of selective drug pressure result in a concave or
      bell-shaped resistance - adherence relationship, for these drugs during ETS or CT in a
      low-income setting. The odds ratios of having or not baseline drug resistance mutations as
      detected by population and deep (single allele PCR) sequencing on drug resistance development
      and clinical outcomes during treatment independent of treatment adherence will be evaluated.
      Stratified analysis will be conducted comparing the outcomes among the treatment groups.

      The investigators will strictly comply with widely recognized international texts and codes
      of practice including the Helsinki agreement. In this project one patient cohort will receive
      ETS and the other CT. However both groups will be encouraged to proceed regularly with their
      drug treatment and to present difficulties that they may encounter in doing so. For the
      project period, the project will meet the costs of ART for the cohorts. Patients' biological
      samples will be collected and used only after written consent from the children's caretaker.
      All specimens will be coded to protect the identity of patients and to ensure
      confidentiality. Patients will be recruited in a consecutive manner without regard to race or
      other exclusion considerations. Confidentiality will be assured by using codes for patient
      identification, and confidentially laws will be strictly observed when processing human
      clinical information. No patient identifying information will be published or available after
      the requisite clinical data has been collected, and consent will be obtained for the use of
      all data and tissues. Data will be accessible only to members and coordinators of the tissue
      procurement facility and research team, under approved guidelines.
    
  