
    
      Background:

        -  Graft versus host disease (GVHD) and impaired immune reconstitution are major transplant
           complications and barriers to improving outcomes after allogeneic hematopoietic stem
           cell transplantation (alloHSCT) for hematologic malignancies. GVHD is initiated when
           donor T-cells become alloreactive against recipient major or minor histocompatibility
           antigens. This process may be exacerbated during the transplantation process by exposure
           of tissue antigens to donor T-lymphocytes after chemotherapy-induced injury.

        -  Palifermin, a recombinant keratinocyte growth factor-1 (KGF-1), imitates the actions of
           intrinsic KGF and binds to the FGF receptor 2b, which is expressed in the epidermis,
           oral mucosa, GI mucosa and urothelium, thereby increasing the regenerative capacity of
           these tissues. Palifermin has been shown to reduce the duration and severity of oral
           mucositis after intensive chemo-radiotherapy and autologous HSCT for hematologic cancers
           and is FDA approved. In pre-clinical studies, palifermin has been shown to have an
           effect on control of acute or chronic GVHD and immune reconstitution after alloHSCT.
           However, subsequent clinical studies in alloHSCT indicate that the dose and schedule of
           palifermin as currently

      used in humans does not optimize its activity in terms of prevention of GVHD or thymus
      recovery following alloHSCT.

      - We hypothesize that higher doses of palifermin in the immediate pre alloHSCT conditioning
      setting will lead to enhanced thymopoiesis, decreased chronic GVHD, and improved immune
      reconstitution. A dose escalation study is necessary to determine safe dosing levels in
      persons undergoing alloHSCT.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective of the phase I portion is to assess the safety and tolerability of
           the administration of the recombinant keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) palifermin in
           alloHSCT using unrelated donor peripheral blood stem cells.

        -  The primary objective of the phase II portion is to determine the incidence of severe
           chronic GVHD after the addition of palifermin to TMS (tacrolimus, methotrexate and
           sirolimus) based GVHD prophylaxis delivered in the identical fashion to the NCI
           07-C-0195 study.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults (greater than or equal to 18 years) with advanced or high risk hematologic
           malignancies (including AML, ALL, MDS, CLL, NHL, HL, CML, multiple myeloma, and MPN)who
           lack a suitable HLA-matched sibling donor.

        -  An unrelated donor matched at a minimum of 8 alleles (HLA-A,-B,-C, and DRB1) by
           high-resolution typing, identified through the National Marrow Donor Program.

        -  Karnofsky greater than or equal to 60 and acceptable organ functions.

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive disease-specific induction chemotherapy (EPOCH-F/R or FLAG) prior
           to transplant as needed for disease control and immune depletion.

        -  All patients will receive an identical conditioning regimen consisting of
           cyclophosphamide 1200 mg/m^2/day IV for 4 days and fludarabine 30 mg/m^2/day for 4 days
           (transplant days -6 to -3).

        -  All patients will receive a peripheral blood stem cell product from an unrelated donor
           matched at HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1 (8/8) by high-resolution typing.

        -  Palifermin will be administered in a phase 1, open label design with the following
           proposed schedule:

             -  Dose level 1: 180 mcg/kg on day -7

             -  Dose level 2: 360 mcg/kg on day -7

             -  Dose level 3: 540 mcg/kg on day -7

             -  Dose level 4: 720 mcg/kg on day -7

        -  The phase I portion will be conducted in a standard 3+3 design; the maximum possible
           number of patients accrued to this portion will be 24.

        -  The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) from the phase I portion of the study will be used to
           conduct a phase II study. Total accrual on the phase II study will be 27 patients,
           including 3-6 patients treated at the MTD in the phase I portion of the study
    
  