
    
      The "signatures" of mental health problems or illnesses (MHPIs) is a term formulated by the
      National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) to designate the broad range of genetic,
      biological, psychological, and social factors that may "sign" a specific mental disorder,
      depending on an individual's sex, history, lifestyle habits, and so on. In 2010, the Research
      Center of the Mental Health University Institute of Montreal (IUSMM) decided to develop the
      "Signature Bank" project for the collection of biological and dimensional signatures from all
      patients with MHPIs of the IUSMM (catchment area of about 600,000 inhabitants). Over 4,000
      patients are treated annually at the IUSMM, while an additional 2,000 patients per year are
      treated by means of outpatient or ambulatory services. These activities provide us with one
      of the largest populations of psychiatric patients in Canada. This research project is based
      on the extensive involvement of the IUSMM-hospital site in the attempt to establish an
      exclusive niche for discoveries in the signatures of mental illnesses. By collaborating with
      the Research Centre, IUSMM-hospital managers have contributed to the implementation of this
      large-scale project that aims at measuring the genetic, biological, psychological, and social
      signatures of people living with MHPIs who use the IUSMM-hospital's clinical services, and
      who consent to taking part in this longitudinal research initiative. The goal of is study is
      to better understand not only the signatures of MHPIs, but that of recovery in mental health,
      and as reported by patients living with psychiatric disorders who will additionally fill out
      the French Recovery Assessment Scale (RAS), Recovery Self-Assessment (RSA) and Citizenship
      Measure (CM). Participants in the Signature Bank are routinely approached and recruited by a
      Research Nurse at their admission to the Psychiatric Emergency Department (T1) of the IUSMM.
      As of March 2019, 1862 eligible participants from the psychiatric emergency of the IUSMM have
      been approached. Of this number, 1218 agreed to participate and thus completed at least T1 of
      the Signature study. For all participants, the same measures are repeated at discharge (T2),
      at the first follow up at an outpatient clinic (T3), and finally (T4) when treatment ends or
      12 months after T3. Our sample is characterized by individuals with psychotic disorders
      (N=166), or mood disorders (N=186), for a total of 352 patients who completed T3 and/or T4.
      All participants signed a detailed consent form, and the study was approved by the local
      ethics committee in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Research Nurses collected
      patient's psychiatric diagnoses from medical records. They were established by psychiatrists
      on the ward, and coded according to the World Health Organisation International
      Classification of Disease (ICD-10). This study will use 2 of the categories of mental or
      behavioural disorder (F00-F99): 1) Schizophrenia and psychotic disorders (F20-F29), and 2)
      Mood disorders (F30-F39) who have enrolled in the Signature Bank for longitudinal studies and
      who have thus already completed questionnaires for clinical evaluation purposes (clinical
      recovery). Those who accept to participate in this study will further complete the RAS, the
      CM, and the RSA, which was developed to gauge the degree to which programs implement
      recovery-oriented practices and to identify strengths and areas of improvement as agencies
      strive to offer recovery-oriented care. Two specific research objectives are pursued.
      Firstly: measuring correlational relations between dimensions of personal recovery (RAS and
      CM), and levels of anxiety, depression, dependence, psychosis, and social functioning
      (clinical recovery). Secondly: validation of the psychometric properties of the French
      version of the RSA (organizational recovery). Statistical analyses will be performed to
      determine internal consistency (Cronbach alphas for each of the subscales), and construct
      validity (confirmatory or exploratory factor analyzes). Our power calculation has determined
      that 200 participants will be needed to test measurement invariance for sex and main
      psychiatric diagnosis (psychotic or mood disorders) in order to detect significant
      correlations with a Type I error of 5% and a power of 80%. Signature Bank participants will
      be contacted to complete i) the RAS (24 items, 5-point Likert scale), ii) the CM (23 items,
      5-point Likert scale), and the iii) the RSA for consumers (32 items, 5-point Likert scale).
      These participants have already completed these other measures (clinical recovery):
      iv-Anxiety: Anxiety State-Trait Anxiety Inventory Form Y6 (STAI-Y6) (6 items); v- Depression:
      Depression Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) (9 items) ; vi- Alcohol Dependence: Alcohol
      Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT-10) (10 items) ; vii- Drug Dependence: Drug Abuse
      Screening Test (DAST-10) (10 items) ; viii- Psychosis : Psychosis Screening Questionnaire
      (PSQ 12 items) ; ix- Social functioning : World Health Organization Disability Assessment
      Schedule (WHODAS 2.0) (12 items).

      Each patient diagnosed with F20-F39 disorders and who have completed at least T2 will be
      contacted by phone and asked to additionally fill out the RSA, RAS and CM. Those who will
      accept to be contacted will be invited to come to the IUSMM where they will be met by a
      Research Assistant. They will first read and sign the additional Information and Consent Form
      specific to this study or ask further questions before doing so. Secondly, they will fill out
      the RSA, RAS and CM on a touch screen device. Data will be stored on the Signature Bank
      secured server. If necessary, future new participants who will have completed T2 will be
      contacted in the same way until the required number of participants is reached. There are
      typically 60 to 80 new participants per month to the Signature Bank. Test-retest reliability
      will be investigated, as well as internal consistency, construct validity of these RSA, RAS
      and CM tools, correlations between their subscales and those of anxiety, depression,
      substance misuse, psychosis, and social functioning measures, in and across psychiatric
      diagnoses, and sex. The same i-iv measures will be used in a future project to assess the
      effect of a brief intervention by Peer Support Workers (PSW) with a control group. A
      Randomized Control Trial with future IUSMM patients who will have accepted to be enrolled in
      the Signature Bank will be proposed to compare treatment as usual to treatment as usual plus
      the PSW intervention.
    
  