
    
      Background: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in people with dementia frequently evolve with
      progression of the disorder. Nonpharmacological interventions are the first-line treatment to
      control NPS in dementia. Multisensory stimulation (MSS) is a nonpharmacological intervention
      that is conducted by stimulating one or more of the five senses of the body with pleasant
      sensory experiences. This work aims to investigate the effects of a MSS protocol in elderly
      people with moderate to advanced dementia living in long-term care institutions in Brazil.

      Methods: A specific MSS protocol was developed by the researchers for the study. Sixty
      elderly people with moderate to advanced dementia (Clinical Dementia Rating of 2 or 3 and a
      Mini-Mental State Examination score ≤17) were randomly allocated to intervention (n=30) and
      control (n=30) groups. The sample size estimation was established with a paired bilateral
      t-test with a 0.05 significance level. This sample size would have 80% power to detect a mean
      difference of 9.50 in the NPI scores from pre- to post-intervention and a standard deviation
      of 17.28, as proposed by Fu et al. (2013). The intervention group participated in 16
      individual 30-minute sessions over eight weeks in a quiet room, and the control group
      received usual care.

      The MSS program includes eight sessions. During these sessions, the five body senses (sight,
      taste, hearing, smell, and feeling) are stimulated using songs, fruits, fiber optic lamps,
      natural scents, among other stimuli, to promote interactions between the participants and the
      therapist, as well as the objects. In each session, at least two senses are stimulated in a
      safe, quiet and confidential environment. The sessions last 30 minutes and are conducted
      twice a week, on the same day and time whenever possible. Nonetheless, the session can be
      interrupted when the participant wishes or if the therapist observes that the patient is
      uncomfortable. A nondirective approach and one-to-one intervention were adopted.The MSS
      protocol was conducted by an occupational therapist. In this study, the eight-session
      protocol was used twice, that is, the protocol was repeated from the ninth session forward,
      but the protocol was customized for each participant by consideration of the participants'
      interests in previous sessions and the protocol rules.
    
  