
    
      We invite all patients who underwent a PRC at our institution with a follow-up of more than
      10 years for review.

      Questions

        -  VAS pain in rest and during activity

             -  Pain is quantified as none, minimal (pain with strenuous activity), moderate (pain
                with daily activity), or severe (pain at rest).

             -  If pain, use of analgetics, splint, …

        -  quick DASH

        -  patient related wrist evaluation (PRWE) score. form-36 (SF-36) general health status
           outcome ?

        -  Satisfaction, do it again?

        -  Complications? Re-operations?

        -  Return to work after operation, which job (manual labor?) changed job due to wrist
           problems? Worker's compensation claims?

      Clinical review

        -  grip force + other side to compare (Jamar Dynamometer)

        -  pinch grip + other side to compare

        -  range of motion measurement:

             -  absolute and compared to other side

             -  flexion-extension, ulnar-radial deviation and prosupination

      Radiography:

        -  Standard anterioposterior and lateral wrist radiography performed to evaluate the onset
           or degree of arthritis.

           o Radiocapitate arthrosis grading:

             -  None

             -  Minimal (joint space narrowing alone),

             -  Moderate (joint space narrowing with adjacent subchondral sclerosis)

             -  severe (bone collapse, erosion, or subchondral cyst formation)

        -  Oldest radiography of each patient was retrieved and the shape of the capitate
           evaluated.

        -  If available, a pre-operative MRI scan could also be interpreted. (Probably no MRI's
           available, but MRI gives a better indication of the shape of the capitate than plain
           X-ray).

        -  Review: documentation of intra-operative findings concerning capitate and lunate fossa.

      Statistical analysis

        -  Student's t-test on the numerical data

        -  Wilcoxon signed- rank test on the visual analog scales

        -  Differences significant at p < .05. Two-tailed tests in all cases.

        -  Subgroups according to initial diagnosis

        -  Compare results with the initial follow-up to evaluate the prospective value of this
           follow-up moment.
    
  