
    
      Protocol title: Role of microglia in the pathogenesis of progressive multiple sclerosis

      Rationale of the study: The investigators have demonstrated earlier a statistically
      significant correlation between TSPO-binding and EDSS in a heterogeneous MS-population
      comprising both early RRMS and late secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) patients.
      Now the investigators aim to evaluate whether TSPO-imaging correlates to EDSS and other
      disease progression-related clinical and paraclinical parameters in a homogenous cohort of
      40-50-year old MS-patients, who are at risk of progression. The A2A-AR expression in this
      cohort will also be studied using the A2A-AR-binding radioligand 11C-TMSX. The study cohort
      will also form the basis for a later follow-up study, which will be performed to evaluate the
      prognostic value of baseline TSPO-imaging in terms of disease progression. TSPO-imaging could
      thus be used as an imaging biomarker to help identifying patients to therapeutically prevent
      progression of MS. At the 5 year time point synaptic density will be evaluated using
      11C-UCB-J radioligand and PET imaging.

      Study population: The study population will consist of a clinically homogenous group of 25
      relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients with MS-diagnosis for at least 5
      years, age 40-50 years, who may be using any first-line MS therapy. The patients will be
      recruited from the outpatient clinic of the Division of Clinical Neurosciences of the
      University Hospital of Turku, Finland. In addition the investigators will image a group of 10
      age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects for comparison.

      Study Objectives Primary: To evaluate how TSPO-ligand binding in the normal appearing white
      matter (NAWM) correlates to EDSS.

      Secondary: 1) To evaluate how TSPO-ligand binding in the NAWM at baseline correlates to other
      standard clinical and paraclinical parameters typically associated with disease progression
      2) To evaluate how 11C-TMSX-binding (to A2A-AR) correlates to the clinical and paraclinical
      parameters, and to TSPO-binding. 3) To evaluate how synaptic density evaluated using
      11C-UCB-J binding correlates to patients cognitive functions.

      Inclusion criteria: RRMS, age 40-50 years, MS-diagnosis for a minimum of five years.
      Exclusion criteria: Previous or present treatment with immunosuppressive medication or
      biologicals. Steroid treatment within 30 days of evaluation Evaluation of patients: Baseline
      brain MRI and PET using 11C-PK11195 and 11C-TMSX with a protocol used in our previous
      studies. MS functional composite (MSFC), brain atrophy, quantitative diffusion tensor
      magnetic resonance imaging (DTI-MRI) measures, and neuropsychological status. At 5 years PET
      using 11C-UCB-J radioligand.

      Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging methods: 1) Detection of microglial activation.
      The investigators shall use the TSPO-ligand 11C-PK11195 to evaluate the level of microglial
      activation in the NAWM, in normal appearing gray matter (NAGM) and in the periplaque areas.
      The 11C-PK11195 imaging. 2) A2A-AR detection. The investigators shall investigate the
      distribution of the A2A-ARs using PET and (11C-TMSX). This will be performed to correlate
      A2A-AR expression with microglial activation in the central nervous system (CNS) of RRMS
      patients at risk of converting to SPMS. The 11C-TMSX imaging.3) Evaluation of synaptic
      density using 11C-UCB-J-PET. The association between 11C-UCB-J binding and cognitive
      functions will be evaluated.

      Based on earlier experience with PET ligands it is estimated that 15 subjects per group is
      enough to reveal 15% difference in 11C-PK11195 and 11C-TMSX uptake between the study groups
      with 90% power at p-level <0.05. The correlation analyses between the variables will be
      performed with Spearman's non-parametric test for non-linear, and Pearson's test for linear
      association.

      Facilities: Turku PET Centre (TPC) is the national PET Centre in Finland. It has six state-of
      the-art PET scanners and a long history of performing PET scanning in neurological disorders,
      and in animal models thereof (www.turkupetcentre.fi). Radiochemical synthesis of 11C-PK11195
      has been established in TPC and study projects on MS patients have been completed and
      published by our research group previously. The 11C-TMSX and 11C-UCB-J are already in use in
      the TPC.

      People involved: Dr. Laura Airas, MD, PhD. Consultant in neurology, and assistant professor
      in neurology. Professor Juha Rinne, MD, Consultant in Neurology. Turku PET Centre. Professor
      Riitta Parkkola, MD, Neuroradiologist. Dr. Eero Rissanen MD, PhD. Dr. Marcus Sucksdorff, MD,
      PhD student.
    
  