
    
      This study addresses the clinical problem of sleep and nighttime behavioral disturbances in
      older adults with dementia living in board and care homes. Board and care facilities provide
      room and board, 24-hour supervision, and assistance with personal care tasks for two or more
      residents not related to the owner or operator. Many elderly persons who need residential
      care choose board and care facilities over the alternatives because of their small size and
      homelike environment.

      Adult family homes (AFHs) are small board and care homes with 2-6 residents. Sleep and
      nighttime behavioral disturbances such as wandering, getting out of bed repeatedly, and
      day/night confusion are widespread among demented residents of AFHs, and are a leading cause
      for transfer into nursing homes. However, little is known about how best to treat these
      problems. Adult family homes vary widely in their type of ownership, staffing schedules,
      physical environment, resident eligibility criteria, physician access, level of family
      involvement, and ratio of private/public pay clients. There have been no sleep intervention
      studies conducted in AFHs, and strategies that have been shown to improve sleep in
      community-dwelling or nursing home patients may not be feasible or effective in AFH settings.
      Residents of AFHs have higher rates of functional and health problems that can contribute to
      sleep disturbances than do community-dwelling patients, and paid caregivers have demanding
      on-the-job responsibilities and schedules not typically faced by family caregivers. In
      contrast to skilled nursing facilities, AFH employees often live 24-hours on-site, have
      limited training in dementia care, and have no licensed health care professionals supervising
      day-to-day activities. Identification of strategies that could be used as part of a staff
      educational program to manage sleep and nighttime behavioral disturbances in this unique
      environment is sorely needed. If successful, such strategies would help residents remain in a
      less restrictive environment for a longer time, and enhance resident quality of life.

      The goal of the project is test the efficacy of a 4-session behavioral intervention for
      improving sleep and reducing nighttime behavioral disturbances in dementia residents of adult
      family homes compared to AFH residents in a usual care control condition. This project builds
      upon previous research conducted by the Principal Investigator showing that brief behavioral
      interventions can improve sleep of persons with Alzheimer's disease who are living in the
      community with family caregivers. It applies rigorous methodology to determine whether these
      interventions are equally feasible and effective in adult family home settings, and whether
      they delay transition into higher levels of institutional care.
    
  