
    
      Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is an immune deficiency where the neutrophils (a type of
      white blood cell that kills bacteria and fungi) do no work properly. Some individuals with
      CGD have neutrophils that do not work at all, whereas others have neutrophils that work
      partially, but not normally. In the past (over 20 years ago), most individuals with CGD were
      managed with antibiotics and antifungal medications alone. As the science of blood and marrow
      transplant (BMT) improved, some with CGD started to receive a BMT. It remained controversial
      whether individuals with CGD should receive a BMT or medical management alone (antibiotics,
      antifungals, and other treatments that do not include BMT).

      The aim of this natural history study is to better define the role of BMT compared to medical
      management of CGD. Specifically, what are the outcomes of BMT versus medical management
      alone, why do some individuals with CGD benefit from BMT, and what are the long-term outcomes
      of both approaches. Researchers are interested in how individuals with CGD who have no
      neutrophil function may differ from those with some neutrophil function, how the types of
      infections and inflammatory complications of CGD impact on survival and how BMT may improve
      these complications. There are also questions as to how the types of bacteria (called the
      microbiome) found in the gastrointestinal tract (colon, large intestine) of individuals with
      CGD influences certain inflammatory complications (such as colitis), and how BMT changes the
      microbiome in individuals with CGD. All of this will help doctors in the future to better
      treat patients with CGD.

      This study includes a retrospective (looking back into the past), cross-sectional (one time
      collection of information and/or research testing) and a prospective (looking from today and
      into the future) component. These are known as longitudinal studies (e.g., looking at
      information of participants over time).

      Persons with CGD who were born 1988 to the present day are eligible, regardless of whether
      they received a BMT (as long as the BMT was after 1995) or medical therapy only. Individuals
      who are newly diagnosed with CGD can also be enrolled and followed longitudinally (over
      time), to determine their outcome from the choice of therapy that is made. An important
      component of this study is the 'cross sectional' study, where participants with more than 3
      years of follow-up after transplant or diagnosis are asked to provide additional research
      blood work, and information is gathered regarding long-term transplant outcomes such as
      infections, graft-versus-host disease, autoimmune diseases, and quality of life. In addition,
      the participants will be asked to provide stool samples to allow investigators to look at how
      certain bacteria found in the gut (called the microbiome) affect complications of CGD, such
      as gastrointestinal disease. This will allow primary immune deficiency investigators/doctors
      to better understand the outcomes of different therapeutic approaches and to best design new
      treatments and clinical trials in the future for children with CGD.
    
  