
    
      Study Centres:

      Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences Sector D-1, Vasant Kunj New Delhi -110070

      - Collection and testing of Convalescent Plasma

      Treatment Centres

      Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital (LNJP)

      Rajiv Gandhi Super-speciality Hospital (RGSSH)

      Methodology Donor Plasmapheresis COVID-19 recovered patients will be counseled and informed
      regarding convalescent plasma donation. The contact information of those who agree will be
      sent to the coordinator at ILBS Blood Centre.

        -  The prospective donor will be contacted and if willing to come for donation, the donor
           will be provided conveyance if required, to come to ILBS Blood centre for Plasma
           Donation

        -  At ILBS the donor will be counseled and the doctor in-charge will explain the procedure
           to the Donor.

        -  The donor will be given a Donor Information Sheet and Informed consent will be taken on
           the document

        -  The eligibility for plasma donation will be ascertained through Medical History,
           Physical Examination, and laboratory tests.

      Donor Eligibility for Plasmapheresis

        -  Virologically documented (PCR positive by nasopharyngeal swab) who is recovered and free
           of symptoms for 14 days.

        -  Has tested negative for SARS CoV 2 on two consecutive tests 24 hrs apart.

        -  Fulfill all criteria of donor eligibility for donor Plasmapheresis under the Drugs &
           Cosmetics Act 1940 and Rules 1945, amended 11.03.2020

        -  Females who have been pregnant may be tested for anti-HLA antibodies and eligible if
           negative for the same.

      The following Donors will be excluded

        -  Do not fulfill all criteria of donor eligibility for donor Plasmapheresis under

        -  the Drugs & Cosmetics Act 1940 and Rules 1945, amended 11.03.2020

        -  Females who have been pregnant and have not been tested for HLA antibodies or are HLA
           antibody positive if tested and previously transfused donors (to prevent TRALI)

        -  Donors who have taken steroids during treatment for COVID-19 Donor Selection Process

        -  A detailed medical history of the donor will be taken and documented

        -  Physical examination ( Height, Weight, Blood Pressure, Temperature, adequate veins for
           phlebotomy)

        -  Laboratory Testing: complete Blood count, Testing for hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C
           virus, HIV, malaria, and syphilis) by serology, blood grouping, and antibody screening.
           Serum protein will be done in repeat donors ( Ref: D&C Act and Rules)

        -  Serum COVID-19 specific IgG antibody positive (with an IgG titre higher than 80).

        -  All Results Evaluated & Clinically Correlated The donor is deemed eligible/non-eligible

      Plasmapheresis Procedure

        -  Determine Volume to be collect-approx. 500 ml

        -  As per the Drugs & Cosmetics Act 1940 and Rules 1945, amended 11.03.2020

        -  Start Donor Plasmapheresis Procedure(As per SOP)

        -  Collect Convalescent Plasma The convalescent plasma will be properly labeled and frozen
           at -80o C in a separate Deep Freezer. It will not be issued to other patients who are
           with non-COVID.

        -  Label Details: As per the Drugs & Cosmetics Act 1940 and Rules 1945, amended 11.03.2020.

        -  Storage condition- Below -30oC

        -  Shelf life: - 1 Year

      Other Sources of Convalescent Plasma:

      Convalescent Plasma collected during a CP donation drive by Delhi Govt. following all rules
      and regulations of the Drugs& Cosmetics Act 1940 and Rules 1945, amended 11.03.2020 is stored
      at ILBS and will be used in this trial.

      The tests for Donors:

      1. Real-time PCR for SARS-CoV-2: Nasal swab samples will be taken prior to donation and
      tested for SARS-CoV-2 by real-time PCR method it the donor does not have two negative reports
      24 hrs apart.

      Antibody Titers of Convalescent Plasma and Patients Plasma by ELISA

      For Donors:

      The titre of serum neutralizing antibody which is the spike protein antibody, directed
      against the SARS-CoV-2 RBD (receptor binding domain) proteins. The titre will be done by IgG
      ELISA or by Rapid IgG antibody titre. The minimum titre of 80 is needed for the use of
      convalescent in patients.

      For recipients:

        1. Real-time PCR for SARS-CoV-2:

           Nasal swab samples will be taken prior to transfusion and tested for SARS-CoV-2 by
           real-time PCR method. The test should be positive for eligibility of the recipient along
           with clinical criteria for COVID-19.

        2. Antibody titre: The serum of each recipient will be obtained and IgG antibody titre by
           enzyme-linked immune-sorbent assay (ELISA) or Rapid IgG antibody method will be tested
           one day prior to the convalescent plasma transfusion. Changes of IgG antibody titre
           before and after convalescent plasma transfusion in patients will be studied. The serum
           will be stored for neutralizing antibody titers by plaque reduction will be done subject
           to availability.

      Study Population:

      Adult patients with severe COVID -19 infections defined as WHO Interim Guidance and the
      Guideline of Diagnosis and Treatment of COVID-19 of National Health Commission of China
      (version 5.0) with confirmation by real-time RT-PCR assay with severe disease i.e. meeting
      any 2 of the following criteria

        1. Patients on ventilator (in last 24 hours)

        2. Respiratory distress, RR ≥30 beats/min

        3. Oxygen saturation level less than 90% in resting state

        4. Partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2)/oxygen concentration (FiO2) ≤ 300 mmHg

        5. Lung infiltrates > 50% within 24 to 48 hours

      Study Design:

      An open label randomized controlled trial. The study group will comprise of 400 adult
      patients with severe COVID -19 as detailed above.

      Randomization will be done in the ratio of 1:1 in with 200 patients in the treatment arm and
      200 patients in the control arm. Allocation concealment will be done by Sequentially Numbered
      Opaque Sealed Envelopes (SNOSE) method.

      Intervention Arm: Two doses of 250 ml Convalescent plasma from recovered COVID-19 patients +
      Standard of Care will be given to severely sick COVID-19 patients in the treatment arm
      Control Arm: Standard of Care will be given to severely sick COVID-19 patients in the control
      arm Details of Standard of Care The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued detailed
      guidelines for the management of sCOVID-19 based on varying grades of severity which may be
      periodically updated. For the management of ARDS or sepsis the respective guidelines issued
      by ARDSNet and Surviving Sepsis campaign will be followed. Other institutional protocols for
      supportive management will be implemented. (Ref: Guidelines on Clinical Management of
      COVID-19. MoHFW, GoI.2020.) Monitoring and Assessment: Daily until clinical improvement
      Adverse Effects: Will be documented Stopping rule: None (C) The expected outcome of the
      project: Investigator expect convalescent plasma therapy to be a safe and efficacious therapy
      based on our pilot RCT. This study will determine if there is a clinical improvement
      /mortality benefit and further elaborate on its safety in patients with severe COVID-19
    
  