
    
      To determine if pharmacist-led education and procalcitonin testing as part of a stewardship
      intervention optimizes antiviral treatment and reduces antibiotic treatment for pediatric
      Emergency Department (ED) patients with suspected influenza v. standard care (i.e. rapid
      molecular influenza test without patient specific treatment recommendations) using a
      prospective, patient-randomized design.

      Consented patients in the pediatric ED will be randomized into two arms: The intervention arm
      will receive a patient specific stewardship intervention and procalcitonin testing during the
      ED visit. The intervention will be pharmacist-led and include direct delivery to clinicians
      of information about interpreting test results and recommendations for antiviral-treatment
      for high-risk patients, and infection control precautions for patients being hospitalized
      with a positive RSV or influenza test. Clinician adherence to treatment guidelines with and
      without the educational intervention will be compared.

      The second arm will be usual care (i.e. no procalcitonin test or pharmacist-led education).
      Results will be delivered via standard of care through the electronic medical record (EMR).

      Physicians and patients will not be blinded to arm assignments. Tests will be performed on a
      real-time basis in the ED. For each of these groups, data of the frequency and duration of
      antibiotic administration, antiviral use, adherence to evidence based guidelines for
      treatment of influenza, isolation, hospitalizations, and unscheduled return visits or
      readmissions within a 30 day period will be collected and compared.

      Research coordinators will contact patients and/or parents at 1 and 4 weeks after enrollment
      for self-reported secondary outcomes including symptom resolution, return to school/work, and
      follow up healthcare visits, medication adherence (to antibiotics and/or antivirals), and
      adverse events.
    
  