
    
      The survey was conducted between 01 th of July and 31th of August 2020 and involved all
      workers employed in a teaching hospital in France. The total number of workers was 7299.

      The Inclusion criteria were as follows: working in the hospital since more than one year,
      adults over than 18 years, acceptance.

      Questionnaire After SATIN questionnaire authors allowing, we created a specific questionnaire
      with all original questions and some additional on workplaces and demographics' data. In
      first question, participants must check that they met inclusion criteria and accept to be
      included in this survey. An open question was available at the end for remarks.

      86 questions in 6 parts: 1. Personnel and Professional Identification (10 questions) 2.
      Health reports (16 questions) 3. Work strain and capacities (8 questions) 4. Working
      environment (39 questions) 5. Work assessment (4 questions) 6. Supplementary questions for
      occupational physician (9 questions) Each question had five possible answers and each answer
      is linked to a specific score. Mean of scores were calculated in each part of the
      questionnaire: health reports (physical health, psychic health, physical symptoms,
      psycho-somatic symptoms, and stress), work strain and ability, working environment (physical
      environment, activity, framework of activities and organizational context), self-assessed
      work conditions in their entirety. The scores of each part were interpreted as follows: <2.5
      poor health or negative perception, 2.5-3.5 mild health or perception, > 3.5 good health or
      positive perception. Global health and general workplace environment self-evaluation were
      scored in a second time with respectively health reports and working environment scores.

      Demographic data were self-reported by the participants including occupation, sexe
      (male/female), age (<34, 35-44, 45-54, >55 years), time at workplace (<5, 6-15, 16-26,>26
      years), shift work or night work (never, rarely, regularly, often/very often).

      Statistical analyses. Data analysis was performed using R software (R Foundation for
      Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria). The results for continuous variables were shown as
      medians with Interquartile range (IQRs). The ranked data, which were ranked from each part of
      the questionnaire, are presented as numbers and percentages. Participants were divided into
      three groups according to the previously reported questionnaire cut-off (<2.5; 2.5-3.5; >
      3.5). Doctor, nurse, medical student, nurse assistant, midwife, paramedics, physiotherapist
      and radiographer were included in the subgroup "health care worker", other participants were
      included in the subgroup "non healthcare worker". We also made an analysis by subgroup of
      workers if they regularly or not worked in a COVID 19 dedicated sector. A multinomial
      logistic regression analysis was performed and the associations between risk factors and
      outcomes are presented as Odds Ratio (ORs) and 95% Confidence Intervals (Cis), after
      adjustment for cofounders including, gender, age, years at workplace. The significant level
      was set at p= 0.05.
    
  