
    
      In Mexico, cervical cancer (CC) is the second most frequent cause of death among women, with
      a mortality rate of 4000 women/year. Among the patients attended by the INCan, 80% are
      diagnosed with locally advanced CC and 30% of these present comorbidities. Hypertension may
      be present in 20% of patients, obesity in 18% and diabetes in 6.8%. These comorbidities
      affect the efficacy of treatment, increase the risk of malnutrition, of adverse events,
      hospitalization, increase hospital stay and worsen the quality of life, and even increase the
      risk of death. Furthermore, 10 to 20% of patients present kidney deterioration. The main
      reason for kidney disease is ureteral obstruction. The glomerular filtration rate
      deteriorates with age and many patients have comorbid medical illnesses that further
      compromise the kidneys. The standard treatment for CC is concomitant chemo-radiotherapy using
      cisplatin as a radiosensitizer, and brachytherapy at the end of treatment. Studies developed
      in the INCan described the acute toxicity symptoms in CC patients using this treatment:
      nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, cystitis, radioepithelitis, leucopenia, neutropenia,
      thrombocytopenia. Pelvic radiotherapy causes gastrointestinal toxicity, which is the most
      important limiting factor for the patients to complete their treatment. Cancer treatment,
      along with the tumor itself and other factors, causes malnutrition, and this confers a bad
      prognosis for the patient's response to treatment and survival. There is a nutritional risk
      in these patients at the moment of diagnosis, because of the metabolic alterations caused by
      the tumor, and the treatment-induced side effects. International guidelines for cancer
      patients recommend nutritional assessment in these patients before they start treatment, so
      nutritional risk can be detected and the patient may get started on dietary intervention to
      prevent malnutrition. Several authors have studied the dietary management that may help
      reduce the gastrointestinal effects in cancer patients receiving pelvic radiotherapy. To
      reduce diarrhea and prevent malnutrition the recommended dietary approach is a low residue
      diet consisting on 20-25% fat, 5g of lactose and 20g of fiber. Currently the INCan does not
      follow the nutrition care process for cervical cancer patients; written recommendations are
      given to the patients with a list of foods allowed or not allowed, with no further
      nutritional assessment or intervention. The investigators described the nutritional status of
      CC patients undergoing concomitant chemo-radiotherapy. It was observed that by the end of
      cancer treatment, a period of 9 weeks, 81.8% of patients became malnourished; 96% of patients
      lost weight, 78% of which had severe weight loss.

      The aim of this clinical trial is to evaluate a diet low in residue in CC patients,
      considering the necessary modifications for each patient if morbidities are present, in
      comparison with the current dietary recommendations used in the INCan. A thorough nutritional
      evaluation including anthropometric data, dietary data, gastrointestinal toxicity and quality
      of life evaluations, will be performed.

      Particular objectives are the following:

        1. Identify the nutritional status of CC patients before, during and after treatment with
           chemo-radiotherapy, in intervention and control groups.

        2. Determine the association of malnutrition and gastrointestinal toxicity during and after
           treatment, in intervention and control groups.

        3. Evaluate the quality of life of patients before, during and after treatment, in both
           groups.

        4. Establish the association of nutritional status and response to treatment, in both
           groups.

      The aim is based on the following hypothesis: Patients receiving the personalized nutritional
      intervention with the low residue diet will maintain a better nutritional status during
      treatment, reflected in fewer malnourished patients, compared to the control group.

      Methods.

      Study design. Randomized clinical trial, open, factorial 3X2. To evaluate the efficacy of a
      low residue diet on the nutritional status, gastrointestinal toxicity and quality of life of
      CC patients referring to the National Institute of Cancer in Mexico (INCan). 320 patients
      will be included, with cervical malignant tumors of epithelial origin in the neck of the
      uterus, candidates for chemo-radiotherapy.

      Dietary intervention will consist on a low residue diet: 20% kcal from fat, 5g lactose/day,
      20g fiber/day (5g from insoluble fiber).

      Dietary intervention will be adapted to the patient's individual requirements, according to
      the presence of comorbidities or renal deterioration.

        1. No comorbidities. Energy: 20-30 kcal/kg of body weight/day. Protein: 1.3 g/kg of body
           weight/day.

        2. Comorbidities (diabetes, hypertension), or geriatric patient. Energy: 25-30 kcal/kg of
           body weight/day. Protein: 1.5 g/kg of body weight/day.

        3. Renal deterioration.

      Energy: 30-35 kcal/kg of body weight/day.

      Protein: 1 g/kg of body weight/day.

      Sodium: 2000-2300 mg/day

      Potassium: 1900-2730 mg/day

      Phosphorus: 800-1000 mg/day

      Control group will receive the standard written recommendations from the INCan, which enlist
      allowed foods and not allowed foods.

      Sample size.

      A sample space of 320 patients will be included if prior consent is acquired and if they meet
      the inclusion criteria. This clinical trial contemplates 3 strata with 2 levels.

      Statistical analysis.

      A univariate analysis will be performed to describe the study population. Descriptive
      statistics will be used to obtain measures of central tendency and dispersion, as well as
      frequency of distribution for qualitative variables. Percentage change of nutritional status
      will be calculated using the Friedman test. Chi square test will be used to compare basal vs
      final assessment, and chi square test will be used to compare among study groups. All
      confidence intervals will be constructed with a confidence of 95% (α=0.05). The
      interpretation of the study results will be responsibility of researchers. Data processing
      and analysis will be performed with the SPSS package (version 19.0®) for Microsoft.

      Efficacy analysis.

      Efficacy will be evaluated in patients that qualify to be included in the protocol analysis.
      To evaluate efficacy, nutritional diagnosis through the clinical course will be analyzed in
      both, intervention and control, groups. Also, toxicity and quality of life responses will be
      obtained.

      Procedures.

      Treatment. Anticancer treatment will consist of Cisplatin as a radiosensitizer, at a dosage
      of 40 mg/m2/week for 6 weeks. For patients with renal deterioration Gemcitabine will be used
      instead of Cisplatin, at a dosage of 300 mg/m2/week for 6 weeks. Concomitantly, external
      pelvic radiotherapy will be applied at a total dosage of 50.4 Gy divided by 28 fractions, 1.8
      Gy/day/5 days a week, for 6 weeks. After completing concomitant chemo-radiotherapy,
      intracavitary brachytherapy will be administered at low dosage (30 Gy of Cesium 137) or high
      dosage (Iridium). Before initiating chemo-radiotherapy, a complete evaluation will be applied
      as mentioned.

      Once eligibility criteria are verified, patients will be randomly assigned to intervention
      group or control group.

      Visits during the study. After signing the informed consent, the patient will be informed
      when she will begin participating in the study (screening visit). If the patient complies
      with the inclusion criteria, a total of 5 visits will be scheduled: (1) at week -2, 2 weeks
      before treatment; (2) at week 0, on initiation of treatment; (3) at week 3, on the 3rd cycle
      of chemotherapy; (4) at week 9, by the end of brachytherapy; and (5) at week 21, 3 months
      after treatment completion.

      Monitoring.

      A thorough evaluation on each visit will be performed using the following tools:

        -  Patient generated subjective global assessment.

        -  Anthropometric data: weight, height, waist circumference, hip circumference, arm
           circumference.

        -  Body mass index.

        -  Waist to hip ratio.

        -  Body composition (bioelectrical impedance).

        -  % weight loss.

        -  Hand dynamometry.

        -  Dietary data: 24 hour recall and frequency of food intake questionnaires.

        -  % recommended energy intake.

        -  Biochemical markers: serum albumin, number of lymphocytes.

        -  Gastrointestinal toxicity using the CTCAE v4.03.

        -  Quality of life using the QLQ-C30 and CxC24.

      Sample collection. No tissue or additional blood samples will be obtained, other than the
      blood samples used as part of the routine clinical laboratory tests.

      Informed consent acquisition. On the screening visit, the written consent will be read and
      explained to the patient, clarifying the risks and benefits involved in the study. Two
      witnesses, independent from the study, will be present. The patient will have the choice to
      not participate or withdraw from the study at any time, her decision will not affect the
      quality of care and treatment that the attending physician will provide. The researcher will
      be governed by the ethical principles established in the Helsinki Accord. The physician will
      adequately respond all the matters of interest to the patient.

      Ethical considerations.

      The Research Committee and the Ethics Committee of the National Institute of Cancer in Mexico
      has approved the protocol and the informed consent document.

      Patients participating in this study will be informed, through the informed consent, of all
      the details concerning this trial. The patients who agree to participate in the trial will
      express their willingness by signing the informed consent document, being clarified that they
      can leave the trial at any time, if they wish to do so.

      Regulatory considerations.

      This study abides by the ethical principles established by the international community, in
      accordance to the Good Clinical Practices, the Nüremberg Code, the Helsinki Accord, the
      Statement of Compliance with International Conference on Harmonization Guidelines for Good
      Clinical Practice, and the Regulations of the General Law of Health in the matter of research
      for health.
    
  