
    
      More than 400,000 TKAs are performed each year in the United States to alleviate pain and
      disability associated with knee OA. Although this procedure reliably reduces pain and
      improves function in people with knee OA, recovery of the strength of the quadriceps muscle
      to normal levels is rare. For years after a TKA, performance while walking or while doing a
      more physically demanding activity, such as stair climbing, is also significantly lower in
      people who have had a TKA than in healthy adults of the same age. Within the past few years,
      less invasive TKA surgical techniques have been developed as promising alternatives to
      traditional TKA. Minimally invasive TKA, or TKA(min), achieves the same surgical objectives,
      but possibly without doing as much damage to the quadriceps muscle as is seen with
      traditional TKA. No studies, however, have specifically investigated how TKA(min) might
      preserve quadriceps muscle function. This study will determine whether TKA(min) is better
      than TKA at improving quadriceps muscle force production and activation, increasing knee
      range of motion, and reducing post-operative pain to improve overall functional outcomes.

      Participants who are scheduled to undergo knee replacement surgery will be randomly assigned
      to receive either traditional TKA or TKA(min). Prior to surgery, participants will attend a
      30-minute orientation session and undergo certain tests to evaluate knee function. Functional
      testing will include timed walking, stair climbing, balance testing, and knee flexibility
      measurements. Other evaluations will include thigh muscle strength and activation testing,
      which uses brief electrical pulses to determine if the muscles are contracted as much as
      possible, and health status questionnaires. After the operation, participants will be
      instructed to use walking aids, such as a walker, crutches, or a cane, for a period of time.
      Participants will attend study visits for repeat testing 48 hours following surgery; at
      Months 1, 3, and 6; and at Years 1 and 2.
    
  