
    
      Besides the use of the flexor carpi radialis tendon, several materials can serve as the
      interposition tissue including Gore-Tex, silicone and other types of metal or polymer
      implants. The use of Gore-Tex, silicone and metal implants, have been shown to carry high
      complication rates secondary to synovitis and mechanical failure combined with poor patient
      outcomes. A study about a porcine collagen xenograft was terminated prematurely because of
      poor outcomes and adverse immunologic reactions.

      Another option is using allograft, which is dermal or tendon tissue from another human donor
      such as the GraftJacket (Wright Medical Technology, Inc., Arlington, TN). This product is
      manufactured from donated cadaveric tissue that is treated to remove all cellular components
      while preserving the native collagen scaffold. It thus provides the strength and integrity of
      native autograft without the adverse immunologic response of traditional allograft. It is in
      compliance with the American Association of Tissue Banks guidelines for allograft material,
      and it is classified as human tissue for transplantation.

      The GraftJacket shows high biocompatibility and the advantages compared to autograft are
      avoiding donor site morbidity as well as decreased surgical time.

      GraftJacket has mainly being used for the repair of rotator cuff tears and Achilles tendons
      ruptures. No complications have been reported and patients showed significant improved
      outcomes compared with their preoperative conditions. Although all of the studies show
      methodological limitations due to the lack of a control group, these results show a great
      potential and warrant further investigations.

      In contrast to the studies already conducted in the Achilles tendon and shoulder joint, there
      are only sparse data concerning other joints of the upper extremity such as the elbow and the
      hand. Treating TMC OA of Eaton stage ll, lll and lV with GraftJacket has only been reported
      in two studies. The patients under investigation reported significant pain relief,
      significant improvements regarding grip and key pinch strength, good ability to perform
      activities of daily living (ADL) and high satisfaction rates. No or only minimal
      postoperative complications such as paraesthesia which are not directly related to the
      GraftJacket have been reported. However, some limitations of these two studies have to be
      acknowledges. Both are observational studies without control group making it impossible to
      conclude if this approach is favourable compared to standard techniques.
    
  