
    
      Objectives:

      To determine effectiveness and safety of tigecycline for therapy of hospitalized patients
      with infections due to MDR A. baumannii.

      Study Design Open label phase IV study

      Sample Size:

      It is estimated that a favorable response rate in patients infected with MDR A. baumannii who
      received tigecycline is 60% +/- 20% with 5% type I error. Therefore the estimated sample size
      is 24 patients. This study will enroll 30 patients in order to compensate for some patients
      who may not be available to have a complete follow up.

      Study Procedures:

      All eligible patients will be identified through the pharmacy database and microbiology
      database on daily basis. The investigator will obtain written consent from each potential
      patient. Consent must be documented by the patient's dated signature on a consent form along
      with the dated signature of the person conducting the consent discussion. If the patient is
      in the state that can not make decision, the written consent of a parent, legal guardian or
      legal representative must be obtained. Intervention: The eligible patients will receive 100
      mg of tigecycline intravenous infusion for 30 minutes followed by 50 mg every 12 hours for 7
      to 14 days.

      Evaluation/Follow - Up:

      Clinical outcomes on effectiveness and safety will be evaluated on daily basis up to 28 days.
      Follow-up culture of clinical specimen from the site of infection will be obtained on day 3
      and at the end of tigecycline therapy. Clinical response is classified as cure, improvement,
      failure, relapse, death. Microbiological outcome is assessed at the end of treatment and
      classified as eradication, persistence, colonization, and superinfection. Adverse events,
      overall 28-day mortality and infection-related mortality will be determined. Length of stay
      will also be determined.
    
  