
    
      A number of recent of recent studies suggests that statins, typically used to lower blood
      cholesterol have an effect on the brain. Patients treated with statins may have increased
      blood flow in the brain resulting in increased activity of the brain's neurons. The neuronal
      system is linked to memory. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy (MRS) and magnetic resonance perfusion (MRP) will be used to assess changes in
      neuronal activity in patients receiving statins vs. patients not receiving statins.

      This is a single-site non-randomized pilot study. The study will include twenty (20), healthy
      consenting patients between the ages of 45 and 65 who are candidates for statin therapy as
      determined by their cardiologist(s). Two imaging visits will be required, one magnetic
      resonance imaging with Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy and Magnetic Resonance Perfusion at
      baseline and one magnetic resonance imaging with magnetic resonance Spectroscopy and Magnetic
      Resonance Perfusion three months later as described.

      Patients will have selected their course of clinical treatment prior to recruitment. Ten
      patients will have elected to start statin therapy with Lipitor and ten patients will have
      elected to initially lower their cholesterol levels with diet, independent of their
      participation in the study.

      Participants on the "statin arm" will receive a dose of 20 mg per day of Lipitor and will
      receive a baseline brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging with Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy and
      Magnetic Resonance Perfusion prior to receiving Lipitor and follow-up brain Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging with Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy and Magnetic Resonance Perfusion three
      months after beginning Lipitor.

      Participants on the "diet arm" will receive a baseline brain magnetic resonance imaging with
      Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy and Magnetic Resonance Perfusion at the beginning of the
      study and follow-up brain magnetic resonance imaging with magnetic resonance spectroscopy and
      magnetic resonance perfusion three months later.
    
  