
    
      Seventy-two health anxious patients with a diagnosis of Illness Anxiety Disorder or Somatic
      Symptom Disorder will be randomly assigned to either receive brief cognitive-behavioral
      therapy (CBT) administered by a medical assistant in the primary care practice where the
      patient receives their primary care services (intervention condition) or receive a referral
      to a mental health provider within the outpatient psychiatry clinic or another community
      provider of their choice (usual care condition). Randomization will be determined by a random
      number generation program at the point of enrollment. The randomization scheme will be
      stratified by primary care site to reduce site effects. The primary care sites from which
      patients will be recruited include the General Internal Medicine clinic at
      Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Heater Road clinic, and
      Dartmouth-Hitchcock Manchester. Recruitment will be evenly distributed across sites. The
      investigators will over-sample racial and ethnic minority patients at Dartmouth-Hitchcock
      Manchester due to the higher proportion of minority patients receiving services at that
      location.

      The brief CBT intervention is a 4-session psychotherapy comprised of techniques guided by
      cognitive-behavioral theory and specifically derived from previously published materials.
      Each technique has support from prior randomized controlled trials demonstrating their
      efficacy for reducing symptoms of health anxiety and expert consensus. The techniques
      employed include motivational interviewing, psychoeducation, cognitive restructuring, and
      situational and interoceptive exposure. Each session of brief CBT is 45-minutes in duration
      and is delivered by a medical assistant who is principally located at the patient's primary
      care practice. All sessions are based on a manual developed by the Principal Investigator
      that includes essential elements to deliver at each session, scripts to guide delivery of the
      intervention, and homework assignments for the patient to complete between sessions and after
      completion of the final session. The Principal Investigator provides clinical supervision of
      the intervention over the course of the study.

      The referral process employed in the usual care condition consists of an electronic referral
      made by the patient's primary care provider to a mental health provider within the
      Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health system, or a community provider outside of the system identified
      by the patient in consultation with the primary care provider. The nature of the intervention
      provided by the mental health provider is not prescribed or guided by the study protocol.

      Examination of distributions of all variables using descriptive analyses will precede
      inferential statistical analysis. Transformations or recoding will be applied to normalize
      continuous data when necessary. The success of random assignment will be evaluated by
      comparing the two study groups on baseline characteristics using chi-square tests for
      categorical variables and t-tests for continuous covariates. If baseline variables are
      significantly different between groups and are significantly associated with the outcomes
      (e.g., medical comorbidity), the investigators will include them as covariates in the
      analytic models.

      The primary outcome of change in health anxiety will be tested using a model that
      accommodates attrition and is appropriate for correlated data due to clustering (by 3 sites
      and 6 medical assistants) and repeated measures (baseline, 4 and 12 weeks) on the outcomes.
      Because there are only three assessment points, time will be treated as discrete and fitted
      to a covariance pattern model to compare average change between groups over time. Group (CBT
      vs usual care), time (baseline, 4 and 12 weeks), and the group by time interaction will be
      specified for the model. The treatment effect of intervention relative to control will be
      evaluated by testing significance of the group by time interaction term. An unstructured
      variance-covariance structure will be specified to account for the correlated nature of the
      data due to repeated measures.

      The cluster size at site and provider levels are too small to be treated as random effects;
      therefore, the analysis will take clustering effects due to site and provider into account
      using small-sample robust estimate correction options implemented in the Statistical Analysis
      Software (SAS) generalized linear mixed models procedure (PROC GLIMMIX) procedure. GLIMMIX
      facilitates conducting mixed-effects and generalized estimating equation (GEE) modeling in
      the same procedure simultaneously.

      The sample size was determined by a combination of recruitment feasibility, study therapist
      (medical assistant) availability, and power analysis. Given two groups, 3-assessment points,
      and sample size of 72 (36 per arm) with 15% attrition at 12 months (N = 58), and assuming
      cross-time correlation of 0.60, alpha of 0.05, and two-tailed tests, the study achieves 80%
      power to detect a minimum effect size of 0.69, between medium (0.50) and large (0.80) in
      Cohen's d-metric. If the analysis takes clustering effects due to site and providers into
      account by adjusting the sample size with an intraclass correlation (ICC) of 0.01, the study
      achieves 80% power to detect an effect size of 0.72. Statisticians recommend ICC between 0.01
      and 0.02 in clinical studies with clustering; the investigators used ICC = 0.01 for this
      power calculation. A larger sample size is needed to detect effect sizes smaller than 0.69
      and 0.72; however, sample size for pilot study should be based on pragmatics of recruitment
      and the necessities for examining feasibility, and not for purpose of inferential statistical
      tests.

      The investigators will assess acceptability of the intervention and strategy using scores on
      a self-report measure of treatment acceptability using mean scores above a predetermined cut
      score denoting moderate acceptability across all participants. The investigators assess study
      therapist fidelity to the treatment by compiling standardized fidelity ratings for each
      session, nested within each provider, and converted to a percentage fidelity score.

      Finally, the investigators will assess acceptability qualitatively using qualitative
      interviews with medical assistants, primary care providers, and clinic administrators.
      Interview data will be transcribed and entered verbatim into a qualitative data management
      software package for content analysis. Content analysis consists of reviewing the responses
      of interviewees to identify responses that are coded to correspond to Consolidated Framework
      for Implementation Research constructs. Coding will be conducted by two independent coders
      (the Principal Investigator and a research assistant) and overseen by a medical
      anthropologist.
    
  