
    
      Specific Aims

        1. To document that estrogen deficiency of hypothalamic (central brain) origin is a stable
           trait, when measured over one menstrual cycle or an approximate thirty days apart in
           premenopausal women undergoing angiography for coronary ischemia.

        2. To document a relationship between estrogen deficiency, other reproductive hormones and
           environmental stress in premenopausal women.

        3. To measure prevalence of angiographic coronary artery disease among premenopausal women
           and correlate it with noninvasive markers of coronary artery disease and the genetic
           relationship of estrogen in cardiovascular disease through genotyping and analysis of
           genes related to estrogen metabolism and pathways.

      We are recruiting female patients who have undergone coronary angiography and are under the
      age of 55. After subject has signed the informed consent, we will screen her by testing her
      blood for two hormones to see if subject is premenopausal. If she is, she will be enrolled in
      the study and scheduled to return for a baseline visit on day 12-18 of the following
      menstrual cycle or 22-30 days later.

      During the baseline visit we will measure height, weight, blood pressure, heart rate and
      waist-hip ratio. Subject will have to be fasting and we will draw blood for cholesterol,
      glucose and insulin levels and levels of various hormones, including but not limited to
      estrogen. Subject's saliva will be collected to test for cortisol levels. If subject agrees,
      a tablespoon of your blood will also be collected for genetic testing. Subject will be asked
      to fill out a separate consent form. Participation in the study does not mandate
      participation in genetic testing. Subject also will be given multiple questionnaires
      including questions regarding medical history, family history, medication use, stress,
      anxiety, and depression. They should be filled out within 48 hours of the blood draw to
      correlate findings. Neck arteries will be examined by ultrasound waves to measure the
      thickness of the arteries. This test can be performed on your second of third visit.

      The final exit visit will be timed 26-33 days from your baseline visit. It will include all
      the tests that subjects underwent during their baseline visit except for the ultrasound,
      which will only be done once.

      In summary, subjects will make three to four visits, the total study duration will be three
      to four months.

      We will evaluate your hormone levels and other blood markers with respect to your coronary
      angiogram and thickness of the neck arteries. We will also assess whether your hormone levels
      are related to stress, anxiety and depression. And finally, we will measure the variability
      in your hormone levels over the testing period.
    
  