
    
      Schizophrenia is amongst the leading causes of global disability in adults. A major factor
      underlying this is that about 30% of patients show little or no response to first-line
      antipsychotic drugs. There is one drug, clozapine, with proven efficacy in these patients.
      However, currently there are no good predictors of treatment non-response and consequently
      patients have to undergo empirical trials with first-line drugs. This contributes to the long
      delays, on average 4-5 years, seen in identifying and starting patients on clozapine.
      Furthermore, clozapine is poorly tolerated and has potentially life-threatening side-effects,
      which mean that the investigators desperately need new, alternative drugs. Lack of
      understanding of the neurobiological basis underlying non-response has impeded the
      development of alternatives to clozapine in the past. However recently it has been shown that
      non-responders show reduced dopamine synthesis capacity relative to patients who have
      responded to antipsychotics. The effect size for this difference is very large, d>1.2. This
      study was cross-sectional, in patients who had already received antipsychotic treatment for a
      number of years. The key questions now are thus:

        1. is dopamine synthesis capacity different at illness onset in drug naïve patients who
           subsequently show non-response to antipsychotic treatment relative to drug naïve
           patients who respond to treatment

        2. is it possible to predict who will respond to treatment

      To test this the investigators are going to investigate the relationship between presynaptic
      dopamine dysfunction and antipsychotic responsiveness in a prospective study.

      For this, the investigators are going to measure striatal dopamine synthesis capacity using
      [18 fluorine(F)]DOPA positron emission tomography in drug-naïve first episode psychosis and
      determine treatment response after 6 weeks of treatment with amisulpride. Response will be
      defined as a >30% reduction in symptom ratings on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale.

      The effect size in our cross-sectional study was d=1.3. Based on this effect size a sample
      size of 12 per group will have >80% power to detect a group difference with p<0.05 2-tailed
      using an independent t-test. Given a non-response rate of 30% the investigators will thus
      require 40 patients at baseline to get 12 non-responders. To allow for 20% drop-outs we will
      require 50 patients at baseline.
    
  