
    
      The aim of our study is to compare two different syndesmosis transfixation methods in AO/OTA
      Weber C ankle fractures. Screw fixation is widely and mostly used transfixation but
      suture-button is also shown to be a biomechanically stable and probably more physiologic
      transfication method. It is shown that even 50 % of the syndesmosis srews and thus fibulas
      are in malposition. With more physiologic suture-button transfixation this malposition is
      thought to be less commmon. There is no studies comparing screw and suture-button syndesmosis
      transfixation methods in AO/OTA Weber C ankle fracture patients.

      Our hypothesis is that 50% of screw fixed fibulas but only 5% of suture-button fixed fibulas
      are in malposition assessed in the intraoperative computed tomography. Malposition is
      assessed to present if difference between fractured and non-fractured side is at least 2 mm
      in the tibiofibular joint. Thus, the sample size is assessed to be 19 patients per group
      (alpha=0.05, Beta=0.2, 20% drop out).

      All skeletally mature patients (16 years or older) with AO/OTA Weber C type fractures
      operated within a week after trauma are included into the study. Exclusion criteria are
      previous ankle fracture, concomitant tibial fracture, diabetes with peripheral neuropathy,
      pathological fracture or inadequate co-operation.

      After bony fixation the tibiofibular transfixation is randomly performed either by a 3,5 mm
      tricortical screw or a suture-button (TightRope). An intraoperative computed tomography is
      imaged from the both ankles of all patients. The operation is continued with six weeks
      casting without weight-bearing.

      Clinical outcome was assessed using the Olerud-Molander scoring system, RAND 36-Item Health
      Survey, and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) to measure pain and function after a minimum 1-year
      of follow-up.
    
  