
    
      Identification of potential participants: On admission to the hospital for labor, all women
      will be asked if they were planning to tie their tubes after their delivery. Women who
      requested tubal ligation and have not received this on post-partum day one, and who are not
      anticipated to have it completed on post-partum days 2 or 3, and who did not have a
      contraceptive device (IUD or Nexplanon) placed that the time of delivery will be identified
      from hospital service lists.

      Enrollment: All patients meeting inclusion criteria will be approached by study personnel and
      asked about whether sterilization is their preferred contraceptive method. If the potential
      participant still expresses a desire for permanent sterilization, the potential participant
      will be offered enrollment in the study. The study will be described, and the expected
      preferred method of sterilization identified. The participant will sign informed consent.

      Allocation Concealment: A randomization sequence will be developed with a computerized number
      generator, and will generate participant assignments in a 1:1 ration with randomly permuted
      block sizes of 4, 6, and 8. A person not involved with study enrollment will place cards with
      participant assignments in a series of sequentially numbered, sealed opaque sealed envelopes.
      These envelopes will be stored on the post partum floor, and after a patient completes the
      informed consent, the next sequential envelope will be opened.

      Randomization: The potential candidate will be randomized by opening of the next sequentially
      numbered sealed envelope. The assignment will be noted and disclosed. The assignment will be
      noted in the study chart, and the card with the assignment will be stored with the chart.

      Study protocol following randomization:

      If the participant is assigned to the standard care arm, the participant will be instructed
      to present for her post-partum visit, and that surgical procedure will be scheduled at that
      time. These participants will be offered appropriate short term contraceptive. This reflects
      current standard of care regarding post-partum follow up and contraception.

      If the participant is assigned to the expedited scheduling arm, the preferred method of
      sterilization (laparoscopic or hysteroscopic) will be confirmed. The available dates for
      surgery in the appropriate window (4-8 weeks post-partum) will be offered, and the
      participant will confirm her preferred dates. The surgery scheduling team will be contacted,
      and the patient will be placed on the schedule. If a date cannot be definitively confirmed
      prior to discharge, the participant will be instructed to expect a call from the surgery
      schedulers to confirm the surgical date within 3 days of hospital discharge. In that phone
      call, administrators will provide information for pre-admission testing date to complete
      preoperative laboratory work if needed. The participant will be instructed to schedule a
      routine post-partum visit as well per usual protocols. All participants will be offered the
      appropriate short-term contraceptive.

      Follow-up after hospital discharge. Patients in the expedited group will receive the standard
      phone calls from the surgery scheduling team regarding pre-operative appointments and the
      peri-operative nurses on the day prior to schedule surgery. Participants will not receive any
      other specialized reminders regarding their surgical date or intentions for follow up. If
      participants contact the office requesting a change to a surgical date, this will be allowed.

      Per usual surgical procedures, if participants do not present for their scheduled surgery,
      they will be contacted and offered an opportunity to re-schedule. If participants miss more
      than one scheduled surgery date, they will not be contacted further to re-schedule; however,
      if the participant calls the office to schedule independently, another surgical date will be
      offered.

      Patients in the standard of care group will receive standard discharge summary and
      instructions which include instruction to contact the outpatient OB-Gyn office to schedule
      post-partum follow-up in about 6 weeks. Once scheduled for an appointment, participants will
      receive the standard automated appointment reminder call or text. Participants will not
      receive any specialized reminders regarding follow-up for either routine post-partum care or
      regarding scheduling of sterilization surgery. Participants will not be seen by study
      personnel at this visit to encourage or facilitate scheduling of tubal, as the goal is for
      this group to receive current standard care. Data regarding the outcome of this visit will be
      abstracted from the post-partum chart by study personnel.

      Study Completion:

      Participants will be considered exited from the study at these endpoints:

        -  Tubal is completed as scheduled - do satisfaction survey: study complete

        -  Seen for follow up, and state definitively that they have changed mind about tubal and
           no longer desire it - do satisfaction survey: study complete (Survey B for survey
           specific to those who have changed their mind regarding tubal)

        -  Are seen for follow up within 6 month, state intention to complete tubal. It is done
           within 6 months. Do survey at time of tubal: study complete.

        -  Are seen for follow up within 6 months, state intention to complete tubal, but it has
           not been completed at 6 month mark - will be contacted by phone, queried about barriers
           and why not done, and complete satisfaction survey: study complete (Survey C for survey
           specific to non-completion of follow up)

        -  Are not seen for follow up at all within 6 months - will be contacted by phone at
           6-month point to determine if tubal done elsewhere, method of contraception, interval
           pregnancy, complete satisfaction survey (Survey C): study complete
    
  