
    
      Rationale: Cancer cells express unique peptide antigens recognized by CD8+ cytotoxic T
      lymphocytes (CTL), which are typically 8-10 amino acids long and are presented in association
      with Class I MHC molecules. The peptides recognized by helper (CD4+) T-cells are presented in
      association with Class II MHC molecules and are usually longer (13-18 amino acids in length),
      although peptide elution studies have indicated no apparent restriction on peptide length.
      Selected peptides can induce circulating T cell responses in most patients, and that
      vaccination with a mixture of peptides is immunogenic in up to 100% of patients. The
      magnitude of T cell responses sometimes is substantial, with 1-5% of circulating CD8 T cells
      reactive to single antigens. T cell responses to vaccines may be durable for months or years,
      but are at least as likely to be transient, sometimes declining even while still receiving
      vaccines. However, T cells induced by vaccination can recognize and lyse cancerous cells
      expressing the relevant protein and MHC, and peptide vaccines induce promising
      immunogenicity.

      Though MHC-restriction of individual peptides limits their use to a subset of patients, there
      are mixtures of a dozen peptides restricted by HLA-A1, A2, A3, or A11 can be prepared as a
      stable mixture and can induce immune responses in 85% of patients with cancer who express one
      or more of those MHC molecules, without negative effects from competition among the peptides.
      Other experience supports the ability to induce T cell responses to multiple peptides when
      vaccinating with peptide mixtures. Since antigenic peptides are easily degraded by proteases
      in the body, it is difficult for the receptors expressed on the immune cells to identify
      antigen epitopes, and they do not generate a strong immune response to pathogens. An
      epitope-based vaccine with a reasonable design is composed of epitope peptide/s, a delivery
      system, and an adjuvant. For multi-epitope vaccines, since the traditional carriers and
      adjuvants are associated with poor efficacy, vaccine designs with built-in adjuvants have
      been proposed. Therefore, a built-in adjuvant exhibiting both the functions of a transmission
      system and a traditional adjuvant, is constructed within the vaccine to improve the
      immunogenicity of epitope peptides by stimulating the innate immune response required for an
      adaptive immune response. To achieve this goal, the epitopes are regularly fused with
      adjuvant proteins or displayed on the surface of some particular biomaterials (e.g.,
      liposomes, gold nanoparticles, and poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA)) and the
      immunogenicity of the epitopes are significantly increased by this immune complex.

      Study design: This research is a pilot clinical trial using a personalized neoantigen peptide
      vaccine. Approximately 100 patients with cancer and whose sequencing studies show the
      presence of neoantigens will receive the personalized multi-peptide vaccine. Peptide vaccines
      will be given with an adjuvant (Montanide ISA-51 VG) by intradermal injection (~0.5 mg of
      each peptide) in the arm every week for a maximum of 8 weeks; the treatment will be
      discontinued if disease progresses or if there is deterioration of the patient's general
      condition. All patients will give written informed consent; their data will be coded and
      fully anonymized. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Regenerative Medicine
      Institute and conformed to the ethical guidelines of the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  