
    
      With the increase in recreational usage of various soft drugs, such as ketamine,
      methamphetamine over the world, substance abuse related voiding dysfunction is becoming an
      important medical problem. However, while the clinical manifestation of the condition is
      becoming better defined, the underlying pathophysiology is still poorly understood. Moreover,
      majority of the current treatment is based on the experience on some small case series and
      there is no treatment data for larger patient sample or standard recommended treatment in the
      literature. With the rapid increase in patients' demand, there is an urgent need for better
      clinical study on the effect of various treatment regimes for the condition, to provide more
      evidence-based recommendation for them. On the other hand, better treatment outcome will also
      help the rehabilitation of these substance abusers.

      However, in Hong Kong, due to the limited funding in the tertiary care health system and the
      poor social support for the patients, some potential treatment options, including COX II
      inhibitors, intravesical hyaluronate, and botulinum toxin injection, etc, are not readily
      available for these patients. Therefore, some patients may receive sub-optimal treatment with
      more side effects or may have limited access to certain therapeutic options. The patients may
      have to suffer and this also affects the doctors' experience and hence the formulation of
      ideal treatment for these patients. If extra or adequate funding is available, it may not
      only widen the potential treatment options for these patients but also provide more clinical
      experience and data in guiding the formulation of treatment protocols / recommendation and
      even guide future research direction.

      Therefore, in this proposal, investigators would like to prospectively study the treatment
      result of various treatment modalities under a standardized treatment protocol. The results
      will help to evaluate the effectiveness and also tolerability of various proposed treatment
      options in substance abused related voiding dysfunction. . Because of the certain
      similarities in the clinical manifestations and pathology of voiding dysfunction and
      interstitial cystitis / painful-bladder syndrome (IC/PBS), this treatment protocols (referred
      to later section) will base on standard recommendations of IC/PBS (including the American
      Urological Guideline) and literature on voiding dysfunction management. For treatment /
      medications that are not provided in Hospital Authority formulation, investigators will
      provide to patient if clinically indicated. Currently, because of the insufficient treatment
      data and also the behavioural characteristics of these substance abusers, it will be
      difficult or impractical to perform randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials in this
      area. As a result, a prospective longitudinal study on a standardized treatment protocol is
      proposed, which will provide some "Real-life practice" information on the management of these
      patients. The data gathered from this study may also provide basis for future study.
    
  