
    
      Plan of Investigation: (fig 04 in supplementary notes, CONSORT diagram)

      Subjects:

      Participants will be recruited from the patients in the Orthopaedic & Traumatology department
      at the Prince of Wales Hospital, the tertiary teaching hospital affiliated to CUHK.

      Sample size: 106 subjects randomized 1:1 into the two treatment groups accounting for a
      dropout rate of 15%.

      The sample size was calculated by using the primary endpoint of wound size in G*Power 3.1.9.4
      (Germany). Using a 1:1 randomization ratio a type I error rate (a-level) of 0.05 and power of
      0.95. Our vibration study of diabetic rat wounds showed an effect size d of 0.99. We estimate
      a tuned-down effect in human subjects, thus using an effect size of 0.7 we calculated that we
      should recruit 90 participants with 45 in each group. (22)

      Methods:

      Study Design:

      Randomized Controlled Trial 1:1 randomization into control n=58 or intervention (Vibration)
      group n=58. Intervention

        -  Control group: conventional dressing

        -  Vibration group: conventional dressing + LMHFV

      Data Analysis:

      Randomisation performed using computer-generated randomization with a 1:1 allocation ratio
      using permuted block randomization to ensure similar numbers in the control and vibration
      group.

      Compliance to intervention:

      Conventional dressing: Each attendance to wound dressing will be recorded by the clinic
      nurse; those with <60% attendance to the wound clinic will be excluded.

      LMHFV Vibration: each participant in the vibration intervention group will be assigned a
      personal 'smart card'. This smart card will record each utilization of the vibration platform
      to ensure compliance, those with <66% attendance will be excluded.

      Repeated measures of ANOVA will be used to analyze the ulcer size groups and time points
      differences with be analyzed with post-hoc Bonferroni tests. Student's t-test for two
      independent samples will be used to compare groups of the same time point. Statistical
      analyses will be performed using IBM SPSS 25 (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA), and statistical
      significance was considered at p < 0.05.
    
  