
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the overall response rate (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR]) of
      trebananib (AMG 386) alone and in combination with continuation of previously administered
      bevacizumab, pazopanib hydrochloride (pazopanib), sorafenib tosylate (sorafenib), or
      sunitinib malate (sunitinib) in advanced renal cell carcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression free survival in each arm. II. To evaluate the tolerance and
      toxicity of AMG 386 alone and in combination with continuation of the prior VEGF targeted
      agent.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the association between pretreatment tumor gene expression levels and response
      to AMG 386 in combination with continuation of the prior VEGF targeted agent.

      II. To evaluate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in angiogenic
      genes and response to AMG 386 in combination with continuation of the prior VEGF targeted
      agent.

      III. To compare changes in circulating angiogenic factors in patients treated with AMG 386
      monotherapy to those treated with AMG 386 in combination with VEGF-targeted therapy.

      IV. To compare expression of angiogenic genes from archival tumor specimens to the expression
      in biopsy specimens obtained after progression on anti-VEGF therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive trebananib intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15,
      22, 29, and 36. Cycles repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive trebananib as in Arm I and either bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes
      on days 1, 15, and 29, pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-42,
      sorafenib tosylate PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-42, or sunitinib malate PO QD on days 1-28.
      Cycles repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4-8 weeks.
    
  