
    
      Hypothermia is defined as a body temperature below 36°C and classified as mild (34°C-36°C),
      moderate (32°C-33.9°C), severe (<32°C) hypothermia. Hypothermia can be caused by reduced heat
      production, increased heat loss and / or deterioration of thermoregulation (anesthesia and
      premedication drugs, antiseptic solutions, low ambient temperature, wet surgical sterile
      drapes on the patient, use of cold intravenous fluids).

      Preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative hypothermia is the drop of body temperature
      below 36 ° C within one hour before surgery and within 24 hours postoperatively. It is the
      most common but preventable thermal disorder during anesthesia. It occurs as a result of
      anesthesia on thermoregulation during surgery and exposure to cold operating room. Although
      it can be seen in all anesthetized individuals before, during and after surgery due to age,
      sex, body surface area and body shape; duration, depth, signs and symptoms may vary.

      The American Society of Operating Room Nurses (AORN) emphasized the importance of the use of
      appropriate heating devices in the prevention of hypothermia in surgical patients.
      Experimental studies and meta-analyzes indicate that active methods of preventing hypothermia
      (hot air blown systems, hot water circulating blankets and garments, liquid heaters, blood
      and blood product heaters, etc.), passive methods (wool and synthetic woolen materials,
      garments and blankets, insulation) materials, etc.) are more effective. It is recommended to
      use more than one method together to maintain normothermia before, during and after surgery.

      Hypothermia is an important problem that should be prevented in surgical patient because it
      causes serious problems such as delayed wound healing, bleeding, cardiac problems,
      deterioration of patient comfort, prolonged hospital stay, surgical site infection (SSI) and
      deaths.

      Many guidelines state that the risk of surgical site infection increases three fold due to a
      decrease in central temperature of 1.9 C. According to the Guidelines for Safe Surgery
      published by the World Health Organization in 2009; maintaining normothermia during surgery
      is one of the ten steps intended to reduce the incidence of postoperative surgical site
      infection. The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and the Association for
      Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) recommend the maintenance of intraoperative
      normothermia to prevent surgical site infection.

      Surgical nurse; should be aware of the causes of hypothermia and the complications that may
      occur during the planning, implementation and evaluation of a patient-specific, multi-faceted
      care; should check the body temperature before, during and after surgery and take precautions
      to prevent body temperature. Therefore, the body temperature of the patient should be
      monitored at regular intervals, the body temperature of the preventive interventions must be
      timely and effective implementation. The maintenance of normothermia in patients with
      perioperative procedures may reduce the incidence of complications due to hypothermia and may
      have a positive effect on the success and recovery of surgery.
    
  