
    
      Trapeziometacarpal (TM) osteoarthritis is the second most common location of osteoarthritis
      in the hand and one of the most common arthritis sites of all joints. The prevalence of
      isolated radiographic TM joint arthritis is 35% in people older than 55 years. Armstrong et
      al. reported TM joint arthritis prevalence of 33% in postmenopausal women, of which one third
      was symptomatic and prevalence of 11% in men older than 55 years. A pathology involving thumb
      TM joint may lead to functional disability of the entire hand due to pain, weakened
      pinch/grip strength and decreased thumb opposition. The most common classification system
      described is Eaton and Litter using 4 stages of thumb TM joint arthritis. The indication for
      surgical treatment includes pain, TM joint deformity, grip weakness that interfere with daily
      functions and no response to conservative treatment. A variety of different procedures has
      been proposed for treatment of TM arthritis. For less severe stages (Eaton-Littler type 1 and
      2) operative options include hemi-trapeziectomy, volar ligament reconstruction, thumb
      metacarpal osteotomy and arthroscopically assisted debridement/synovectomy of the TM
      joint.For more severe stages (Eaton-Littler type 3 and 4) TM joint arthrodesis, TM primary
      joint arthroplasty, trapeziectomy alone or combined with use of ligament augmentation.

      Limitation of TM joint arthrodesis includes risk of nonunion, decreased thumb motion and
      degenerative changes to adjacent joints. TM joint arthroplasty leads to fast pain relief,
      stronger grip function and improved range of motion during short-term postoperative course
      but long-term risk of implant failure and aseptic loosening has been reported. The aim of
      trapezial excision is to remove the arthritic TM joint thus reducing pain and maintaining
      thumb mobility.Several studies have reported excellent results after trapeziectomy.

      However, simple excision of the trapezium was criticized for weakening of the thumb, due to
      instability and proximal migration of the 1. metacarpal. To overcome this issue several
      surgical technics were described in which trapezium resection is combined with ligament
      reconstruction tendon interposition (LRTI). Interposition is achieved by placing the
      rolled-up tendon autograft into the space between the scaphoid and 1. metacarp and
      stabilization by ligament reconstruction at the base of 1. metacarp. A variety of different
      LRTI procedures including harvesting of the flexor carpi radialis tendon (FCR), extensor
      carpi radialis longus tendon (ECRL), abductor pollicis longus tendon (APL) and palmaris have
      been described.

      However, Weilby published in 1988 a method of ligament reconstruction utilizing the half of
      the width of the flexor carpi radialis tendon (FCR). The strip of the FCR is harvested and
      coiled around abductor pollicis longus and itself thus restoring metacarpal stability and
      preventing its subsidence. Today, the Weilby procedure is the most common type of LRTI
      operations in Denmark. Despite of Weilby's widespread use there is lack of evidence for the
      superiority of the procedure over simple trapeziectomy in terms of pain reduction, changes in
      range of motion and muscle strength and studies describes adverse effects of LRTI procedures,
      which include FCR tendon ruptures or adhesions, scar tenderness, sensory changes, neuromas,
      complex regional pain syndrome and wound infections.

      In contrast, fewer complications and adverse effects have been reported after simple
      trapeziectomy. In summary, there is insufficient evidence which technique confers a benefit
      over another technique in terms of pain, physical function, strength and complications. To
      the investigators knowledge, no trial exist that compared LRTI to simple trapeziectomy with
      sham surgery.
    
  