
    
      A number of 30 Patients with Acute Gastrointestinal bleeding will be included in the study.

      To maximise detection capabilities, it is crucial that Computed tomography angiography should
      begin as soon as possible while the patient is actively bleeding. Patients with active
      Gastrointestinal bleeding are assigned to intensive care units, and patients in shock are
      promptly resuscitated. Intensive care unit physicians provide appropriate monitoring for
      hemodynamically unstable patients undergoing Multidetector computed tomography angiography.
      Multidetector computed tomography angiography should be performed without prior oral
      administration of water or contrast material. Active contrast material extravasation within
      the bowel lumen is obscured by oral contrast material, leading to false-negative results.

      Data acquisition: Investigators will perform Multidetector computed tomography angiography
      with 16- Multislice computed tomography scanner, medical system bright speed. The protocol
      will include non-enhanced scanning then perform a triphasic angiography that includes
      arterial, portal and venous phases to detect acute Gastrointestinal bleeding.

      Images will be acquired with the following parameters slice thickness 5mm for the unenhanced
      phase and 1.25mm for the arterial phase and Porto-venous phases, pitch 1.375, 300 Miliambiar,
      120kilovolt and rotation time 0.7 seconds.

      Images acquired are reconstructed for coronal, sagittal, Volume Rendering and Maximum
      Intensity Projection images. A similar protocol may be used with a 64-Multislice computed
      tomography scanner.

      A dose of 1-2 ml/kg body weight of concentration 370mg/ml non-ionized contrast media will be
      administered at a rate of 4ml/sec, with an upper limit of 150ml. Venous access is an
      antecubital vein with a 14 or at least 18G cannula. The scan delay time for the arterial
      phase images is obtained by using bolus tracking with a circular region of interest
      positioned in the abdominal aorta and a predefined 90-housenfield unit bolus-trigger
      threshold to the start of automatic scanning. The coverage from just above the diaphragm to
      the Ischial tuberosities including the rectum in all cases.

      Study interpretation post processing will be performed with a 4.6 version workstation. All
      studies are reviewed in the axial plane and with multiplanar reformation images. Real-time
      maximum-intensity projection images facilitate rapid study interpretation for optimal case
      management.

      The radiologist will try to get the following information:

        -  presence or absence of bleeding.

        -  localise the site of bleeding.

        -  detect the cause of bleeding: tumour, Arteriovenous malformations….. The confirmation of
           the triphasic Multislice computed tomography results will be done by angiographic
           intervention and embolization of bleeding vessel
    
  