
    
      Background:

      Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare disorder characterized by accumulation of
      lipoproteinaceous material within alveolar spaces, leading to respiratory failure. Whole lung
      lavage (WLL) is the current therapeutic option, but it may induce complete resolution of the
      disorder only in 30% of patients. Based on PAP pathophysiology, a few pilot studies dealing
      with administration of rGM-CSF (Sargramostim) to patients either s.c. or aerosolized have
      been performed, with hopeful results.Objectives. We designed an experimental, randomized by
      parallel groups, stratified according to previous treatment, open-label study looking at
      evaluation the superiority of the combination WLL/inhaled GM-CSF vs WLL alone in PAP
      patients. The study also includes a side, observational section. The primary efficacy
      objective is the total resolution of the pulmonary involvement in all treated patients. The
      study includes some secondary efficacy objectives as well: avoidance of disease recurrence,
      avoidance of respiratory infections, investigation of biomarkers predicting the disease
      outcome, effect of treatments on underlying pathophysiology of PAP.

      Methods:

      PAP patients matching the enrollment criteria will enter the study. 1) If requiring the first
      WLL, they will be randomized to receive WLL (1st level control group) or WLL/ followed by
      inhaled GM-CSF, according to an acute (12 weeks) followed by maintenance (6 months) schedule
      (1st level treated group). 2) PAP patients requiring the second WLL: a) the 1st level control
      group subjects will be randomized to receive WLL alone (2nd level control group) or
      WLL/GM-CSF (2nd level treated group); b) the 1st level treated group will receive WLL/GM-CSF
      (1st level re-treated group). 3) PAP patients requiring the 3rd WLL will receive WLL/GM-CSF
      (2nd level re-treated group). 4) PAP patients not requiring additional WLL, but with
      persistent lung abnormalities will receive the course of inhaled GM-CSF (Residual disease
      treated group). At scheduled time, the PAP patients will be evaluated by questionnaire,
      respiratory function testing, CT-assisted lung profusion score, severity score, quality of
      life form, clinical chemistry.

      Expected results:

      We plan to identify the best treatment schedule for PAP patients. We will be able to identify
      the optimal sequence of the treatments (i.e., WLL + short-term inhaled GM-CSF or WLL +
      short-and long-term inhaled GM-CSF) and the optimal treatment in case of recurrence.
    
  