
    
      Defecatory disorders like chronic constipation and faecal incontinence affect 25% of the
      population with rising incidence. Defecatory disorders pose a major health care burden and
      are poorly recognized and treated. The need for better diagnostics and therapeutics is
      substantial. Currently management options for these patients are limited, partly due to the
      fact that control of defaecation and continence is multifactorial but also due to the fact
      that it is difficult to identify the exact cause of patients' incontinence. Even in healthy
      subjects, many aspects of defecatory mechanisms are yet not well understood.

      Current assessment of patients with constipation and faecal incontinence include endoscopic
      assessment to rule out intraluminal organic cause for patients' symptoms, endoanal ultrasound
      scan / MRI to assess patients' pelvic floor anatomy and anorectal manometry and balloon
      expulsion test to assess anorectal function. All tests are susceptible to measurement
      artifacts, with a high inter-individual variation with significant overlap between healthy
      asymptomatic and symptomatic patients.

      The standard technologies for anorectal assessment are anorectal manometry, ballon expulsion
      test and defecography. Endoluminal Functional Lumen Imaging Probe (EndoFLIP©) is a novel
      technology, originally used to measure the dimensions and function of a hollow organ.
      Anorectal manometry, balloon expulsion test, defecography, and the EndoFLIP probe will be
      used in the proposed studies. In addition, the proposed study intends to use a simulated
      feces named Fecobionics which is a device that integrates several technologies into one which
      will save time and reduce test variability. A major difference from EndoFLIP and other
      technologies like anorectal manometry is that the device will be defecated rather than
      providing static data from one location in the anal canal.

      In the proposed studies investigators will assess defecatory function in subgroups of Hong
      Kong patients suffering from chronic constipation and faecal incontinence and determine
      biomarkers to increase the diagnostic value of anorectal testing. Investigators will study up
      to 130 patients with anorectal disorders and 101 healthy control subjects. Investigators
      anticipate to improve diagnostics of anorectal disorders considerably and to learn about
      physiological mechanisms that affect defecatory efficacy. For example, one substudy
      investigates the effect of posture on defecation and another substudy focuses on deferred
      defecation. A third study assessed defecatory parameters as a function of the stiffness of
      Fecobionics. Pelvic floor function will also be assessed through vaginal measurements as well
      as Fecobionics may be endoscopically placed in sigmoid colon. Finally, a substudy assessed
      intestinal parameters after insertion of Fecobionics through a stoma.
    
  