
    
      1. This will be a randomized, double blinded placebo controlled trial over a period of 3
           months. Study subjects will be randomized into 2 groups: Those receiving drug (1gm of
           estrogen vaginal cream [EVC] at bed time 3 times a week), and those receiving placebo.
           Study subjects will be patients diagnosed with stress urinary incontinence by urodynamic
           evaluation. They will have filled out the IIQ-7 and UDI-6 validated questionnaires as is
           routine for all patients being evaluated for stress incontinence. After enrollment and
           informed consent, their initial screening will include a Pap smear for vaginal
           maturation.

        2. Subjects will then be seen at 4, 8 and 12 weeks. At each visit, they will turn in their
           medication tubes and receive new study medication. They will also be screened for any
           adverse reaction to the study medication at each visit.

        3. At the end of the study period, the subjects will fill out the same validated
           questionnaire as they did at the beginning of the study and they will also have their
           urethral pressure profile and PAP smear repeated.

        4. The urethral pressure profile is part of the standard complex urodynamic testing that
           all patients undergo for evaluation and diagnosis of urodynamic stress incontinence.
           Urethral Pressure Profile is a technique used to provide information about the ability
           of the urethra to prevent leakage. The Urethral Pressure Profile is a specific study, in
           which a special design catheter is pulled through the urethra at a slow, continuous
           rate. The resulting "bell shaped" curve illustrates the function of the urethra from the
           beginning of the bladder neck out through the meatus.

        5. The placebo cream will be a pharmacologically inert formulation which will be packaged
           similarly to the active premarin cream and visually indistinguishable from the active
           drug to both the study subjects and researchers.
    
  