
    
      All infants born <29 weeks' postmenstrual age (PMA) require positive end-expiratory pressure
      (PEEP) at birth. PEEP is a simple, feasible and cost-effective therapy to support extremely
      preterm infants that is used globally. The effective and safe level of PEEP to use after
      preterm birth remains the most important unanswered question in neonatal respiratory
      medicine.

      The Investigators will undertake an international multi-centre randomised controlled trial to
      address in extremely preterm infants, whether the use of a high, dynamic PEEP level strategy
      to support the lung during stabilisation ('resuscitation') at birth, compared to the current
      practice of a static PEEP level, will reduce the rate of death or bronchopulmonary dysplasia
      (BPD).

      This trial will address the following four key knowledge gaps:

        1. Assessing whether individualising (dynamic) PEEP is superior to static PEEP

        2. The uncertainty regarding applied pressure strategies to support the lung during
           stabilisation at birth arising from the lack of a properly powered, well-designed
           randomised trial specifically addressing important outcomes for respiratory support in
           the Delivery Room

        3. The optimal PEEP strategy to use

        4. Determining the differential effects of PEEP at different gestational ages.

      For this study, the term PEEP refers to the delivery of positive pressure (via a bias flow of
      gas) to the lungs during expiration by any method of assisted respiratory support, this
      includes:

        1. Continuous Positive Applied Pressure (CPAP; a method of non-invasive respiratory
           support). During CPAP no other type of positive pressure is delivered as the infant
           supports tidal ventilation using her/his own spontaneous breathing effort. PEEP during
           CPAP has also been called 'continuous distending pressure.

        2. Positive Pressure Ventilation (PPV). During PPV PEEP is delivered between periods of an
           applied inflating pressure (PIP) delivered at a clinician-determined rate. PPV can be
           delivered via a mask or other non-invasive interface (also termed non-invasive positive
           pressure ventilation; NIPPV), or via an endotracheal tube (often termed continuous
           mechanical ventilation; CMV).

        3. High-frequency oscillatory ventilation (HFOV) or high-frequency jet ventilation. These
           are modes of invasive PPV in which PIP is delivered at very fast rates (>120 inflations
           per minute) and at very small tidal volumes. During HFOV a mean airway pressure is
           determined by the clinician which is equivalent to the PEEP during other modes. During
           high-frequency jet ventilation the clinician sets a PEEP similar to CMV.

      As all of these modes of ventilation have a similar goal of applying a pressure to the lung
      during expiration (usually to prevent lung collapse) the term PEEP has the same physiological
      result despite different methods of application.

      The specific aim of the trial is to establish whether the use of a high, dynamic 8-12 cmH2O
      PEEP level ('dynamic') strategy to support the lung during stabilisation at birth, compared
      with a static 5-6 cmH2O PEEP level ('static') strategy, increases the rate of survival
      without bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in extremely preterm infants born <29 weeks' PMA,
      and reduces rates of common neonatal morbidities.

      The Investigators hypothesise that in preterm infants born <29 weeks PMA who receive
      respiratory support during stabilisation at birth, a high, dynamic PEEP strategy (i.e. PEEP
      8-12 cmH2O individualised to clinical need) as compared to a standard, static PEEP of 5-6
      cmH2O, will:

        1. Increase survival without BPD (primary outcome); and

        2. Reduce rates of common neonatal morbidities such as failure of non-invasive respiratory
           support in the first 72 hours of life (secondary outcome).

      This trial is a phase III/IV, two parallel group, non-blinded, 1:1 randomised controlled,
      multi-national, multi-centre study comparing dynamic PEEP (dynamic group) with standard PEEP
      strategy (static group).

      The intervention will take place in the Delivery Room. The intervention period will be from
      the time of birth until 20 minutes of life or transfer from Delivery Room to NICU (whatever
      comes first). The follow-up period will extend to 36 weeks PMA (primary endpoint), and 24
      months corrected GA to determine important long-term neurodevelopmental and respiratory
      outcomes.

      The clinical team within the Delivery Room managing enrolled and randomised infants will not
      be masked/blinded to the intervention. Clinicians need to be able to see the PEEP delivery
      device to assess efficacy of pressure delivery. The Research Coordinator/Study team at site
      will also not be masked/blinded to the intervention, as they will be entering trial data into
      the data management system.

      Research staff based at the central Trial Coordinating Centre (TCC), the Data Coordinating
      Centre (DCCe) and the trial statistician will be blinded to assigned treatment.

      There will be a total of 906 infants recruited (453 in the Dynamic group, 453 in the Static
      group), over 25 recruitment centres across Australia, Europe, the United Kingdom, the Middle
      East, Canada and North America.

      The study will have Regional Coordinating Centres (RCCs) established in the following
      jurisdictions:

        1. Australia - The Murdoch Children's Research Institute/Royal Women's Hospital, Melbourne,
           AUS

        2. The Netherlands - Amsterdam University Medical Centre, Netherlands, EU

        3. The United Kingdom - The University of Oxford / National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit
           (NPEU), Oxford, UK, and

        4. North America - the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania, USA.
    
  