
    
      Study investigators have designed a single-center, randomized control trial to evaluate the
      impact of early diagnosis and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in hospitalized
      cardiac patients on hospital readmission, symptoms, and healthcare utilization. This study
      targets a high risk population (hospitalized cardiac patients) and targets early initiation
      of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy in patients diagnosed with OSA.
      Investigators intend to enroll all consenting participants hospitalized with a primary
      cardiac diagnosis, which include congestive heart failure, arrhythmia's, and acute coronary
      syndromes. The study is unique and the answer to its question - whether early diagnosis of
      OSA and initiation of and adherence to CPAP therapy in hospitalized cardiac patients will
      reduce 30-day readmission rates - is unknown. The objective is twofold: to improve quality of
      care and decrease preventable hospitalizations through early diagnosis and implementation of
      this early diagnosis and intervention model for this subset of patients may slow progression
      of cardiac disease, offset a large public health and financial burden, and improve overall
      outcomes.

      Study investigators believe that the study, which involves human subjects, is in accordance
      with general ethical principles. It should be noted that diagnosis and subsequent treatment
      of OSA during hospitalization is not part of routine practice, and that the control group
      truly would follow "usual care". Moreover, patients who are deemed very sick (as outlined in
      the exclusion criteria) will be excluded from the study. Finally, half of enrolled
      participants will receive early CPAP therapy which may potentially benefit those patients
      beyond what is currently "usual care".

      Study Design

      The study is a single-center, randomized control trial designed to evaluate the impact of
      early diagnosis and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in hospitalized cardiac
      patients on hospital readmission, symptoms, and healthcare utilization. Consecutive patients
      who meet inclusion criteria hospitalized with a primary diagnosis of heart failure,
      arrhythmia, or acute coronary syndrome will be asked to participate in the study. Patients
      who agree and sign consent will undergo a portable sleep study to diagnose OSA-predominant
      sleep disordered breathing. Patients will also complete a questionnaire packet consisting of
      the following standardized questionnaires: sleep history questionnaire, Epworth Sleepiness
      Scale (ESS), EQ5D-5L, and PROMIS questionnaire. Each patient who meets inclusion criteria and
      consents to the study will undergo an inpatient portable sleep study (ApneaLink, Resmed
      Corp). This is a Type III study which is an unattended study that measures nasal pressure,
      respiratory effort, oxygen saturation, and body position. A study investigator will apply the
      portable device, and a board-certified sleep medicine physician (co-investigators) will
      interpret these studies. The study will be performed while the patient is on room air (not on
      oxygen), thus the study may not be applied on the first hospitalized night (if oxygen therapy
      is required), but delayed until the patient is appropriate to be off oxygen.

      A diagnosis of OSA will be made if the apnea-hypopnea index with 4% oxygen desaturation is
      greater than 5 (AHI4%≥5) with at least 50% of events consistent with obstructive rather than
      central physiology. Study participants with OSA will then be randomized into one of two
      pathways: Intervention Pathway and Usual Care Pathway.

      Intervention Pathway Patients will receive CPAP therapy in the hospital followed by home CPAP
      therapy. A sleep center respiratory therapy/sleep technologist case manager will perform a
      bedside mask fit, CPAP education, and set up their outpatient follow-up appointments with the
      sleep center. Their home CPAP therapy will be a loaner from the sleep medicine department
      that includes wireless connectivity so that adherence data is available to the investigators
      throughout the duration of the study. Furthermore, the patients will be entered into our
      usual automated platform (USleep; ResMed Corp) in which patients with suboptimal CPAP use
      will be sent messages (email or text based on patient preference) in order to ensure
      adherence to therapy. This platform is already a standard part of our usual care.

      The patients will receive CPAP in addition to the contemporary standard of care
      pharmacotherapy for their underlying cardiac condition(s). They will be asked to follow up at
      the Fontana Sleep Center within 1 month after discharge for assessment of CPAP use and asked
      to complete the aforementioned questionnaire packet (with the exception of the STOP BANG
      questionnaire). During the appointment, the sleep center will troubleshoot CPAP use when
      appropriate; otherwise, requests for additional troubleshooting will be at the discretion of
      the patient (as is currently our usual care). In addition, patients will receive a $50
      stipend for participation in the study. Patients will be assessed for readmission rates, time
      to readmission, adherence to CPAP therapy, and presence of symptoms at the 1-month period

      Usual Care Pathway Patients will receive contemporary standard of care pharmacotherapy for
      their underlying cardiac condition(s) and will not receive CPAP therapy for the duration of
      the study. They will be asked to follow up at the Fontana Sleep Center within 1 month after
      discharge for a repeat outpatient portable sleep study and asked to complete the
      aforementioned questionnaire packet (with the exception of the STOP BANG questionnaire). The
      results of the outpatient portable sleep studies will be compared with the in-patient
      portable sleep study. At the one-month follow up appointment, patients will receive a $50
      stipend for participation in the study. Patients will be assessed for readmission rates, time
      to readmission, adherence to CPAP therapy, and presence of symptoms at the 1-month period
    
  