
    
      Currently there is no consensus on the use of oxygen therapy in sepsis resuscitation.
      Uncertainty exists as to whether increasing oxygen above physiological levels (hyperoxia) or
      maintaining physiological oxygen concentration (normoxia) confers the most benefit to
      patients. By indicating whether hyperoxia is beneficial or not, the study hopes to further
      increase the effectiveness of sepsis resuscitation.

      In patients with sepsis there are convincing, coherent pathophysiological and evidence-based
      justifications which support both normoxia and hyperoxia.

      Why normoxia may benefit patients with sepsis: Enhanced oxidative and nitrosative stress
      resulting from increased formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen
      species (RNS) occurs during sepsis and is assumed to have major importance during the
      development of shock-related hypotension, impairment of microcirculatory perfusion,
      mitochondrial dysfunction, and tissue injury. It is well established that increasing the
      inhaled fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) leads to an increase in ROS production. The
      negative effects of hyperoxia in humans have been well demonstrated in a number of
      pathological conditions including stroke, myocardial infarction and some lung diseases. The
      pathological processes behind each of these conditions is very different from that of sepsis.

      In a small observational study (88 patients) in patients with sepsis, of the hyperoxic
      patients, 8% died in hospital versus 6% with normoxia. Further prospective controlled trials
      are required. The deleterious effects of hyperoxia have also been demonstrated in a rat
      model.

      Why hyperoxia may benefit patients with sepsis: Underlying cellular hypoxia, which may be
      difficult to detect, has been suggested as a major cause of morbidity and mortality in sepsis
      - this may be reversed or attenuated by high flow oxygen.

      Hyperoxia may reverse arterial hypotension and exert anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic
      properties. The beneficial effects of hyperoxia have been demonstrated in rat and pig models
      through increased survival and reduced inflammation.

      One study in rats showed the most benefit on survival from oxygen administration when oxygen
      was administered in the first 4 hours of the trial, with no additional benefit beyond this
      time.

      A further study (also in rats) demonstrated that 6 hours of oxygen per 24 hours for the first
      48 hours following introduction of sepsis had the most beneficial anti-inflammatory effects.
    
  