
    
      Perinatal "early life" stress (ELS) has significant consequences for mothers and their
      infants.(1-3) Prolonged prenatal stress places pregnant women at increased risk for
      depression, health risk behaviors, and poor overall health and quality of life. Likewise,
      fetal exposure to stress places infants at greater risk of neurodevelopmental
      disruptions.(4,5)

      Prior clinical trials led by co-PI Darius Tandon have demonstrated that pregnant women,
      particularly those in low income environments, demonstrate positive health and parenting
      benefits as a result of receiving prenatal stress reduction interventions.(6-8) The
      stress-reduction intervention proposed in the overarching Promoting Healthy Brains Project
      (PHBP), the Mothers and Babies course (MB), is a scalable, manualized evidence-based
      cognitive-behavioral intervention that can be adapted to meet client needs (e.g., setting,
      dose, timing, modality) without compromising fidelity. However, as there is substantial
      heterogeneity in maternal responsiveness to prenatal stress-reduction interventions, MB in
      its current form may be too low-intensity to improve fetal outcomes. Although a few studies
      have examined impact of interventions like MB on developmental outcomes, the extant evidence
      base does not provide strong support for intervention effects. Further, state-of-the-art
      neurodevelopmental methods have not been employed to detect how manipulation of early
      exposure to stress may effect brain:behavior patterns in early life. Advancing this is the
      overarching goal of the PHBP.

      A crucial component of the proposed work involves an enhanced version of the 12-session,
      one-on-one version of MB with 1) mindfulness training content; 2) inter-session text messages
      prompting skills reinforcement, self-monitoring, and homework reminders; 3) adaptive,
      real-time stress monitoring that will optimize the intervention by identifying the key point
      at which to deliver just-in-time stress intervention content to individual participants.

      The investigators will ask pregnant women to wear a long-wearing, unobtrusive wireless ECG
      sensor (BioStamp Research Connect; BioStamp). BioStamp sensor data will be used to detect
      physiological responses to stress (i.e., heart rate variability; HRV) to build a system that
      can be used to trigger real-time stress reduction intervention. BioStamp, a lightweight,
      rechargeable, and easy to use wearable device is equipped to passively and continuously
      measure HRV and motion. Unlike traditional "wired" ECG monitors, BioStamp can be worn under
      typical daily-living conditions (e.g., sleeping, showering, physical activity), with only
      minimal obtrusion in daily life (e.g., re-charging, re-applying adhesive).

      Led by PI Laurie Wakschlag, the overarching PBHP will harness multidisciplinary expertise
      from Northwestern's Institute for Innovations in Developmental Sciences (DevSci), Lurie
      Children's Hospital, Center for Community Health, McCormick School of Engineering, and
      Feinberg School of Medicine & Northwestern Medicine (Ob/Gyn, Preventive Medicine, Medical
      Social Sciences, and Pediatrics) to 1) adapt and pilot MB enhanced with mindfulness training
      content, and just-in-time feedback to participants regarding their in-the-moment stress
      responses, and 2) experimentally test the effects of the optimized intervention on maternal
      wellbeing pre- and postnatally, and postnatal neurodevelopmental health trajectories.
    
  