
    
      This study is a longitudinal cohort follow-up study. The main contents
      include:(1)Questionnaire design: questionnaire is designed according to the research contents
      and purposes. The standard questionnaires will be used to collect the general information,
      dietary habits, lifestyle, medical history and family history etc.(2)Anthropometric
      measurements: blood pressure, height, body weight,waist and hip, pulse will be acquired by
      medical practitioners who received professional trainings based on World Health Organization
      (WHO) standards, and passed relevant examinations.(3) Blood and urine samples collection:
      morning fasting blood, nocturia, and 24-hour urine specimen will be collected by medical
      staffs, and blind tubes will be set up according to 5% of the total samples. Blood
      biochemistries including serum total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol,
      triglycerides, fasting glucose, creatinine and hsCRP can be measured using automatic
      biochemical analyzer. The sodium and potassium concentrations in the urine will be measured
      by flame photometry. The total sodium and potassium excretions in urine in 24h were
      calculated by multiplying the concentration and 24-h volume of urine. (4) Auxiliary
      examinations: Auxiliary examinations including carotid intima-media thickness,
      endothelium-dependent vasodilation (FMD), measurements of brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity
      (baPWV) and electrocardiographic parameters. The measurement will be done in hospitals by
      medical practitioners who received professional trainings and passed relevant examinations.
      (5) Single nucleotide polymorphisms detection: based on our previous studies, sodium and
      potassium metabolism-related gene polymorphisms will be detected using MassARRAY technology.
      (6) Data processing and statistics: we should input the data to the database, and utilize
      softwares such as SPSS, STATA, Haploview and FBAT to analyze. (7) Quality control: ①
      Questionnaire is strictly designed and amended by epidemiologist and clinical experts. ② A
      standardized "Investigator Handbook" will be stipulated according to the guidelines. ③ Staff
      members are required to do a rigorous training and pass the exam. ④ The investigation process
      will be strictly supervised by the principal investigator. ⑤ Data entry use the parallel
      double entry method. ⑥ During laboratory testing, blank control and blind detection are
      applied to ensure the quality. ⑦ Data analysis is performed by 2-3 postgraduates,
      inconsistent data need to be double checked.
    
  