
    
      Post-operative pain management in pediatric patients undergoing adenotonsillectomy is
      challenging not only for the child, but also for the clinician and caregiver. Uncontrolled
      pain carries a high level of morbidity and can result in prolonged hospital stay and/or
      readmission, dehydration, weight loss, and other undesirable effects. In light of recent
      high-profile controversies regarding the safety of codeine the search for effective and safe
      analgesia continues. The American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery (AAO-HNS)
      guidelines suggest that NSAIDs are safe to use in the post-operative period. Here, the
      investigators compare bleeding risk and pain control using acetominophen-hydrocodone
      (control) versus ibuprofen (intervention) in the post-operative period in pediatric patients
      undergoing adenotonsillectomy. The investigators hypothesize that ibuprofen will not be
      associated with increased bleeding risk and will control post-operative pain as well as
      acetominophen-hydrocodone.

      Initial retrospective chart review (Data to be extracted from the patients' charts):

        -  Demographic data

        -  Surgical data

        -  Postoperative data

        -  Descriptive analysis to determine incidence of postoperative bleeding following
           adenotonsillectomy and its relation to demographic factors or surgical factors,
           incidence of postoperative pain problems and relation to demographic or surgical
           factors.

      Prospective, randomized, single-blind trial:

        -  Study Group Allocation/Randomization: Study participants will be randomized into two
           post-operative pain medication treatment arms, using block randomization. Patients who
           are randomized into the test intervention arm will receive ibuprofen (10mg/kg/day every
           6-8 hours) after surgery. Patients who are randomized into the control intervention will
           receive hydrocodone-acetaminophen (0.15mg/kg/day every 4-6 hours). This randomization
           will be performed by Ansley Roche MD, a co-investigator. The operating surgeons will be
           unaware of the group assignments at the time of randomization, at the time of surgery,
           and in the post-operative period. (The participant and caregiver will not be blinded to
           the type of post-operative pain medication they will receive.) Once a study participant
           has been randomized to group, the group assignment information will be provided to the
           otolaryngology resident at Egleston. The resident will write the appropriate
           prescription and provide this to the patient's family prior to discharge.

        -  Postoperative pain assessment: Using the Faces Pain Scale , the pediatric patient will
           indicate his/her pain level at scheduled intervals. Pain level will be recorded by the
           caregiver and pain medication will be administered appropriately based on level of
           patient's self-reported pain. A log of pain medication administered will be kept for
           each dose given. The total amount of pain medication administered per kg per day will be
           calculated by the study staff upon completion of the pain medication logs. Prior to
           surgery, a member of the study team will conduct a brief standard training session for
           parents to teach them how to correctly complete the medication log.

        -  Breakthrough pain: Patients who are randomized into the test intervention arm will
           receive ibuprofen (10mg/kg/day every 6-8 hours) after surgery. Patients who are
           randomized into the control intervention will receive hydrocodone-acetaminophen
           (0.15mg/kg/day every 4-6 hours). Both post-operative intervention groups in this study
           will have surgery for the same preoperative indications (adenotonsillitis or sleep
           disordered breathing). If patients experience pain that is not controlled with the
           specified intervention group medication, there will be a protocol in place for
           breakthrough pain, as indicated below. Surgeons will be blinded to the intervention arm.
           For patients who have pain that is not controlled by the randomized intervention, a
           breakthrough pain protocol will be enacted. The protocol is as follows:

        -  Test intervention arm

             1. Give hydrocodone-acetaminophen (0.15mg/kg/day hydrocodone) for pain score ≥6 no
                more than ever 6 hours. If uncontrolled pain, see next bullet point.

             2. Increase hydrocodone-acetaminophen dose to 0.2mg/kg/day hydrocodone per dose.

        -  Control intervention arm

             1. Increase dose of hydrocodone-acetaminophen to 0.2 mg/kg/day hydrocodone For pain
                score ≥ 6. If uncontrolled pain, see next bullet point.

             2. Ibuprofen 10mg/kg/day no more than every 6 hours. If uncontrolled pain, see next
                bullet point.

             3. Acetaminophen 10mg/kg/day every 6 hours as needed.

      Implementation of the breakthrough pain protocol will be documented. In order to maintain
      surgeon blinding throughout the study, patient phone calls will be routed to the chief
      resident on call who will follow the above breakthrough pain protocol.

      A study staff member, excluding the surgeon, will contact parents/caretakers on
      post-operative day 3 and post-operative day 7 to assist with medication log completion and
      answer medical questions.
    
  