
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Each cycle will be 4-7 weeks, depending on how well the disease responds to the study drug.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive omacetaxine as
      an injection under your skin 2 times each day, about 12 hours apart, on Days 1-3 of every
      28-day study cycle.

      You will receive instructions on how to give these injections to yourself. You will be given
      a Research Drug Diary to record the drug you take each day. You must bring the Research Drug
      Diary and any unused drug with you to each study visit. You will also be told how to properly
      store the drugs.

      Depending on how the disease responds to the study drugs, the number of days you receive your
      injections may stay the same, increase, or decrease. Your doctor will discuss this with you.

      During Cycle 1, if the doctor thinks it is needed, you will be given hydroxyurea by mouth to
      decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the study staff for information about how the
      drug is given and its risks.

      Study Visits:

      At the beginning of every cycle, you will have a physical exam before your dose of study
      drug.

      Every week (+/- 2 days), blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. If the
      disease appears to get better, this blood will only be drawn every 2-4 weeks while you are
      still receiving the study drugs.

      If you live far from the clinic, this blood can be drawn at a clinic close to your home, and
      the results will be reported to the study doctor.

      If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you may have an additional bone marrow aspirate at
      any time during the study to check the status of the disease and for cytogenetic testing.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for up to 24 cycles of treatment. You will no longer
      be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur,
      or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      Follow-Up:

      You will have follow-up visits at the clinic every 3-6 months for up to 5 years after you
      stop taking the study drug. You will be asked about your health and any new drugs you may be
      taking. If you cannot come to the clinic, you will be called by the study staff and asked
      about your health. These calls should last about 5-10 minutes.

      Every 4-8 weeks after your last dose of study drug, blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn
      for routine tests.
    
  