
    
      All the patients enrolled in the study will receive the standard of care with respect to
      surgical prosthetic replacement of the diseased hip. The patients will receive a
      custom-modified (RSA marked) hydroxyapatite-coated prosthesis with ceramic-on-ceramic bearing
      surfaces (SYMAX-TRIDENT, Stryker). The prosthesis modification provided by the manufacturer
      has a CE mark. The patients in the active-treatment group will receive a single 5 mg dose of
      zoledronic acid intravenously just prior to release from the hospital (about 5th day
      post-surgery) as an adjunct therapy. The control group will receive a placebo (saline)
      infusion. The active and placebo infusion vials will be provided by Norvartis Pharmaceutical.
      After surgery, before the administration of zoledronic acid or placebo, each patient will be
      re-screened for the level of serum calcium. In the case of postoperative hypocalcemia, the
      infusion will be postponed for a minimum of 3-4 weeks and the infusion will be given after
      the repeated measurements of serum calcium. All patients will receive calcium and D-vitamin
      supplementation throughout the study period. Efficacy will be assessed on the basis of
      clinical, radiographic (RSA, DXA, Spiral CT, conventional radiography) and laboratory
      criteria. The clinical benefit of zoledronic acid therapy is defined in terms of faster
      functional recovery, which will be analyzed in two ways: (1) the functional outcome (muscle
      strength, gait analysis and pedometry) will be repeatedly evaluated before and after surgery,
      and (2) the subjective outcome of the procedure as well as the general health assessment will
      be determined at each follow-up visits using standardized outcome measures. The primary
      objective of this study is to test whether a single infusion of zoledronic acid reduces
      periprosthetic bone loss measured by DXA at 12 months. Statistical significance of
      differences in periprosthetic bone mineral density between active-treatment and placebo
      groups will be analyzed using repeated analysis of variance.
    
  