
    
      Renal cell carcinoma represents annually 3-5% of all new cancer diagnoses. In France, its
      incidence is about 10,000 cases/year. It has been increasing for the past thirty years,
      probably related to incidental imaging findings. The average age of diagnosis is 65 years.
      Although the mortality rate started to decrease, partly due to an earlier diagnosis, the
      overall survival at 5 years is 63% but significantly higher for localized stages (58% of
      diagnoses): 90%. To date, the standard of care for small renal masses is partial nephrectomy.
      However, in the specific setting of small renal masses, 20% of them are benign and surgery
      results in overtreatment. Moreover, for selected patients with comorbidities and potentially
      low risk tumors, a surveillance strategy can be offered. No preoperative image based tumor
      characterization has been validated so far, and the kidney tumor biopsy is currently the only
      way to rule out patients for overtreatment. However, kidney tumor biopsy is invasive,
      time-consuming, sometimes inconclusive, especially in case of small size tumors, and its low
      accuracy in predicting tumor aggressiveness based on the Fuhrman grade was several times
      reported in the literature. Kidney tumor biopsy results may also be impacted by the
      intra-tumoral heterogeneity. Thus, non-invasive techniques able to differentiate the inherent
      characteristics of tumors would be useful to offer the most appropriate therapeutic options.
      Morphological ultrasound or CT imaging appear limited because of the lack of discriminatory
      power between the different tumor subtypes. Based on the data of retrospective studies, the
      hypothesis is that MR parameters using chemical shift, diffusion and/or contrast injection
      techniques may be a reproducible diagnostic test with sufficient diagnostic accuracy to
      differentiate benign from malignant tumors and better estimate the tumor aggressiveness. To
      date, no prospective multi-center study on multiparametric (mp) MR imaging of renal tumors
      has been reported. Although CT-scan explorations are the standard of care in case of renal
      tumors, MRI offers several advantages over CT including: improved contrast resolution,
      functional imaging techniques, and the lack of ionizing radiation, which is of particular
      significance due to growing concerns over cumulative radiation exposure from multi-phase and
      repeat CT examinations. In particular, the non-ionizing property of MRI may be critical for
      patients who undergo repeated screening examinations for renal cell carcinoma including those
      patients under surveillance. By becoming the reference standard for renal mass imaging in
      clinical practice, multiparametric MRI may help defining the treatment strategy in a
      non-invasive fashion, resulting in a better selection of patients eligible for nephrectomy,
      other therapeutic options or surveillance based on tumor aggressiveness estimate, limiting
      the costs of care and improving patients' quality of life. The originality of this project
      lies in the opportunity to simultaneously assess the performances of mpMRI in diagnosing
      renal tumors in a routine clinical practice. In this context, the research will therefore
      contribute to the development of practical new technologies, strategies and tools for
      managing renal tumors. MpMRI will be performed in a time-efficient manner and to provide
      important information that is not available with standard renal MRI or CT-scan. Critical
      information provided through mpMRI will be used to adjust the therapeutic decision and more
      adequately select patients eligible for nephrectomy, other therapeutic options or
      surveillance. Another innovative aspect of the project is to bring together as teamwork
      several medical disciplines such as radiology, urology, oncology and pathology. The project
      has been developed and will be conducted within the framework of the French research network
      on kidney cancer UroCCR (www.uroccr.fr). INCa has been supporting this multidisciplinary
      network since 2011 and the web-based shared clinical and biological national database on
      kidney cancer UroCCR will be used.
    
  