
    
      An ideal drug as an opiate-sparing analgesic adjunct, acetaminophen, unlike some other drugs,
      is platelet function sparing, and thus particularly useful in the post-operative orthopedic
      patient population. In part because of its well established safety profile, as well as
      minimal drug interactions, acetaminophen is considered a cornerstone of a multimodal
      analgesic approach. Several studies have described the clinically significant beneficial
      effects of a multimodal drug approach to analgesia, citing improved pain control and a
      shorter recovery time. Reduced adverse events and improved pain control with multimodal
      analgesia drug approaches may result in shorter hospitalizations, improved recovery and
      function, and reduced health care costs. Opiate therapy, while effective analgesia, is
      associated with a variety of potential adverse side effects, including pruritus, nausea,
      emesis, ileus, respiratory depression, tolerance, addiction and sedation. These adverse
      effects may limit post-operative mobility, postpone return of bowel function, cause feeding
      intolerance, prolong hospitalization, and postpone post-operative recovery.

      While oral acetaminophen is useful as an opiate-sparing therapy, the oral route of drug
      administration may not be feasible in the early post-operative period. Enteral drug
      absorption in the initial post-operative period may be erratic, with negative impacts on
      therapeutic effect. Intravenous acetaminophen may a particularly useful analgesic in these
      circumstances. At present, there are no pediatric studies in the United States examining the
      efficacy of multiple- dose IV acetaminophen in the post-operative surgical population. This
      study will compare analgesic efficacy, nausea and pruritus scores, time to recovery, and
      length of hospital stay in two subject groups who are status post spine fusion surgery: those
      who receive schedule IV acetaminophen and opiate for 48 hours, and those who are treated with
      standard opiate therapy without IV acetaminophen.
    
  