
    
      Breast cancer is the single most common cancer in the United Kingdom, accounting for 16% of
      all cancer incidences and 7% of all cancer deaths. Fortunately, the natural progression of
      this malignancy can be beneficially changed through mammographic screening techniques, which
      enable early detection and treatment of benign and malignant breast disease. However, the
      success of screening programmes depends not only on the analytical specificity and
      sensitivity of the screening test itself, but also its ability to attract the "at risk"
      population. In the United Kingdom, the National Health Service Breast Screening Programme
      attracts about three quarters of the invited population every three years. In the last
      screening round (2007-2010), all but one region reported a triennial coverage of more than
      75%; London was the exception, reporting a regional coverage of 69%. London consistently
      fails to meet the national target.

      Missed appointments are a primary cause of inefficiency in healthcare delivery, with adverse
      clinical implications for the non-attending patient, and substantial monetary costs to the
      health service. To ensure the future success of the breast screening programme it is
      imperative that strategies for improving uptake of hard to reach populations be developed.
      Research has demonstrated that receiving an appointment reminder by text message has been
      successful in improving uptake in other areas of healthcare; the same might be true for
      breast screening.

      Primary Aim: To establish whether text message reminders can significantly improve the uptake
      of breast screening by women on an "intention-to-treat" basis in the London Borough of
      Hillingdon.

      Secondary Aim: To evaluate whether text message reminders are an effective intervention for
      improving uptake of the breast screening programme by hard to reach patients such as women
      living in deprived areas, and those of Black and Minority ethnic backgrounds.

      Methodology: A single blind randomised controlled trial evaluating the effectiveness,
      efficacy, and acceptability of sending a text message appointment reminder to prevalent women
      (women aged 47-53 years) living in the London Borough of Hillingdon 48 hours prior to their
      first breast screening appointment. 2,239 women without a history of breast screening,
      implant, or bilateral mastectomy were included in the study and randomly assigned in a 1:1
      ratio to either the control group (n= 1,118) or the intervention group (n= 1,121). Women in
      the control group were invited to screening but received no reminder for their appointment,
      whilst women in the intervention group received a text message reminder 48 hours in advance.
      All women received an information letter about the study with their invitation from the West
      of London Breast Screening Service, which included a patient "opt-out" request form. Patients
      were not told whether they would be receiving a text message reminder or not. iPlato Patient
      Care Messaging was used to deliver the text-message reminders.
    
  