
    
      Participants will be contacted by designated study site staff. Participants may be
      pre-screened through medical records over the phone to assess potential eligibility. A
      screening script will include a general review of key inclusion and exclusion criteria.
      Participants that are interested will be scheduled for a screening visit at the clinical
      office.

      Visit 1 - Screening/Baseline:

      Once the participant arrives, the study will be explained in full detail. If the participant
      agrees, he/she will be consented into the study and the participant will be given a copy of
      the informed consent. After the consent is signed, the following procedures will be
      performed:

      Demographics

      Medical History

      Concomitant Medication

      mMRC

      Chronic Respiratory Disease Questionnaire (CRQ) Self-Reported (SR)

      Pulmonary Function Tests

      Vital Signs prior to 6 Minute Walk (6MW)

      6-Minute Walk Test (6MWT)

      Modified Borg Assessment

      Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria Review

      Device Photograph

      Randomization Participants will be randomly assigned to either their current jet nebulizer or
      the InnoSpire Go device for the first 30 days of treatment.

      Training Session Participants randomized to InnoSpire Go in the first treatment arm will be
      trained on the use and cleaning of the device before being sent home.

      Visit 2 - Interim Visit:

      Participants will be asked to return to the research center 15 days ± 3 days after Visit 1.

      Side Effect and Adverse Event Assessment Participants will be asked about any side effects or
      adverse events (AEs) since the last visit.

      Concomitant Medications

      CRQ-SR (Follow-Up)

      Nebulizer Satisfaction Assessment Participant satisfaction with the device used in the first
      treatment arm will be assessed.

      Visit 3 - Cross-over:

      Participants will be asked to return to the research center within 30 days ± 3 days after
      Visit 1. They will be instructed to bring the first assigned study device and their
      prescribed albuterol or combination albuterol/ipratropium medication for the demonstration.

      CRQ-SR (Follow-Up)

      Concomitant Medications

      Device Use Demonstration

      Nebulizer Weight The nebulizer cup/reservoir alone will be weighed with the medication before
      device use and after device use to capture residual medication. This process will take place
      during video recording.

      Peak inspiratory flow (PIF)

      Vital Signs prior to 6MW

      . Modified Borg Assessment

      6-Minute Walk Test

      Nebulizer Satisfaction Assessment Participant satisfaction with the device used in the first
      treatment arm will be assessed.

      Training Session Participants randomized to InnoSpire Go in the second treatment arm will be
      trained on the use and cleaning of the device before being sent home.

      Visit 4 - Interim Visit:

      Participants will be asked to return to the research center 15 days ± 3 days after Visit 3.
      Participants will complete procedures outlined in Visit 2.

      Visit 5 -Final Visit:

      Participants will return to the clinical facility 30 days (± 3 days) after Visit 3
      completion. They will be instructed to bring the second assigned study device and their
      prescribed albuterol or combination albuterol/ipratropium medication for the demonstration.
      Participants will complete the procedures outlined in Visit 3. Participants will need to
      return all study equipment at this visit.

      Participants will be discharged from the study following completion of study procedures.
    
  