
    
      The following data will be collected for all participants: 1. concentration of ST2
      biochemical markers, 2. concentration of routine biochemical and hematological tests, 3.
      prognostic indices of PNI and GPS, 3. sex, 4. age, 5. body weight, 6. body visa, 7. body mass
      index (BMI), 8. NIHSS, 9. volume of brain infarction, 10. exact time of onset of symptoms,
      11. smoking, 12. excessive alcohol drinking, 13. drug abuse, 14. arterial hypertension, 16.
      atrial fibrillation, 17. presence of cardiac valve, 18. dyslipidemia, 19. diabetes, 20.
      coronary disease, 21. liver dysfunction, 22. renal dysfunction, 23. peripheral arterial
      disease, 24. pre-existing stroke / transient ischemic attack, 25. positive family history,
      26. complication of IS, 27. etiology of IS according to TOAST (criteria Trial of Org 10172 in
      Acute Stroke Treatment) criteria, 28. localization of MU according to OCSP (Oxfordshire
      Community Stroke Project) projects. Procedures: Laboratory parameters will be measured at
      seven time points, monitored once daily for six consecutive days, and will include: complete
      blood count, glucose concentration, sodium, urea, creatinine, C - reactive protein, total and
      direct bilirubin, total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, urate,
      total protein, albumin, eGFR (estimated glomerular filtration rate) and alanine
      aminotransferase enzyme activities, aspartate aminotransferase and gamma-glutamyl
      transpeptidase. The prognostic indices of PNI (formula that includes albumin and leukocyte
      count) and GPS (formula that includes CRP and albumin) will be calculated. The size of the IS
      will be analyzed on the basis of computed tomography (CT) of the brain and CT of the brain
      volumetry according to Pullicino formulas, in patients who will undergo brain CT initially
      and at least 20-24 hours apart. The IS classification will enforce the use of the TOAST and
      OCSP criteria. The severity of IS will be clinically assessed using the NIHSS scale at
      hospital admissions and during each subsequent point in the study timeline. Stroke outcomes
      will be assessed using mRS on day 6 and day 90 (+/- 7 days) with a comparison of disability
      on the same rating scale before hospitalization. Sampling will be done during regular
      business hours and on duty (0-24 hours). Blood will be drawn by the nurse / technician from
      the ante-cubital vein according to EFML-COABIOCLI guidelines. From the remaining blood
      samples routinely taken as part of the patient's regular treatment, concentrations of
      biochemical markers will be determined. In addition, at those time points (up to 6) at which
      blood is not excluded during laboratory processing for laboratory testing, this will be done
      for the purposes of this research. The maximum amount of additionally excluded blood for the
      purposes of this study will therefore be 48 mL. Analysis of routine laboratory parameters
      will be performed immediately after sampling. Part of the serum will be stored at -20 ° C for
      subsequent analysis of the concentration of the biochemical marker ST2. Laboratory parameters
      will be determined by the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay method on an automatic analyzer.
    
  