
    
      SYNOPSIS

      STUDY POPULATION Adults in good general health ≥18 and <51 years of age who meet all protocol
      inclusion criteria and do not meet any protocol exclusion criteria and who understand the
      study and provide written informed consent.

      NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS Approximately 105 participants (84 active product and 21 placebo
      recipients) will be included in the study. An over-enrollment of up to 5 participants will be
      permitted to facilitate rapid enrollment. Participants who leave the study for any reason
      will not be replaced.

      DOSE-ESCALATION This is a dose-escalation study as indicated in the study design table. The
      first 3 enrollments in Groups 1 through 4 will be on consecutive days with no more than 1
      participant allowed on each day across all sites. Safety and tolerability of the IP will be
      evaluated by the Protocol Safety Review Team (PSRT) over 7 days after vaccination (Days 1
      through 8) for the first 6 participants in the lower dose group (Group 1) before enrollment
      proceeds to the next dose level (Group 2). Similar PSRT reviews, including cumulative data as
      it is obtained, will be repeated before enrollment is initiated in Groups 3 and 4.

      Prior to opening enrollment in Groups 5 through 7, an independent Safety Monitoring Committee
      (SMC) will review 14-day post-vaccination safety data at a minimum for all participants in
      Groups 1 through 4. In addition, they will review shedding data to rule out excessive
      shedding of rVSV∆G LASV-glycoprotein precursor complex (GPC).

      DOSE GROUP EXPANSION

      FORMULATIONS, VOLUMES AND ROUTES OF INJECTIONS Groups 5 through 7 will provide additional
      safety data for the 3 highest dose groups provided data from the earlier part of the study
      warrant further study of each dose.

      Single-dose vaccine vials at a nominal concentration of 2x107 pfu/0.5mL will be provided
      frozen at ≤ -65oC for intramuscular (IM) administration. Single use matched diluent will also
      be provided at 2-8oC to be used as vaccine diluent or placebo.

      DURATION OF STUDY PARTICIPATION Participants will be screened up to 42 days before IP
      administration and will be followed for 12 months after IP administration. It is anticipated
      that it will take approximately 3 months to enroll Groups 1 through 4 and 2 months to enroll
      Groups 5, 6, and 7.

      The anticipated study duration for each participant in Groups 1 through 7 is approximately
      13.5 months from screening through last study visit.

      RANDOMIZATION AND BLINDING Participants will randomly be assigned to vaccine or placebo in a
      4:1 ratio as described in the study design table above. Groups 1 through 4 will be enrolled
      sequentially in the dose-escalation phase of the trial. For Groups 5 through 7, randomization
      will occur across groups rather than be performed sequentially.

      An unblinded study pharmacist at each site will be responsible for IP preparation and
      accountability. All other study site staff and participants will be blinded in terms of
      active product versus placebo. For the dose group expansion phase, study site staff and
      participants will also be blinded to the dose of vaccine.

      SAFETY MONITORING Safety will be monitored by the Investigators, the Sponsor's Medical
      Monitor, and a PSRT on a regular basis and between enrollment of dosage groups during
      dose-escalation.

      Following a favorable PSRT safety review of the first 6 participants in Group 1 and the
      completion of Group 1 enrollment, enrollment will be initiated in Group 2. Similar PSRT
      safety reviews will occur before progressing to Groups 3 and 4. Prior to opening enrollment
      into Groups 5, 6, and 7, the SMC will review safety data for all participants in Groups 1
      through 4, which include safety data from, at minimum, the first 14 days after IP
      administration (Days 1 through 15). In addition, shedding data will be reviewed to rule out
      excessive shedding of rVSV∆G-LASV-GPC. A second SMC review will take place after at least 45
      (75%) of participants in the Dose Group Expansion portion of the study have reached the Day
      15 timepoint.

      Ad hoc safety review by the SMC may be specifically requested by the Sponsor, the Principal
      Investigators (PIs), Institutional Review Board(s) (IRBs)/Independent Ethics Committees
      (IECs), Regulatory Authorities, or by the SMC.

      All participants will have audiometry testing at timepoints as per the Schedule of Activities
      (SOA). If the audiometry is abnormal, participants will have immediate referral for further
      audiological evaluation. In the interim periods, the participant will be prompted to contact
      the site for immediate evaluation if the participant notes a clinical change in hearing.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS A full data analysis will be prepared according to a pre specified
      statistical analysis plan (SAP).

      All clinical and routine laboratory data will be included in the safety analysis.
      Immunogenicity analyses will be performed according to a pre defined SAP.
    
  