
    
      Cytarabine is a drug that is used to treat AML and high-risk MDS. It is known to cause nausea
      and/or vomiting. All patients that receive cytarabine also receive drugs to help prevent
      these side effects.

      The Study Drugs:

      Ondansetron is designed to block the action of serotonin, a substance in the brain that
      causes chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting.

      Aprepitant is designed to block a different natural substance in the brain that causes
      chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in
      the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have an equal chance of being in either group.

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive ondansetron.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive ondansetron and aprepitant.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Both groups will receive ondansetron by vein from 30 minutes before receiving chemotherapy
      until 6 to12 hours after chemotherapy. The length of the chemotherapy infusion will be
      different for all patients.

      If you are in Group 2, in addition to ondansetron, you will take 1 capsule of aprepitant
      every morning while receiving chemotherapy. You will take your last dose of aprepitant the
      day after your chemotherapy infusion is completed. If you miss a dose of aprepitant, you can
      take it as soon as you remember.

      Study Diary:

      You will fill out a study diary every day for the 7 days after the chemotherapy. You will
      record how often you experience nausea and/or vomiting and any time you need other
      medications during this study. It should take about 5 minutes to complete each time.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for up to 7 days. You will be taken off study if intolerable side
      effects occur.

      Blood Draws:

      Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests after your last dose (+/- 3 days) of
      study drug.

      This is an investigational study. Ondansetron and aprepitant are both FDA approved and
      commercially available for the prevention of chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting. Using
      the drugs in combination is investigational.

      Up to 100 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  