
    
      Background: Self-management interventions can help patients and their families care for
      themselves along the cancer care continuum. This scenario has witnessed the rapid and ongoing
      growth in mobile technologies, including mobile health (mHealth). LuCApp (Lung Cancer App) is
      an application developed by researchers and lung cancer clinicians to gather symptom data in
      real time and to share it with healthcare professionals.

      Objectives: To evaluate the usability and effectiveness of LuCApp vs standard care to improve
      self-management of symptoms and health related quality of life in lung cancer patients.

      Design: This is a 24-week, two-arm, non-blinded multicenter feasibility parallel randomized
      controlled trial.

      Patient population: Adults of both sexes diagnosed with small or non-small cell lung cancer,
      eligible for pharmaceutical treatments with good performance status and life expectancy of ≥6
      months or more, fluently speaking Italian and able to use a smartphone will be eligible for
      recruitment. Participants will remain on study until discontinuation of cancer treatment,
      voluntary withdrawal, study termination or death.

      Intervention and comparator: Consenting patients will be assigned in a 1:1 randomized way to
      receiving either standard care or LuCApp in addition to standard care. During the treatment
      period, LuCApp allows daily monitoring and grading of a list of symptoms which trigger alerts
      to the physicians in case predefined severity thresholds are met.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is the change in the score of the Trial Outcome Index (TOI) in
      the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (Lung) questionnaire from baseline to 12 weeks. A
      battery of patient-reported outcomes measures will also be assessed: the Lung Cancer
      Subscale, the EuroQoL 5D questionnaire, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, the
      Supportive Care Needs Survey Short Form, the app usability questionnaire and resource use.
      The Zarit Burden interview will be assessed with the main caregiver.

      Conclusions: The electronic and mobile health revolution holds great potentials for improving
      symptom management strategies in chronic conditions, hence the evaluation of such
      interventions becomes important in order to bring to patients and to healthcare systems
      effective and cost-effective solutions. This pilot trial was designed with a pragmatic
      attitude to test the feasibility of LuCApp, as a technology to improve self-reporting and
      self-management of symptoms in patients with lung cancer, on health related quality of life
      and usability.
    
  