
    
      To check the possibility of the acquisition of a number of parameters through real-time
      contrast-enhanced ultrasound and sonoelastography images and to verify the correlation with
      pathologic results from ultrasound guided biopsy of transplanted kidney.

      Ten patients scheduled to perform ultrasound guided biopsy of transplanted kidney will be
      enrolled. The patients who have previous medical history of cardiac problem or who do not
      recover renal function over three days after graft surgery will be excluded.

      Before ultrasound guided biopsy of transplanted kidney, we will perform conventional,
      Sonoelastography and real-time contrast-enhanced ultrasound using Sonovue for acquisition of
      parameters and data, respectively. We will check the possibility of the acquisition of a
      number of parameters through real-time contrast-enhanced ultrasound and sonoelastography
      images using analyzing program (VueBox, Bracco, Swiss). And we will verify the correlation of
      acquired data and parameters with pathologic results from ultrasound guided biopsy of
      transplanted kidney.

      From perfusion images, several regions of interest (ROIs) will be marked including main renal
      artery, segmental artery and renal medulla. A number of time-intensity curves (TICs) are
      acquired from ROIs using VueBox.

      The parameters acquired from time intensity curve (TIC) (i.e. arrival time, mean transit
      time, time to peak, basal intensity, peak intensity, area under curve, slope rate of
      ascending and descending curves), the date acquired from spectral Doppler ultrasound (i.e.
      restive index, pulsatility index) and Values of shear wave velocities of the several regions
      of interest acquired from Sonoelastography will be analyzed to find statistical significance
      in assessment of allograft nephropathy such as acute rejection or chronic allograft
      nephropathy.

      Pathologic conditions such as acute rejection may show the decrease in arrival time, peak
      intensity, area under curve suggesting total blood flow and accelerating slope rate, compared
      with non-pathologic condition.
    
  