
    
      A chronic total occlusion (CTO) is observed in up to (1) 30 % of patients undergoing
      diagnostic coronary angiography. The presence of a CTO is associated with worse outcome
      compared to non-occlusive coronary artery disease.

      Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) treatment of CTO lesions has gained much attention
      over the last decade due to introduction of new techniques and devices resulting in high
      success rates in dedicated centers. However the scientific evidence is mainly based on
      observational studies and expert consensus. The current European and American guidelines on
      revascularization does not provide any clear recommendations how to manage patients with CTO.

      The indication of treating a CTO lesion, or any other lesion with PCI for that matter, is
      either to relieve symptoms or improve prognosis. However, to date, there are no randomized
      clinical trials showing any prognostic benefit from CTO revascularization. Data from
      randomized clinical trials are also scarce regarding improvement of symptoms and Quality of
      life (QoL). In the recently presented DECISION-CTO study, patients were randomized to PCI vs.
      OMT, and the study failed to demonstrate a prognostic or symptomatic benefit of PCI vs. OMT.
      However, the study was prematurely terminated due to slow inclusion rate and had a high
      crossover rate and a high proportion did not have a quality of life score at follow-up. The
      fact that both the Decision CTO and the Euro CTO trial failed to include the pre-specified
      number of patients, makes it difficult to draw any conclusions on how to treat these
      patients. The preliminary results from both trials indicate that CTO PCI seems to be a safe
      procedure and might improve symptoms and QoL. In the randomized EXPLORE trial, patients with
      ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI)and a concomitant CTO in a non infarct related
      artery was investigated. This study showed no benefit in terms of improving left ventricular
      function due to CTO-PCI of the concomitant CTO, although the procedure was safe.

      Meta-analysis of observational studies comparing the prognosis after successful vs.
      unsuccessful CTO PCI indicate prognostic and symptomatic benefit of successful CTO PCI.
      However, these studies often lack data regarding ischemia burden and viability. The fact that
      the non-successful PCI patients consistently in these studies have higher risk profile,
      indicating the presence of residual confounders not accounted for in the multivariate
      statistical models, makes the interpretation of these data in a clinical setting difficult.
      The non-randomized FACTOR trial demonstrated a positive outcome for quality of life, but only
      in symptomatic patients. Data from the OPEN-CTO registry demonstrated an improvement of the
      Seattle Angina Questionnaire for quality of life by 10.8 points after a successful
      CTO-procedure. In addition to symptomatic improvement, a successful CTO procedure can reduce
      the amount of myocardium susceptible to ischemia in patients with at least mild to moderate
      ischemia at baseline and by that the prognosis can be improved (mortality, myocardial
      infarction, ventricular arrhythmias).

      Hence, the interventional management of CTO lesions must address whether it is indicated on
      symptomatic and/or prognostic basis. These questions have not been sufficiently addressed in
      the previous trials and we need evidence from randomized clinical trials on how to treat
      these patients. We therefore designed this randomized clinical trial addressing the impact of
      CTO PCI on outcome. Patients are included in 2 different patient cohorts depending on level
      of symptoms and level of myocardial ischemia. From previous studies, we know that it is most
      probably only patients with at least moderate myocardial ischemia who will benefit from CTO
      PCI in terms of improving MACCE, and only symptomatic patients who will benefit with regard
      to improvement of quality of life following CTO PCI.

      Before entering the study all patients will be subject to a 3-month period with titration of
      optimal medical therapy. Hereafter the patients will be eligible for inclusion in one of two
      cohorts based on level of ischemia and presence of symptoms:

      Cohort A: Comprise CTO patients who are asymptomatic (CCS class <2 and SAQ QoL> 60) but have
      moderate myocardial ischemia (>10% of the left ventricle) on MR or rubidium-PET. These
      patients will be randomized to CTO PCI or OMT and followed up to 10 years.

      Cohort B: Comprise symptomatic CTO patients (CCS class ≥ 2 and/or SAQ QoL score ≤ 60) with at
      least 5% reversible ischemia. These patients will be randomized to CTO PCI or OMT. The
      patients randomized to OMT will be offered CTO PCI procedure 6 months after randomization
      following assessment of Seattle Angina Questionnaire quality of life score.

      Cohort C - Patients enrolled but not eligible for randomization All patients enrolled at
      baseline but who do not meet the criteria described in cohort A and B for randomization.
      Registry based follow-up (optional) is performed at the same time points as in Cohort A.

      This is the first randomized study that addresses improvement of prognosis and quality of
      life following PCI of CTO lesions specifically.

      The purpose of this study is twofold:

        1. Investigate the outcome of PCI vs. optimal medical therapy of CTO lesions in patients
           with significant myocardial ischemia (≥ 10%) without symptoms

        2. Investigate the outcome of PCI vs. optimal medical therapy of CTO lesions in patients
           with symptoms and mild to moderate myocardial ischemia (≥5%).

      Hypotheses

        1. In asymptomatic patients with ≥ 10% of myocardial ischemia: PCI with latest generation
           of drug eluting stents is superior to optimal medical therapy in terms of outcome
           measured as 30% relative reduction in Major Adverse Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular
           events (MACCE).

        2. In symptomatic patients with ≥ 5% of myocardial ischemia: PCI with latest generation of
           drug eluting stents is superior to optimal medical therapy in terms of improved life
           quality measured as an increase of SAQ score of 8 points after 6 months.
    
  