
    
      The protocol will be carried out in the Hospital Regional de Alta Especialidad de la
      Península de Yucatán (HRAEPY). It is quasi-experimental and it was proposed before and after
      study, the study will be consisting in 6 subsequent visits and a last visit to deliver
      results to the participant.

      In the pre-visit, the subjects will be evaluated to determine if they meet the inclusion
      criteria. They will be explained what the study consists of, the characteristics, the risks
      and the expected benefits after the intervention, they will be asked to read the consent
      letter, doubts will be clarified about it and if the participant agrees to be in the study
      the signature will be made of the consent letter.

      At the beginning and end will be taken two blood samples of 5 mL to each participant. One
      will be to obtain the serum and measure cholesterol-HDL, cholesterol-LDL, triglycerides,
      total cholesterol, glucose, antioxidant activity, malondialdehyde (MDA) and C-reactive
      protein. The second sample will be to the extraction of peripheral leukocyte blood
      mononuclear cells and determine the gene expression of antioxidants enzymes superoxide
      dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT). Blood pressure will be measured with a digital
      baumanometer while the participant will remain seated with the right arm uncovered. The
      measurement will be carried out 6 times, in intervals of 3 minutes. The first measurement
      will be discarded and the average of the remaining measurements will be reported. In the
      visits will bring to each participant an attachment to reported intake of the beverage.
      During the following ones it will always be questioned if there is any problem with the
      drinking the beverage of Chaya.

      At the end of the study, participants will be given the document with their results and will
      be given recommendations for weight control, dietary recommendations to improve lipid
      concentrations. They will refer to their doctor for follow-up with their laboratory results
      for their control.

      Description of the intervention

      Chaya Water Beverage of Chaya will be prepared as follows: 40 g of Chaya leaves will be
      treated with a commercial brand disinfectant following the manufacturer's instructions for
      use, then added 1L of purified water and mixed in blender. Finally, 500 mL of it will be
      placed in bottles. Participants will be instructed to consume 1 bottle per day for 6 weeks. 7
      bottles will be delivered at each visit, which will be consumed during the week; participants
      will be instructed to keep the water refrigerated until it is consumed.
    
  