
    
      CTT has developed a PET imaging agent, CTT1057, labeled with 18F, that is based on a small
      molecule core and targets an extracellular region of PSMA with high affinity. Although
      comparable to other inhibitors in terms of affinity for PSMA, this unique class of
      phosphoramidate agents are the only known irreversible PSMA inhibitors. Due to its
      irreversible binding to PSMA and rapid uptake by PSMA-expressing cancer cells, accumulation
      at the cancer target is expected to be rapid, specific and sensitive. PSMA expression has
      been reported in renal cell carcinoma cells, making it possible that CTT1057 may have utility
      in detecting these tumors.

      Ten patients will be enrolled in parallel in two cohorts:

        -  (Cohort A) Patients with presumed metastases on conventional imaging, with at least one
           presumed metastatic lesion measuring > 1.5 cm in diameter (long-axis for non-node target
           lesions; short axis for lymph node), with planned biopsy of a metastatic lesion (N = 5).

        -  (Cohort B) Patients with primary renal mass measuring > 7 cm on conventional imaging,
           with presumptive or histologically confirmed diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma, with
           planned nephrectomy. Patients may or may not have nodal or distant metastases on
           conventional imaging (N = 5) Participants receive a single IV dose (370 MBq, or 10 mCi)
           of CTT1057 in this trial. Combined PET/MR or PET/CT imaging (kidney + whole body) will
           be performed following tracer injection. Patients in cohort A (metastatic renal cell
           carcinoma) will undergo planned metastatic lesion biopsy within 12 weeks following
           CTT1057 PET imaging. Patients in cohort B (primary renal cell carcinoma) will have
           planned nephrectomy within 12 weeks following CTT1057 PET imaging.

      The one-time nominal injected dose will be 370 MBq (10 mCi). Estimated mass dose is 20 µg of
      CTT1057. Dose will be in a volume of 3 - 5 mL, and will be injected intravenously as a bolus
      injection.

      Vital signs, adverse event assessment, and 12 lead ECGs will be performed on day 1 before and
      after dosing.
    
  