
    
      Recurrent anterior uveitis in immunocompetent individuals can be caused by multiple members
      of the herpes virus group, including cytomegalovirus (CMV). Repeated bouts of CMV intraocular
      inflammation can be associated with ocular hypertension, glaucoma, pain, vision reduction or
      blindness. CMV anterior uveitis is commonly misdiagnosed as a non-infectious anterior uveitis
      and treated as such, which can beget further complications. Diagnosis requires directed
      polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing. While antiviral therapy exists for CMV, identifying
      the appropriate therapy has been challenging because no randomized trials comparing routes of
      therapy (particularly oral or topical) have been performed. Currently, CMV anterior uveitis
      is typically treated with oral valganciclovir in the United States but carries the risk of
      serious systemic side effects that necessitate laboratory monitoring. There is evidence that
      suggests topical ganciclovir can be used to treat and prevent recurrences of CMV anterior
      uveitis, though the appropriate concentration is not well defined. Topical ganciclovir is
      attractive because it does not require laboratory monitoring, though a unique side effect
      profile that includes corneal epitheliopathy and conjunctivitis may preclude long-term use.
      While anterior chamber paracentesis with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing demonstrates
      CMV during an initial flare of inflammation, it is unknown whether repeated recurrences of
      inflammation are mediated by viral re-infection and replication in the anterior chamber or if
      a sterile immune response is at play. Consequently, patients may be submitted to many years
      of oral or topical antiviral therapy. This strategy poses challenges without proper
      evaluation of the multiple treatment and long-term management approaches. Further studies are
      needed to elucidate the most appropriate antiviral therapies that balance efficacy and
      toxicity while treating CMV anterior uveitis.

      There are no studies comparing antivirals for the treatment of CMV anterior uveitis. However,
      multiple studies have utilized PCR to obtain an initial viral load before treating CMV
      anterior uveitis. The collective initial CMV viral load from these prior studies (39 patients
      in total) was approximately 600,000 IU/ml. There was minimal variation within studies in
      terms of initial viral load, but large variation between studies. To control for variability
      that can arise from different assays used or assays performed at different centers, we will
      perform all quantitative PCR at the same United States location. Even fewer studies have
      documented post-treatment viral loads. Many of the post-treatment PCR values showed
      undetectable viral loads, making it difficult to estimate viral load reduction trends between
      treatment groups. Of note, the limited data demonstrated that both intravenous ganciclovir
      and topical ganciclovir 2% groups showed significant and rapid reductions in viral load,
      almost always resulting in undetectable levels by 12 weeks, and occasionally as rapidly as
      2-3 weeks. We identified three patients from the literature with CMV anterior uveitis that
      had detectable PCR values during the course of treatment. These patients had a 95% average
      reduction in viral load 14 days after treatment.

      We are proposing a double-masked randomized controlled clinical trial comparing the efficacy
      of oral valganciclovir, topical ganciclovir 2%, and placebo for the treatment of PCR-proven
      CMV anterior uveitis. The primary outcome will be percent reduction in viral load. We
      hypothesize that the oral valganciclovir arm will experience the greatest reduction in viral
      load. Secondary outcomes will include time to clinical quiescence and the effect of
      pre-enrollment topical corticosteroid use on initial viral load.

      This pilot study will provide valuable information concerning the treatment of CMV anterior
      uveitis with oral and topical medications, including effective concentrations and side-effect
      profile. The information obtained from this study will help inform future larger clinical
      trials in CMV anterior uveitis.
    
  