
    
      Chemokines belongs to a large group of small chemotactic proteins (8-11 kilodaltons in size).
      Upon engagement of chemokine, chemokine receptor can activate downstream intracellular
      signaling pathways and results in diverse cellular processing such as cytoskeleton
      reorganization and cell locomotion. Chemokines are chemoattractant factors and can stimulate
      directional migration of all classes of leukocytes such as T cells. Epidermal keratinocytes
      in the skin are able to express multiple chemokines that can attract certain leukocytes, such
      as T cells or dendritic cells (DCs), to migrate to the epidermis. Psoriasis is a type of skin
      inflammatory diseases that results in misregulated immune system including immune cell
      infiltration. Keratinocyte secreted chemokine and chemokine receptor on leukocytes have been
      known to involve in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. However, it is not very clear how
      chemokines are regulated in keratinocytes and the binding of chemokine to receptor on
      leukocytes controls the pathogenesis of psoriasis. To better understand the immune regulation
      of chemokine and chemokine receptor in the molecular mechanism and pathogenesis of psoriasis,
      the investigators plan to establish human psoriasis skin xenograft mouse model that involves
      graft of human skin onto immune deficient mice. The human skin, including lesional and
      non-lesional skins, has been proven to be acceptable to the SCID mice and the phenotype can
      maintain for a number of months. The advantage of the xenograft model is to that it can
      preserve the full complexity of human diseases and thus resembles the pathogenesis of human
      diseases. This model has also been shown with constant efficacy of anti-psoriasis drug in
      comparison with clinical practice. Thus, this mouse model has great value to help the
      investigators understand how chemokine and immune cells are regulated in psoriasis. Of
      particular note is that this model can be used to test therapeutic drug before introduce them
      into clinical trial.
    
  