
    
      The primary outcome of interest is whether mothers suspected of having PD seek treatment
      after discussion with the pediatrician. In order to evaluate whether discussion with
      pediatricians leads mothers to seek care, data collection efforts should focus on what
      information was exchanged, the level of shared decision-making about possible treatment
      options and whether an agreed upon plan was reached between both parties. The investigators
      will examine the effectiveness of these discussions by interviewing mothers who were
      suspected of having PD and referred for treatment. The investigators hypothesize that
      pediatricians who are able to engage mothers in a shared decision will result in more of
      those mothers seeking help and getting into appropriate treatment for PD.

      The specific research aims of this proposal are to:

      Aim 1: Describe the rate at which mothers suspected by pediatricians of having PD seek
      treatment.

      Aim 2: Explore what factors predict whether mothers suspected of PD seek treatment, including
      maternal sociodemographic characteristics, family centeredness of pediatrician care, and
      extent of shared decision-making strategy used by the pediatrician.

      This will be a cohort study examining the rate at which mothers suspected of having PD seek
      care and the relationship between shared decision-making and seeking mental health care. Data
      for both specific aims will be collected by a single telephone interview with mothers
      suspected of having PD by the pediatrician and referred. For this study, investigators will
      be focusing recruitment efforts in the four Wishard community health centers (now Eskenazi
      Health) that use CHICA. In 2007, these four clinics saw 8,528 patients between the ages of 0
      and 3 years. These clinics serve a large proportion of families that are underserved,
      economically disadvantaged and are ethnically and racially diverse.
    
  