
    
      Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an X-chromosome-linked disorder, in which there is a loss of
      motor neurons from the anterior horn of the spinal cord due to a deletion of the SMN1 gene.
      SMA is usually classified under 4 categories, based on the onset time and severity of the
      conditions. Type I SMA is the most severe category, when the boy is diagnosed before 6 months
      old and has severe muscle weakness, causing them to have poor head control and unable to sit
      independently. Boys with type II SMA are diagnosed between 6 to 18 months of age and able to
      sit independently but cannot stand or walk without any assistance. SMA type III is diagnosed
      between 18 months to 30 years of age and the boys can stand and walk independently but still
      with variable degrees of muscle weakness. Some would lose ambulation in their early adulthood
      and require wheelchair mobility. Type IV SMA is the mildest form with an adult onset, normal
      mobility and longevity. However, they also experience mild muscle weakness throughout their
      life. This muscle weakness would lead to early loss of ambulation, reduced pulmonary function
      and complications due to immobilisation such as osteoporosis. Early fatality is not uncommon.

      Osteopenia due to disuse is, in fact, common in children with physical disabilities. In a
      study of 69 children with moderate to severe cerebral palsy (CP), it was shown that the
      distal femur and lumbar spine areal bone mineral density (BMD) z-scores appeared to worsen
      with time, which may reflect the possibility of poor bone growth velocity in individuals with
      CP. Fracture and bone pain are the major complications of osteopenia in CP and the majority
      of non-traumatic fractures occur in the femur and humerus. Other factors that may contribute
      to osteopenia in physical disabilities include pubertal delay, vitamin D deficiency, dietary
      calcium deficiency, under-nutrition and low body weight, corticosteroids or anticonvulsants.
      Despite of minimising these factors, osteopenia appears to persist.

      Limited studies have been done to examine the bone health in children with SMA but more in
      children with Duchene muscular dystrophy (DMD), which have similar clinical presentations
      although with different pathologies. A study on 41 boys with DMD, bone density in the
      proximal femur was significantly decreased even in the ambulatory boys (mean z-score -1.6)
      and progressing rapidly to a level of 4 standard deviations below the norm when compared with
      normal boys. Forty-four percent of the boys had an episode of fracture, mostly in the lower
      limbs.

      Recently whole body vibration therapy (WBVT) has been preliminarily shown as a simple and
      effective technique to increase bone mass, muscle mass and strength. In general, the user
      stands in a static position such as standing or performs some dynamic movements on a device
      providing vibrations from a few Hz to 50 Hz (Hertz, Hz represents the number of complete up
      and down movement cycle per second). It has been hypothesised that the vibrations stimulate
      the muscle spindles and alpha-motor neurons, eliciting a muscle contraction. The latter would
      increase the muscle mass and in turn, increase the bone mass. It has also been postulated
      that direct effect by mechanical deformation of bones and increased fluid flow in the
      canalicular spaces and stimulation of the osteocytes may contribute increase in bone mass
      with the vibration therapy. Increase in oxygen consumption, body temperature and skin blood
      flow (erythema) have also been demonstrated. As WBVT does not elicit a significant
      cardiovascular response, it appears to be safe to be used in children with various medical
      conditions.

      In a systematic review on 22 studies (including 7 studies on CP and 2 on DMD) for the effect
      of WBVT on body composition and physical fitness in children and adolescents with
      disabilities, the authors concluded that WBVT appeared to improve bone mass and muscle
      strength in this population group. However, heterogeneity of the studies was noticed,
      including great variations in the treatment protocols and lacking of a control group and
      hence, no recommended minimal dosage of WBVT can be concluded. Since this review, two more
      randomised controlled trials (RCT) were published on children with CP. In one recent study,
      30 children with spastic diplegia CP of GMFCS levels I to II were randomised into a treatment
      group (WBVT with traditional physiotherapy) and a control group (physiotherapy only). The
      treatment group received 3 lots of 3 minutes on and 3 minutes off vibration (12 to 18 Hz), 2
      to 5 times per week for 3 months. Significant improvement in knee extensor strength and
      standing stability was reported in the treatment group. In another study in 2013, 27 children
      with spastic diplegia or hemiplegia CP of GMFCS levels I to III were randomised to a
      treatment group or control group and then crossed over after 4 weeks. The treatment group
      performed specific trunk exercise on the vibration platform (35 Hz), 5 to 10 minute per
      session, 2 to 4 sessions per week for 4 weeks. Significant improvement was found in gait
      speed, muscle thickness of the abdominal muscle and number of sit-ups done 1 minute. A visual
      improvement was also shown in sitting and standing postures.

      Although it has been shown that high frequency low amplitude vibration seemed to be a safe
      rehabilitation in mice with muscular dystrophy, intensive strengthening exercises, which may
      induce more damage to the muscle fibres for children with DMD or SMA as clinically indicated
      with a raised serum creatine kinase (SCK) level, remain as a concern. Hence current studies
      on this population group targeted to examine the safety of this intervention. Three studies
      on children with DMD and 1 on DMD and SMA using WBVT were found. In general, it appears that
      WBVT seems to be safe for children with DMD or SMA. Although there might be a raised SCK
      level, the level would gradually reduce to the baseline level, or if not, there was no
      clinical sign or symptom for muscle damage. A promising result was also shown in improving
      bone mineral density in children with DMD. However, due to the overall small number of
      studies and sample sizes, there is no definite conclusion if WBVT is effective in improving
      the bone density and muscle strength for this population group yet.

      Based on current research evidence, it has been suggested that 10 to 20 minutes per session,
      at least 3 times per week for minimum 26 weeks with frequency between 25 to 35 Hz and a peak
      to peak amplitude less than 4 mm may be an appropriate protocol targeting to improve bone
      mass and muscle strength of children and adolescents with disabilities. Studies of rigorous
      research designs and homogeneous participants are required to investigate if this recommended
      dosage of WBVT can improve children with disabling conditions.

      Methodology This feasibility study aims to examine the safety of the WBVT on children with
      type III SMA. Children with type III SMA are targeted as they have adequate independence
      living in the community but still experience early fatigue during normal level of exercises
      due to the nature of their condition. They are at high risk of suffering from complications
      due to compromised mobility such as osteopenia, early loss of ambulation when compared with
      their healthy peers.

      The WBVT will be performed on the GalileoTM Med L Plus (Novotech Medical GmbH) with the study
      participants standing with both knees flexed at least 20 degrees. The vibration frequency and
      duration will be increased over 5 days to the maximum of 3 minutes of 24 to 25 Hz with a peak
      to peak amplitude of 4mm. The participants will undergo the WBVT 1 session per day, 3 days
      per week for 4 weeks. The whole WBVT session will last 18 minutes with 9 minutes of
      vibration.

      Participants:

      10 children with type III SMA aged from 6 to 18 years will be recruited. The age range is
      extended aiming to increase the number of recruitment due to the rarity of the condition. All
      participants will continue their usual intervention regime, if any, during the study period.

      Recruitment:

      Children and families will be identified by their paediatrician at the neuromuscular clinic
      at the Duchess of Kent Children's Hospital in Hong Kong. Participants and/or their
      parents/guardians will be asked if they are interested to participate in this study and their
      contact details (name and contact telephone number) will be passed onto the PI. PI will
      contact the families by telephone.

      Power analysis:

      There is no previous study specifically conducted for this group of children and adolescents
      and hence no data is available for the power calculation. Most importantly, the aim of this
      study is to examine the safety and feasibility of the WBVT for this group of clients.
    
  