
    
      A proper fitting prosthetic socket provides the amputee with a comfortable system allowing
      them to pursue many of their desired vocational and recreational goals. Unfortunately, many
      amputees live with an ill-fitting socket and can experience limb pistoning within the socket,
      which in turn may result in skin irritation, tissue breakdown, discomfort, and a reduction in
      activity. One of the key factors affecting fit is intraday residual limb volume changes. For
      an amputee with dysvascular conditions, the implications of a poor fitting socket are
      exacerbated by poor circulation, reduced healing potential and the compressive forces exerted
      by their prosthesis.

      Vacuum suspension systems may have the potential to alleviate these conditions for healthy
      and dysvascular amputees. The purported benefits of vacuum suspension systems include, but
      are not limited to: improved suspension (reduction in the amount of pistoning), maintenance
      of limb volume throughout the day, and increased tissue oxygenation to the residual limb.

      Our first objective is to characterize performance, as related to socket fit, of a vacuum
      suspension system using objective and subjective measures. We will do this by conducting a
      within-subject experiment to measure pistoning in three dimensions while walking, overall and
      regional changes in limb volume before and after a thirty-minute treadmill walk, mobility
      (step counts) and the perception of socket fit (questionnaire) as a function of prosthetic
      prescription (vacuum suspension system vs. total surface bearing suction socket).

      Our second objective is to determine the effect of pressures within a prosthetic socket on
      residual limb transcutaneous oxygen tension (tcpO2) levels. We will conduct laboratory-based,
      in situ testing to determine how the transcutaneous oxygen tension levels, at six sites on
      the residual limb, respond to pressures simulating those within a vacuum suspension system
      and a total surface bearing suction socket.

      The proposed research will allow us to understand how suspension systems influence prosthetic
      socket fit and residual limb tissue health and to formulate a knowledge base on two
      suspension systems providing prosthetists and clinicians the objective data to make better
      prescription decisions. In addition, the methods utilized in this study (e.g., a residual
      limb limb volume scanner and assessing dynamic pistoning) can be used to study current and
      novel suspension systems, liners, and prosthetic socket designs to provide a standard for
      comparison.
    
  