
    
      Patient-centered care (e.g., incorporating patient preferences, needs, and values into all
      care aspects) is an essential component of high-quality care, associated with improved
      patient health, well-being, treatment adherence, and care coordination. Patients cannot
      participate in patient-centered care if they do not have the skills to self-advocate.
      Self-advocacy is defined as the ability to overcome health challenges by making informed
      healthcare decisions, communicating effectively with healthcare providers, and gaining
      strength through connection to others. Our work established that self-advocacy is associated
      with higher quality of life, lower symptom burden, higher patient-centered care, and fewer
      hospital admissions and emergency visits. Self-advocacy is particularly necessary in the
      advanced cancer setting where patients face numerous health challenges including complex
      treatment decisions, multiple cancer- and treatment-related symptoms, and poor quality of
      life. However, many patients struggle to self-advocate because they have not previously
      needed these skills or do not know how to apply these skills within their cancer experience.
      Interventions to teach patients self-advocacy are lacking, and the few programs that exist
      rely on non-interactive patient education that does not leverage behavior change or
      educational theories. There is a critical need for theoretically grounded interventions to
      teach patients with advanced cancer self-advocacy skills so that they can address health
      challenges related to their care and experience improved outcomes.

      Technology-based serious games (educational video games) allow users to vicariously engage in
      situations reflecting their personal experiences, receive meaningful information, and learn
      personally relevant skills that they can apply in real life. Serious games are an ideal
      platform for teaching self-advocacy skills because they use immersive, motivational elements
      and mechanisms to provide highly-relevant skills-training. Serious games improve patient
      knowledge and skills though their mechanisms of action remain unclear.

      Our team developed the Strong Together intervention which teaches self-advocacy skills in a
      serious game platform. Patients vicariously respond to health challenges managing symptoms,
      communicating with providers, and managing their health and are then exposed to the positive
      and negative consequences of self-advocating or not, respectively. It is based on our team's
      self-advocacy conceptual model, grounded in behavior change and educational theories, and
      integrates multiple mechanisms to promote learning outcomes. Our valid, reliable self-report
      self-advocacy measure captures the three dimensions of self-advocacy: informed
      decision-making, strength through connection, and effective communication. Our pilot
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) of the Strong Together intervention among N=70 women newly
      diagnosed with advanced breast or gynecologic cancer demonstrated feasibility (82% completed
      6-month surveys, 71% engaged in all intervention sessions) and intervention acceptability
      (97% satisfied; 90% saw it as useful).

      In the current study, the investigators will test the efficacy of the Strong Together
      intervention compared with an enhanced care as usual group in a larger, more diverse sample
      of women with advanced cancer.
    
  