
    
      Indwelling ureteral stents are specialized catheters designed to alleviate obstruction by
      maintaining the patency of the ureteral lumen and to splint the ureter by acting as a
      scaffold to promote organized tissue healing. (1)

      Common issues associated with contemporary ureteral stents include stent-related pain,
      hematuria, dysuria, urgency, infection, and encrustation (2). Majority of patients (80%)
      reported one or more urinary symptoms with over 80% of patients experience stent-related pain
      that affects daily activities, 58% report reduced work capacity, and 32%report sexual
      dysfunction (2). In addition, as many as 32% of patients had ureteral stents removed sooner
      than anticipated because of these complications (3).

      Considering this high prevalence of ureteral stent related symptoms (uSRS) among patients and
      its potential impact on quality of life (QoL), adequate management of these bothering
      symptoms was the point of research over the last decades (4).

      The exact mechanism involved in uSRS is not yet known; however, many authors report that such
      symptoms are associated with ureteral spasms, urinary reflux attributable to ureteral stent,
      or trigonal irritation (5).

      Different novel types of stents have been developed and evaluated to reduce uSRS; however,
      there is still controversy regarding their clinical application (6). Conversely,
      pharmacological therapy, including anticholinergics and alpha-blockers, remains the most
      effective option to manage uSRS (7).

      The role of a-blockers in reducing uSRS involves reduction of bladder outlet resistance to
      alleviate flank pain in male patients with preexisting bladder outlet obstruction (BOO). It
      has been proposed that relaxing the distal ureter and irritation of the trigone decreases
      bladder outlet resistance and voiding pressure, thereby potentially decreasing the incidence
      of renal reflux and subsequent flank pain (8) . Otherwise, anticholinergic agents may have an
      effect on involuntary contractions of the bladder induced by the distal end of ureteral
      stents with subsequent relief of uSRS (9).

      The above-mentioned drugs, however, are not easy to apply to some patients with
      co-morbidities because of the potential side effects. The most common medication-related
      complications of a-blockers are dizziness and orthostatic hypotension. Depending on the type
      of medication, medication-related adverse events are reported at a rate of 5% to 20% (10). In
      addition, anticholinergic agents have various adverse effects that decrease treatment
      compliance, such as dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision and dyspepsia (11).

      Beta-3 agonist mirabegron is believed to be responsible for the relaxation of the detrusor
      smooth muscle during the storage phase (12). It helps relax the detrusor smooth muscle, and
      results in increased bladder capacity without any changes in micturition pressure, post-void
      residual urine volume, or voiding contractions.

      Considering the function of mirabegron as a therapeutic agent for overactive bladder (OAB),
      mirabegron is assumed to be effective for relieving voiding symptoms attributable to uSRS
      (13).
    
  