
    
      Women diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are a readily identifiable
      population at high risk for type 2 diabetes (T2DM) to whom preventive interventions can be
      offered. There is evidence that T2DM can be prevented with lifestyle modification in older
      high-risk risk groups. However, preventive trials for women with recent GDM have had limited
      success in preventing T2DM, in part because they have failed to produce significant behaviour
      change. New mothers are a unique population with many competing demands and barriers to
      behaviour change. Home-based health coaching programs may be more effective in women with
      recent GDM, as they provide greater flexibility, goal-setting, and frequent follow-up, and
      have been associated with greater adherence and weight loss. Low glycemic-index diets are
      also associated with greater adherence and improved glycemia, but data are lacking in women
      with recent GDM.

      The ADAPT-M (Avoiding Diabetes after Pregnancy Trial in moms) study will address these gaps
      by evaluating a home-based exercise and diet intervention that has been designed specifically
      for new mothers with recent GDM. An internationally renowned team of investigators and
      collaborators was brought together to create this intervention. This trial has been carefully
      designed based on our previous work, an extensive literature review, and the input from
      co-investigators with expertise in diabetes research, gestational diabetes, prenatal and
      postpartum care, diabetes education programs, home-based exercise coaching, nutrition and
      diet interventions, and clinical trials. Investigators will work closely with the Clinical
      Trials Unit of the Applied Health Research Centre (AHRC) of University of Toronto to develop,
      implement, and evaluate this trial.

      This study is important because it addresses a crucial missed opportunity for diabetes
      prevention in a well-defined, high-risk population. This intervention is unique because it
      has been specifically tailored to optimize behaviour change by meeting the needs of new
      mothers. The findings from this study will have implications for diabetes caregivers,
      policy-makers, and researchers. This work will benefit women with prior GDM and their
      families by offering a much-needed effective and sustainable program aimed at reducing their
      risk of diabetes and improving long-term health.
    
  