
    
      Background:

      Sorafenib is an inhibitor of wild-type and mutant proto-oncogene BRaf (B-Raf) and
      proto-oncogene c-Raf (c-Raf) kinase isoforms in vitro, but it also inhibits mitogen-activated
      protein kinase (p38), proto-oncogene c-kit (c-kit), vascular endothelial growth factor
      receptor 2 (VEGFR-2) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGFR)-Beta affecting tumor growth
      as well as possibly promoting apoptosis by events downstream of c-Raf.

      Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G 1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody (MAb) that binds all
      biologically active isoforms of human vascular endothelial growth factor (vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), or VEGF-A) with high affinity (kd = 1.1nM).

      Phase I trial of sorafenib and bevacizumab administered concurrently showed activity of the
      combination in patients with refractory ovarian cancer.

      Objectives:

      Determine the activity and tolerability of the combination bevacizumab and sorafenib in
      patients with refractory or recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian, or peritoneal cancer in
      patients who are bevacizumab-naive or bevacizumab-resistant.

      Eligibility:

      Adults with histologically documented refractory or recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian,
      or peritoneal cancer.

      Patients must be off prior chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, or biological
      therapy for at least 4 weeks.

      Patients must have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) of 1 or less.

      Patients must have disease that is amenable to biopsy.

      Patients must have not been previously treated with bevacizumab or must have progressed on
      prior bevacizumab-based therapy.

      Design:

      Patients will be stratified on entrance to the trial based on their previous exposure to
      bevacizumab to either strata A (bevacizumab-naive patients) or strata B (patients previously
      treated with bevacizumab).

      Patients will receive oral sorafenib 200 mg twice daily 5 out of 7 days each week and
      intravenous bevacizumab 5 mg/kg every two weeks.

      Tumor biopsies will be obtained from patients before treatment and six weeks into therapy.
      Dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and fludeoxyglucose
      18F-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) will be obtained from patients before treatment,
      on day 3 of treatment, and six weeks into therapy.

      Patients will be evaluated for response every 8 weeks using the Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

      Approximately 74 patients will be needed to achieve the objectives of the trial.
    
  