
    
      The investigators propose to address the goals of the Affordability Cures Initiative and
      promote health equity by developing NICU2HOME+, a smartphone app designed to support NICU
      parents in a culturally appropriate manner in community level III NICUs in Illinois and to
      include EMR integration. Mobile technology such as NICU2HOME+ offers an innovative way to
      reduce costs in two ways. First, parents who are better informed and supported, who feel more
      confident and competent in caring for their premature infants, may be more prepared for an
      earlier discharge. Second, cost savings may be realized after discharge, if better educated
      and more competent parents are less likely to inappropriately visit the ER or their infant's
      physicians as they know what to expect and can provide better, more competent care to their
      baby. At its center, NICU2HOME+is able to achieve four "rights" of adaptive personalization
      and parent-centric care: delivering the "right" information at the "right" time to the
      "right" person via the "right" medium. The ultimate goal of this proposal, therefore, is to
      develop a scalable, evidence-based.

      Participants will be divided into two research groups based on when their infant was born.
      The first group, parents of infants born between June 15th and December 31st 2020, will
      receive the standard care provided in the NICU. The second group of participants, those with
      infants born between January 1 and July 31 2021, will also receive the NICU standard care and
      additionally be asked to use a smartphone app related to NICU and at-home care. Participation
      in the second groups requires ownership of a smartphone and the ability to use a smartphone
      app.

      If the participant has been assigned to the first group, the investigators would like both
      parents to participate in the study independently and therefore complete individual consent
      forms. However, the investigators recognize not all families will have two parents that are
      interested or able to participate and ultimately participation from some families will
      include only one parent.

      As part of the study, participants will be asked to complete four surveys. They will be
      administered at the time of admission, infant's discharge from the NICU, fourteen days after
      discharge and thirty days after discharge. For those families who have a longer stay in the
      NICU, the investigators will ask parents to complete two additional surveys; one 30 days
      after admission and one 60 days after admission.Each survey will take approximately five to
      ten minutes to complete. The main benefit of participation is that this research that may
      help improve the NICU experience for other families in the future. The primary risk of
      participation is the potential loss of confidentiality, but strict measures are in place to
      minimize the chance of this happening.

      In addition, if participants agree to the option at the end of this Consent Form,
      participants may or may not be invited to participate in a separate research interview to
      take place during the participants NICU stay, around the time of the infant's discharge from
      the hospital, or within a year of the transition to home. These optional, voluntary
      interviews will be conducted at a time, location and method (phone or in-person) agreed upon
      by the parent. All interviews will be conducted with our research staff with experience
      interviewing parents of NICU graduates. While the investigators encourage both parents to
      participate in order to hear about differences in experiences, one or both parents can
      ultimately participate. The purpose of the research interview is to better understand
      participants' experience in the NICU and at home as the parent of a premature infant.

      Participants will be divided into two research groups based on when their infant was born.
      The first group, parents of infants born between July 15th and December 31st 2020, will
      receive the standard care provided in the NICU. The second group of participants, those with
      infants born between January 1 and July 31 2021, will also receive the NICU standard care and
      additionally be asked to use a smartphone app related to NICU and at-home care. Participation
      in the second groups requires ownership of a smartphone and the ability to use a smartphone
      app.

      If a participants are assigned to the first or second groups, the investigators would like
      both parents to participate in the study independently and therefore complete individual
      consent forms. However, the investigators recognize not all families will have two parents
      that are interested or able to participate and ultimately participation from some families
      will include only one parent.

      As part of the study, participants will be asked to complete four surveys. They will be
      administered at the time of admission, infant's discharge from the NICU, fourteen days after
      discharge and thirty days after discharge. For those families who have a longer stay in the
      NICU, the investigators will ask parents to complete two additional surveys; one 30 days
      after admission and one 60 days after admission. Each survey will take approximately five to
      ten minutes to complete. The main benefit of participation is that this research that may
      help improve the NICU experience for other families in the future. The primary risk of
      participation is the potential loss of confidentiality, but strict measures are in place to
      minimize the chance of this happening.

      In addition, if participants agree to the option at the end of this Consent Form,
      participants may or may not be invited to participate in a separate research interview to
      take place during the participants' NICU stay, around the time of the participants' infant's
      discharge from the hospital, or within a year of the participants transition home. These
      optional, voluntary interviews will be conducted at a time, location and method (phone or
      in-person) agreed upon by the parent. All interviews will be conducted with our research
      staff with experience interviewing parents of NICU graduates. While the investigators
      encourage both parents to participate in order to hear about differences in experiences, one
      or both parents can ultimately participate. The purpose of the research interview is to
      better understand the participants' experience in the NICU and at home as the parent of a
      premature infant.

      Optional Interview:

      In addition to the intervention study, optional qualitative interviews will be conducted with
      participants using a maximum variability approach. Interviews will focus on the following:

        -  Their overall experience of using the app

        -  Educational Content

        -  Relationship/communication through app with extended family/friends

        -  Readiness for discharge

        -  Empowerment, ability to communicate better with doctors and nurses, and being able to
           participate in child health care confidently

        -  Being ready to go home and did the app help

        -  Information, communication and support needs across the NICU stay, discharge and beyond

      This voluntary interview will be described to parents at the time of consent. To maintain
      confidentiality all subjects will be given a unique study code (PIN) and all information
      collected for app development will be linked to that number, not to any other identifier. All
      documents that include identifiers will be stored in a locked, secure location that only key
      authorized study personnel (e.g. PI, research team members) will have access to.

      The interviews will be audio recorded. The recordings will be given an ID number and kept in
      locked cabinets and on secure computers. The audio recordings will be transcribed and kept on
      password protected computers. (There will be no personal identifiers (such as names) in the
      transcribed documents.) After the recordings are transcribed, the audio files will be erased.

      Only the people listed on the Authorized Research Personnel list will have access to the
      data. All paper data will be kept in locked files and rooms. Electronic data will be kept in
      on password- encrypted computers and files with identifying information will be individually
      password protected. Names and contact information will be stored only for the purpose of
      contacting participants. This information will be stored separately from study data and the
      two will only be linked by a study ID, kept in a password protected document. Upon completion
      of data collection all name and contact information as will be destroyed by file deletion.
      All data collected for this study will be kept in a locked, secure location and anything that
      can be destroyed (deleted, shredded, etc.) after it has been coded, will be.
    
  