
    
      Inflammatory breast carcinoma (IBC) is an extremely rare, aggressive form of breast cancer
      that disproportionately affects young women. The risk factors and pathogenesis of these
      tumors are unknown and it is unclear whether tumors showing various clinical, pathological or
      molecular features behave differently. IBC appears to be a highly angiogenic tumor. In this
      study, tumor markers and parameters of angiogenesis will be further investigated in IBC.

      The Inflammatory Breast Cancer Registry and Biospecimen Repository is a project funded by a
      grant from the Department of Defense to Paul H. Levine at GWUMC. The purpose of the registry
      is to develop a national registry of patients with IBC that will contain standardized
      clinical, epidemiological, and pathological information, along with recurrence and survival
      data. The goal is to obtain specimens from approximately 150 patients with IBC. The data in
      the registry and repository will be made available to researchers to aid in the development
      of a clinicopathological diagnosis of IBC. Investigators at GWUMC will consent recruited
      patients and collect clinical data. Subjects will not be recruited, evaluated, or monitored
      at the NCI. The GWUMC IRB will oversee human subjects protection issues. All samples obtained
      from GWUMC will be blinded and coded to the NCI investigators. In addition to the samples
      from George Washington University, we will obtain 150 control samples from the National
      Cancer Institute Cooperative Breast Cancer Tissue Resource. These samples were not available
      when this protocol was first submitted.

      In collaboration with George Washington University Medical Center (GWUMC), we plan to test
      tissue specimens collected in the IBC registry and biospecimen repository. We will obtain
      frozen tissue (tissue and/or normal) and paraffin-embedded tissue blocks from each case.
      Genetic testing will not be performed on any of the samples. One pathologist reviews cases
      for grade and lymphovascular invasion (LVI) based on H& E staining. Specimens will be tested
      for biological markers associated with IBC to help in classification of these tumors. These
      include ER, E-cadherin, podoplanin, ReIB, RhoC and vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein
      (VASP). Angiogenesis parameters will also be evaluated. These include hypoxia-inducible
      factor 1 alpha (HIF-1 alpha), vascular endothelial growth factor D (VEGF-D) protein
      expression, VEGF-C protein expression, VEGF-receptor 2 (VEGFR-2, Kdr) or VEGF-receptor 3
      (VEGFR-3, flt-4).
    
  