
    
      A randomised, controlled, clinical trial is performed at the Department of Anesthesia and
      Intensive Care of the Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Careggi in Florence, Italy, to assess
      the effects of in-line filtration on the incidence of postoperative phlebitis. The Ethical
      Committee of the institution has approved the study (CEAV IN17/0000015). Patients
      preoperatively sign consent forms for participation in this trial.

      An incidence of phlebitis equal to 50% within 48 hrs from peripheral venous cannulation has
      been preliminarily described in our centre during standard care (unpublished data). Two
      hundred and sixty-eight patients undergoing surgery are 1:1 randomised to in-line filtration
      (study group) and standard care (control group) to observe a 20% reduction in postoperative
      phlebitis within 48 hrs after surgery in the study group through a one-side chi-square
      analysis with statistical power of 90% and statistical significance of 0.025.

      Every surgical patient scheduled for surgery, who preoperatively signed the consent form and
      underwent peripheral venous cannulation, is considered for this study. Patients undergoing
      central venous catheterisation or long-/middle-term peripheral cannulation are excluded.

      On the day of surgery, all enrolled patients undergo standard peripheral venous cannulation
      according to the up-to-date standard of care. After placement of venous cannula and before
      the induction of anaesthesia, patients are randomised for in-line filtration or standard
      care.

      For patients randomized to in-line filtration, in-line filters (Pall, Dreieich, Germany) are
      used during anaesthesia and the following 96 postoperative hours.

      Patients randomised to standard care (control group) are managed without an in-line filter
      and according to local routine practice for intravenous drug administration in the adult
      patient. The enrolment in this study don't influence the type of anaesthesia or the
      postoperative pharmacological treatment previously scheduled for the patient.

      The incidence and severity of phlebitis are evaluated using the Visual Infusion Phlebitis
      (VIP) Score every 12 hrs from the end of surgery until 96 hrs postoperatively. The
      postoperative VIP score evaluations are performed by another author, blinded to each
      patient's randomisation group. This filter are held by containment bands on the patient's arm
      and are completely covered by a breathable dressing medication to maintain the evaluator
      blind on the patient's randomisation group. The dressing medication never covers the vein
      where the cannulae are placed. Transparent dressing is used for cannula medication to allow
      cannulation site inspection

      Phlebitis is defined as a VIP score ≥2. The primary end-point of the study is to assess the
      incidence of phlebitis in the 48 postoperative hours using a Fisher's exact test. Time and
      severity of phlebitis and time and causes for venous cannula removal are all compared between
      groups. In particular, data distribution is assessed through the Shapiro-Wilk test.
      Continuous data are presented as a median and interquartile range (IQR) or mean ± standard
      deviation (SD) and analysed through a Mann-Whitney or Student's t-test, according to data
      distribution. Qualitative data are presented as percentages and analysed through chi-square
      analysis. The Bonferroni adjustment is used for multiple comparisons. The lifespan of the
      cannulae is described for the study and the control groups through the Kaplan-Meier curve.
      Multivariate Cox regression analysis with a backwards selection is performed to evaluate the
      effect of in-line filtration on the risk of phlebitis and cannula removal, independently from
      other factors. Results are presented as p-value, hazard ratio (HR) and 95% confident interval
      (95%CI)
    
  