
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an electrophysiological condition characterized by a disorganized
      electrical activity in the atria of the heart. AF is associated with structural heart disease
      including hypertension, systolic and diastolic ventricular dysfunction and valvular heart
      disease. It represents a significant public health problem with the increasing longevity of
      the general population. A major determinant of the progression of AF is structural remodeling
      or fibrosis that occurs in the left atrium. A more extensively remodeled atrium represents
      the substrate needed for the arrhythmia to persist. Structural remodeling is also a major
      determinant for success of rhythm control strategies in AF. While catheter ablation has been
      reproducibly shown to be superior to anti-arrhythmic drug therapy for rhythm control in AF,
      the success of this procedure is significantly affected by the extent of structural
      remodeling present at the time of catheter ablation.

      Delayed-Enhancement Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DE-MRI) has been demonstrated to be a very
      effective modality in identifying fibrotic and scarred cardiac tissue with excellent
      correlation with autopsy findings. This is related to the characteristics of Gadolinium, an
      extracellular contrast agent that is very effective in identifying regions of fibrotic
      non-viable myocardium. DE-MRI technology can be a very powerful, non-invasive method, of
      identifying the extent and the distribution of structural remodeling or fibrosis associated
      with AF.

      Applying DE-MRI technology to the atrium causes significant technical challenges. The atrial
      wall is often a few millimeters thick which requires high spatial resolution to obtain
      adequate and useful images. In addition, image acquisition has to be gated to the diastolic
      phase of the atrial contraction cycle, which may be difficult to do when the patient is in
      AF. The ongoing research at the University of Utah has shown significant progress and very
      promising results overcoming the challenges mentioned. Specific image acquisition sequences
      have allowed for reproducible identification of high pixel intensity regions within the
      2-dimensional images of the atrial wall. Three-dimensional reconstruction of the entire left
      atrium then provides a quantification of the overall volume occupied by these hyper-enhanced
      regions relative to the entire left atrial wall volume. Used prior to catheter ablation,
      DE-MRI can therefore identify regions of significant structural remodeling or fibrosis. The
      same technology has also been shown to be very useful in examining the amount and
      distribution of ablation related scarring.

      Clinical patient characteristics will be collected for this study from clinic visits and
      chart reviews.

      Imaging Protocol: All patients will undergo a DE-MRI within 30 days prior to the AF ablation
      procedure using a DE-MRI protocol. The purpose of the initial MRI is to quantify the degree
      of atrial structural remodeling or fibrosis pre-ablation. Following ablation, DE-MRI will be
      obtained at 3, 6, and 12 months follow-up to detect and quantify ablation-related scar
      formation (Figs. 4-5).

      Clinical Follow-up: The institution where the ablation was performed will continue
      post-procedural care following standard of care procedures. Monitoring and definition of
      atrial arrhythmia AF recurrences will be guided by the HRS consensus document on ablation of
      atrial fibrillation.

      Clinical and MRI data will be stored using the IRB-approved University of Utah database.
      De-identified clinical data and MRI images from participating institutions will also be
      submitted to the database, and will be processed at the University of Utah for pre- and
      post-ablation fibrosis and scar quantification. The ablation strategy utilized and procedural
      endpoint will be left to the discretion of the operators at the participating sites. This
      data will also be collected and included in the final analysis. MRI image processors at the
      University of Utah will be blinded to the ablation technique and mother institution using a
      unique de-identified study participant ID number.

      Atrial arrhythmia recurrences will be catalogued up to one year post-ablation and predictors
      of recurrences determined by multivariate/survival analysis. The specific mechanism and
      electrophysiological characteristics of atrial arrhythmia recurrence will also be analyzed.
    
  