
    
      This project is in continuation of our previous study (NTUH92-S044) and is focused on the
      comparison of the advantage and disadvantage of the following two treatment modalities: (1)
      preoperative neoadjuvant therapy (CCRT) followed by conventional surgery; (2) the
      Japanese-style of wide pelvic lymphadenectomy, for the treatment of potentially operable
      locally advanced rectal cancer. It is well-known that the keypoint for the surgical treatment
      of rectal cancer is to achieve a balance between 'radical resection of the tumor' and
      'functional preservation for the pelvic organs'. Primary adenocarcinoma of the rectum is
      generally characterized by localized and comparatively slow-growing, as compared to the
      fast-growing tumors of other gastrointestinal malignancies. Thus, extended systemic pelvic
      lymphadenectomy has been considered the best choice for cure. However, there is major
      difference of concept between the Western and Oriental colorectal surgeons regarding the
      appropriate extent of lymphadenectomy for the treatment of rectal cancers lying below the
      peritoneal reflection. Theoretically, there are two major pathways for the lymphatic drainage
      of lower rectal cancers: one is upward to the root of inferior mesenteric artery (IMA); the
      other is along the middle hemorrhoidal artery to the obturator fossa. Because the American
      people tend to be very fatty and the pelvic lymphadenectomy is difficult to perform, most
      rectal cancer patients receive conventional limited resection combined with aggressive
      chemotherapy and pelvic irradiation. In contrast, because the Oriental people are thinner and
      pelvic lymphadenectomy is easier to perform, and most important of all, the Japanese surgeons
      were very meticulous in cancer surgery, the extended pelvic lymphadenectomy has become the
      routine procedure for the advanced lower rectal cancer in Japan. However, extended pelvic
      lymphadenectomy can inevitably cause the autonomic nerve damage, which thereafter result in
      the disturbance of micturition and sexual function. To overcome this genitourinary
      complication, the Japanese surgeon developed the autonomic nerve-sparing surgery. Generally
      speaking, pelvic autonomic nerves consist of sympathetic signals via the paired hypogastric
      nerves and paired sacral splanchnic nerves, and the parasympathetic signals via the pelvic
      splanchnic nerves. The sympathetic and parasympathetic fibers intermingled with each other to
      form the pelvic plexus, which is located at the lateral side of the lateral ligament. Pelvic
      plexus then send the composite autonomic signals to innervate distal rectum and genitourinary
      organs. Thus, the injury of autonomic nerve can reflect the functional disorder of the
      anorectum and genitourinary organs. Based on the neurophysiology, it is well known that
      sympathetic nerves control the ejaculatory function and bladder neck closure. In contrast,
      the parasympathetic nerves control penile erection and bladder wall contraction. Because of
      the difference in cultural background of the patients and training background of the
      physicians between Western and Oriental Countries, the Western people did not believe in the
      efficacy of wide pelvic lymphadenectomy. In the Oriental countries, due to the shortage of
      standardized facilities, treatment protocol, and manpower, the concurrent preoperative
      chemoradiation therapy (CCRT) of American style is currently not widely accepted. Therefore,
      the advantage and disadvantage of these two treatment modalities for advanced rectal cancers
      need be further clarified. In this project, we plan to randomly assign the patients into two
      groups: (1) concurrent preoperative chemoradiation therapy (CCRT) + conventional surgery
      group; (2) wide pelvic lymphadenectomy group. Thereafter, we plan to evaluate: (1) the
      anorectal function by anorectal manometry and colonic transit time using radioopaque markers;
      (2) the micturition function using urodynamic study ; (3) the penile erection by RigiScan;
      and (4) the ejaculatory function by clinical interview of the patients. Moreover, the various
      clinicopathologic factors, including the depth of tumor invasion and the status of lymph node
      invasion, were recorded in detail according to the guidelines recommended by the Japanese
      Society of Coloproctology. Furthermore, we will evaluate the oncological results for these
      patients. There are 2 characteristics for this project: (1) This is a randomized, prospective
      study which has not been conducted in the literature; (2) The functional evaluation is
      conducted in an objective way which is different from the reported series based only on the
      subjective patient interview.

      During the conduction of our precious project (NTU 92-S044), we found that the response rate
      of locally advanced rectal cancer after CCRT is satisfactory. The response rate is even more
      increased after the addition of oxaliplatin to the traditional regimen of 5-Fu plus
      leucovorin. However, there was no significance patients between these 2 allocated groups of
      patients in terms of genitourinary dysfunction. These preliminary data need be further
      testified by accrual of more patients with longer time of follow-up. Therefore, it is
      mandatory for us to further perform this project. We believe that this study will provide a
      new balance point between the 'radical resection' and the 'functional preservation' for
      advanced rectal cancer patients.
    
  