
    
      Recovery from abdominal surgery is usually fast and uncomplicated but postoperative hypoxemia
      complicates 30-50 % of cases even in uneventful procedures (1). Although oxygen
      administration and incentive spirometry are effective in treating the vast majority of
      postoperative hypoxemia cases (2), respiratory failure may occur early in the postoperative
      course (3) requiring endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation in 8-10 % of patients
      thus increasing morbidity and mortality and prolonging intensive care unit and hospital stay
      (1-4). Loss of functioning alveolar units has been recognized as the underlying mechanism
      responsible for postoperative hypoxemia (5-7); pulmonary atelectasis after abdominal surgery
      is, in fact, common, it may exceed 25 % of the total lung volume and is seen several days
      after surgery (5-7).

      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is a breathing mode where the patient
      spontaneously breathes through a pressurized circuit against a threshold resistor that
      maintains a preset positive airway pressure during both inspiration and expiration. Although
      several studies have demonstrated the efficacy of CPAP to reduce atelectasis and improve
      oxygenation in patients after abdominal surgery (8-11), no clinical trials have confirmed
      that the improvement of gas exchange with CPAP actually results in a reduced need for
      intubation and mechanical ventilation in patients who develop hypoxemia after abdominal
      surgery (12). We conducted a multi-center, prospective, randomized clinical trial to compare
      the efficacy of CPAP with standard oxygen therapy in the treatment of postoperative
      hypoxemia. The present study set out to examine the hypothesis that early application of CPAP
      may prevent intubation and mechanical ventilation in patients who develop acute hypoxemia
      after liver transplant.

      Concealed randomization was conducted centrally through a dedicated web site using a
      computer-generated block randomization schedule.

      Patients were randomized to be treated for six hours with oxygen through a Venturi mask at a
      FiO2 of 0.5 (control) or with oxygen at a FiO2 of 0.5 plus a CPAP of 7.5 cm H2O (CPAP). At
      the end of the 6-hour period, patients passed a one-hour screening test breathing oxygen
      through a Venturi mask at a FiO2of 0.3. Patients returned to the assigned treatment if the
      PaO2/FiO2 ratio was less than or equal to 300; treatment was interrupted if the PaO2/FiO2
      ratio was higher than 300. Nasal oxygen (8-10 liter/minute) was given if the treatment was
      not tolerated (Figure 1).

      In all centers, CPAP was generated using a flow generator with an adjustable inspiratory
      oxygen fraction set to deliver a flow of up to 140 liters per minute (Whisperflow, Caradyne,
      Ireland) and a spring-loaded expiratory pressure valve (Vital Signs Inc, Totoma NJ) and
      applied using a latex-free polyvinyl chloride transparent helmet (CaStar, Starmed, Italy)
      (15); all centers measured the inspiratory oxygen fraction using an oxygen analyzer
      (Oxicheck, Caradyne, Ireland) through the Venturi mask or the helmet.

      All analyses were conducted on an intention-to-treat basis. Values are reported as mean and
      standard deviation. Continuous variables were compared with the use of the unpaired t-test or
      the Wilcoxon rank-sum test, depending on their distributional characteristics. Categorical
      variables were compared with the use of Fisher's exact test or the chi-square test, when
      appropriate. The Kaplan-Meier curve for intubation rate was plotted and was compared by the
      log-rank and Wilcoxon tests. All reported P values are two-sided.
    
  