
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the pathological tumor response rate in patients with localized rectal cancer
           treated with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy comprising capecitabine, panitumumab, and
           radiotherapy with or without irinotecan hydrochloride.

        -  To assess the incidence of grade 3/4 toxicity during neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the disease-free survival.

        -  To assess the time to treatment failure.

        -  To assess the1-year and 2-year survival rates.

        -  To assess local recurrence, defined as recurrence in pelvis at the site of previous
           disease.

        -  To assess the safety and toxicity grade using NCI CTCAE v3.0 criteria.

        -  To assess the number and percentage of patients who undergo down staging of their
           disease as determined before initiating neoadjuvant therapy and at the time of surgery.

        -  To assess the number and percentage of patients where permanent colostomy can be avoided
           as determined by the surgeon before initiating neoadjuvant therapy and at the time
           actual surgery is performed.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Phase A: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week and receive oral
           capecitabine twice daily 5 days a week for 5½ weeks. Patients also receive panitumumab
           IV over 1 hour on days 1, 15, and 29 during radiotherapy in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase B: Patients undergo radiotherapy and receive capecitabine and panitumumab as in
           Phase A. Patients also receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV on days 1, 8, 22, and 29 in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo surgery 6-8 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy,

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  