
    
      The novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, responsible for Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), was
      first identified at the end of the year 2019 in Wuhan (China). A rapid spread of the disease
      resulted in global threat to public health. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organization
      (WHO) announced the state of pandemic. In Poland, the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was
      reported on 4 March 2020 and subsequent growing number of patients has placed tremendous
      strain on healthcare system. The crisis situation prompted immediate action to divert
      healthcare resources for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 and to limit the spread of
      the infection. In accordance with the decision of the Minister of Health of March 13th, 2020,
      more than twenty hospitals were established to admit only the SARS-CoV-2 affected patients.
      Moreover, all hospitals were recommended to limit their planned activity and to perform only
      urgent and emergency services.

      The investigators hypothesize that those changes in healthcare system and restrictions
      established in public area during pandemic caused significant difficulties in residency
      training considering clinical and surgical practice as well as didactic activities. In spite
      of gradual reopening the routine services over the last few months, social distancing rules
      are still in force. Accordingly, different methods of virtual teaching were introduced
      including, inter alia, organisation of courses, lectures and conferences in form of on-line
      meetings.

      The aim of current study is to investigate the impact of SARS-CoV-2 on ophthalmology training
      programs among residents. To the best of our knowledge this study is the first of its kind in
      Poland. The impact of COVID-19 on ophthalmology training programs is largely unknown as there
      are only few studies assessing the above issue from the resident's point of view.

      The investigators believe that this investigations will address this gap in the literature
      and could be used to initiate the new solutions in order to maintain successful residency
      training during pandemic. Opinions regarding the efficiency of e-learning methods and on-line
      meetings may be crucial to innovate the conventional teaching way permanently in the future.
    
  