
    
      Every day, 120 people die from suicide, that is one person every 15 minutes.1 Suicide
      prevention treatments focus on those at highest risk and are primarily delivered as mental
      health treatments,2-5 and yet 70% of patients with suicide risk do not attend mental health
      treatment. Developing treatment for patients not served by existing suicide prevention
      programs will improve access to care and is necessary to stop suicide.

      Patients with chronic pain in the US (100 million) have 2.6-times greater risk of suicide and
      those on long-term opioid treatment are at even greater risk. Unfortunately, they often do
      not receive mental health treatment and thus do not receive suicide prevention interventions.
      They do receive frequent healthcare for their pain providing an unmet opportunity to
      integrate suicide prevention into their treatment for pain.

      Problem-solving treatment (PST) is an evidence-based approach that is available where
      patients want to receive treatment (e.g., primary care) and is efficacious for chronic pain.
      Importantly, PST targets problem-solving deficits which are known to increase risk of
      suicide, suggesting PST could be leveraged to reduce suicide risk. Deficits in
      problem-solving (an executive function of finding solutions to difficult issues) directly
      increase suicidal risk because they keep patients with active suicidal ideation from
      generating solutions to their problems (e.g., chronic pain), other than through suicide.
      Deficits in problem-solving also make it difficult to keep pain from impairing daily
      activities and social relationships. This indirectly increases suicide risk because
      impairment in daily activities increases feelings of burdensomeness and impairment in social
      relationships increases feelings of not belonging. Feelings of burdensomeness and of not
      belonging are key theoretical pathways to suicidal behavior.

      Working with our clinical partners and patients, we developed a 12-week remote delivered PST
      for patients with chronic pain and moderate suicidal risk. The treatment addresses deficits
      in problem-solving by teaching patients strategies to address problems caused by chronic pain
      that increase risk of suicide (e.g., impairment in daily activities leading to feelings of
      burdensomeness). Our preliminary data suggests that PST is feasible, acceptable and may be
      efficacious. In a national survey we found 56% of patients with chronic pain and suicide risk
      were interested in problem-solving treatment. In a clinical pilot we were able to engage
      Veterans with chronic pain and suicide risk with 75% completing the treatment. Finally, in a
      clinical trial that randomized patients to 12 sessions of PST or 12 sessions of health
      education, we found that patients with chronic pain and moderate suicide risk (n=21)
      randomized to PST had a reduction in suicidal ideation and problem-solving deficits
      (self-report) as compared to health education.

      The goal of the current proposal (R56) is to ensure PST is engaging problem-solving deficits.
      Patients with chronic pain and moderate suicide risk (n=60) will be randomized to receive
      remote-PST or remote-supportive psychotherapy. We will assess problem-solving deficits
      through self-report, objective neuropsychological assessment and caregiver report. We have
      used an adaptive design so that if there is strong evidence for target engagement, we will
      continue with the trial as a fully powered clinical trial (i.e., the end of the current
      proposal will act as the interim assessment) to the determine the efficacy of remote PST for
      patients with chronic pain and moderate suicide risk (n=190) to improve suicide outcomes.

      Aim 1: Estimate the effect of remote-delivered PST on targets. We hypothesize that PST
      reduces our primary target, problem-solving deficits as assessed through (H1) self-report,
      (H2) objective neuropsychological assessment, (H3) caregiver report, as compared to
      supportive psychotherapy. We hypothesize that PST reduces our secondary targets (H1) feelings
      of burdensomeness and (H2) feelings of not belonging, as compared to supportive
      psychotherapy.

      Exploratory Aim 2: Explore the effect size of PST as compared to supportive psychotherapy on
      suicide outcomes (intensity of suicidal ideation, difficulties coping with suicidal ideation)
      and chronic pain outcomes ((H4) chronic pain, (H5) pain related disability).

      Our previous preliminary data suggests that PST is feasible, acceptable and may be
      efficacious. The goal of the current proposal (R56) is to confirm PST is engaging
      problem-solving deficits (measured through self-report and objective measures). Deliverable:
      At the end of the proposed trial, we will have the necessary information (in combination with
      our previous preliminary data) to inform a go/no-go decision on converting the current
      proposal into a fully powered clinical trial.
    
  