
    
      The LION-HEART study (Levosimendan® Intermittent administration in Outpatients: effects on
      Natriuretic peptides in advanced chronic HEART failure) was a multicenter, double-blind,
      randomized, parallel group, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of
      intravenous administration of intermittent doses of levosimendan in outpatients with advanced
      chronic heart failure.

      Study Design and Oversight Between November 2010 and December 2012,69 patients fulfilling
      inclusion criteria were enrolled from 12 recruiting centers in Spain (Figure 1). The study
      protocol was approved by institutional review board of each participating center and
      conducted in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (1996),
      International Conference on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice, and local and national
      regulations. All enrolled patients provided written informed consentbefore any study-related
      procedure was undertaken. The study was registered on the website www.ClinicalTrials.gov
      (unique identifier: NCT01536132) and the EudraCT database (2009-014242-28). The trial was
      designed, implemented and overseen by the Steering Committee. On-site monitoring of the
      study, data collection and data management was performed by a Clinical Research Organization
      (CRO, 3DHealth). The manuscript was written and submitted by the Steering Committee members.
      All contributing authors had full access to study data and analyses.

      Study population, eligibility and recruitment The study was divided in three different parts:
      1) screening (1 week), 2) treatment (12 weeks) and 3) follow-up (12 weeks). An additional
      vital status assessment was planned after 12 months of enrolment (Figure 2, design of the
      study).

      Eligibility was assessed at the screening phase, once the written informed consent was
      obtained. Inclusion criteria for this study were: age over 18 years, left ventricular
      ejection fraction (LVEF) of less than 35% measured in the previous 6 months and clinical
      diagnosis of advanced chronic HF (Metra M et al. Eur J Heart Fail 2007;
      9(6-7):684-694)according to the following criteria: a) presence for >3 months of typical
      signs and symptoms of HF b) persistent ambulatory NYHA functional class III or IV for the
      last 4 weeks, c) no signs of congestion or low cardiac output at the time of enrolment, d)
      episodes of pulmonary and/or systemic congestion requiring intravenous administration of
      diuretics (either hospitalized or in an ambulatory basis) in the previous 12 months, e) all
      the previous criteria were present despite optimal medical management (including use of
      diuretics, antagonists of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and beta-blockers) and
      device therapy (including implantable cardioverter defibrillator-ICD and/or cardiac
      resynchronization therapy-CRT) or attempts to optimize it. Major exclusion criteria were:
      concurrent inclusion in another study, the presence of left ventricular tract obstruction,
      uncorrected significant primary valve disease, recent acute coronary syndrome or stroke,
      hypertrophic or restrictive cardiomyopathy, administration of amrinone, milrinone, enoximone,
      dopamine or dobutamine in the previous 3 days, administration of levosimendan in the previous
      31 days, serum potassium below 3.5mmol/L, estimated glomerular filtration rate <30ml/min/m2
      (MDRD-4 formula), systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg orheart rate > 110 bpm at screening,
      planned or ongoing evaluation for any of the following procedures: CRT, ICD, coronary
      revascularization, heart transplant or left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implant, other
      acute or chronic conditions that would made the patient unsuitable for this study according
      to the investigator's judgement, anticipated poor compliance and inability or unwillingness
      to give informed consent.

      Randomization and Blinding Eligible patients that signed the informed consent were randomized
      in a 2:1 ratio to receive either Levosimendan or placebo. Randomization was centrally
      conducted and supervised by the CRO. The computer-generated randomization scheme used random
      permuted blocks stratified per center. Once the patient was allocated to Levosimendan of
      placebo, the CRO communicated the exact treatment number to the local hospital pharmacy which
      handed out the treatment to the local investigator at each infusion cycle. Levosimendan and
      placebo had the same appearance thus the treatment was concealed to both investigators and
      study patients (double blind).

      Therapy Patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive either Levosimendan or placebo
      (i.e. two patients assigned Levosimendan for every one patient assigned placebo) as an
      intermittent dosing (every two weeks) by a 6-hour intravenous infusion (0.2 μg / kg / min
      without bolus) for a period of 12 weeks (6 cycles) in study patients with advanced chronic
      heart failure.In case of hypotension (systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg or <100 mmHg with
      symptoms) or clinical intolerance to the drug, the dose could be reduced to 0.01 μg /kg/min.
      Furtherreduction to 0.05μg/kg/min or discontinuation of the drug waspossible if these adverse
      effects persisted.Study treatment was administered during a maximum of 12 weeks in an
      ambulatory administration setting that allowed non-invasive monitoring of vital signs. During
      the first infusion, 24-hour ECG monitoring (either with ambulatory Holter monitoring or
      telemetry) was required for safety evaluations.

      After the treatment period, patients were followed every 4 weeks for 12 additional weeks. At
      the end of the study, patients were followed for a maximum of 12 months - i.e. the last visit
      (vital status assessment)was performed 9 months after the last administration of study
      treatment.

      Data collection Baseline information was obtained in stable patients without signs of fluid
      overload or low-cardiac output after written informed consent. These data included medical
      history, hospitalizations, relevant clinical and demographic information and physical
      examination by means of direct interview, examination and medical record review and included
      NYHA class, most recent LVEF, medical therapy and 12-lead ECG. These data, including the
      occurrence of adverse events and hospitalizations was re-evaluated every two weeks the first
      3 months and every 4 weeks the next 3 months. Additional evaluations at baseline included
      self-assessment of patient reported outcomes (PRO, including health-related quality of
      life-HR-QoL- evaluated by means of the generic EQ-5D and the HF specific Kansas City
      Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire, KCCQ), local laboratory measurements, and the distance walked
      in the 6 minutes walking test (6MWT). PRO and 6 MWT were re-evaluated at week 13 and week 25.
      Vital status assessment was also performed after 12 months of inclusion into the study.
      Measurements of serum amino-terminal B-type pro-natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP, pg/mL) were
      performed locally with and immunoassay based on chemiluminescence using the Elecsys System
      (Roche®) before and 24 h after initiation of each study drug infusion (either Levosimendan or
      placebo).

      Follow-up and Evaluation of end-points The primary end-point of efficacy in the LION-HEART
      study was to determine, relative to placebo, the effect of 6 cycles of ambulatory 6-hour
      intravenous infusions of levosimendan every two weeks on concentrations of NT-proBNP
      throughout the 12-week treatment period in patients with advanced chronic heart failure.

      Secondary End-points of safety and efficacy The secondary objectives for efficacy included
      the evaluation of the effect of the drug compared to placebo on functional variables
      including NYHA class, patient centered outcomes including HR-QoL, the relative change in
      values of NT-proBNP from baseline to the end of treatment and unplanned hospitalizations (for
      HF, for cardiovascular reasons and all-cause). As additional pre-specified efficacy
      end-points the report of combined all-cause death or other terminal events (urgent LVAD or
      heart transplant) with hospitalization was planned. The safety objectives aimed to evaluate
      the effect of the study drug compared to placebo on all-cause mortality, changes in renal and
      liver function. The impact of the administration of the study drug on heart rate and the risk
      of development of life-threatening arrhythmias were investigated in all patients in our
      study.

      All adverse events, serious and non-serious were prospectively evaluated and recorded. Data
      safety was regularly reviewed by medical personnel of the CRO without any contact with
      investigators or patients on an ongoing basis according to the qualification of major events
      (death, readmission) and other adverse events. Since allocation of patients to the study drug
      or placebo was concealed, adjudication of adverse events and secondary efficacy
      end-points(including death and hospitalizations) was undertaken by each local principal
      investigator at each recruiting center.

      For efficacy, safety and tolerability evaluations, an intention to treat analysis was
      undertaken in all patients that received at least one study drug infusion. Adverse events are
      reported following the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MeDRA) definitions.
    
  