
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity of anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 monoclonal
           antibody in patients with follicular or mantle cell lymphoma, colon cancer, or prostate
           cancer refractory to vaccine therapy. (part I) (prostate cancer and mantle cell lymphoma
           closed to accrual as of 3/10/2005; colon cancer closed to accrual as of 9/28/05)

        -  Determine the toxicity of this drug at escalating doses in patients with follicular
           lymphoma. (part II)

        -  Determine the toxicity of this drug at escalating doses in patients with non-Hodgkin's
           lymphoma or Hodgkin's lymphoma. (part III)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the ability of this drug to increase tumor-specific T-cell responses in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the ability of this drug to produce clinical tumor response in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on suppressor T-cell populations (CD4+ and CD25+
           cells) in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, partial dose-escalation study.

        -  Part I (patients with prostate or colon cancer or follicular or mantle cell lymphomas)
           (prostate cancer and mantle cell lymphoma closed to accrual as of 3/10/2005; colon
           cancer closed to accrual as of 9/28/05): Patients receive anti-cytotoxic
           T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 monoclonal antibody (MDX-CTLA4) IV over 90 minutes on
           day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Part II (dose-escalation) (patients with follicular lymphomas only): Patients receive
           MDX-CTLA4 as in part I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of MDX-CTLA4 until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Part III (dose-escalation*) (patients with non-Hodgkin's or Hodgkin's lymphoma):
           Patients receive MDX-CTLA4 as in part II.

      NOTE: No dose-escalation for lymphoma patients who have previously been treated with an
      allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

      Patients are followed every other month.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 89 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  