
    
      Alzheimer disease (AD) continues to be the most serious health problem faced by aging persons
      with Down syndrome. AD is also a major public health concern in the aging general population.
      With increasing life expectancy there will be a dramatic increase in the prevalence of AD
      cases, which will pose a significant increased burden on the health care system and
      individual providers of care. Persons with Down syndrome are uniquely vulnerable to a form of
      Alzheimer disease indistinguishable from the sporadic variety that affects aging individuals
      from the general population. Oxidative damage is a highly plausible mechanism in the
      pathogenesis of this disease due to the overexpression of superoxide dismutase, associated
      with a gene located on chromosome 21, which is present in triplicate in the Down syndrome
      genotype. For the last six years, we have been conducting a clinical trial to determine the
      safety and efficacy of the anti-oxidant Vitamin E in slowing the cognitive and functional
      decline associated with the dementia of AD among individuals with DS. The study is a
      randomized, double-blind trial, stratified in a two-arm parallel design. The subjects are
      medically stable individuals who are 50 years of age or older at the time of screening. Among
      those randomized to the treatment arm, vitamin E is taken in the form of 1000 IU capsules for
      36 months. Each subject is evaluated every 6 months for 3 years. The primary outcome is is
      the Brief Praxis Test (BPT), which is well-suited to quantifying cognitive decline in this
      population. The target enrollment of 350 persons is estimated to be sufficient to provide
      adequate statistical power to detect a slowing by one-third in the rate of cognitive decline
      with vitamin E treatment. The Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for this trial includes
      4 physicians, and a statistician with expertise in clinical trials. Each DSMB member receives
      a report on each serious adverse event (SAE) on a flow basis, and statistically summaries of
      unblinded safety data--including deaths, adverse events and vital signs--prior to each
      meeting of the DSMB. The most recent DSMB meeting took place on February 23,2010. The
      timeline for study completion is: recruitment of the study sample (N=350) was completed on
      12/31/2008; the final 36-month evaluation will take place in 04/2010; statistical analysis
      and final report of results is expected to be completed by 12/31/2010.
    
  