
    
      HIV prevention is a global public health priority. Providing efficacious prevention methods
      that have the greatest likelihood of use will have a profound impact on the public's health.
      Critical to their use is "acceptability." However, current conceptualizations of adherence
      and acceptability fail to fully articulate and account for patterns of use and non-use.
      Formulation properties are critically important to both drug delivery and the user
      experience. Microbicide developers thus have the opportunity to directly control a
      formulation's impact on acceptability and adherence to product use, as well as biological
      product performance. Microbicide products can and should be developed such that they achieve
      performance standards for both these behavioral (user experience) and biological (efficacy)
      functions. By incorporating the user experience early on in the product development process,
      developers will have the greatest chance of providing at-risk individuals with the best
      prevention methods science can provide. Developing prevention products that can be used in
      the vagina and/or the rectum and that optimize the user experience in both compartments
      increases the likelihood that these products will be used consistently and correctly. The
      impact on global public health has the potential to be far-reaching, decreasing HIV and
      sexually transmitted infections (STI) incidence and prevalence in both women and men.

      Methodology and Data Collection: This is a formative mixed methods design in which volunteers
      (N~20-30; ~10-15 males; ~10-15 females) will first be prescreened for basic study eligibility
      using a brief questionnaire. Those who are interested in the study and are eligible based on
      their responses to the prescreen will then complete a STI/HIV screening and pregnancy test
      (for females).

      During the course of the study, participants will evaluate 3 products: 2 distinct suppository
      formulations and 1 gel formulation that represent a range of rheological and other
      biophysical properties of potential microbicides being designed for rectal/dual compartment
      use. Participants will evaluate the experience of suppository use (as compared to gel use) in
      the context of receptive anal intercourse (RAI) among males and females, and in the context
      of vaginal intercourse (VI) (females). Each participant will be randomly assigned to the
      order in which they will evaluate the 3 products. Participants will be required to complete a
      brief phone survey (<3 minutes) every day, beginning the day after they start their first
      product evaluation period and continuing until they complete their final study visit
      (approximately 10-20 weeks). The phone survey includes a short set of questions about sexual
      behavior and product use during the time since the last phone survey (about 24 hours). After
      a sexual encounter that includes RAI/VI and study product use, participants will be required
      to complete a web survey about their experience with the study product. After a participant
      has evaluated all three products, participants complete an individual in-depth interview with
      study staff about their experiences with the study products.
    
  