
    
      This was a four-group, randomized controlled trial with a cross-over design. Patients were
      enrolled into one of four groups with varying order of receiving two consumer-based
      meditation smartphone (i.e., unnamed consumer-based app [CB app], Calm app) apps in 4-week
      increments over eight weeks. Group #1 received the CB App followed by the Calm app; Group #2
      received the Calm app followed by the CB app; Group #3 received educational control followed
      by the CB app and Group #4 received educational control followed by the Calm app.

      MPN patients were recruited online through MPN organizational partners with a single page,
      broad overview of the study and its requirements. The study was advertised as a smartphone
      app meditation study. MPN patients interested in the study were asked to complete an online
      eligibility questionnaire administered via Qualtrics. Researchers then checked completed
      eligibility questionnaires as they were completed and emailed patients with their eligibility
      status.

      If ineligible, patients received an email stating their ineligibility status as well as links
      to both consumer-based apps used in the study in case the ineligible participant was
      interested in trying meditation. Eligible patients were invited to participate in a 20-minute
      phone appointment in which the study details and informed consent were described in detail.
      MPN patients who completed the intake appointment were then sent an informed consent
      electronically via Qualtrics that included a place for their electronic signature.

      Upon receipt of the completed informed consent, participants were randomly assigned to one of
      four groups. A group assignment list was generated prior to study commencement with
      randomizer.org. This pre-generated list was then used by research personnel to place
      eligible, consented MPN patients into their group assignment (i.e., Group #1, Group #2, Group
      #3, Group #4; described below) in the order in which they consented to participate.
      Randomized participants were provided with a "welcome email" that contained a) a welcome
      letter introducing them to the study, b) a calendar detailing important study dates, c)
      instructions specific to the first assigned condition (i.e., CB app, Calm app, or educational
      control) to be introduced for the first four weeks. After participants completed the first of
      their two, four-week conditions (i.e., CB App, Calm, or control), they were provided with
      another email that included instructions specific to their final condition (i.e., CB app,
      Calm app, or educational control).

      Unnamed Consumer-Based (CB) App The CB app was an already existing consumer-based smartphone
      app. The first and second week consisted of meditation that was basic introductory, and
      educational for those new to meditation. Weeks three and four consisted of a new and unique
      daily meditation that study participants could select from a library of meditations within
      the app. Each of the daily meditations had a different focus (e.g., grief, gratitude, choice,
      letting go, etc.) and were ~10-12 minutes in length.

      Description of Conditions

      Calm App The Calm app was an already-existing, consumer-based meditation app. The first week
      of the intervention included the "7 Days of Calm", which consists of seven days of
      introductory meditations that incorporated basic, educational information for those new to
      meditation while introducing brief experiential practices within that short period of time.
      Weeks two through four consisted of the "Daily Calm", which is a new and unique daily guided
      meditation that was provided by the app. Each of the daily meditations had a different focus
      (e.g., practicing patience, loving-kindness, gratitude, etc.) and were ~10-12 minutes in
      length.

      Educational Control The control condition was provided with educational material handout that
      was developed by the research team prior to the study. The handout addressed MPN patient
      fatigue (e.g., What causes fatigue?) as well as examples of and information related to
      evidence-based fatigue-management strategies.

      Description of Groups

      Group #1 (CB App + Calm) Group #1 was assigned the CB App (Weeks 1-4) and the Calm app (Weeks
      5-8). During weeks 1-4, participants were asked to complete four weeks of meditation on the
      CB App via their smartphone for a minimum of 10 min/day (i.e., ~70 min/week) but encouraged
      to do more if they could. During weeks 5-8, participants were asked to complete four weeks of
      meditation on the Calm app via their smartphone for a minimum of 10 min/day (i.e., ~70
      min/week) but encouraged to do more if they could.

      Group #2 (Calm APP + CB App) Group #2 was assigned the Calm app (Weeks 1-4) and the CB app
      (Weeks 5-8). During weeks 1-4, participants were asked to complete four weeks of meditation
      on the Calm app via their smartphone for a minimum of 10 min/day (i.e., ~70 min/week) but
      encouraged to do more if they could. During weeks 5-8, participants were asked to complete
      four weeks of meditation on the CB app via their smartphone for a minimum of 10 min/day
      (i.e., ~70 min/week) but encouraged to do more if they could.

      Group #3 (Control + CB App) Group #3 was assigned educational control (Weeks 1-4) and the CB
      app (Weeks 5-8). During weeks 1-4, participants were provided the educational material
      handout and asked to maintain their normal routine. During weeks 5-8, participants were asked
      to complete four weeks of meditation on the CB app via their smartphone for a minimum of 10
      min/day (i.e., ~70 min/week) but encouraged to do more if they could.

      Group #4 (Control + Calm) Group #4 was assigned educational control (Weeks 1-4) and the Calm
      app (Weeks 5-8). During weeks 1-4, participants were provided the educational material
      handout and asked to maintain their normal routine. During weeks 5-8, participants were asked
      to complete four weeks of meditation on the Calm app via their smartphone for a minimum of 10
      min/day (i.e., ~70 min/week) but encouraged to do more if they could.

      All study participants completed patient-reported outcomes measures via an online
      questionnaire at baseline (week 0), mid-point (week 5), and post-intervention (week 9).
    
  