
    
      The study includes a screening period a treatment period, a termination treatment visit ≤30
      days following the last dose of the study drug, and a follow-up period. Day 1 is defined as
      the first day in which patients receive atezolizumab. The study is expected to enroll 36
      patients.

      Enrolled patients will receive a fixed dose of atezolizumab 1200 mg administered
      intravenously the first day of each cycle. A treatment cycle will last 21 days (± 3 days).
      Treatment with atezolizumab will continue until investigator-assessed loss of clinical
      benefit, unacceptable toxicity, investigator or participant's decision to withdraw from
      therapy, or death (whichever occurs first).

      Treatment with atezolizumab may continue while patients experience clinical benefit based on
      the investigator's assessment (absence of unacceptable toxicity or symptomatic deterioration
      attributable to disease progression, at the discretion of the investigator after evaluating
      radiographic data, biopsy results [if available], and clinical status), or until unacceptable
      toxicity or death.

      During treatment, patients treated with atezolizumab, who demonstrate evidence of clinical
      benefit may continue treatment with atezolizumab after meeting disease progression criteria,
      based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. The following need
      to be met, as specified by the protocol.

      All patients must undergo tumor assessments at baseline and every 9 weeks (± 7 days)
      following cycle 1, day 1, regardless of treatment delays, until radiographic disease
      progression, as per RECIST v1.1 modified for mesothelioma, or loss of clinical benefit in
      patients treated with atezolizumab, who continue treatment beyond disease progression, as per
      RECIST v1.1, withdrawal of consent, death or study termination by principal investigator,
      whichever occurs first.

      The study will end if all enrolled patients die, withdraw their consent, become lost to
      follow-up, or have been monitored during 12 months from the enrollment of the last patient,
      whichever occurs first.
    
  