
    
      This is a retrospective study involving only data collection and no patient contact.

      Data will be collected from both Sheffield Children's Hospital Accident and Emergency
      Department and Jessop Hospital. The coding office will be contacted for a list of children
      below the age of 2 presenting to SCH with a fracture from January 2005 to December 2015, and
      a list of children born in Jessop Hospital over the same time period. By comparing both lists
      and selecting the matching cohort, we will have a list of those children (below the age of 2,
      preterm or term) born in Jessop Hospital who presented to SCH with a fracture over the last
      10 years. The clinical notes of these patients will be accessed electronically and through
      their clinical files.

      Data collection

      Jessop:

      A consultant employed by Jessop hospital or with the appropriate HR arrangement with the
      Trust will retrieve numbers of all pre-term babies born between Jan 2005 and Dec 2014 from
      the Jessop database and collect the data.

      SCH:

      A named researcher will retrieve NHS numbers of all children( both term and pre-term) less
      than 2 years of age presenting with a fracture between Jan 2005 and Dec 2014 from Sheffield
      Children's Hospital Coding Office and collect the data.

      The PI of the study will cross match both records and identify the common cohort and assign
      one patient study identification number for each NHS number which should be used across both
      sites.

      A named researcher will collect data from both Sheffield Children's Hospital Accident and
      Emergency Department and Jessop Hospital as outlined above.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS. Descriptive for age, sex, gestation,
      ethnicity, and diagnosis; Chi-square for categorical data, with the possibility of regression
      analysis on advice of a statistician.
    
  