
    
      Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is the current gold standard for the clinical
      diagnosis of osteoporosis based on measurement of bone mineral density (BMD) [Baim et al,
      2006]. As DXA technology continues to evolve, new instruments and technologies are introduced
      [Shepherd et al, 2005], making it necessary to document how these advances compare to prior
      densitometers.

      The purpose of this study is to assess bone mineral density (BMD) comparability and precision
      using a standard Hologic DXA unit and the quantitative ultrasound-driven speed-of-sound (SOS)
      BeamMed technology. The physical and mechanical properties of bone that are measured by SOS
      are different than bone density measured by DXA and reflect bone strength and elasticity
      [Goossens et al, 2008]. The cohorts will be patients with Gaucher disease [Zimran & Elstein,
      2010] who currently are requested to undergo BMD evaluation only bi-annually [Mistry et al,
      2011], partly because of the radiation of DXA scans (admittedly low relative to standard
      X-rays and CT). Patients with Gaucher disease are at added risk for osteonecrosis and
      pathological fractures but to date no biomarker or technology has been able to predict which
      patients are imminently at risk. Because the option of disease-specific but very costly
      enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) [Barton et al, 1991] is predicating on the estimated risk of
      severe disease, predicting skeletal damage (especially osteonecrosis at the femoral neck, FN)
      because of osteopenia or osteoporosis has clinically relevant ramifications [Mistry et al,
      2011]. Additionally, it has been shown that there is a correlation between low BMD at the
      lumbar spine (LS) and anemia in patients with Gaucher disease [Khan et al, 2012], so that
      with correction of anemia with ERT it is hoped that there will be amelioration of BMD values,
      and this too would be worth performing at closer intervals.

      The least inconvenient and shortest evaluation for BMD is at the forearm. For approximately a
      year, all patients at the Gaucher disease have had DXA forearm evaluations when undergoing
      routine testing. It is the intention of this study to prospectively compare forearm SOS
      results [Olszynski et al, 2013] with those from the standard DXA equipment with the
      possibility of using SOS as a quantitative measure of bone integrity on a more regular basis.

      The strategy will be to measure forearm BMD by DXA and SOS by BeamMed for comparison of
      accuracy and comparability and secondarily to assess the values achieved at the forearm
      relative to standard DXA evaluations at the FN and LS.

      Patients who arrive at the Gaucher Clinic for routine monitoring that includes DXA evaluation
      of BMD at FN, LS, and forearm will be requested to consent to undergo SunBeam evaluation at
      the forearm as well. The same DXA hardware and software (Hologic, Bedford, MA) will be used
      for all examinations as have been employed by the Gaucher Clinic since August 2011.

      The SOS technology as developed by the BeamMed Company (originally, the Sunlight Ultrasound
      Technologies, Israel) is based on the physical property that ultrasound waves travel faster
      through bone than soft tissue. The bone sonometer measures the time that elapses between the
      axially transmitted sound generated as an inaudible high-frequency pulsed acoustic signal at
      a center frequency of 1.25 MHz and the first reception of a signal after it has traveled
      through the selected bone. This is recorded as the SOS in m/sec. The ultrasonic waves are
      transmitted and received by transducers embedded in the ultrasound probe. As the ultrasound
      wave travels, the speed, dispersion, and attenuation of the signal is influenced by the
      density, elasticity, and cohesiveness of the medium, so that the greater the density and
      elasticity of the medium, the faster the speed of propagation [Ashman et al, 1984].

      The device consists of a desktop main unit and 3 probes of different sizes. The small probe
      (1.4cm x 2.7cm x 11cm), 900-1000 KHz will be used for this study. Calibration is performed
      each day using a standardized calibrating plastic provided by the company. The SOS is
      determined as the mean of 3 scans that are found to be statistically similar (coefficient of
      variation below 1.2%), as calculated by the software provided with the device. Based on these
      3 readings, the 95th percentile of the measured SOS is determined and used for statistical
      analysis.
    
  