
    
      Telemedicine and smartphone-based remote sensor assessments represent particularly promising
      opportunities to streamline study conduct, reduce participant burden, and allow for the
      collection of data beyond the usual episodic, in-clinic assessments. Demonstrating the
      utility of these relatively inexpensive accessible platforms for the measurement of PD
      progression would also establish the infrastructure for long-term follow up of participants
      after completion of interventional studies.

      STEADY-PD3 (a.k.a. STEADY-PD III) and SURE-PD3 were both designed as phase 3 trials of
      potential disease-modifying interventions in PD. In both studies, de novo PD participants
      were randomized in 1:1 allocation to active therapy versus placebo with longitudinal follow
      up for three and two years, respectively. Both studies include collection of DNA and plasma
      samples, which along with rigorously collected clinical data will become part of the
      Parkinson's Disease Biomarker Program (PDBP), providing valuable resources for biomarker
      development. Long-term observation of participants from these two trials, together comprising
      ~600 early PD subjects, is invaluable not only in characterizing any persistent or delayed
      benefits of either randomized treatment but also in the development of tele-health outcomes
      to facilitate future interventional trials in PD and of neurotherapeutics more broadly.

      Challenges of traditional long-term follow up of large cohorts are the high cost of in-clinic
      assessment, the high dropout rates and the need to maintain multi-site infrastructure. The
      objective of this study is to leverage modern technology to develop, pilot and implement a
      100% virtual model for long-term follow up utilizing telemedicine and smartphone platforms
      for quantitative monitoring of clinician- and patient-reported outcomes (PROs). This cohort
      may also serve to test feasibility of new technology platforms as they become available.
    
  