
    
      In Canada, 6.8 million adults are overweight and an additional 4.5 million are obese, which
      translates to about 58.3% of Canadian adults being overweight or obese. The overall cost of
      obesity in British Columbia (2006) is estimated to be $563 million dollars. An increase in
      food portion sizes and sedentary lifestyle of Canadians has contributed to the imbalance in
      caloric intake and usage. Obesity is the leading risk factor for many chronic diseases and
      has been linked directly to an increased incidence of heart disease and hypertension.

      Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) Phase I involves the rehabilitation of patients with cardiac
      disease in an outpatient setting at the Richmond Hospital. It is an 8-week interdisciplinary
      program involving exercise, group education, and individual counselling. Currently, patients
      are referred by a cardiologist to the CR program and have parameters like their blood
      pressure and waist circumference measured at the first and final visits. Over the past year,
      the average change in blood pressure from the first to last day (after 8 weeks) was a
      reduction of 12.2 systolic blood pressure and 3.1 diastolic blood pressure. The average waist
      circumference changed by 0.88 cm. Patients are offered an optional individual visit with the
      dietitian and are required to attend a weekly nutrition education class.

      Weight Loss with Portion Plates Portion sizes are essential in determining the amount of
      calories consumed at meal times. When larger portions are consumed, there is a greater amount
      of calories ingested. The Canadian Community Health Survey (2004) found that the average
      adult consumed about 2732 kilocalories daily, which is increased from the average of 2356
      kilocalories in 1991.

      One randomized controlled study looked at the impact of a portion control tool (portion
      plate) on the weight changes in diabetic patients and found a significantly greater weight
      loss in patients using the tool versus the control group. No other studies were found that
      measured the efficacy of these tools in cardiac patients.

      Hypertension and Weight Reduction Body mass index (BMI) is a common tool used to compare
      height and weight, that is calculated by weight (kg) divided by height squared (m²). A person
      with an acceptable body weight has a BMI of 18.5-24.9 kg/ m². Obesity is defined as a BMI of
      30 kg/ m². Increased body weight or a high BMI is a risk factor for hypertension. A reduction
      in BMI through non-pharmacological methods like caloric reduction and physical activity has
      significantly improved cardiac risk factors in some studies.

      Routine physical activity has been shown to reduce blood pressure. Studies on blood pressure
      and exercise have showed improvements of 10-20%. Systolic blood pressure was reduced by 1.6
      mm Hg systolic and 1.1 mm Hg diastolic for every 1 kg of weight lost in overweight patients.
      Studies demonstrated that a reduction of each 100 mmol/day of dietary sodium was associated
      with a decline of 5-7 mmHg/2.7 mmHg in hypertensive subjects. Based on the literature, the
      experimental group was hypothesized to have a reduction of 10% of both systolic and diastolic
      blood pressure (or a systolic decrease of 13 mm Hg or more, and diastolic reduction of 8 mm
      Hg or more) versus a <10% reduction in the control group.

      Waist Circumference and Weight Loss Waist circumference that is indicative of an increased
      risk of diseases, including coronary heart disease is 88 cm for women and 102 cm for men.
      Reducing waist circumference through weight loss can lower a person's risks of hypertension
      and coronary heart disease. Using waist circumference in combination with BMI is useful in
      determining a person's health risks, especially if the person has a normal BMI but a high
      waist circumference. Elevations in both BMI and waist circumference are independent risk
      factors in heart disease, increasing the heart disease risk factors by 2-4 fold.

      Purpose of the Study:

      The purpose of this study is to determine if the use of a portion control tool (portion
      plate) could improve the waist circumference, weight loss and blood pressure of the patients
      within a cardiac rehabilitation program. If the tool is shown to statistically improve these
      outcomes when compared with a control group receiving usual care, the tool may be added to
      the usual care of these patients in the long term.

      Objectives and Research Question This randomized controlled study will ask: How will portion
      control plates impact the weight, blood pressure and waist circumference of patients in a
      cardiac rehabilitation program?
    
  