
    
      The patients will be randomized in a double blinded fashion to get enrolled into 3 equal
      groups: Group HFPPV patients (n = 8) will receive high frequency positive pressure
      ventilation during cardiopulmonary bypass at tidal volume 2 ml/kg and respiratory rate 80,
      whereas Group CPPV patients (n = 8 ) will receive continuous positive airway pressure of 10
      cmH2O during the bypass, while Control group patients (n = 8 ) will be disconnected from the
      ventilation (passive deflation) .The study will be conducted in the pediatric cardio-thoracic
      operation rooms in AbulReesh Hospital in Cairo University.

      Advanced Monitoring where Naso-pharyngeal temperature probe will be placed, a Central venous
      catheter to monitor central venous pressure and an arterial cannula to monitor invasive blood
      pressure after that, standard cardiopulmonary bypass technique will be used in all patients.
      Before aortic cannulation, patients will receive IV heparin 400 U.kg-1 aiming to produce
      activated clotting time ACT value > 400 sec. A membrane oxygenator (minimax plus; Medtronics
      Inc.) will be used during cardiopulmonary bypass. Priming solution in the form of iso-tonic
      saline solution supplemented with heparin added to fresh whole blood in appropriate amounts
      to achieve a haematocrit 20-25% during CPB will be used. Furosemide in a dose of 1 mg/kg/min
      will be given to all patients. Venting of left heart will be performed with a left atrial
      vent inserted through a small incision at the inter-atrial septum. Anesthesia during CPB will
      be given by Sevoflurane administrated via a vaporizer inserted into the oxygenator gas supply
      with a constant gas flow 3 liter/min. A non-pulsatile roller pump (model10.10.00; Stocket
      instruments; Munich, Germany) will be used and the pump flow will be adjusted at 2.4 to 2.6
      L/min /m2 during the normothermic period targeting mean arterial blood pressure between 40
      and 60 mmHg. Moreover, all patients will receive milrinone loading dose of 50mcg/kg/min the
      maintanence 0.5-1 mcg/kg/min and or adrenaline 0.02-0.1 mcg/kg/min will be utilized to
      facilitate weaning from CPB.

      After sternotomy and direct exposure of the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary artery systolic
      pressure (PASP) will be monitored by a direct arterial catheter 22 gauge inserted by the
      surgeon into the pulmonary artery, was calculated and recorded immediately after sternotomy,
      after aortic clamp removal, and 10 minutes after initiation of protamine infusion).

      After application of aortic cross clamp and administration of cold blood cardioplegia
      solution (Saint Thomas cardioplegic solution) 40 ml/Kg to be followed by doses of 10ml/Kg
      every 30 minutes.), Group A patients will receive high frequency low volume positive pressure
      ventilation (HFPPV) during cardiopulmonary bypass at tidal volume Vt 2 ml/kg and respiratory
      rate RR 80, whereas Group B patients (n =8 ) will receive continous positive airway pressure
      CPAP of 10 cmH2O, and group C patients will be disconnected from the ventilator (passive
      deflation) .

      Finally, Lung Ultrasound Score will be obtained after induction of anesthesia and at the end
      of surgery after chest closure, The duration of mechanical ventilation, length of stay in the
      intensive care unit and immediate post bypass oxygenation as well as the requirement for
      inotropic and vaso-tropic support during the first 24 hours study period will be recorded for
      all patients

      Lung ultrasound protocol:

      Lung ultrasound will be performed after induction of anesthesia and at the end of the
      operation with a 5-MHz curved array probe (MindrayDC-N6; Mindray; Shenzhen, China). Patients
      will be investigated in supine position by a well-trained physician recording five seconds
      videos that will be assessed by two different observers who will be blinded from the patient
      data. Lung ultrasound will be assessed for the presence of B lines.
    
  