
    
      Justification Respiratory muscle weakness reduces the efficacy of the cough reflex in
      patients with neuromuscular disorders and exposes them to the risk of acute respiratory
      failure. Mechanical insufflation-exsufflation devices assist cough and have been shown to be
      efficient in increasing the cough expiratory flow in children and adults with neuromuscular
      disease and decreasing the risk of intubation in a limited population of hospitalized adults
      with acute respiratory failure.

      Primary objective The goal is to record the efficacy of mechanical insufflation-exsufflation
      (MI-E) during acute respiratory failure in patients with neuromuscular disorders.The primary
      objective is the reduction of the number of patients requiring invasive ventilatory support
      (endotracheal intubation or tracheotomy) in the group treated with MI-E (MI-E group) compared
      to the group treated with traditional chest physiotherapy without MI-E (Control group).

      Secondary objectives

      In the MI-E group, compared to the Control group:

        1. Decrease in the length of hospitalization in the intensive care unit (ICU)

        2. Decrease in the total length of hospitalization

        3. Decrease in the incidence of bronchoscopy-assisted aspiration

        4. Decrease in the duration of oxygen therapy

        5. Decrease in the daily length of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV)

        6. Improvement in blood gases on room air during hospitalization

        7. Improvement of the peak cough flow (PCF)

        8. Improvement of the vital capacity (VC), maximal inspiratory (PImax) and expiratory
           (PEmax) pressures, sniff nasal inspiratory pressure (SNIP), peak expiratory flow (PEF)
           and dyspnea during hospitalization.

        9. Decrease in the number of secondary tracheotomies (for weaning of ventilatory support)

      Type of study Prospective, randomized, controlled, multicenter study

      Number of subjects The calculation of the number of subjects is based on two retrospective
      studies. In the study by VIANELLO, which included 11 adults hospitalized in the ICU for
      respiratory failure, the number of therapeutic failures, defined as the need for a "mini"
      tracheotomy or intubation, was significantly less in the group using MI-E than in a group of
      16 historical control patients [2 failures in the MI-E group (18%) versus 10 failures in the
      control group (63%), p<0.05] (1). Another study reported 19 successes (80%) versus 5 failures
      on MI-E (2).
    
  