
    
      Fifty percent of all adolescents will use some form of illicit drugs before the end of high
      school, 20-25% will meet criteria for depression, and many others will engage in health
      compromising behaviors like delinquency and violence-with consequences for their long-term
      health. Evidence-based parenting interventions shown to prevent these behavioral health
      concerns could improve adolescent health trajectories if implemented widely in pediatric
      primary care. The American Academy of Pediatrics' Bright Futures recommends that
      pediatricians offer developmentally tailored anticipatory guidance to all parents to support
      their children's healthy development, but programs providing guidance are not offered
      universally.

      This study tests the feasibility and effectiveness of implementing Guiding Good Choices, a
      universal, evidence-based anticipatory guidance curriculum for parents of early adolescents,
      in three large, integrated healthcare systems serving socioeconomically diverse families.
      This intervention reduced adolescent alcohol, tobacco and marijuana use, depression, and
      delinquent behavior in two previous randomized controlled trials. It also strengthened
      parenting practices and parent-adolescent relationship quality, both broadly protective
      against behavioral health concerns. Guiding Good Choices has the capacity to achieve
      population-level impact on adolescent health if made widely available through pediatric
      primary care. Parents trust pediatricians' advice regarding their children's well-being, and
      current research with socioeconomically diverse groups suggests that they are eager to
      participate in family-focused programs offered in primary care clinics.

      Building on this body of research, the investigative team, in close cooperation with the NIH
      Healthcare Systems Research Collaboratory and healthcare systems partners, will conduct a
      cluster-randomized trial of Guiding Good Choices in 72 pediatric primary care practices,
      across three heterogeneous health care systems (HCS). Half of the pediatricians will be
      randomly assigned to the intervention arm, and half will serve as usual care controls. Using
      a workflow that is easy to adopt, implement and maintain, at each adolescent's 12-year-old
      well visit, primary care pediatricians will recommend that parents enroll in the
      intervention. Over 3,600 families are expected to be recruited into the trial prior to
      beginning intervention with them. Half will be recruited in year 2 and half in year 3.

      The team will use the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance, or
      RE-AIM, framework to test implementation outcomes and effectiveness, including hypothesized
      reductions in the study's primary outcome of substance use initiation, several secondary
      behavioral health problems (e.g., substance use frequency, mood symptoms and diagnoses,
      delinquency) and some exploratory outcomes (e.g., emergency department and inpatient service
      utilization) among adolescents in the intervention arm compared to those in the control arm.
      Data from an Adolescent Behavioral Health Survey and electronic healthcare records will be
      used to monitor outcomes up to 3 years post intervention. The feasibility and sustainability
      of implementing the intervention in each HCS, including health economic evaluation to
      understand costs in relation to value gained, will also be assessed.
    
  