
    
      Rationale: the laparoscopic approach reduced trauma as compared to open surgery, however, the
      pressure used to create a PNP with sufficient surgical workspace still leads to significant
      tissue injury. Prior studies show that the use of low-pressure pneumoperitoneum (PNP) during
      laparoscopic surgery reduced postoperative pain scores, cumulative opioid consumption and
      improved bowel function recovery. Deep neuromuscular blockade (NMB) as compared to moderate
      NMB decreases the amount of intra-abdominal pressure required to achieve similar surgical
      conditions and enables the use of low-pressure PNP without compromising the quality of the
      surgical field and patient safety. Therefore, the use of deep NMB with low-pressure PNP could
      be a significant addition to the conventional Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS)
      protocols.

      Objective: to establish the relationship between the use of low pressure pneumoperitoneum
      with deep neuromuscular blockade and the early quality of recovery after laparoscopic
      colorectal surgery.

      Study design: a multi-center, blinded, randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Study population: adult individuals scheduled for laparoscopic colorectal surgery with a
      primary colonic anastomosis.

      Intervention: participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 fashion to either the
      experimental group (group A): low pressure PNP (8 mmHg) with deep NMB (PTC 1-2) or the
      control group (group B): normal pressure PNP (12 mmHg) with moderate NMB (TOF count 1-2).

      Primary endpoint: Quality of recovery score (QoR-40) 24 hours after surgery.

      Secondary endpoints: QoR-40 score (day 3 and 7 after surgery), McGill pain- and RAND-36 score
      (1 day before and 3 months after surgery), pain scores, PONV, analgesia use, length of
      hospital stay, postoperative complications, surgical conditions and time to reach discharge
      criteria.
    
  