
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of trastuzumab (Herceptin^®), docetaxel, and
           carboplatin, as measured by tumor response rate, in women with previously untreated
           HER2/neu-positive stage IIB, IIIA, IIIB, or IIIC or inflammatory breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pathological complete response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine pathologic and molecular markers for predicting efficacy of this regimen in
           these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, multicenter study.

        -  Course 1 (days 1-28): Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin^®) IV over 30-90 minutes
           on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and docetaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30-60
           minutes on day 8.

        -  Course 2-6: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 during
           courses 2-5 and on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 during course 6. Patients also receive
           docetaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for 5 additional courses (6 courses total) in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Three weeks after completion of course 6, patients undergo restaging. Patients with local
      operable disease undergo modified radical mastectomy or lumpectomy and axillary node
      dissection followed by radiotherapy. Patients also receive trastuzumab IV once every 3 weeks
      for up to 52 weeks of total treatment (including the 6 courses of trastuzumab, docetaxel, and
      carboplatin) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do
      not have local operable disease continue to receive trastuzumab as above.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 13-43 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  