
    
      PURPOSE: This observational study of healthy volunteers will test the use of a safe,
      non-ionising and non-invasive imaging system for the purpose of improving radiotherapy
      treatment of the liver. This study investigates an image guidance method which may be used to
      guide liver radiotherapy and enable more accurate treatment on a conventional radiotherapy
      machine.

      RECRUITMENT: Volunteers will need to provide their National Health Service (UK) numbers and
      be registered on the hospital information system. Volunteers need to be aware that if they
      are patients at the Royal Marsden Hospital this may raise confidentiality issues. Volunteers
      will be made aware of this in the recruiting email and the Volunteer Information sheet.

      USE OF HEALTHY VOLUNTEERS: This is an observational study, which tests the use of an
      ultrasound guidance system. The accuracy of the system will be evaluated by comparison of
      proprietary methods of liver position estimation against a manually derived ground truth
      derived from the images of the liver acquired in participants. It is not expected that there
      are any differences in the ultrasound guidance images of healthy volunteers and patients with
      liver cancer. Ultrasound is a non-invasive and non-ionizing imaging modality with no known
      side-effects or complications and therefore, safe to use in a volunteer study. Furthermore,
      this study requires that participants lie on a hard couch for up to 45 minutes and up to 4
      times. This would be challenging for the vast majority of patients with liver cancer who are
      most likely to be frail due to their disease.

      REVIEW OF HEALTHY VOLUNTEERS: The ultrasound guidance system provides 3D ultrasound images of
      the liver for providing positional information only. It is very unlikely that abnormalities
      will be detectable on 3D US guidance images. These images are not of diagnostic quality,
      being lower resolution than routine diagnostic 2D ultrasound images. Furthermore, diagnostic
      ultrasound of the liver often incorporates ultrasound contrast agent, which will not be used
      in this study. If a radiographer does observe any abnormality, this will be reported to a
      Consultant Radiologist and the images will be made available for review.

      RISKS, BURDENS and BENEFITS: There is very little risk associated with ultrasound and the
      Automatic Breathing Control (ABC) device, both pieces of the equipment are CE-marked and we
      are not using outside of their respective intended purposes. The burden to the volunteer is
      (1) the time spent, (2) the uncomfortable nature of the couch (it has a hard flat surface)
      and (3) discomfort using the ABC device. The participant will made aware of (1), (2) and (3)
      by providing details in the volunteer information sheet. Participants who are uncomfortable
      using the ABC can opt out and still participate in the study. Participants will be able to
      get up from the couch and walk around to relive any discomfort at any point during the
      imaging sessions.

      There are no benefits for the participants. It is expected that this study will be of benefit
      to future patients with liver cancer. To ensure there is no perceived benefit of the
      acquisition of ultrasound images it is stated clearly in the volunteer information sheet that
      images are not of diagnostic quality and that persons obtaining the images are trained in
      therapy guidance and not diagnostics, and that images will only be reviewed by a radiologist
      in the unlikely event that an abnormality is observed.

      CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: There are no conflicts of interest. No study investigator will benefit
      financially from the outcome of this study. The manufacturer of the Clarity ultrasound system
      will be informed of the results and all results will be published in a peer-reviewed
      scientific journal.

      ACCESS to DATA: The investigators wish to make anonymised image data available to other
      researchers on request for the purpose of medical research. This is intended to maximise the
      value of the data and may provide greater benefit to patients. Volunteers will be asked to
      consent to their anonymised data being made available to other researchers.

      AIMS: This study aims to develop and evaluate the use of 3 ultrasound (3DUS) to estimate the
      liver position for radiotherapy guidance. This is an exploratory study, where Clarity US of
      the abdomen will be acquired in healthy volunteers. 3D US-sim, 3D US-guide, 3D US-monitor and
      4D US-monitor will be used to meet the following study objectives:

        1. The accuracy of B-mode 3D US-guide, to estimate the position of the liver in breath-hold
           for verification of (1) daily set-up position (set-up US-guide) and (2) repeat breath
           hold relevant to radiotherapy delivery (BH 3D US-monitor), will be determined. Accuracy
           will be assessed by comparison of US-guide and US-monitor determined liver position with
           a manually determined 'gold standard' liver position.

        2. Comparison of the accuracy of power Doppler and B-mode US-guide/US-monitor for the
           estimation of liver position during breath hold.

        3. Assessment of the accuracy of 4D US-monitor to estimate liver motion during free
           breathing (FB).

        4. Comparison of liver position stability using spirometry and voluntary breath-hold (vBH)
           using US-monitoring.

        5. Assessment of the availability of a second or third ultrasound field of view for
           increasing the accuracy of US-guide based estimates of liver motion.
    
  