
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications (PPC) are common after lung resection surgery, with an
      incidence that ranges between 11-32%. As PPC are associated with worse outcomes, many studies
      aim to find predictors that identify high risk patients and prompt specific interventions
      and/or monitoring and hence, improve outcomes. PPC result from lung injury inherent to lung
      resection surgery. Lung aeration changes seen with lung ultrasound (LUS) could detect lung
      injury and thus, identify patients at high risk of PPC. The underlying mechanisms of lung
      injury are different in the dependent and non-dependent lung; oxidative stress in both lungs,
      lung injury associated with one-lung ventilation in the dependent lung and
      ischemia/reperfusion or surgical manipulation in the non-dependent lung. LUS evaluates the
      dependent and non-dependent lung separately and so it can be valuable in understanding the
      characteristics and intensity of lung injury in each lung specifically.

      This is a prospective, single-centre, observational study in which 30 consecutive
      participants with non-small cell lung cancer scheduled for lobectomy will be recruited.
      Participants will be divided in two groups depending on the surgical approach. First group
      will be lobectomy via thoracotomy. Second group will be lobectomy via VATS. Participants will
      be recruited consecutively until there are 15 patients in each group. LUS will be performed
      in each participant's operated and non-operated lung at three predefined time points: before
      surgery, after extubation and 24 h after surgery. Each hemithorax will be divided into 6
      areas: anterior, lateral and posterior, separated by the anterior and posterior axillary
      lines, each divided into upper and lower zones. For each echographic examination, cineloops
      of the most pathological findings in each area will be stored and analysed offline by two
      independent and blinded anaesthesiologists. From these, a semiquantitative score, the
      modified lung ultrasound score (mLUSS), will be calculated for each hemithorax to assess lung
      aeration at each time point. The level of agreement for mLUSS will be tested. At the same
      predefined time points blood plasma samples will be collected, flash-frozen and stored in
      order to measure levels of the inflammatory mediators IL-6, IL-10 and TNFα.

      The investigators hypothesise that LUS can detect lung injury after lung resection surgery.
      The primary objective of the study is to assess changes in lung aeration after lung resection
      with mLUSS. Secondary objectives are, first, to describe LUS findings after lung resection
      surgery, second, to assess the ability of mLUSS to detect oxygenation changes after lung
      resection and third, to compare the behaviour of inflammatory mediators in plasma with mLUSS
      changes.
    
  