
    
      This study used a randomized, partially-blinded, 24-week, parallel-group, non-inferiority,
      open-label active controlled design. The study was partially open-label. Investigators and
      patients had knowledge of treatment allocation between QVM149 and/or comparator, however the
      QVM149 strength allocation was masked. The global sponsor team responsible for data review
      and analysis was blinded to all treatment allocations The study consisted of a screening
      period of up to 1-week, run-in period of 2-weeks, randomized treatment period of 24-weeks,
      and a follow-up period of 1-week.

      At the screening visit, informed consent was obtained, and current and prohibited medications
      were reviewed. Rescue medication was provided to all patients who met the eligibility
      criteria and was to be used on an "as needed" basis throughout the study.

      At the run-in visit, inclusion and exclusion criteria were reviewed and the patients were
      supplied with open-label long acting β2-adrenergic agonist/inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS)
      salmeterol/fluticasone 50/250 μg b.i.d or 50/500 μg b.i.d to match their ICS background
      medication dose to be stopped at randomization visit.

      All patients who met the eligibility criteria were randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms with a
      randomization ratio of 1:1:1. The patients were stratified at randomization according to the
      ICS dose component of background ICS/LABA (medium or high dose) and region.

      Treatment period visits were scheduled every 8 weeks. The study used two doses of QVM149
      (high dose [150/50/160 μg] and a medium dose [150/50/80 μg] o.d. delivered via Concept1
      inhaler) and a comparator treatment (salmeterol/fluticasone 50/500 μg b.i.d. delivered via
      Accuhaler® plus tiotropium 5 μg o.d delivered via Respimat®).

      All randomized patients were contacted (by telephone) 7 days following the last dose of study
      medication or last visit, whichever was later, for Safety Follow-up visit.
    
  