
    
      Maternal anaemia, preterm deliveries and low birth weight are common in Sub-Saharan Africa
      and contribute significantly to the ill-health of pregnant women and infants. The present
      study is based on the assumption that these adverse outcomes can be prevented by improved
      antimicrobial management of malaria and sexually transmitted infections (STI) among pregnant
      women. To test the hypothesis, a randomised clinical trial following Good Clinical Practice
      (GCP) is being carried out in Malawi, South-Eastern Africa.

      A total of 1320 consenting women who present at a rural antenatal clinic after 14 but before
      26 completed gestation weeks will be enrolled. One third of the women will receive antenatal
      care according to national recommendations, including regular visits to health centre,
      screening for pregnancy complications, haematinic and vitamin A supplementation and two doses
      of presumptive malaria treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine. Another third will receive
      otherwise the same care, but sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment is given at monthly
      intervals. The final third receives standard antenatal care, sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine
      treatment at monthly intervals and two doses of presumptive STI treatment with azithromycin.
      Women are monitored throughout pregnancy and delivery and newborn growth will be followed up
      for five years.

      The primary outcome measure is proportion of preterm births in the three study groups.
      Secondary maternal outcomes include anaemia and malaria parasitaemia during pregnancy, at
      delivery and at 1, 3, and 6 months after delivery, gestational weight gain and morbidity and
      STI prevalence after delivery. Secondary child outcomes consist of proportion of babies with
      low birth weight, mean birth weight, growth in infancy and childhood, incidence of
      malnutrition in infancy and childhood, and mortality. Additionally, information is collected
      on the development of malaria-specific humoral immunity in pregnancy and participant
      experiences from the study. Participant safety is systematically monitored throughout the
      intervention.

      There have been two edits two the trial protocol, since the original approval. In the first
      one, there was an amendment to follow child growth and mortality until and child development
      at 5 years of age, with visits at 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 30, 36, 48, and 60 months.
      In the second amendment, there was an addition to monitor child antropometrics, physical,
      mental, and social health at and mortality by 10-12 years of age.
    
  