
    
      First of all, the females who are interested in this study will have an appointment with the
      researcher to decide their eligibility according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. If
      eligible, participants will then sign a consent form.

      Then, all participants who meet the inclusion criteria will be asked to keep a headache diary
      in which they will record the date of any migraine attacks, starting and ending time point of
      each migraine attack, drug usage (doses and type), average migraine pain on a 10-point VAS,
      and days of menstruation, during a three-month period (three menstrual cycles). The diaries
      will be collected by the researcher at the end of the third month and the traditional Chinese
      medicine (TCM) patterns of MM of the participants will be diagnosed then according to
      answering a few symptom related questions. In addition, times/dates for treatments will be
      scheduled.

      Upon arrival at the exercise lab, Room 4115 inside Thames Hall in Western University on the
      first treatment day (the eighth day before the estimated first day of menstruation),
      participants will be asked to sit and relax for 1-2 min. Then they will be asked to lie down
      in a prone position receive corresponding interventions by the acupuncturist.

      In the verum acupuncture group, participants will receive real needle insertion. Sterile
      needles (0.18 mm in diameter and 30 mm in length, DONGBANG Needle, Korea) will be used on all
      acupoints. The depth of insertion will vary from 15 mm to 20 mm depending on the exact
      locations. An initial manual stimulation will be given at insertion by rotation methods to
      produce a specific sensation described as "de-qi" in TCM (a sensation perceived by the
      acupuncture receivers as numbness, fullness, and sometimes soreness around the point. Then
      the needles will be left in the acupoint for 20 min, with a manual rotation at 4-8 Hz and an
      amplitude of approximately 0.5-2 rotations at a ten-min interval to maintain the sensation of
      "de-qi".

      Primary acupoints used in the verum acupuncture group will be: LR3 (Taichong), LI4 (Hegu),
      SP6 (Sanyinjiao), GB20 (Fengchi). They are selected according to several previous relevant
      clinical studies. Extra acupoints will be selected based on TCM pattern. If it is due to qi
      stagnation, GB41 (Zulinqi) will be added. If it is due to blood stasis, SP10 (Xuehai) will be
      added. If it is due to Liver and Kidney yin deficiency, KI3 (Taixi) will be added. If it is
      due to Liver fire, LR2 (Xingjian) will be added. The exact localizations of these acupoints
      are described in a textbook. All these points will be applied bilaterally unless there are
      explicit reasons for not doing so being described in details.

      In the acupressure group the acupoints and the number of the sessions will be exactly the
      same as for the verum acupuncture group. Acupressure will be applied on all the corresponding
      acupoints described in the acupuncture group. Finger pressure will be applied to each
      acupoint for eight seconds followed by two-seconds rest, repeated for 3 min. The strength of
      the pressure depends on individual participant's sensation of "de-qi". Duration of each
      session will be 15 min.

      In the control acupuncture group, the number, duration, and frequency of the sessions will be
      the same as for the verum acupuncture group. Sterile needles (0.18 mm in diameter and 15 mm
      in length, DONGBANG Needle, Korea) will be used on acupoints that have no therapeutic effect
      on either menstruation or migraines, based on the acupuncture text books and acupuncture
      research literature. The points chosen will be: LR7 (Xiguan), GB35 (Yangjiao), LI12
      (Zhouliao), M-BW-1 (Dingchuan). The depth of needle insertion will be as superficial as 3 mm,
      and without manual rotation, in order to minimize stimulation of the needle.

      All interventions will be performed by the same acupuncturist licensed by the College of
      Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners and Acupuncturists of Ontario (CTCMPAO). Before
      the acupuncture treatment, appropriate infection control measures will be employed, and
      different size of single use, sterile, disposable needles in appropriate packages will be
      available. Participants will be suggested to wear shorts and T-shirts to the lab for their
      treatments. They will assume a prone position. The skin over points will be swabbed with 70%
      ethyl alcohol, using an outward rotary motion from the center of the point to the surrounding
      area to lessen the risk of contamination. No treatment will be taken until the alcohol dries.
      The acupuncturist will wash his hands immediately before the removal of needles. On
      withdrawing a needle, a sterile cotton ball will be used to press the skin at the insertion
      site. If blood is drawn, light pressure will be applied with a clean swab.

      The second and third treatment will be on the fifth and third day before the estimated first
      day of menstruation in each month. The whole process will be repeated at total of nine times
      over the three months of treatment.

      Sample size is calculated from one relatively well designed study. According to this study,
      the migraine attack frequency each month after treatment in the verum acupuncture group was
      4.8 ± 3.8 times, and in the sham acupuncture group 7.8 ± 3.7 times. Based on a power of 0.8
      to detect a significant difference (α = .05, two-sided), 32 participants will be required for
      each group, which is calculated by R software Version 0.96.122 (RStudio, Boston, MA).
      Allowing for a 20% withdrawal rate, a total of 120 participants will be enrolled with 40
      participants in each group.

      The analysis will be started once 10 participants have been collected in each group. The
      statistical significance level will be set at p = .05, and all statistical tests will be
      two-sided. Factorial analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to make comparisons among the
      three groups. Tukey's post hoc test will be used then to analyze the outcomes of each pair of
      two groups at each time point. Comparisons within groups for the outcomes at each time point
      will be done using the one-way ANOVA. All the analyses will be performed using R software
      Version 0.96.122.
    
  