
    
      This project will develop and test an online health promotion program that augments diet and
      physical activity behavior change methods using acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT). ACT
      is an evidence-based cognitive behavioral therapy found to be effective in over 200
      randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in improving a wide range of psychological and behavioral
      health problems. Recently, several clinical trials have found ACT enhances diet and exercise
      behavior as well as long term weight management. These studies have focused on testing ACT
      provided by experts in face-to-face interventions, which limits broad dissemination.
      Delivering an ACT health promotion program online could potentially provide a low-cost
      resource to improve health across Utah. The specific aims are to:

        1. Develop a canvas-based online course (ACT on Health) that teaches how to improve diet
           and physical activity as well as ACT-based skills to enhance behavior change efforts.

        2. Evaluate ACT on Health relative to a waitlist in a RCT with 60 overweight/obese adults
           on outcomes including self-reported physical activity, diet, and quality of life.

      If successful, this project will both provide an ongoing canvas extension course delivered
      throughout Utah to improve health behaviors.

      Background and Significance Obesity and its contributing behaviors (i.e., physical
      inactivity, poor diet) are significant public health issues. Obesity is associated with a
      range of serious medical conditions, decreased life expectancy, and impaired quality of life.
      Physical inactivity contributes to premature mortality and cardiovascular disease above and
      beyond its impact on obesity. In contrast, healthy diet and exercise decreases risk for a
      wide range of medical conditions and premature mortality. Epidemiological research indicates
      69% of US adults are obese or overweight. Furthermore, only 23% of adults meet recommended
      guidelines for physical activity, and only 24% of adults eat five or more serving of fruits
      and vegetables per day. The prevalence of obesity and poor health behaviors, despite their
      negative consequences, highlight how difficult it is to make sustained changes to health
      behaviors.

      Motivation is a key factor for improving and maintaining healthy diet and physical activity.
      There is a substantial literature on the importance of intrinsic motivation for health
      behavior change, in which individuals are personally motivated for positive reasons inherent
      to them or the activity (e.g., enjoyment, values). For example, intrinsic motivation predicts
      healthier exercise and diet and improvements in intrinsic motivation mediate obesity
      intervention effects.

      In addition to a lack of intrinsic motivation, individuals who are overweight often struggle
      with an excess of controlled motivators for behavior change based on a sense of "having to"
      act to avoid negative consequences or feelings. In contrast to intrinsic motivation, greater
      controlled motivation predicts poorer diet, physical inactivity, and quality of life. These
      challenges are exacerbated by the prevalent stigma obese people encounter in daily life.
      Internalizing stigmatizing attitudes (i.e., weight self-stigma) can drive controlled
      motivators for weight loss out of fear of being stigmatized by others (e.g. "so people don't
      make fun of me") or devaluing oneself (e.g., "because I'm so ashamed of myself"), which
      overshadow effective, intrinsic motivators. As a result, weight self-stigma can lead to
      exercise avoidance, unhealthy eating, lower adherence to weight loss programs, and worse
      health outcomes.

      Currently there is a lack of interventions targeting both maladaptive, controlled motivators
      (particularly those resulting from internalizing stigmatizing messages about weight), in
      addition to adaptive, intrinsic motivators for behavior change. Innovative interventions are
      needed that can improve obesity and associated health behaviors by increasing intrinsic
      motivation, while decreasing problematic motivators (e.g., shame, self-judgment, external
      pressure) that impede meaningful, sustained behavior change.

      Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) is one promising approach for addressing such
      motivational factors in health behavior change. ACT uses acceptance and mindfulness based
      strategies to target maladaptive motivators, and values and commitment strategies to increase
      intrinsic motivation for change. Through these strategies, ACT teaches people how to change
      behavior to move towards what matters, in a compassionate, meaningful way. ACT was originally
      developed for problems such as depression and anxiety, which is why it has developed such
      robust methods for addressing psychological barriers. Fortunately, it has been expanded to
      treat behavioral health issues as well. To-date 14 RCTs have evaluated ACT for weight
      management or physical activity, finding ACT improves physical activity, healthy eating, and
      weight loss relative to waitlist, treatment as usual, and in some cases, standard behavioral
      weight loss programs. ACT has also been found to improve stigma and health behaviors among
      those struggling with weight self-stigma.

      ACT weight management research has primarily focused on expert delivered, intensive face-
      to-face programs, as long as 37 hours of groups over 40 weeks. Such programs stem from
      challenges with obtaining sustained, meaningful weight loss. However, these programs are
      burdensome to participate in, resource intensive to deliver, and require a local expert
      provider. This translates into less reach to those in need; particularly individuals with
      less availability, resources, or opportunities to participate in intensive face-to-face ACT.

      Online self-guided programs can address many of these barriers. A self-paced online ACT
      program allows participation irrespective of location or schedule, and at a low cost that can
      translate into sustainable, large-scale community interventions. The investigator's research
      has found ACT can be effectively delivered online to treat mental health concerns in six
      published clinical trials. Of more direct relevance, the investigators completed two small
      pilot trials in which self-guided ACT interventions improved diet and physical activity
      through targeting weight self-stigma and intrinsic motivation. These results suggest a
      comprehensive online ACT program that targets both maladaptive motivators related to weight
      self-stigma and increases adaptive motivators for health behavior change could provide an
      effective, far reaching program to improve public health.

      This project seeks to develop and test an online, self-guided ACT program (ACT on Health) to
      improve diet and physical activity. ACT on Health will include 8 weekly modules teaching
      effective health behavior change methods coupled with ACT strategies to reduce maladaptive
      motivators and enhance adaptive motivators for change. The investigators will evaluate the
      program in a RCT relative to a waitlist condition with 60 overweight/obese adults recruited
      through Extension in 7 Utah counties. The program will be offered through the USU Extension
      Canvas platform to ensure, if effective, that the program could continue to be offered across
      Utah.

      Approach Project timeline and objectives. The objectives of this project are to 1) develop a
      canvas- based online course (ACT on Health), and 2) evaluate ACT on Health in a RCT.

      ACT on Health Program. The program will include 8 weekly modules completed in an asynchronous
      format (i.e., register and start any time). Each module will include a combination of text,
      video lectures, audio-guided exercises, and interactive worksheets. The weekly modules will
      build upon each other, covering key methods for enhancing diet and physical activity as well
      as ACT strategies to address motivation and related barriers (e.g., weight self-stigma,
      cognitive and affective barriers). Participants will set a weekly goal related to the new
      skills they learned. To support program adherence, phone coaching calls will be provided
      weekly by a graduate student in the clinical/counseling psychology Ph.D. program. Calls will
      be 5-10 minutes long and based on the investigator's protocol from a self-help book study for
      weight self-stigma. ACT on Health will be developed on Canvas. Dr. Levin has over 10 years of
      experience creating online ACT courses using similar platforms, which provide an efficient,
      effective way to develop an engaging program. Content related to diet and physical activity
      will be developed by Dr. Durward and extension faculty, who have extensive expertise in this
      area, while content related to ACT will be developed by Dr. Levin. Content will be developed
      iteratively, obtaining feedback on drafts from the research team, and translating it to a
      final online course.

      Evaluation Plan Participants and Recruitment. The investigators will evaluate ACT on Health
      relative to a waitlist in a RCT with 60 overweight/obese adults. Eligibility criteria include
      being 18 or older, a self-reported body mass index of 25 or higher, and interested in
      participating in an online program to improve eating and physical activity. No other
      exclusion criteria will be used in order to ensure a representative sample and to maximize
      participant flow. The investigators will recommend participants consult their physician if
      they have a condition that might be affected by changes to diet or exercise.

      Extension faculty will recruit potential participants across 7 Utah counties. Recruitment
      flyers will be posted in local community areas and events (e.g., grocery stores, coffee
      shops, libraries, farmers' markets), sent out through email lists, and posted online on
      community websites. Local providers (e.g., doctor's offices, dietitians) will also be asked
      to distribute flyers.

      Procedures. Participants will complete all study procedures online and through phone calls.
      Participants will first complete an online screening, consent, and then baseline assessment
      delivered through Qualtrics. After completing the baseline assessment, participants will be
      automatically randomized to either the ACT on Health or waitlist condition.

      Those assigned to ACT on Health will use the program over the next 8 weeks, completing weekly
      modules and coaching calls. Those assigned to the waitlist will simply wait 8 weeks. A second
      online assessment will be completed 8 weeks after baseline in both conditions (for a between
      condition comparison). After the second assessment, waitlist participants will gain access to
      ACT on Health. A third online assessment will be completed 8 weeks later (16 weeks after
      baseline), providing a within condition follow up assessment for the intervention condition
      and a within condition pre-post replication for the waitlist condition (whether waitlisted
      participants who began using ACT on Health at week 8 demonstrated improvements at week 16).
    
  