
    
      The overall goal of this proposal is to effect change in women's nutritional behaviors that
      will improve not only their own health and that of their unborn child. Because solutions and
      needs for prevention of chronic diseases are unique and especially challenging for rural
      areas, we have chosen to stage our studies in the northern coast of Oregon, centered on the
      town of Astoria.

      Our objective is to assess the effect on markers of maternal health and fetal growth of
      providing education that includes the rationale and practical aspects of healthy cooking
      during pregnancy to improve her baby's lifetime risk for cardiovascular disease and other
      chronic diseases. We will accomplish this objective through the completion of a nutritional
      education program for pregnant women that incorporates the biopsychosocial principles of the
      Satter Eating Competence Model in the curriculum, including:

        -  Emphasizing healthy food choices:

             1. Whole foods

             2. Plant-based (fruits, vegetables, plant-based oils/fats) and whole grains

             3. Fish and lean meats

             4. Non-fat dairy

        -  Avoiding / minimizing intake of unhealthy foods, such as processed foods/meals and
           sugar-added beverages

        -  Improving eating competency by:

             1. Developing and maintaining positive attitudes about eating and food

             2. Acceptance skills that support eating an ever-increasing variety of the available
                food

             3. Following internal regulation signals that allow intuitively consuming enough food
                to give energy and stamina and to support stable body weight

             4. Enhancing skills and resources for orchestrating family meals

           3. Background

      Developmental Origins of Health and Disease There is increasing evidence that the health of
      adult populations is influenced by the nutritional provision imparted to its members during
      their conception and through the first three years of their post-conception life, reflecting
      the origination of the structures in an individual's body from developmental processes. The
      links between early nutrition and later health initially came to light through the work of
      Dr. David Barker, who showed that in poorer regions of the UK, those who survived infancy
      predominantly died of athersclerotic disease as adults and demonstrated an inverse
      relationship between birthweight and ischemic heart disease. Similar relationships between
      low birth weights with increased risk of heart disease have now been replicated in the United
      States, Scandinavian countries, Finland, the Netherlands and in India, as well as in animal
      models of nutritional deprivation.

      Subsequent research has demonstrated that people who grew poorly before birth or as infants
      are at risk not only for heart disease but also for other adult chronic diseases including
      hypertension, type 2 diabetes, obesity, asthma, and osteoporosis. Poor growth in early life
      has also been associated with compromised cognitive function. It is now believed, based on
      animal and human data that prenatal stressors in the form of nutrition, high levels of stress
      hormone (cortisol), and hypoxia lead to structural and epigenetic changes that impart
      vulnerability for disease in later life. The developmental response to these stressors is
      known as "programming," or the developmental origins of adult diseases.

      While the original work in this field focused on maternal undernutrition as a source of
      stress for the developing baby, animal and human data suggest that exposure to a maternal
      diet that is calorically "sufficient" but of low-quality foods, such as the consumption of
      increasingly processed foods by Western societies, can result in similar in-utero programing
      and predisposition to obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease in offspring. Especially
      concerning about these findings is the implication that reversal of these effects will take
      generations to realize. "Transgenerational nutritional flow" occurs because the eggs that
      will be fertilized to form babies in women of child-bearing age today began development in
      the ovaries of their mothers when their mothers were themselves in their grandmothers' womb.
      Thus the grandmother not only provided for the health of her own eggs, which became the
      mother, but also supplied the nutrients for the reproductive organs (including ovaries) in
      the mother as she developed from fetus to baby, thereby influencing the programming of her
      future grandchildren. Thus, we can now link the health status of the current citizens of
      Oregon with generational nutritional flow over the past century. Fortunately, evidence shows
      that improving the environment of mothers-to-be by lowering stress and providing access to
      healthier foods can reverse many of the adverse effects that are programmed in early life,
      though the full benefits of these efforts will take generations to realize.

      The serious nature of these findings is evident by virtually any indicator of current
      population health in America, which point to a dramatic worsening over the last two decades
      with increasing rates of obesity and type 2 diabetes among adults and children, greater
      numbers of people with uncontrolled hypertension, increasing hospitalization rate of for
      heart failure, and ever decreasing birthweight. Recent studies predict further increases in
      these chronic disease rates based on current indicators. Such disease rates will make health
      care financially unsustainable. Worsening diets of mothers in recent decades has most
      certainly contributed to the deteriorating health status of Oregonians, mandating that novel
      innovations in dietary interventions are needed to bring wholesome nutrition to large
      segments of the population.
    
  