
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR) with nivolumab in patients with previously treated
      metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) of the anal canal. (Part A) II. To determine an
      improvement in progression-free survival (PFS) when nivolumab is combined with ipilimumab
      versus (vs.) nivolumab alone in patients with previously treated metastatic SCCA (Part B).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) of nivolumab in patients with previously
      treated metastatic SCCA of the anal canal. (Part A) II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in
      patients with previously treated metastatic SCCA of the anal canal treated with nivolumab.
      (Part A) III. To evaluate the grade 3 and 4 toxicity rate in patients with previously treated
      metastatic SCCA of the anal canal when treated with nivolumab. (Part A) IV. To evaluate the
      overall response rate (ORR) of nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab in patients with previously
      treated metastatic SCCA of the anal canal. (Part B) V. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in
      patients with previously treated metastatic SCCA of the anal canal treated with nivolumab
      plus or minus ipilimumab. (Part B) VI. To evaluate the grade 3 and 4 toxicity rate in
      patients with previously treated metastatic SCCA of the anal canal when treated with
      nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab. (Part B)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate ORR, PFS, and OS based on expression of programmed cell death 1 ligand 1
      (PD-L1), programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), peritumoral cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), peritumoral CD4+ TILs, and regulatory T cells as analyzed
      from tumor biopsies in previously treated patients with metastatic SCCA of the anal canal
      when treated with nivolumab. (Part A) II. To evaluate radiographic responses according to
      relative changes in proportions of anti-human papillomavirus (HPV) specific CD8+ and CD4+
      TILs and regulatory T cells in patients with previously treated metastatic SCCA of the anal
      canal following treatment with nivolumab, analyzed from serial peripheral blood samples.
      (Part A) III. To evaluate ORR, PFS, and OS based on expression of PD-L1, PD-1, peritumoral
      CD8+ tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), peritumoral CD4+ TILs, and regulatory T cells as
      analyzed from tumor biopsies in previously treated patients with metastatic SCCA of the anal
      canal when treated with nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab. (Part B) IV. To evaluate
      radiographic responses according to relative changes in proportions of anti-HPV specific CD8+
      and CD4+ TILs and regulatory T cells in patients with previously treated metastatic SCCA of
      the anal canal following treatment with nivolumab plus or minus ipilimumab. (Part B)

      OUTLINE:

      PART A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes once every two weeks.
      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PART B: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes once every 4 weeks. Treatment continues
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab as in Arm I. Patients also receive ipilimumab IV over 30
      minutes once every 8 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 100 days and then every 3
      months for 2 years.
    
  