
    
      Background. Patients with end stage liver disease characteristically are malnourished which
      is associated with poor outcome. Formulas enriched with arginine, ω-3 fatty acids, and
      nucleotides, "immunonutrients", potentially improve their nutritional status. This study is
      designed to evaluate the clinical outcome of long-term "immunonutrition" of patients with
      end-stage liver disease while on the waiting list for liver transplantation.

      Methods / design. A randomized controlled double blind multi-center clinical trial with two
      parallel groups comprising a total of 142 newly registered patients for primary liver
      transplantation has been designed to assess the safety and efficacy of the long-term
      administration of ORAL IMPACT®, an "immunonutrient" formula, while waiting for a graft.
      Patients will be enrolled the day of registration on the waiting list for liver
      transplantation. Study ends on the day of transplantation. Primary endpoints include
      patients' nutritional and physiological status, as measured by mid-arm muscle area, triceps
      skin fold thickness, grip strength, and fatigue score, as well as patients' health related
      quality of life. Furthermore, patients will be followed for 12 postoperative weeks to
      evaluate anabolic recovery after transplantation as shown by reduced post-transplant
      mechanical ventilation, hospital stay, wound healing, infectious morbidities (pneumonia,
      intra-abdominal abscess, sepsis, line sepsis, wound infection, and urinary tract infection),
      acute and chronic rejection, and mortality.

      Discussion. Formulas enriched with arginine, ω-3 fatty acids, and nucleotides have been
      proven to be beneficial in reducing postoperative infectious complications and length of
      hospital stay among the patients undergoing elective gastrointestinal surgery. Possible
      mechanisms include downregulation of the inflammatory responses to surgery and immune
      modulation rather than a sole nutritional effect.
    
  