
    
      The most common primary bone tumors include osteosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma and chondrosarcoma.
      The main symptom in patients with primary bone tumors is pain that can occur at rest or at
      night. The physical examination often shows swelling and restricted movement of the joints.
      Malignant bone tumors require multidisciplinary treatment that focuses on the surgical
      removal of the tumor. The extremity-preserving procedure contrasts with the amputation.
      Studies show that the functional result after restoration of the limb is superior to the
      amputation and that the relapse rate and mortality are comparable in both procedures. The
      goal of tumor resection is therefore to keep the treatment-related restrictions as low as
      possible, especially with regard to quality of life, function of the extremity and
      recurrence-free survival of the patients. The improvement of the functional results and
      longevity of reconstructive procedures remains a major challenge.

      The same applies to the treatment of soft tissue sarcomas. However, early diagnosis is often
      hampered by atypical symptoms such as soft tissue swelling, painful lesions or no symptoms at
      all and is reported in the literature with an average period of time until the final
      diagnosis of 3 to 6 months. En bloc resection is the treatment of choice. Radiation therapy,
      chemotherapy and isolated hyperthermic limb perfusion can be used depending on tumor
      histology, degree and extent.

      The measurement of the clinical outcome is of great importance. In order to objectify,
      measure and compare the success or failure of treatment with current literature and other
      tumor centers and to evaluate the invasive surgical procedures. Questionnaires such as the
      Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS) and the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society (MSTS) were
      developed to measure the functional results after surgery and heterogeneity.

      The TESS is a valid and disease-specific measure for evaluating functional disorders in
      patients between 12-85 years of age who are treated surgically for a bone or soft tissue
      sarcoma of the extremities. The questionnaire measures parameters such as Mobility,
      independence in everyday life, participation in social life and the pursuit of leisure
      activities. There is a version for the upper and one for the lower extremity with 30
      questions each. Each question is rated on a 1-5 scale, with 5 being the value for normal
      performance. So far there have been studies to validate the TESS in Portuguese, Danish,
      Korean and Japanese.

      The MSTS is an evaluation tool used worldwide to assess physical function in patients with
      musculoskeletal tumors. The questionnaire has already been successfully translated and
      validated in Portuguese and Japanese.

      Both the TESS and the MSTS have already been used in many studies that examined bone and soft
      tissue tumors - also in German-speaking populations. So far, however, there is no validated
      German version of these questionnaires.

      The aim of the study at hand is to translate the TESS and the MSTS into German and to
      validate them for patients with bone and soft tissue tumors / sarcomas.
    
  