
    
      Objectives

      General

      Determine the comparative effectiveness and safety of two treatment protocols for the use of
      low-intensity shock waves to treat patients with erectile dysfunction who are seen at the
      Boston Medical Group's Bogota center.

      Specific

        1. Determine differences in IIEF-5 and the EHS scores resulting from Li-ESWT therapy for
           patients with ED, upon completion of therapy and 1, 3 and 6 months thereafter, according
           to the type of protocol used.

        2. Determine differences in penile blood flow resulting from Li-ESWT therapy for patients
           with ED, measured with doppler upon completion of therapy and 3 months thereafter,
           according to the type of protocol used.

        3. Determine differences in adverse effects during Li-ESWT therapy for patients with ED,
           according to the type of protocol used.

      Type of Study

      Randomized, experimental, non-inferiority clinical trial to determine the comparative
      effectiveness and safety of two protocols used in the treatment of ED with Li-ESWT, for
      patients seen at the Boston Medical Group's Bogota center.

      Investigation Hypothesis

      Ho: Differences exist in the effectiveness of two treatment protocols for the use of Li-ESWT
      to treat erectile dysfunction, measured by an improvement in the EHS score one month after
      completing treatment.

      Ha: No differences exist in the effectiveness of two treatment protocols for the use of
      Li-ESWT to treat erectile dysfunction, measured by an improvement in the EHS score one month
      after completing treatment.

      Population

      Patients diagnosed with ED who are treated at the Boston Medical Group's Bogota center. These
      patients must meet the eligibility criteria.

      Sample Size

      The sample size was calculated for non-inferiority, based on the new approach being at least
      as good as the existing one. The effectiveness of Protocol 1 is presumed to be 57%, according
      to the literature (12), and Protocol 2 is presumed to be least as good as Protocol 1. The
      difference in effectiveness between the two protocols should be less than or equal to 20%.
      With a power of 80% and a significance level of 97.5%, a one-tailed test requires a sample
      size of 97 individuals per arm. Since a maximum of 5% of patients are expected to be lost in
      the first month post-treatment, a final sample size of 103 individuals per arm was calculated
      and, therefore, a total of 206 individuals will be randomly assigned. These calculations are
      performed using the Stata 14© ssi module.

      Interventions

      Each patient will be randomly assigned to one of the two arms. The patients in each arm will
      be treated by one of the two protocols described below. These protocols will be administered
      by two Li-ESWT machines from either Storz Duollith, Medispec or MTS.

      The protocols are:

        -  Protocol 1: Consists of five sessions, one per week, with 3000 pulses at 0,15 mg/mm2, at
           a frequency of 4 Hz. The distribution of the shocks will be 2000 pulses to the body of
           the penis and 1000 pulses at its base. Total duration: 5 weeks.

        -  Protocol 2: Consists of six sessions, two per week, with 1500 pulses each one at 0.1
           mJ/mm2, at a frequency of 4 Hz. The distribution of the shocks will be 900 pulses to the
           body of the penis and 600 pulses at its base. Total duration: 3 weeks.

      Outcome Variables

      Effectiveness

      The principal outcome variables with which the effectiveness of each intervention will be
      measured will be:

        -  Erection Hardness Score (EHS). The EHS has a single Likert scale, and the validated
           Spanish version will be used (27). The score is as follows: 0 = Penis does not increase
           in size; 1= the penis increases in size but is not hard; 2 = the penis is hard but not
           hard enough for penetration; 3 = the penis is hard enough for penetration but not
           completely hard; 4 = the penis is completely hard and fully rigid (Appendix 1).

        -  International Index of Erectile Function, 5-item version (IIEF-5). Five questions
           related to erectile function, orgasmic function, sexual desire, satisfaction with sexual
           relations and overall satisfaction. In addition, this has a high sensitivity and
           specificity for detecting changes in erectile function in response to treatment. The ED
           grade is scored on a scale of 0 to 25 points, where: 5-7 is severe, 8-11 is moderate,
           12-16 is mild to moderate; 17-21 is average; and 22-25 ED does not exist (28) (Appendix
           2).

        -  Penile blood flow with vasoactive stimuli of prostaglandin (VSP), measured by color
           echo-doppler. After applying a standard dosage of VSP, an exam measures blood flow in
           the cavernous and dorsal arteries at the base of the penis. This measurement is
           performed periodically every 5 minutes, as of the application of the medication until
           obtaining the best possible flow. This determines normal flow when above 35 cm/sec ,
           undetermined when between 25 and 35 cm/sec and abnormal flow when under 25 cm/sec.

      The scores from the EHS and IIEF-5 scales will be measured at baseline, upon completion of
      each protocol, and 1, 3 and 6 months after completing each protocol. Doppler measurements of
      penile arteries will be taken at baseline and 1 month after completing each protocol.

      Safety

      This will be determined according to the presence of adverse events, which will be analyzed
      upon completion of each therapy and after 1, 3 and 6 months (control months). This variable
      will be dichotomous, as the presence or absence of adverse events. It is important to
      emphasize that no adverse events have been reported to-date by any clinical trial of patients
      with ED who have been treated with Li-ESWT (12, 14, 19, 29).

      Techniques, Procedures and Data Collection and Processing

      Subjects who are seen for a private consultation at the Boston Medical Group's Bogota center
      will be screened to define whether they meet the eligibility criteria. If they are eligible
      they will be invited to participate in the investigation and will be given an informed
      consent form which explains the objectives of the investigation as well as the risks involved
      in participating in the study.

      The patients will then be assigned to one of two arms through the process of selecting a
      ballot among a group of ballots marked with the protocols and stored in a dark bag. Prior to
      beginning the two protocols, a baseline measurement will be taken of the outcomes related to
      the study's objectives (EHS, IIEF-5 and doppler measurement of blood flow in the cavernous
      artery). In accordance with the results from the randomization process, each subject will be
      treated by one of the protocols mentioned in the corresponding section.

      Upon completion of the administration of the protocols, EHS and IIEF-5 scores will be
      measured a second time, as well as any associated adverse effects. This will be done five
      weeks after beginning treatment for subjects in Protocol 1 and three weeks after beginning
      treatment for subjects in Protocol 2.

      Medical check-ups will be performed by doctors who are experienced in the treatment of male
      sexual dysfunction. These will be conducted 1, 3 and 6 months after completing each of the
      Li-ESWT protocols. EHS and IIEF-5 scores will be determined at these consultations, as well
      as the presence or absence of adverse events related to the therapy. A second measurement of
      penile blood flow will be taken with doppler echography one month after completing each of
      the protocols.

      All the information will be recorded in the electronic clinical history which already exists
      at the Boston Medical Group. The clinical information will be extracted from this electronic
      clinical history once all the data from the sample has been collected. This information will
      be exported to a flat file so it can be read later by a statistical package.

      In terms of historical information, 4 to 5 individuals are expected to be included in the
      study per week. Based on this supposition, approximately 52 weeks will be needed for the
      inclusion of individuals. The last individual included will be followed up to the sixth month
      after completion of therapy.

      Follow-up and Loss-to-Follow-up

      One person involved in the project and a medical supervisor will be responsible for
      conducting a telephone follow-up of the patients included in the study. This will be done
      with the expectation of guaranteeing a loss-to-follow-up of under 5% in the first month
      post-therapy.
    
  