
    
      Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will fill out a questionnaire, complete an
      interview, and information will be collected from your medical record.

      For the questionnaire, you will answer questions about your quality of life, mood, social
      support, stress, diet, lifestyle, and demographic information (such as your age and race).
      The questionnaire should take about 60-90 minutes to complete. If you prefer to fill out the
      questionnaire online, 3 separate emails will be sent to your email address. Each email will
      contain a separate link (the first link will be sent from MD Anderson, the second from
      University of Arizona for the diet questions, and the third from the University of California
      Los Angeles [UCLA] for the stress questions).

      You will also be asked to measure your waist and your hip with a measuring tape and to record
      the measurements on the questionnaire.

      If you prefer to fill out the questionnaire by paper format, you should mail it back to the
      research staff. However, the stress questions will need to done by phone. A trained
      interviewer will ask you questions about the amount of stress you may be having or have had
      in the past. It should take about 25-30 minutes to complete the interview.

      If you are a long-term survivor, you will have an interview by phone that will ask for your
      opinions about the factors that may have contributed to your survival. This interview will
      take about 45 minutes to an hour and will be audio-recorded. Your name and identifying
      information will not be recorded.

      Information collected from your medical record will include the status of the disease, if the
      disease has gotten worse, any treatments you have received, and any side effects you may have
      had. This information will help researchers learn how specific treatments may affect
      patients.

      If you are already enrolled in a protocol in which you will be having tumor tissue collected
      for future analysis, the information gathered in those studies will be used together with the
      data collected for this study to learn if behavioral factors relate to your tumor tissue test
      results.

      Length of Study:

      Your study participation will be over after completing the questionnaire and interview.

      Other Information:

      Before any information is recorded, you will be asked for your permission.

      The tape recording will be done by members of the study staff. Your audiotape will be given a
      code number. No identifying information (such as your name and medical record number) will be
      recorded on the audiotape.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 240 participants will be enrolled in this multicenter study. Up to 120 will take part
      at MD Anderson.
    
  