
    
      Calcification of various structures located in the head and neck region are reported in
      patients seeking dental care.

      Although most of the soft tissue calcification within the head and neck region might not be
      accompanied by clinical symptoms; the investigators should not assume that their detection do
      not has a strong clinical significance .

      Some soft tissue calcification may suggest the presence of a systemic condition and may cause
      threatening consequences .

      Understanding of the nature of soft tissue calcification in the head and neck helps in proper
      diagnosis of these calcification and in turn taking the right decision of asking for further
      investigation; referral or do nothing .

      Also; many of the structures in the head and neck region are in close proximity to one
      another which makes identification and localization difficult and this may lead to false
      diagnosis .

      CBCT is a valuable imaging modality to overcome this difficulty. The data collection for this
      study will be obtained from the data base available at the Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology
      department at the faculty of dentistry -Cairo university

      The following information will be recorded for each patient by :

      1. Age of the patient at the time of the scan . 2. Sex (male or female). 3. Type of the scan
      (mandible only, maxilla and mandible, and full scan).

        -  Assessment will be made for the following;

             1. Presence or absence of calcification.

             2. Type of calcification present (or what is this soft tissue structure).

             3. Side (i.e. unilateral or bilateral and what side) .

             4. Single or multiple occurring.

        -  During assessing the CBCT images; neither clinical information nor demographic data of
           the patients will be available to any of the two radiologists.

        -  Then inter-observational and intra-observational variability between the observers will
           be evaluated.
    
  