
    
      During the last years, respiratory muscle training (RMT) in patients with impaired
      respiratory muscle function, e.g. in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), is
      increasingly applied. RMT can be done by applying increased respiratory effort for several
      minutes via an apparatus providing an inspiratory stenosis. Threshold IMT速 (Philips
      Respironics) for example is such a training device, which is in the market for several years
      now and which has been used to conduct studies applying RMT. For example, it has been shown
      that training with the Threshold IMT速 in patients with COPD increases inspiratory muscle
      strength, endurance and functional capacity and ameliorates dyspnea and quality of life.
      Furthermore, patients suffering from cardiac illness can also be affected by respiratory
      muscle impairment, which can add to their cardiogenic dyspnea. RMT can help improve dyspnea
      and physical exercise capacity in those patients as well.

      To date, no studies have been performed addressing acute hemodynamic effects of inspiratory
      muscle training. However, this is of special interest: COPD as well as heart failure patients
      show an increased prevalence of pulmonary hypertension.

      In case of suspected pulmonary hypertension, patients usually are subjected to right-heart
      catheterization (RHC) to arrive at a definitive diagnosis and assess severity and etiology of
      potentially present pulmonary hypertension. RHC is also a sensitive method to exclude an
      intracardial shunt in COPD patients.

      In this study, patients who are routinely subjected to RHC for the above mentioned reasons
      will be instructed to do RMT using the Threshold IMT速 during RHC. Two days in advance they
      will begin a guided training to get familiar with the Threshold IMT速. The device's
      inspiratory resistance can be set between 9 and 41 cm H2O. A single training session consists
      of 7 cycles with 2 min inspiratory training each, followed by a 1 min break (total duration
      21 min). RMT will be conducted with 20-30% of individual inspiratory muscle strength, which
      will be measured beforehand.

      During the RHC procedure the patients will again conduct RMT as instructed while the
      suspected hemodynamic effects will be documented.
    
  