
    
      An algorithm was developed using SOF-based regimens to treat all patients (RKD). Genotyping
      is not recommended for patients without cirrhosis of liver and they are being treated with
      SOF+DCV for 12-weeks, while genotyping is recommended for patients with cirrhosis of liver
      (Figure 1). Patients with liver cirrhosis and genotype 3 are being treated with SOF+DCV+RBV
      for 24 weeks, while non-genotype 3 patients are being treated with SOF+LDV+RBV for 12-weeks
      or with SOF+LDV for 24-weeks (in RBV intolerant patients). SVR-12 is mandatory in all
      patients. Methods: Decentralized care: All patients are being evaluated and treated at 3
      Government Medical Colleges and 22 District Hospitals; they were followed up to 12 weeks
      post-treatment to look for sustained viral response (SVR-12). Health care worker capacity
      building: 90 medical specialists were trained in a 4-hr predefined course, followed by online
      continued medical education sessions by regular Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes
      (ECHO) Clinic are being conducted fortnightly. 50 pharmacists, 2 from each of the 25 centres,
      dispense medicine as per specialist prescription. Data Management: 25 trained data entry
      operators and Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) are managing epidemiological data on
      CHC hotspots, high-risk groups, local service providers, etc. Monitoring: Medical alerts are
      being used for compliance monitoring. Study design: A cost-effective algorithm has been
      developed using SOF-based regimens to treat all patients. The diagnosis of cirrhosis is based
      on clinical evidence including Aspartate Transaminase (AST)-to-platelet ratio index (APRI ≥
      2.0) and FIB-4 score (>3.25) or on liver stiffness measurement (LSM) ≥12.5 kilopascal (kPa)
      on fibroscan. The study aims to validate the efficacy and safety of generic all oral Direct
      Acting Antiviral (DAA) regimens in a decentralized algorithm based public health model in
      Punjab, India regardless of genotype/presence of cirrhosis.
    
  