
    
      There are very few trials on drug efficacy and safety treatment performed specifically for
      college students with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Although data based on
      the adult population can often be extrapolated and generalized to a college population, there
      are unique treatment demands for college students with ADHD that are not represented in
      day-to-day functioning of adults with ADHD. For example, although adults may be able to
      choose employment that capitalizes on their skill sets and tolerate ADHD-related deficits,
      all college students must manage intensive learning experiences in an environment that places
      unparalleled demands on higher order cognitive processes that are deficient with ADHD. In
      addition, it may be important to address the comorbidities that may be common among ADHD
      college students. This could range from eating disorders, depression or anxiety to alcoholism
      and drug abuse. For example, heavy drinking peaks in the college student years regardless of
      ADHD but the long-term course and underlying predispositions may be different among
      individuals with a history of ADHD (Molina et al., 2007). Although there are a few case
      studies, there are limited studies on ADHD and their comorbidities in college students
      perhaps because it may be a challenge to recruit a respectable sample size. Furthermore, it
      may be important to recognize that some college students never develop diagnosable ADHD
      symptoms as children, and that the signs may manifest themselves in a very harmful way during
      college when demands for academic rigor and organization reach their height. Given the
      juxtaposing conditions of academic demand, autonomy from parents, and increased opportunities
      for drug abuse, it becomes imperative to directly address treatment in this population. Much
      more research is left to be performed on this unique population of ADHD patients.
    
  