
    
      Participation in the study will be for 4 days. During initial subject recruitment,
      investigators will review inclusion and exclusion criteria with potential subjects. Upon
      enrollment, qualifying subjects will be asked to perform their last BD of the day at 8 PM on
      the day, but will be allowed to continue with the rest of their routine therapeutic regimen
      (including aerosols). They will be instructed to come on day 1 of the study at 8 AM. During
      this visit, they will complete a brief questionnaire and undergo an abbreviated physical
      exam, concentrating on chest findings. The questionnaire and exam will be used to confirm all
      subjects meet the study inclusion and exclusion criteria. The current therapeutic regimen
      being followed on day one of the study will be reviewed and the patient will be asked not to
      make any changes during the study period. Subjects will then perform pulse oximetry,
      spirometry, and lung volumes via body plethysmography. A sputum specimen will be collected
      for rheologic studies in a special container.

      Once this is completed, the patient will perform a 30 minute BD session according to the
      first treatment of the randomly allocated sequence. The vest, or jacket, worn by the subject
      differs for the sine wave and triangular wave devices. Subjects will be blinded as to the
      type of system used at each session. Blinding will be accomplished by the patient wearing eye
      blinds of the type used commercially for assisting sleep. Investigators will assist the
      patient with putting on the HFCWO device. A large, lightweight poncho will then be placed
      over the patients head, thereby concealing the vest and attached equipment. The blinds will
      then be removed and the patient will subsequently put on a set of ear protectors used
      commercially for workers with noise exposure. This will prevent the patients from recognizing
      the difference in the sounds produced by the two devices. Only the respiratory therapist
      supervising the session will know of the treatment assignment. It is possible the subjects
      will be able to differentiate the two devices despite these measures to blind treatment.
      Subjects will use the vest devices provided by the investigators rather than bringing their
      vest devices from home. Prior to initiating the study, both devices will be tested, and
      adjusted as necessary, to ensure "dialed in" pressures and frequencies are accurately
      delivered.

      During this session all the sputum produced will be collected in pre-weighed special
      containers and sealed for immediate processing. Patients will use their routine combination
      of aerosols in conjunction with the BD session. At the end of the 30 minute session the
      patient will be asked to produce a second sputum specimen which will be collected for
      rheologic studies in a special container.

      After this is completed, pulmonary function measurements will be repeated. The patient will
      then undergo an abbreviated physical exam and complete a brief questionnaire (included in
      this application). The 8-item survey instrument focuses on adverse effects and comfort
      associated with use of the HFCWO device, primarily using a 5-point scale. Responses to the
      experience of using each device will be compared using standard statistical methodology.

      The patient will be discharged after the measurements are completed and will be asked to
      return 3 days later for the second treatment in the allocated sequence. The patient will be
      asked to continue in the interim with their daily routines, trying not to make major changes
      in physical activity, environmental exposures or fluid intake. For the second treatment, the
      patient will be instructed again to perform BD at 8 PM on the evening before the return
      appointment.

      On the second visit, subjects will undergo the same routine followed during the first visit.

      Sputum Measurements

      All sputum that the patient produces during a therapy session will be collected in
      pre-weighed specimen containers and sealed immediately. After the specimen is weighed ('raw
      wet weight'), the specimen will be centrifuged at 27,000 g for 15 minutes at 4oC and the
      supernatant will be carefully and completely discarded. This step eliminates any fluid coming
      from saliva that may have contaminated the specimen. The container with the sputum pellet
      will be weighed again ('wet weight') and left open in an oven with the temperature set at
      150o F for 3 days to allow for complete desiccation. After this, the container will be
      weighed again to determine the sputum 'dry weight'. The 'raw wet weight' of the specimen
      collected at the end of the session for rheologic studies will be recorded and its dry weight
      will be calculated by extrapolation from the 'wet weight' and 'dry weight' obtained in the
      larger specimen. The addition of the weights for these two specimens will give the total
      sputum production for the session.

      Pulmonary function testing

      Patients will perform spirometry and lung volumes determination by body plethysmography at
      baseline and at the end of each BD session. At the same time, oxygen saturation will be
      determined by earlobe pulse oxymetry. Forced vital capacity (FVC) and Forced expiratory
      volume in 1 second (FEV1) will be obtained from the spirometry results; patients will perform
      single-breath nitrogen washout. All tests will be performed following the techniques which
      are already standard at the pediatric pulmonary laboratory and which follow the strict
      American Thoracic Society guidelines . All results will be expressed as the percent of
      predicted for age, gender and height.

      Sputum Rheologic Properties The specimen collected at the end of each session will be weighed
      and frozen immediately at -70oC. The samples will be sent later to Dr. Bruce Rubin, Wake
      Forest University, Winston-Salem NC for further study.

      E. Data Analysis.

      Primary outcome: For each patient the sputum production during each treatment period will be
      determined by recording the total 'wet' sputum weights obtained during each treatment period.
      Sputum weights will be averaged for each treatment arm to obtain the mean 'wet' sputum
      productions for each treatment, and analyzed by analysis of variance for differences between
      the means. The sputum dry weights will be analyzed similarly.

      Secondary outcomes: Percent change will be calculated for the FVC, FEV1, and Single-breath
      nitrogen washout seen in each patient during a given treatment period. The mean percent
      change will be calculated for each treatment and differences between these will be analyzed
      by analysis of variance. The same procedure will be followed for the rheologic measures.
    
  