
    
      Study design: This is an observational study that will be conducted in two phases. In the
      preliminary phase, associations between selected SNPs in drug disposition genes and mid-dose
      plasma and breast milk efavirenz and nevirapine concentrations will be explored in an
      unselected cohort of HIV positive pregnant women and nursing mothers and their breastfed
      infants taking either drug as part of combination antiretroviral therapy for PMTCT. In the
      second phase, the SNP independently associated with the highest predictive power will be used
      to stratify pregnant women and mother-infant pairs into three groups: non-carriers,
      heterozygotes, and homozygotes. Randomly selected pregnant women or mother-infant pairs from
      each group were re-recruited and invited for the intensive pharmacokinetic phase.

      Samples collection: In the preliminary phase, mid-dose paired dried blood spots (DBS) (and
      dried breast milk spots in nursing mothers) samples will be collected at a single, recorded
      time point post dose. In the intensive pharmacokinetic phase, DBS (and dried breast milk
      spots in nursing mothers) samples will be collected at multiple time points after an observed
      dose of efavirenz or nevirapine. Samples will be shipped at room temperature to the
      Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Liverpool, United Kingdom
      for analysis.

      DNA extraction and SNP genotyping: Genomic DNA will be extracted using available commercial
      kits in accordance with the manufacture's protocol and genotyping will be performed by
      allelic discrimination real-time polymerase chain reaction using TaqMan® chemistry-based
      assays.

      Drug quantification and pharmacokinetic analysis: Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry
      methods will be developed for the quantification of efavirenz and nevirapine in DBS and dried
      breast milk spots. Pharmacokinetic parameters will be determined using standard procedures.
    
  