
    
      Acute, primary HIV infection represents a potentially unique opportunity to eradicate the
      infection. Although plasma viral load rises rapidly, the dominant infecting virus is
      relatively uniform genetically, and infection may not be fully established in all tissue
      sites until some time after exposure. Current antiretroviral therapy is able to reduce plasma
      viral load to unmeasurable levels in established infection. However, there are many questions
      that remain about the treatment of primary HIV infection. While it is assumed that aggressive
      antiretroviral regimens are required, it is not known how long they must be continued. It is
      hoped that after an interval of aggressive therapy, the number of agents could be safely
      reduced. This study evaluates if viral suppression can be sustained after study therapy is
      withdrawn.

      Participants in this study will receive lamivudine (3TC), stavudine (d4T), abacavir (ABC),
      amprenavir (APV), and ritonavir (RTV) for at least 52 weeks. During this induction phase,
      participants will be followed through regular study visits every 4 or 8 weeks. If the
      participant's viral load and CD4 counts are within study parameters at the end of 52 weeks,
      the participant will discontinue all antiretroviral medications simultaneously. Participants
      in the treatment interruption phase will be followed weekly initially, every 2 weeks for 8
      weeks, and then every 4 or 8 weeks. Treatment may be restarted if necessary during this phase
      based on viral load and CD4 counts. If treatment is restarted, the participant will receive
      3TC, d4T, APV, and RTV but not ABC. During this reinduction phase, participants will be
      followed every 4 or 8 weeks.

      Depending on viral load and CD4 counts, participants may be eligible for a second treatment
      interruption phase following the reinduction phase. Participants will once again stop all
      antiretroviral medications simultaneously and will have the same monitoring as in the first
      treatment interruption phase. Following this second treatment interruption, participants will
      be restarted on 3TC, d4T, APV, and RTV and will be evaluated at Weeks 4, 8, 16, and 24, at
      which time participants go off study.

      The length of study participation for individual participants will vary. The length of each
      phase will be highly dependent on the participant's laboratory parameters. In general,
      participants will be enrolled in the study for 3 to 4 years. Participants may also enroll in
      immunology, compartment, pharmacology, and medication compliance substudies.
    
  