
    
      This project is designed as a prospective, single-center observational study. The cohort will
      consist of 229 consenting subjects ≥ 70 years of age who present to the Brigham and Women's
      Hospital Weiner Center for Preoperative Evaluation (CPE) prior to elective spine surgery by
      neurosurgeons Dr. Groff, Dr. Lu and Dr. Chi. These ages are chosen as significant clinical
      data demonstrate increased cognitive impairment in community dwelling elders. Eligibility
      criteria include: patients ≥ 70 years of age with an American Society of Anesthesiologists
      (ASA) physical status classification of I-III presenting for elective thoracic surgery or
      spinal surgery. Exclusion criteria will include planned Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admission
      postoperatively, history of stroke or brain tumor, uncorrected vision or hearing impairment
      (unable to see pictures or read or hear instructions); limited use of the dominant hand
      (limited ability to draw); and or inability to speak, read, or understand English.

      Patients will be introduced to the study through a flyer provided to them in their surgeon's
      office. A study team member will speak with those favorably predisposed to participate to
      determine if they satisfy eligibility criteria. After obtaining consent, study staff will
      gain information about the patient's age and years of education. Study staff will administer
      Health and functional status activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of
      daily living (IADLs), respectively, and the World Health Organization Disability Assessment
      Scale [WHODAS]) will be administered to all surgical patients. The World Health Organization
      Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0 is an alternative to the 36-Item Rand Health Survey
      Short-Form (SF36) to measure physical health and disability. In addition, all patients will
      be asked if they've had a fall within the last 6 months, whether they've been evaluated for a
      change in memory or thinking, who accompanied them to their appointment, their employment
      status and their living situation (alone, institutionalized, living with family members) in a
      patient survey. The study staff will administer the MiniCog, a simple cognitive screening
      tool that takes just 2-4 min to complete and has little or no education, language, or race
      bias. In addition, the Animal Fluency test will be administered, which is a short cognitive
      screen that takes one minute to complete. Frailty will be measured using the Frail Scale.
      Other measures of cognitive impairment will be obtained by study staff through: documentation
      on the patient's standard preoperative form, patient or informant report of diagnosis or
      evaluation for cognitive impairment or memory concerns, and systematic medical record review.
      Each enrolled patient will receive a business card listing the investigators' contact
      information and be advised to expect a follow up telephone up to 6 and 12 months after
      surgery to verify data elements and reassess functional outcome.

      Delirium will be assessed prospectively once per day on postoperative days 1, 2, and 3 by a
      trained study team member using the Confusion Assessment Method [CAM]. For patients that are
      in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) postoperatively, the Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU
      (CAM-ICU) will be administered prospectively twice per day on postoperative days 1, 2, and 3
      by a trained study team member (Attachment-CAM-ICU). Delirium is most common on postoperative
      days 1-3 and the CAM is a well-validated measure of delirium in surgical patients. For
      functional status, the WHODAS will be administered 6-12 months postoperatively either by
      personnel in the surgeon's office as part of routine follow up or by study staff or by
      telephone. We will also collect information on secondary outcomes including whether they had
      surgical procedure, time to postoperative anesthesia care unit (PACU) discharge, discharge to
      place other than home (rehabilitation, skilled nursing facility), hospital length of stay
      (LOS), 30-day reoperation or readmission rate, and 30-day and 1-year mortality. These
      outcomes are recorded in the medical record, the BWH Balanced Scorecard, an electronic
      database of all hospitalized patients that tabulates 31 elements of the hospital event, or
      the Brigham and Women's Hospital BWH Research Patient Database Enhanced Query. Data will also
      be confirmed by a follow up telephone interview.
    
  