
    
      Background

      The health benefits of exclusive breastfeeding (EBF), especially in low- and middle-income
      countries (LMIC), have been well documented. These include protection against infectious
      diseases, improved measures of intelligence and decreased risk of becoming overweight and
      developing diabetes. Globally, EBF could save the lives of an estimated 823 000 children
      under the age of five each year. Yet, despite World Health Organization recommendations that
      children should be exclusively breastfed for the first six months of life, EBF rates hover at
      only 37% in LMIC.

      South Africa has one of the lowest rates of EBF in the world. Estimates of EBF rates under
      six months in South Africa range from 8% to the most generous estimate, 32% reported in the
      South Africa Demographic and Health Survey 2016. The health problems that result are largely
      due to unsafe formula feeding and the widespread practice of introducing solid foods early
      (often before three months) into the infant's diet. In South Africa, more than 70% of infants
      are given solid foods before reaching six months, the recommended age for initiating
      complementary feeding. Unsafe formula feeding and early introduction of solid foods can lead
      to diarrheal disease from pathogens entering the gut, as well as nutrient deficiencies when
      the foods introduced displace breastmilk without providing adequate nutrient density. The
      limited availability of reliable national data on infant feeding in South Africa complicates
      the design and evaluation of infant feeding interventions. However, systematic reviews of the
      literature suggest that large-scale interventions focused on educating mothers can increase
      the prevalence of EBF and decrease infant mortality.

      Narrative, entertainment-education (E-E) approaches to health education have emerged as
      potentially powerful strategies for promoting positive health behavior change. E-E involves
      the delivery of health messages by embedding them in an entertainment media framework. A
      substantial body of research suggests that E-E is an effective way of influencing beliefs,
      attitudes and behaviors. The characteristics of particularly impactful E-E media include: a)
      appealing narratives, b) high-quality production, c) persuasive messages that are unobtrusive
      and d) high potential for involvement or identification with the presenters or characters
      portrayed. While E-E can take many forms, a video-based approach readily supports the
      optimized integration of these characteristics.

      Video-based content, optimized for mobile devices, may also facilitate broad dissemination of
      health education, especially as the global penetration of mobile technology increases. Recent
      advances in mobile health (mHealth) messaging have already begun to facilitate the delivery
      of health messages at scale and researchers are increasingly recognizing the potential for
      mobile phones and tablets to play an important role in health education interventions in
      LMIC. South Africa is an example of a LMIC at the forefront of mHealth initiatives, due to
      its rapidly expanding penetration of mobile phones. National, maternal-child mHealth
      initiatives built around free, text-based messaging have attracted global attention and been
      well received. General "tech-savviness" in South Africa continues to grow, with 37% of adults
      reporting "smartphone" ownership and 42% reporting daily internet usage in 2016. Active
      experimentation with "WhatsApp", a widely used mobile communication tool that supports the
      transfer of videos, is also underway in many sectors, including health.

      Even for South Africans who do not yet have access to mobile phones, a feasible dissemination
      pathway lies in the delivery of educational videos by community health workers (CHWs) who
      bring teaching tablets to their in-home counseling sessions. Numerous interventions that
      support women in their homes have demonstrated efficacy in improving breastfeeding rates. The
      Philani Maternal Child Health and Nutrition Trust is an example of a successful community
      based organization, employing "mentor-mothers", CHWs who offer in-home health promotion
      counseling to pregnant women and mothers within their communities. Data from both case
      studies and quantitative research suggest additional improvements in breastfeeding rates when
      synergistic interventions - for example, mass media interventions - are used to supplement
      successful community-based ones. Developing interventions that boost the efficacy of
      successful community-based programs represents a critical step towards ending preventable
      child and maternal deaths by 2030 (as called for by the World Health Organization (WHO) and
      UNICEF. Prior research in South Africa suggests that such synergistic interventions are even
      more effective when they are created in close collaboration with community-based programs,
      actively involving local stakeholders in the content creation process.

      Aims

      This study will achieve the following specific research aims: To establish the

        1. Effectiveness of the Philani MOVIE intervention for improving exclusive breastfeeding
           practices among study participants

        2. Effectiveness of the Philani MOVIE intervention for improving other infant feeding
           practices, and maternal knowledge among the study participants

      Methods

      A cluster-randomized controlled trial will be used to measure the effects of the Philani
      MOVIE intervention on infant feeding behaviors. Eighty-four mentor mothers will be randomized
      1:1 into intervention and control arms, stratified by neighborhood type. Mentor-mothers in
      the control arm will provide the usual Philani Intervention Model (PIM) perinatal in-home
      counseling. Mentor-mothers in the intervention arm will provide standard care plus the MOVIE
      intervention (PIM+M). Based on sample size calculations described below, at least 1008
      pregnant women will be enrolled in the study and mother-child pairs will be followed until
      five months of age. Cluster randomization will be done by a third party who is not employed
      by Philani, nor an in-country member of the research team.

      Intervention

      The Philani MOVIE intervention consists of 13 short, (2-5 min.), videos conveying current WHO
      infant feeding recommendations, the health rationale for these recommendations, historical
      information on global breastfeeding trends and contemporary challenges facing breastfeeding
      mothers. The intervention uses a narrative, entertainment-education approach, incorporating
      the personal stories of six South African mothers, three celebrities and three community
      mothers, alongside animations, illustrations and voiceovers by local South African voice
      talent.

      Sample size calculation

      The sample size calculation in this trial was based on the primary outcomes: exclusive
      breastfeeding in the first month and in the fifth month of life. Calculations were performed
      using standard methods for cluster-randomized controlled trials with baseline covariate
      adjustment and stratification. The randomization units were the mentor-mothers. An
      intra-cluster correlation of 0.1 was assumed for the two primary outcomes. Routine program
      data describing the performance of the 84 mentor-mothers participating in this trial was used
      to inform the power calculation. Based on this data, and a range of other data sources on
      breastfeeding in South Africa the investigators assumed that 40% of mothers exclusively
      breastfed their infants in the first month of life and 10% of mothers exclusively breastfed
      their infants in the fifth month of life. Assuming a correlation between the baseline
      measurements and the primary outcome of 0.30 and an average enrollment of 12 pregnant women
      per mentor-mother over the course of this study, the investigators estimated that the trial
      would have 80% power to detect at a 5% significance level a 13-percentage point increase in
      the primary outcome in the first month of life and a 9-percentage point increase in the
      primary outcome in the fifth month of life. This minimal detectable difference met the
      investigators' condition for policy relevance (an improvement of more than 15 percentage
      points). The total sample size was thus set for outcome assessment at 840 pregnant women plus
      20% (to allow for loss to follow-up), i.e. 1008 pregnant women.

      Data collection and training

      Data will be collected via two tablet-based questionnaires, one in the first month
      post-delivery and the second in the fifth month post-delivery. Both questionnaires will be
      completed directly on the tablets by the participants and will include visual and audio
      prompts to overcome literacy barriers. Each of these surveys will be followed within one week
      by a telephone survey, administered by a professional phone survey research company, and will
      be used to verify the responses recorded on the tablet-based surveys and gather additional
      data on specific complementary foods introduced and on maternal knowledge.

      Mentor-mothers in both the intervention and control groups will undergo training on basic
      research procedures. In total, six groups of ~15 mentor-mothers will attend a one-day
      training workshop over a one-week period, followed by a half-day refresher training workshop
      within three weeks of the first training. The workshops will include training on informed
      consent procedures, ethical principles, and the use of tablet devices to collect data on
      infant feeding practices. Mentor-mothers will be trained to open the questionnaires on the
      tablet and administer a practice questionnaire with the participant to ensure that the
      participant is comfortable and competent in working with the tablet. Once the mentor-mother
      is confident in the participant's ability to work with the tablet, they will hand it to the
      participants to complete the questionnaires independently, without input from their
      mentor-mother.

      Mentor-mothers in both intervention and control groups will be afforded the opportunity to
      troubleshoot any concerns related to the use of the tablets or the research procedures for
      the duration of the study.

      Mentor-mothers in the intervention group will undergo separate training sessions aimed at
      familiarizing them with the content of the Philani MOVIE intervention as well as allowing
      them to practice integrating the intervention into their existing perinatal home-visiting
      program. These training sessions will include role play activities, followed by feedback from
      peers and training facilitators.

      Data Analysis

      The primary analysis will be based on intention-to-treat at the unit of the individual
      newborn/individual mother, with standard errors adjusted for clustering at the level of the
      unit of randomization, i.e. the mentor-mothers. The investigators will adjust for baseline
      neighborhood type in addition to six additional baseline covariates detailed in the study
      design description. Mixed-effects generalized linear models will be used for the primary
      analysis, using a fixed effect for the assignment to treatment vs. control arm and a random
      effect for mentor-mother. In particular, the investigators will use modified Poisson models
      (generalized linear models with Poisson distribution and a logarithmic link function), for
      the binary outcomes, i.e., the primary outcomes as well as secondary outcomes, 3-13. Modified
      Poisson models were chosen because they generate estimates of risk ratios (and thus avoid the
      well-known interpretational difficulties associated with odds ratios) and because they
      converge more easily than alternative models that generate risk ratios (such as binomial
      models). For the continuous secondary outcomes (14 and 15), generalized linear models will be
      used with Gaussian distribution and identity link function.
    
  