
    
      Thirty percent of stroke survivors experience spasticity, a velocity dependent increase in
      stretch reflexes, which negatively affects quality of life and activities of daily living
      (Thibaut et al. 2013). Spasticity is a secondary neurological symptom induced by neurological
      hyperreflexia seen in stroke and other neurological disorders (Bose et al. 2015). If left
      untreated, stroke survivors may develop contractures which can further impede motor recovery
      and participation in activities of daily life (Thibaut et al. 2013). Spasticity is typically
      treated with medications, botox injections, baclofen intrathecal pumps, occupational therapy,
      and physical therapy, but current treatment options are often expensive and effectiveness is
      generally unsatisfactory (Kheder and Nair 2012). Thus, there is a need to find low-cost,
      effective, and accessible methods that have the potential to help reduce spasticity and
      promote recovery.

      Increased spasticity has been linked to emotion-based stress, such as anxiety (Bhimani and
      Anderson 2014). Previous research has anecdotally linked meditation, a technique that has
      been used to reduce anxiety, to decreased post-stroke spasticity (Bhimani and Anderson 2014).
      In this pilot study, the researchers aimed to test whether two weeks of mindfulness
      meditation could lead to reduced anxiety and reduced post-stroke spasticity. Briefly,
      mindfulness meditation is a type of meditation that trains awareness and acceptance of the
      current inner and outer reality, and is often taught through Jon Kabat-Zinn's 8-week
      Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) course (Kabat-Zinn 1996). Importantly, while it is
      typically taught by an experienced teacher over a series of sessions, studies have also shown
      successful mindfulness practice via audio/video recording (Potter 2017), allowing for greater
      accessibility to mindfulness training for broader audiences, including those with mobility
      limitations.

      Although studies have found that mindfulness meditation may be linked to mood, anxiety, and
      pain reduction, it has not been directly connected to motor function or spasticity (Creswell
      et al. 2014; Moustgaard et al. 2007; Zeidan et al. 2010). Specifically, mindfulness
      intervention studies have reported decreased mental fatigue in people with TBI or stroke
      (Johansson et al. 2012) and a reduction in psychological stress and improvement in cognitive
      function in patients with multiple sclerosis (Blankespoor et al. 2017). One systematic review
      showed that mindfulness meditation helped patients cope with their chronic illnesses,
      including cancer, depression and general anxiety disorder, by improving their mood and
      anxiety symptoms (Hofmann et al. 2010). In stroke and transient ischemic attack survivors,
      there is small but growing evidence that mindfulness promotes positive results for
      psychological and psychosocial health (Lawrence et al. 2013). A pilot study with individuals
      after stroke used an 8-week Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) intervention, which is
      a combination of MBSR with some insights from cognitive behavioral therapy, and found a
      reduction in anxiety and depression and an increase in quality of life, including physical
      functioning. (Moustgaard et al. 2007).

      Because of the anecdotal evidence linking stress to increased spasticity and the clinical
      evidence linking meditation to decreased stress, the researchers conducted a pilot study to
      explore whether two weeks of guided mindfulness meditation-a low-cost, home-based
      intervention-could improve spasticity, along with quality of life, stress and anxiety, in
      individuals after stroke.
    
  