
    
      In the year 2016, over 57,000 children were adopted from the child welfare system and another
      118,000 were awaiting adoption, an increase of 7.9% and 8.1%, respectively, since 2013.
      Children adopted from the child welfare system, on average, display significant and often
      profound challenges with self-regulation, defined as the external and internal processes
      responsible for determining one's emotional, behavioral, and cognitive reactions to stimuli.
      Poor self-regulation is linked to a host of later untoward outcomes. Permanency for children
      through the process of adoption offers an opportunity for improving developmental
      trajectories and later outcomes for children. Psychosocial interventions that can
      significantly improve the parent-child relationship hold promise for increasing the success
      of the adoption and further promoting healthy development for children. Prior to proceeding
      with an R01 application and funded clinical trial, a feasibility study is required for
      multiple reasons. First, it is necessary to determine the likelihood of recruiting and
      retaining a sufficient number of participants, the extent to which participants attend
      sessions on a regular basis, caregiver satisfaction with treatment, and potential barriers to
      clinicians implementing the intervention protocols with fidelity (Specific Aim 1), Second, a
      number of developmental measures will be implemented to examine improvement. These measures
      are typically administered in longitudinal developmental research, not clinical research, and
      the sensitivity of these tools to change is unknown. Therefore, this project will allow for a
      pilot examination of the implementation of these tools in a clinical context and the extent
      to which change may occur (Specific Aim 2). Finally, effect size estimates of change for key
      outcome metrics (i.e., self-regulation, parent-child relationship) will be derived to inform
      power analyses and sample size determinations for an R01 application (Specific Aim 3). For
      the current study, 30 adoptive parent-child dyads (child ages 4-9) will be recruited and
      randomly assigned to receive one of two interventions. As an inclusion criteria, all children
      will be required to receive a parent-reported clinically elevated or borderline score on the
      Total Score of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ; ≥ 14) as an index of
      self-regulation. The SDQ will be used as an outcome measure, as well as a number of other
      objective report measures, observations, interviews, and child-completed tasks. Dyads will be
      recruited through the Penn State Children's Hospital's TLC Research and Treatment Center and
      established partnerships with local adoption agencies.
    
  