
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MK-2206 in combination with anastrozole
      based on toxicities observed during cycle 1 therapy. (Phase IA) II. To evaluate the
      tolerability of prolonged administration (3 months) of MK-2206 in combination with
      anastrozole at the MTD defined in Phase IA. (Phase IB) III. To determine the recommended
      phase II treatment dosing (RPTD) of MK-2206 in combination with anastrozole based on
      toxicities observed with prolonged drug administration. (Phase IB) IV. To determine the
      tolerability of fulvestrant (Arm C), or fulvestrant plus anastrozole (Arm D), respectively,
      in combination with MK-2206 (at the RPTD defined in Phase 1B). (Arms C and D) V. To determine
      the recommended phase II treatment dose (RPTD) of fulvestrant (Arm C) or fulvestrant plus
      anastrozole (Arm D), respectively, in combination with MK-2206 based on toxicities observed
      with prolonged drug administration (3 months). (Arms C and D) VI. To evaluate the toxicity
      profile of MK-2206 in combination with fulvestrant (Arm C) or fulvestrant plus anastrozole
      (Arm D), respectively, with prolonged drug administration. (Arms C and D)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicity profile of MK-2206 in combination with anastrozole, or
      fulvestrant, or anastrozole plus fulvestrant.

      II. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate (CBR: complete response [CR]+partial response
      [PR]+stable disease [SD] > 6 months), response rate (CR+PR), and percent of patients
      progression free at 6 months with the treatment of MK-2206 in combination with anastrozole,
      or fulvestrant or anastrozole plus fulvestrant in patients with estrogen receptor positive
      (ER+) metastatic breast cancer.

      III. To examine serum levels of estradiol prior to and following 1 cycle of MK-2206 therapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine baseline tumor specimens for alterations in phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase
      (PI3K) and other pathway genes and to explore their relationship with treatment response.

      II. To evaluate the effect of MK-2206 on tumor cell v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene
      homolog 1 (AKT) signaling, proliferation, and apoptosis using serially collected tumor
      samples in available cases.

      III. To examine changes in tumor cell glucose uptake by positron emission tomography (PET)
      with 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) at baseline and 24 h post day 1 MK-2206. (Phase
      IA) IV. To examine the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit
      alpha (PIK3CA) mutation status in circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) at baseline and
      following study therapy and to correlate with tumor tissue PIK3CA status and treatment
      response.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of Akt inhibitor MK2206 followed by a
      recommended phase II dose (RPTD) study. Patients are assigned to the treatment arm that is
      currently open.

      ARM A: Patients receive anastrozole orally (PO) on days 1-28. Beginning in course 2, patients
      receive Akt inhibitor MK-2206 PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: The RPTD of Akt inhibitor MK2206 with anastrozole is determined after 3 courses,
      administered as in Arm A.

      ARM C: Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, fulvestrant
      intramuscularly (IM) on day 1 and day 15 of course 1 and then on day 1 of each course in each
      subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D: Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 PO as in Arm A, anastrozole PO on days 1-28 and
      fulvestrant IM on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: As of 8/19/2015, in all Arms, patients no longer receive Akt inhibitor MK2206.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  