
    
      End Stage Kidney Disease (ESKD) results in reduced life expectancy, quality of life and
      increased consumption of health care resources. Chronic Kidney Disease of Uncertain aetiology
      (CKDu) is being increasingly recognized in the North Central Region of Sri Lanka and in
      certain regions over 25% (unpublished data) of general population is suspected as suffering
      from CKDu. The number of patients who reach ESKD that requires hemodialysis or
      transplantation is increasing, highlighting the need to find strategies that slow progression
      of kidney disease. The need for these strategies is even more critical in Sri Lanka where
      dialysis in not a preferred treatment option. Treatment strategies should be readily
      accessible and cheap.

      The importance of proteinuria as a significant risk factor for ESKD is well recognized, and
      treatment that is targeted at reducing proteinuria has been shown to reduce progression of
      renal disease. The Renin - Angiotensin - Aldosterone - System (RAAS) is directly involved in
      the regulation of blood pressure, fluid volume, and vascular response to injury and
      inflammation. The inappropriate activation of this system causes hypertension, fluid
      retention, and inflammatory, thrombotic, and atherogenic effects that may contribute to
      end-organ damage in the long term. Angiotensin II mediates hemodynamic effects as well as
      inflammation and fibrosis in the kidney, heart, and vasculature.

      Numerous clinical trials have established that interruption of the RAAS cascade with
      angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) is
      beneficial in slowing progression of renal disease. Reduction of BP lowers proteinuria, but
      the use of an ACEI or an ARB reduces both proteinuria and the rate of deterioration of renal
      function beyond those seen with equivalent BP reduction from conventional antihypertensive
      agents. However, the use of these agents has limitations, with significant numbers of treated
      patients still demonstrating progressive renal disease. RAAS blockers have been shown to
      blunt the progression of advanced kidney disease. However the long-term renal effect of these
      agents in early renal disease is not well demonstrated. In fact the trials which showed
      benefits with RAAS blockers did show in glomerular disease and evidence is not so strong in
      tubulo-interstitial disease. The benefits of RAS inhibition seem to depend on the degree of
      proteinuria at baseline. It is marginal in those with low grade proteinuria.

      In most forms of proteinuric chronic renal disease, glomerular filtration rate continues to
      decline even when the initial insult has been removed. The cause of CKDu is still unknown.
      CKDu is a tubulo-interstitial disease with low grade proteinuria. We believe that the place
      of ACEI for secondary prevention of CKDu progression needs investigation
    
  