
    
      Vitiligo is primarily a clinical diagnosis without the need for diagnostic tools. It
      classified into three types: segmental vitiligo , nonsegmental vitiligo , and unclassifiable
      vitiligo .

      Onset and disease course may vary by subtype .Although the disease is typically asymptomatic
      and non-fatal; the profound cosmetic disfigurement it produces has a significant negative
      impact on the patient's quality of life .

      Vitiligo occurs due to a complex interaction among genetic, environmental and immunologic
      factors. This ultimately leads to melanocyte damage resulting characteristic depigmented
      lesions.

      Conventional vitiligo treatments include topical steroid, topical and oral immunomodulators
      and phototherapy. In spite of much advancement in pharmacotherapy, treatment for vitiligo
      still remains a challenge for physicians. Re-pigmentation of the lesions on the extremities
      or over bony prominences is particularly poor due to the reduced numbers of follicle-based
      melanocytes in these areas .

      Treatment of vitiligo with narrowband ultraviolet B light is an important component of the
      current standard of care.Narrowband ultraviolet B therapy or topical corticosteroid has long
      been used in vitiligo. However, the re-pigmentation is always transient and time-consuming .

      Using surgical therapies (Dermabrasion) may increase the rate of re-pigmentation or
      erbium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet laser to stimulate melanocyte stem cells and enhance
      drug absorption and autoinoculation of melanocytes from the margin, but create wounds that
      take a longer time to heal . In addition to being costly and time consuming, special
      training, staff, and equipment are needed in order to perform the procedures.

      Fractional carbon dioxide lasers, originally developed for tissue rejuvenation and scar
      remodeling. Recently, it has been used in the treatment of vitiligo. The newly developed
      fractional carbon dioxide laser does not ablate the entire epidermis, leaving intact skin
      between coagulated necrotic columns. It decreases risk of potential side effects and
      minimizes duration of sick leave.

      Several mechanisms may contribute to explain the improvement of Vitiligo after fractional
      carbon dioxide laser sessions. Firstly, wounding therapies may regenerate de novo hair
      follicles by Wnt-dependant pathway .Moreover the role of hair follicles in the repigmentation
      of Vitiligo is longstanding knowledge . Secondly, wounding therapies and fractional
      wounding-therapies may increase the penetration and the well-known efficiency of
      ultraviolet-radiation. Thirdly, they may induce the activation, proliferation and migration
      of melanoblasts from the border areas or differentiation of stem cells from the dermis of
      lesions by initiating propigmenting cytokinic inflammatory cascades .

      Adding fractional carbon dioxide laser treatment to the conventional therapies of vitiligo
      may improve repigmentation rate as well as patient satisfaction .

      Aim of the Work :

      To evaluate the use of fractional Co2 laser combined with topical corticosteroid and
      ultraviolet B narrow band( UVB-NB) in treatment of stable vitiligo.
    
  