
    
      Lung cancer accounts for 30% of all cancers among American war Veterans and remains the
      leading cause of cancer related deaths. Half of all lung cancers are metastatic non-small
      cell lung cancer (NSCLC), with a 2-year survival rate of 10%. Immunotherapy with immune
      checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy that aims to
      harness the immune system to fight lung cancer. However, given the modest response rates of
      20-25% to these immune checkpoint inhibitors, there is a greater desire to extend their
      benefits to more patients. Along with the desire to extend their benefits, there is a
      critical need for the development of novel approaches that can expand the benefit from immune
      checkpoint inhibitors and create more durable responses, prolonging survival from lung
      cancer.

      Our studies show that extended dexamethasone (Dex) treatment induces irreversible cell cycle
      blockade and a senescence phenotype through chronic activation of the p27Kip1 gene in
      glucocorticoid receptor (GR) overexpressing lung adenocarcinoma (AC) cell populations.
      Further, following withdrawal of Dexamethasone, proteins associated with the senescence
      associated secretory phenotype (SASP), particularly CCL2, CCL4, CXCL1 and CXCL2 strongly
      attracted and expanded T-cells, NK cells and monocytes stimulated tumor cell cytolytic
      activity of NK cells.

      Our overarching hypothesis is that in lung adenocarcinoma patients who are not on baseline
      steroids, pre-treatment with Dexamethasone will induce a persistent senescence phenotype in
      tumor cell sub-populations expressing moderate/high levels of GR and resultant chemokines
      produced by the senescent cells will mobilize host immune cells to reboot response to immune
      checkpoint inhibitors following complete Dexamethasone withdrawal. The investigators will
      test this hypothesis through the conduct of the following aims.

      Specific Aim 1: Use FLT-PET imaging and blood analysis to test whether a 7-14-day
      pre-treatment of lung adenocarcinoma patients with Dexamethasone followed by Dexamethasone
      withdrawal will induce persistent senescence related cell cycle arrest in 1 lesion in 60% of
      patients, (based on GR expression) accompanied by release of SASP proteins and activation of
      T and NK cells.

      Specific Aim 2: Test whether a 7-14-day pre-treatment of lung adenocarcinoma patients with
      Dexamethasone followed by Dexamethasone withdrawal and subsequent re-challenge with
      pembrolizumab will yield an overall response rate (ORR) of 33% to pembrolizumab in
      association with tumor GR status, SASP and immune cell activation.

      These aims will be conducted through a Phase II clinical trial designed as a single-arm
      two-stage study in Veterans whose lung adenocarcinoma has progressed on immune checkpoint
      inhibitors. Based on the investigators' preliminary data, the investigators expect that
      Dexamethasone will induce tumor senescence in at least one lesion in 60% of patients and
      secondarily improve overall response to pembrolizumab by 33%. Success with these aims would
      inform a larger study that could potentially change the way the investigators approach
      patients with primary or acquired resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors with an off the
      shelf medication that could re-sensitize lung adenocarcinoma to immune checkpoint inhibitors.
      The proposed research could substantially benefit Veterans with metastatic NSCLC, a group
      with the most genomically complex lung cancers and poor survival.
    
  