
    
      Objectives: Over 40,000 Veterans who served in the 1991 Gulf War (GW) have a persistent form
      of chronic multisymptom illness that defines Gulf War Veterans Illness (GWVI). With no
      existing proven treatments to provide relief to these sufferers, it is critical to find
      efficacious and acceptable treatments for GWVI.

      The long-term goal is to develop a safe, readily available, mind-body treatment to reduce
      pain and other chronic symptoms and enhance wellness in Veterans with GWVI. Tai Chi is a
      traditional Chinese mind-body therapy that has been practiced for centuries. In the last
      decade, the investigators have demonstrated that Tai Chi can improve both physical health and
      psychological wellbeing in patients with a variety of chronic conditions.

      The proposed randomized trial will establish the effectiveness of a Tai Chi mind-body
      treatment in Veterans with GWVI. One hundred and twenty participants meeting criteria for
      GWVI will be randomly assigned to either a Tai Chi exercise or a wellness education group for
      12 weeks with a post treatment assessment, and follow-up assessments. The investigators will
      accomplish the following Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Evaluate whether the Tai Chi intervention will reduce symptoms of pain in
      Veterans with GWVI more than the Wellness intervention. The investigators hypothesize that
      participants randomized to the Tai Chi intervention will show a greater reduction in pain
      symptoms than those in the Wellness intervention and will maintain changes over a 9-month
      follow-up period.

      Specific Aim 2: Evaluate whether the Tai Chi intervention improves fatigue, cognition,
      quality of life, and physical functioning in GW Veterans with GWVI, as compared to the
      Wellness intervention. The investigators hypothesize that participants randomized to the Tai
      Chi intervention will evidence more improvement in fatigue, cognitive functioning, quality of
      life, and physical functioning than those randomized to the Wellness intervention and will
      maintain changes over a 9-month follow-up period.

      Research Design: One hundred and twenty GW Veterans meeting criteria for GWVI will be
      randomly assigned to either the Tai Chi Condition or the Wellness Condition, half to each
      condition.

      Methodology: All participants will receive 12 weeks of the randomly-assigned intervention
      twice each week. Participants in both conditions will receive assessments at baseline, 12
      weeks (post-intervention), 24 weeks (3 months post-intervention) and 48 weeks (9 months
      post-intervention). Assessments include instruments to measure self-reported pain, fatigue,
      cognition, quality of life, and physical functioning.
    
  