
    
      Background: The majority of breast cancer is hormone sensitive and treated with 10 years of
      adjuvant endocrine therapy (AET) (i.e., tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors) to reduce risk of
      recurrence and improve survival; however, adherence to AET among breast cancer survivors
      (BCS) is a challenge, with half of women becoming non-adherent within five years. Difficulty
      coping with symptoms (e.g., sleep problems, hot flashes, weight gain, fatigue) and
      psychosocial distress (i.e., depression or anxiety symptoms), and other emotional and
      logistical factors are major barriers to adherence. There is a dearth of efficacious
      interventions targeting the needs and adherence challenges of BCS prescribed AET.

      Objective: To address this gap, the proposed study, funded by the National Cancer Institute,
      employs a mixed-methods design to develop and test an evidence-based intervention (STRIDE) to
      enhance adherence to AET, improve symptom management, and reduce distress in breast cancer
      survivors.

      Specific Aims: The primary aims of this study are: 1) to examine the feasibility and
      acceptability of a tailored, small-group, virtual intervention (STRIDE) compared to a
      medication monitoring control for survivors of breast cancer taking AET, and 2) to explore
      the effects of the STRIDE intervention on adherence to AET, symptom distress, and
      satisfaction with AET.

      Study Design: Phase 1 included (1) semi-structured interviews with BCS on AET (n=30) and
      intervention development with psychologists and oncology clinicians. The intervention is a a
      brief, virtual, small-group, cognitive-behavioral intervention that aims to alleviate
      symptoms and side effects related to hormonal therapy or breast cancer, optimize
      medication-taking, and reduce emotional distress for breast cancer survivors taking hormonal
      therapy. Phase 2 will entail a run-in phase (n=5) to evaluate acceptability and further
      refine the intervention, followed by a randomized controlled pilot trial (n=100) to assess
      the feasibility of comparing the STRIDE intervention to a medication monitoring control with
      assessments and adherence monitoring over the course of six months. Participants will be
      recruited at Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and three community satellite
      sites. Eligible participants will be hormone-receptor positive breast cancer survivors
      prescribed AET who are experiencing distress related to AET (e.g., adherence difficulties,
      side effects, etc.). This research study involves completing 3 questionnaire batteries at the
      time of enrollment, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks. The participant will also be asked to store their
      hormonal therapy pills in a medication bottle provided by the study team throughout the 24
      week study period. If the participants are randomized to receive the STRIDE intervention, the
      participant will have six weekly one-hour virtual (videoconferencing) sessions in small
      groups with a trained clinician followed by two 15-minute check-in phone calls later in the
      study.
    
  