
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2 requires hospitalization in a
      significant amount of patients. The hospitalization rate and disease severity increases in
      the elderly and patients with comorbidities such as diabetes, arterial hypertension, lung
      pathologies and obesity (Garg et al.). Patients with severe infections have pneumonia,
      requiring prolonged invasive ventilation. Sequelae of longer periods of mechanical
      ventilation and reduction of quality of life after acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)
      are described (Herridge et al., 2 references). Besides, SARS-CoV-2 can induce - without
      preexisting immunity - strong inflammatory reactions, which can affect various organs.
      COVID-19 specific complications like thromboembolic events, neurologic events, myocardial
      involvement, or liver damage are reported during the acute stage of the infection. The lung
      is affected even during less severe infections, and ground glass opacities can result in
      consolidations (Shi et al.). These changes were reported to persist after discharge (Mo et
      al.). Acute kidney failure occurs in critically ill patients in 20-40% (Richardson et al.),
      and 40% of patients admitted to the hospital had proteinuria (Cheng et al.). Myocardial
      damage is reported, and some patients even presented initially with chest tightness and
      palpitations before having fever or cough (Zheng et al.). Moreover, patients with COVID-19
      have a higher risk of thromboembolic events (Klok et al., Llitjos et al). Typically these
      patients have a prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), and often
      antiphospholipid antibodies (Bowles et al.). The long-term consequences of the strong
      inflammatory response affecting various organs are currently unknown. We hypothesize that
      some patients will have transient or persistent sequelae requiring medical care. The study
      group will therefore clinically examine patients that were hospitalized due to COVID-19, and
      monitor pulmonary, and other organ functions for at least one year after symptom onset. The
      study group will thereby perform lung and cardial examinations, monitor nephrologic
      parameters and perform radiology. Pneumologic tests will include a lung function test, a
      spiroergometry, a 6-minute walking test, and a grip-force test. Cardiac examination will
      include an echocardiography, and an electrocardiogram. In case of of severe pneumonia, or
      deterioration in lung function, computer tomography of the lungs will be performed. Blood
      (and urine) tests will include kidney parameters, inflammatory markers, liver values, and
      coagulation tests. Additional examinations will be done on an individual basis if clinically
      indicated, e.g. lung biopsies in case of suspected interstitial fibrosis. Additionally
      patient samples, which were taken for diagnostic purposes (serum, PBMCs, biopsies) will be
      stored in the biobank of the German center for lung research (DZL). Clinical evaluation and
      testing will start 2 months after symptom onset and the last visit is scheduled 10 months
      later. Depending on the results and the needs of the individual patient additional testing
      will be conducted.
    
  