
    
      Aim To test the hypothesis that the addition of 75mg aspirin once daily to usual care reduces
      the risk of major vascular events in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who do not
      have pre-existing cardiovascular disease (CVD)

      Design Open label, multi-centre randomised controlled trial

      Setting UK general practices

      Sample size 25,210 patients (12,605 per arm). A total of 1,827 major vascular events overall
      are required.

      Eligibility Inclusion Criteria

        1. Males and females aged 18 years and over at the date of screening

        2. Subjects with diagnosed CKD:

             -  decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] for at least 90 days (defined
                as eGFR <60mL/min/1.73m2), and/or

             -  albuminuria or proteinuria for at least 90 days (defined as urine
                albumin:creatinine ratio [ACR] ≥3mg/mmol, and/or urine protein:creatinine ratio
                [PCR] ≥15mg/mmol , and/or +protein or greater on reagent strip [and in all cases
                where the most recent qualifying result is ACR ≥3mg/mmol])

        3. Subjects who are willing to give permission for their paper and electronic medical
           records to be accessed by trial investigators

        4. Subjects who are willing to be contacted and interviewed by trial investigators

        5. Subjects who can communicate well with the investigator or designee, understand the
           requirements of the study and understand and sign the written informed consent

      Exclusion Criteria

        1. Subjects with CKD eGFR category 5

        2. Subjects with pre-existing cardiovascular disease (angina, myocardial infarction,
           stroke, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), significant peripheral vascular disease,
           coronary or peripheral revascularisation for atherosclerotic disease)

        3. Subjects with a current pre-existing condition associated with increased risk of
           bleeding other than CKD

        4. Subjects currently prescribed anticoagulants or antiplatelet agent, or taking over the
           counter (OTC) aspirin continuously

        5. Subjects who are currently and regularly taking other drugs with a potentially serious
           interaction with aspirin

        6. Subjects with a known allergy to aspirin or definite previous clinically important
           adverse reaction

        7. Subjects with poorly controlled hypertension (systolic blood pressure [BP] ≥180 mmHg
           and/or diastolic BP ≥105 mmHg)

        8. Subjects with anaemia: haemoglobin (Hb) <90g/L; or Hb <100g/L with mean cell volume
           (MCV) ≤75 femtoliters/cell (fL)

        9. Subjects who are pregnant or likely to become pregnant during the study period

       10. Subjects with malignancy that is life-threatening or likely to limit prognosis, other
           life-threatening co-morbidity, or terminal illness

       11. Subjects whose behaviour or lifestyle would render them less likely to comply with study
           medication

       12. Subjects in prison

       13. Subjects currently participating in another interventional clinical trial or who have
           taken part in a trial in the last 3 months

      Interventions Suitable participants will be randomised to receive: 75mg non-enteric coated
      aspirin once daily in addition to their usual medication; or no additional treatment and
      avoidance of aspirin.

      Duration The trial will continue until 1,827 major vascular events have occurred: this is
      anticipated 6 years after the recruitment start date, or 2.5 years following the recruitment
      end date.

      Randomisation and blinding Eligible participants, based on results of blood and urine tests
      taken at screening, will be randomised (open label randomisation) 1:1 to general practitioner
      (GP) prescription of aspirin vs. no prescription, stratified by age, diabetes and CKD
      severity.

      Follow-up Data on potential CVD and bleeding outcomes will be collected electronically from
      GP records and national hospitalisation and mortality records. Adjudication panels (for CVD
      and for bleeding) will asses the information blind to allocation.

      Patients will complete an annual quality of life questionnaire (EQ5D).

      Outcomes. Primary outcome measure

      Time to first major vascular event from the date of randomisation. A major vascular event is
      defined as a primary composite outcome of non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), non-fatal
      stroke and cardiovascular death (excluding confirmed intracranial haemorrhage).

      Secondary outcome measures (all time to event except quality of life)

      Efficacy

        1. Death from any cause

        2. Composite outcome of major vascular event or revascularisation (coronary and
           non-coronary)

        3. Individual components of the primary composite endpoint

        4. Health-related quality of life

      Safety

        1. Composite outcome of intracranial haemorrhage (fatal and non-fatal), fatal extracranial
           haemorrhage and non-fatal major extracranial haemorrhage (adjudicated)

        2. Fatal and non-fatal (reported individually and as a composite) intracranial haemorrhage
           comprising: i) primary haemorrhagic stroke (to distinguish from haemorrhagic
           transformation of ischaemic stroke); ii) other intracranial haemorrhage (adjudicated)

        3. Fatal and non-fatal (reported individually and as a composite) major extracranial
           haemorrhage: i) vascular-procedural; ii) vascular-non-procedural; iii) gastrointestinal;
           iv) genitourinary; v) respiratory; vi) pericardial; vii) ocular; viii) other; ix)
           undetermined (adjudicated)

        4. Clinically relevant non-major bleeding

      Tertiary (exploratory) outcome measures (all time to event except hospitalisation)

        1. Transient ischaemic attack

        2. Unplanned hospitalisation

        3. New diagnosis of cancer (colorectal/other)

        4. CKD progression

        5. New diagnosis of dementia

      Statistical methods The primary outcome measure of time to first major vascular event will be
      analysed for the intention-to-treat (ITT) population. Deaths from other causes (including
      fatal bleeding) will be treated as competing events. Patients who do not experience a major
      vascular event will be censored at the date of last follow-up.

      All primary, secondary and tertiary time to event outcomes will be described using
      Kaplan-Meier curves or Cumulative Hazard plots for time to event outcomes involving competing
      risks for the ITT population. Analyses of time to event outcomes will be performed using Cox
      proportional hazards models or Competing Risk regression models, both unadjusted and adjusted
      for stratification factors: age, diabetes and CKD severity.

      The adjusted Competing Risk regression model for time to first major vascular event, with
      deaths from other causes (including fatal bleeding) treated as competing events, and patients
      who do not experience a major vascular event censored, will form the primary endpoint
      analysis model.

      Other secondary and tertiary endpoints will be assessed by arm using summary statistics (e.g.
      Pearson's χ² tests) in the ITT population.

      The amount of missing data and reasons for the incompleteness will be explored and presented
      overall i.e. not by group. If the amount of missing data is deemed too high and if
      appropriate (i.e. assuming the missing data is either missing at random [MAR] or missing
      completely at random [MCAR] and censoring assumed to be non-informative), multiple imputation
      will be performed accordingly, for which all covariates included in the multivariable model,
      together with the censoring/event indicator and the cumulative baseline hazard will be
      included in the multiple imputation model.

      Health economic analysis will also be undertaken.
    
  