
    
      International, multicentre, single-blind, two parallel groups, pragmatic randomised Research
      Clinical Trial. It will be carried out by investigators in several Latin American countries
      (Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru) and with random allocation 1:1 of the participants to
      Usual Care Group (UCG) or Intervention Group (IG). Each country will select 5-7 trial sites
      that will recruit 51 participants (255 participants per country) except Mexico which will
      select 2 sites to recruit 50 participants each one (100 participants).

      There will be a National lead investigator in each involved country. This National lead
      investigator will be trained by the general coordinator team in the procedures of the study.
      Each National lead investigator will be responsible for the training in his/her country. In
      each country, the lead will select the recruitment trial sites (5-7 in each country) and each
      trial site will recruit 51 participants approximately except in Mexico (see above). All data
      will be collected in an eCRF (electronic case report form) platform designed specifically for
      this project.

      This study is focused on an older population (≥ 65 years) with diabetes and a frail or
      prefrail status.

      Objectives:

      Main objective: To assess the effectiveness of a multi-modal intervention in subjects with
      type 2 Diabetes Mellitus aged ≥ 65 years who are frail or pre-frail in terms of function and
      quality of life in comparison with usual clinical practice.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Changes in the frailty status (trajectories of frailty: frail to prefrail; frail to
           robustness; prefrail to robustness and vice versa).

        -  Incidence rate of symptomatic hypoglycemia and hypoglycemic coma.

        -  Incidence rate of hospital admission.

        -  Incidence rate of permanent institutionalization.

        -  Carer burden.

        -  Laboratory biomarkers of prognostic value for response to treatment

      Usual care group:

      Usual clinical practice is the level of usual health care that a patient with diabetes
      receives from their local national health system.

      Intervention group:

        1. Optimal glycosylated hemoglobin range between 7.6-8.5% (60-69 mmol/mol) and optimal
           blood pressure: <150/90 mmHg

        2. Physical exercise program that will be used will be the Vivifrail program, developed in
           Europe (Erasmus + UE). Vivifrail includes:

             -  Strength exercises for arms and legs.

             -  Balance and gait, to avoid falls.

             -  Flexibility.

             -  Resistance. The duration of the training program will be 16 weeks.

        3. Nutritional and educational program: The intervention is designed to increase diabetes
           knowledge, develop practical self-care skills for diabetes, and increase the likelihood
           of improving glycemic control safely. The intervention aims to minimize the risk of
           hypoglycemia, ensure optimal nutritional status, and help maintain functional status.
    
  