
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy of allopurinol as an augmentation
      agent for the prevention of mania in bipolar disorder patients with currently stable mood.
      Bipolar disorder is a mental disorder with severe mood swings (mania and depression). Despite
      the development of medications for mania, they may have significant side effects, high costs
      and the need for serum level monitoring. These factors adversely affect medication compliance
      in bipolar patients. One recent study indicated the efficacy of allopurinol in the treatment
      of bipolar mania. Our hypothesis is that the addition of allopurinol to standard medications
      for bipolar disorder will decrease the recurrences of manic episodes compared to standard
      medications.

      This study will recruit bipolar disorder patients currently mood stable on a therapeutic dose
      of an anti-manic medication. Stable mood will be defined as a Young Mania Rating Scale score
      ≤10 and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale ≤10. Subjects must have a diagnosis of bipolar
      disorder confirmed by the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview. Young Mania Rating
      Scale and Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview are common research questionnaires
      used in bipolar disorder studies. Potential subjects will be identified and approached during
      an outpatient clinical visit by a member of the research team and identified by their
      treating physicians and referred to the researchers.

      This study involves adding allopurinol to subjects' current bipolar medications. This study
      will be a open label, naturalistic study. The subject will be examined monthly for manic
      symptoms for 2 years. Semi-structured interviews and study questionnaires will be
      administered to subjects at each visit. Monthly Follow-up Study Visits (once per month for 2
      years - Months 1-5, 7-11, 13-17, 19-23) may be conducted either in-person or over the phone.
      All of the questionnaires will be administered by a clinician if the visit is completed over
      the phone. However, the 6-month interval visits (Months 6, 12, 18, and 24) must be done at
      the research center.

      The primary outcome measure will be the number of manic episodes in the 2 year study period.
      A manic episode will be defined by a Young Mania Rating Scale score ≥20.
    
  