
    
      Background issues and controversies

      More than ever before, there is a rise in the rates of obesity and diabetes. As opposed to
      white fat which stores excess calories, brown fat also known as brown adipose tissue or
      BAT-consumes this energy to generate heat. In settings of increased food consumption and
      cold- exposure, studies show that human BAT becomes more active, potentially combatting
      weight gain. Other emerging evidence indicates that human BAT may be an endocrine organ,
      releasing hormones into the blood and regulating other organs like skeletal muscle, liver,
      and the insulin- releasing pancreatic beta-cell. However, alongside these promising studies
      are those people who believe that there is not enough BAT in humans to be functionally
      relevant, and it contributes little to heat generation or overall health.

      Purpose/Rationale of the proposed study

      One of the principal reasons for skepticism about the ability to utilize human BAT is that
      there is not very much compared to smaller animals in which BAT activation has shown such
      promise. Therefore, a critical step is to develop medicines that can grow BAT in people and
      evaluate what kind of health benefits can be achieved.

      Specific objectives

      This study will administer the clinically-available beta3-AR agonist, mirabegron (Myrbetriq ,
      Astellas Pharma). We will determine whether we can increase BAT volume and activity in people
      after they have taken this medication daily for four weeks. Our current goal is to see if
      chronic administration of mirabegron leads to an increase in BAT volume and metabolic
      activity and if it produces health benefits.

      Key elements of what is involved

      At the beginning of the study, the participants will undergo a series of tests to determine
      their baseline amounts of BAT, blood sugar status, and levels of specified hormones. The
      testing will take place over the course of two to three days while an inpatient on the
      Metabolic Patient Care Unit at the NIH Clinical Center. Depending on the Cohort, participants
      will then take the medication alone for four weeks or both the medication and placebo for
      four weeks each, during which time they will continue their standard daily routines. At two
      weeks after starting placebo or mirabegron, participants will return for one day for the
      assessment of any interim changes and to validate safety. At the end of each set of four
      weeks there will be a second set of inpatient testing over two to three days. Participants
      will be brought back two weeks after finishing the study for a follow-up safety visit, at
      which time they will receive an ECG and heart rate monitoring.

      Primary outcomes

      The primary outcome is either the change in BAT metabolic activity as measured by 18FFDG
      PET/CT or glucose infusion rate as measured by a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp. Secondary
      endpoints will examine multiple other factors, including body weight, fat mass, glucose
      tolerance, changes in levels of hormones, and improved liver function.
    
  