
    
      Following diagnosis of ATR, attending surgeons will discuss treatment options with the
      patient and determine their course of treatment to be operative or non-operative. Patients
      will then be randomized via computer to prospectively undergo ATR rehabilitation using
      conventional therapy or conventional therapy with a BFR adjunct by physical therapists
      already trained in BFR with extensive experience in ATR rehabilitation. There will be no
      incentive provided for participation by the therapists and the therapists may opt out of
      using BFR at any point. Treatment groups will undergo similar protocols with the only
      difference being the use of BFR as an adjunct to their rehabilitation. The protocol for using
      the BFR cuff will be similar to previous studies examining BFR in lower extremity injuries,
      with adaptation to the postoperative protocol specific to the Achilles tendon. More
      specifically the physical therapists will be provided with a tourniquet that includes a
      pressure monitor. The skin will be protected with a sleeve and the cuff will be placed in the
      thigh well proximal to the knee joint. The investigators will begin by determining the
      patient's limb occlusion pressure, which is conducted automatically by the cuff via built in
      doppler. Once this is done the cuff will be inflated to 80% of the limb occlusion pressure,
      which is the currently accepted recommendation in the literature and sufficient to achieve
      the desired effect of blood flow restriction.

      For non-operative candidates the investigators will begin their rehabilitation and physical
      therapy immediately following their initial office visit. Participants will have follow-up
      appointments at two-weeks, six-weeks, three-months and six-months. During these follow-up
      appointments the investigators will assess calf strength, calf circumference, ankle range of
      motion, current pain and function level. Additionally, the investigators will conduct testing
      at the end of the therapy sessions to ensure patients are prepared to return to sports.

      For operative candidates the investigators will schedule their surgery at the earliest
      convenience and availability following their initial office visit. Participants will begin
      their rehabilitation and physical therapy immediately following their surgery. Participants
      will have follow-up appointments at two-weeks, six-weeks, three-months and six-months. During
      these follow-up appointments the investigators will assess calf strength, calf circumference,
      ankle range of motion, current pain and function level. Additionally, the investigators will
      conduct testing at the end of the therapy sessions to ensure patients are prepared to return
      to sports.

      In both operative and non-operative rehabilitation, therapy will consist of a structured
      program progressing from range of motion to strength training and then functional tests. Both
      those randomized to conventional therapy and those randomized to conventional therapy with
      BFR adjunct will follow the same protocol with the only variable being the use of BFR. Again,
      the BFR group will have the cuff inflated per protocol outlined above, this will be under the
      guidance of trained physical therapists.

      Throughout this protocol patient will have their initial/pre-operative visit to establish
      care and set up surgery and follow-up appointments at two-weeks, six-weeks, three-months and
      six-months. All data collection and testing during these follow-up appointments will be
      obtained with a handheld device and will add less than five minutes to clinic visits.
    
  