
    
      -  Objective: To determine the effect of the daily addition of five mL of an O3 highly
           concentrated substance (EicosaPentaenoic Acid - EPA: 2.25 g and DocosaHexaenoic Acid -
           DHA: 1.08 g), to the standard enteral nutrition diet during RT (5-7 weeks), on the
           Quality of Life (QoL) and Functionality (Fx) of patients with HNSCC.

        -  Methods: Randomized, double-blinded, controlled clinical trial. Patients with HNSCC
           (ages ranging from 18-80 years) who will receive total enteral nutrition support through
           percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and RT for the first time will be invited to
           participate in the study. Exclusion criteria are fish allergy, anticoagulant
           consumption, any supplement consumption 6 months prior to the experiment, any
           contraindication to the performance of the body composition analysis using bioelectrical
           impedance (Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis, BIA) (cardiac pacemaker, any metallic
           prosthesis, inability to stand, severe edema), or the presence of the mal-absorption
           syndrome, two or more cancer types, organ dysfunction, immune diseases, or any
           hospitalization during the 20 days prior to extraction of the blood sample. Patients
           with the consumption of any other nutritional supplement or diagnosed with any other
           cancer during the treatment period, or with insufficient or incorrectly processed
           blood-serum samples will be eliminated. After expressing their willingness to
           participate via the signing of the informed consent document, 86 patients with HNSCC
           will be allocated into two groups: The O3 Group will have the addition of 5 mL of an O3
           highly concentrated substance containing 2.25 g of EPA and 1.08 g of DHA to the standard
           enteral diet during RT (5-7 weeks), and the Placebo or Control Group will have the
           addition of 5 mL of a placebo (pigmented and flavored corn oil) in a similar manner. All
           patients will be seen every 4 weeks at the Nutrition Support Service for nutritional
           assessment and counseling, and to receive the enteral nutrition containers (standard
           polymeric diet). On the same day, a Research Assistant (who will be blinded) will
           provide the supplements or the placebo. The patients' sociodemographic and clinical
           information, body composition, albumin, hemoglobin, C-reactive protein, tumor
           cachexia-related cytokines: IL (Interleukin) 1a, IL-1b, IL-6, IL-8, IFNγ (Interferon
           gamma), TGF-β (transforming growth factor beta), and TNF-α (Tumor necrosis factor
           alpha); and responses for the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer
           Quality of Life C-30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30) with the Head and Neck Cancer module
           (EORTC-QLQ-H&N35) questionnaires will be collected at the beginning of RT, at the end of
           RT, and 12 weeks after starting RT. Statistical analysis includes descriptive
           statistics, inference statistics (Student t-test, Mann-Whitney test, one-way ANOVA with
           Bonferroni correction, Kruskal-Wallis with Dunn's non-parametric test), and the Cox
           regression; an intention-to-treat analysis will be performed.
    
  