
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the clinical efficacy of imatinib mesylate and combination chemotherapy in
           terms of complete response (CR) rate (both hematologic and molecular), CR duration, and
           overall survival in patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute
           lymphoblastic leukemia.

        -  To determine the toxicities of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To establish the prognostic factors in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (64 or less vs
      65 or over).

        -  Induction chemotherapy: Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over
           24 hours on days 1-3, vincristine IV on days 1 and 8, and oral prednisolone on days
           1-14. Treatment repeats for 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Imatinib mesylate administration: Patients also receive oral imatinib mesylate once
           daily beginning on day 8 of course 1 induction chemotherapy and continuing for up to 2
           years.

        -  Consolidation chemotherapy: Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously
           over 24 hours on days 1-2, vincristine IV on days 1 and 8, and oral prednisolone on days
           1-14 in course 1; cytarabine IV over 2 hours and etoposide IV over 3 hours on days 1-4
           in courses 2 and 4; and methotrexate IV continuously over 36 hours on days 1-2 and 15-16
           and leucovorin calcium IV every 6 hours x 3 doses followed by oral leucovorin calcium
           until methotrexate levels are < 0.05 micromol/L in courses 3 and 5. Treatment continues
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with available
           HLA-matched sibling or unrelated hematopoietic cell donors or HLA-nonidentical familial
           hematopoietic cell donors proceed to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
           (HSCT). Patients who are without hematopoietic cell donors and who remain in hematologic
           remission continue to receive maintenance therapy with oral imatinib mesylate.

        -  Allogeneic HSCT: Patients undergo HSCT.

        -  CNS prophylaxis: Patients receive six doses of intrathecal (IT) methotrexate and
           hydrocortisone beginning on the first day of each chemotherapy course. Patients with CNS
           disease at diagnosis receive intensified CNS therapy comprising 10 doses of IT
           methotrexate and cranial irradiation after bone marrow remission is achieved.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  