
    
      The prevention of MTCT during pregnancy and through breastfeeding exposure remains
      challenging to date in most resource-limited settings. Peripartum HIV transmission is already
      amenable to ARV interventions. These ARV regimens, partially efficacious are insufficiently
      used despite their apparent simplicity. The postnatal transmission via breastfeeding remains
      a serious additional threat.

      This is a multicentric, non-inferiority, randomized controlled trial aiming at assessing the
      maternal and infant safety of a single daily fixed-dose combination of TDF/FTC/EFV
      (Atripla®), compared to the association of LPV/r (Kaletra® or Aluvia®) and 3TC/ZDV
      (Combivir®) given to African women (in Cote d'Ivoire an in Zambia) to prevent MTCT overall in
      breastfeeding population.

      The fixed-dose combination of Tenofovir/Emtricitabine/Efavirenz (TDF/FTC/EFV or Atripla®) is
      a highly effective HAART combination and the simplest ARV regimen currently available in
      resource-limited settings and is therefore likely to become soon the lead first-line HAART
      regimen for adults in such settings. Its anticipated widespread prescription in women of
      childbearing age requires the proper documentation of its use in pregnancy and during
      breastfeeding.

      The combination of ZDV/3TC (Combivir®) and Lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) (Kaletra® or Aluvia®)
      is chosen as a reference regimen as it is one of the most commonly used first-line HAART for
      adults and the reference regimen for PMTCT in industrialised settings.

      The maternal ARV regimen will be initiated as soon as possible from 20 weeks of gestation
      until at least the cessation of breastfeeding (with the advice to cease at six months). The
      decision to stop or continue the maternal ARV regimen after breastfeeding cessation will be
      based on the baseline maternal CD4 count and the maternal clinical stage at baseline and/or
      at breastfeeding cessation. A woman with a baseline CD4 <500 cells/ml will always be proposed
      to continue her treatment after breastfeeding cessation. A woman with a baseline CD4 count
      >500 will be asked to stop her treatment after breastfeeding cessation unless she has reached
      the WHO clinical stage IV at that time.

      Infants will receive daily Zidovudine syrup from birth during the first week of life, or an
      updated ARV post-exposure prophylaxis recommended by WHO when women receive HAART.
    
  