
    
      A known disadvantage of constantly improving diagnostic imaging is the detection of
      incidental findings. Computed Tomography (CT) scanner technology is ever improving in both
      temporal and spatial resolution. Recently developed advanced reconstruction algorithms and
      dedicated post-processing software reduce image noise thereby improving image quality.
      Equipped with these advancements, modern CT scanners accomplish well defined imaging of
      cardiovascular structures. These technical improvements have enabled cardiac assessment on
      routine standard (non-ECG triggered) thoracic CT scans.

      If thoracic radiologists are able to assess the heart and coronary arteries on a standard
      thoracic CT, this could result in an extensive amount of incidental cardiac findings. Herein
      lies the potential for large scale reporting of incidental cardiac findings and,
      consequently, a huge influx of new 'patients' for downstream testing and potential
      (over-)treatment.

      Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) is a known comorbidity for multiple diseases, for example
      presence of CAD could require a different treatment strategy in lung cancer and worsen
      prognosis [Khakoo et al]. In patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), the incidence of CAD is
      four times higher compared with the general population, and the risk of a cardiovascular
      event is two- to four-fold higher [Kannel et al. + Aktas et al.]. Therefore, the discussion
      on management and treatment of these patients with incidental cardiac findings on chest CT
      evidently is important. Unfortunately, to date no consensus has been reached on the
      management and reporting of these findings. The CaPaCT study (cardiac pathologies on standard
      thoracic CT) has been developed to evaluate the visibility and management of incidental
      cardiac pathologies on a ultra-high pitch thoracic CT-scan with help of the CAD-RADS
      classification.
    
  