
    
      Postural control is the ability of the body to control its position in space for stability
      and orientation. Postural stability and balance are achieved by keeping the center of gravity
      of the body within the support surface. Stability can also occur with a static response when
      the body is stationary, and a dynamic response to internal or external perturbations when it
      is mobile. Antisipation of perturbation forces requires an effective core stabilization
      muscle activation as well as an effective integration of stimuli from different sensory
      systems. Trunk control is also provided by this relationship between neural systems and
      skeletal muscles. Children with CP show deficits in proximal muscle co-contraction and
      vertical posture stabilization, with limitations in postural reactions and antigravity
      movements. Trunk control is the determinant of balance, gait and functional activities from
      the early period. Core stability; it connects with deep abdominal muscles, spine, pelvis and
      shoulder girdle muscles to protect the posture and provide support for limb movement. During
      reaching out, stepping and sudden perturbations, the Transversus Abdominus muscle is
      activated primarily from other trunk and limb muscles, creating a core stability. Core
      activity includes not only spinal stability and power generation, but also many upper and
      lower extremity movements. Control is established by focusing on the transversus abdominis
      muscle by core stabilization training with Pilates, stabilization of trunk muscles. The
      proximal extremity muscles of the hip are also important to maintain the upright posture and
      maintain mobility. For example; hip abductor muscle strength compared to the knee and ankle
      muscles, walking variables and motor functions in children with CP were more correlated.
      Although the importance of walking was determined, activation patterns of trunk and hip
      muscles during walking were examined in a limited number of studies in individuals with CP.
      The effects of pilates on healthy adults, elderly, multiple sclerosis, stroke and
      musculoskeletal disorders were investigated and resulted in increased trunk
      stabilization.Therefore, it is thought that pilates can be applied in terms of muscle
      strength and postural control in children who can walk, stand independently, but need to
      develop some components for controlled movement. There are not enough studies investigating
      the effectiveness of pilates exercises in CP. The aim of this study was to investigate the
      effects of modified pilates exercises on body control, gait and function in children with CP.
    
  