
    
      Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) T1D is caused by an autoimmune destruction of the insulin-producing
      beta cells in the pancreas, leading to complete lack of insulin. Insulin is necessary to
      regulate blood glucose levels. T1D is a national and international health challenge and
      priority, and Norway has among the highest incidence of T1D in the world. This is a growing
      problem (incidence in Norway has increased by 30% in the last 15 years) with profound
      long-term complications due to sub optimal metabolic control, including atherosclerosis, with
      subsequent cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease, retinopathy, neuropathy and
      nephropathy.

      Significant rates of psychological problems are associated with T1D. One study investigated
      young patients with T1D and found that 11% screened positive for depression, 21% for anxiety,
      and 21% for disordered eating. Patients with a positive screen had twice the odds of having
      poor metabolic control (high HbA1c) as those without. Other psychological correlates reported
      to influence T1D self-care and metabolic control include illness perceptions, attitudes to
      insulin, and quality of life.

      Eating disorders and Disturbed Eating Behaviors (DEB) ED affect approximately 5% of the
      female Norwegian population between the ages of 15-44 years, and onset is most common during
      adolescence. ED are characterized by disordered eating such as restricted intake or bingeing
      and purging, a morbid preoccupation with food, weight and shape and major disturbances in
      cognition with distortion of body image. The main eating disorders as defined in the
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-5 (DSM-5) are Anorexia Nervosa (AN),
      Bulimia Nervosa (BN), Binge Eating Disorder (BED), and Otherwise Specified Feeding and Eating
      Disorders (OSFED). A large amount of disturbed eating behaviors do not meet full criteria for
      the diagnoses described above and is often referred to as sub-clinical eating problems or
      disturbed eating behaviors. The term "disturbed eating behavior" (DEB) is used here to refer
      to sub-clinical eating problems.

      Comorbid T1D and DEB Numerous studies indicate that T1D is a risk factor for the development
      of DEB. Possible mediating factors include weight loss accompanying disease onset, weight
      gain with the initiation of insulin treatment, dietary restraint as part of diabetes
      management, and the deliberate insulin under dosing or omission as an effective weight loss
      strategy. However, few longitudinal studies of comorbid T1D and DEB exist, and there is a
      lack of knowledge about the specific risk factors for the development of DEB in T1D. One
      recent longitudinal study states that DEB was common and persistent in their sample of
      adolescent females with T1D. At the 14-year follow-up, a total of 32% met criteria for a
      current eating disorder, and DEB was reported in 59% of the participant, confirming the
      severity of this comorbidity. The cumulative probability of onset was 60% by the age of 25
      years.

      DEB is common and persistent in young women with T1D, with prevalence rates double those of
      non-diabetic populations. Our prior study found that the prevalence of DEB was 27% among
      young Norwegian girls with T1D, indicating that these comorbidities are common in Norway.
      Comorbid T1D and DEB are associated with poor metabolic control and increased rates of
      morbidity and mortality. For example in Nielsen's study of comorbid T1D and anorexia nervosa,
      the mortality rate at 10 years follow-up was 2.5 % for T1D and 6.5% for anorexia nervosa;
      though when comorbid it rose to 35%. DEB also poses a risk of serious physical complications,
      thereby contributing to much poorer prognosis.

      The nature of T1D-specific DEB It has been suggested that the nature of DEB in T1D is
      specific and qualitatively different from DEB in non-diabetes populations. It is hypothesized
      that a diabetes-specific DEB has its origins in the nature and course of T1D and T1D
      treatment. T1D constitutes a considerable burden on the young patients and their families.
      The continuous self-regulation task of adjusting insulin dose to diet, physical activity and
      emotional state to maintain blood glucose levels according to recommendations is accompanied
      by the threat of developing serious diabetes late complications. Such factors may contribute
      to increased weight- and shape concerns among patients with T1D (particularly females).
      Reducing or omitting insulin is an efficient weight loss strategy uniquely available to
      individuals with diabetes, but is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. In
      addition to insulin restriction, bulimic features such as binge eating and self-induced
      vomiting or misuse of laxatives are common symptoms of DEB in T1D.

      Despite the frequency and severity of comorbid T1D and DEB/ED, there is a lack of studies on
      how to prevent this condition. The Body Project is reported to be the most effective ED
      prevention program in the general population, but this has not been tested in a T1D
      population. The overall aim of this study is therefore to evaluate a diabetes-adapted version
      of the ED prevention program the Body Project (i.e. the Diabetes Body Project) among young
      females with T1D. Specifically, we hypothesize that the Diabetes Body Project can improve i)
      ED risk factors (i.e. thin beauty ideal internalization, body dissatisfaction, and dietary
      restraint) and symptoms (ED measure composite score); ii) blood glucose control (i.e.
      Hemoglobin A1c and time in range); and iii) diabetes-specific psychological aspects (i.e.
      diabetes distress and illness perceptions) relative to an educational condition.
    
  