
    
      Plantar fasciitis is frequently seen in adult population as a pain related problem of the
      foot. Pain, as a most prominent symptom, is caused from repetitive microtraumas and
      inflammation where plantar fascia attaches to the calcaneus. Pain starts from heel pad or
      medial tubercule of the calcaneus and spreads through plantar fascia and medial longitudinal
      arch.

      Obesity, increased foot pronation, difference in extremity length, long standing duration and
      Achilles tendon tightness are some of the factors which stress plantar fascia and sometimes
      cause degenerative changes on it. Weakness of intrinsic muscle is also another factor which
      is thought to be related with plantar fasciitis.

      Diagnosis is mostly depends on history and physical examination. First steps in the morning,
      walking after long rest, and palpation of medial tubercule of calcaneus are painful.

      According to the literature, non-surgical treatment modalities relieve symptoms of patients
      successfully. Orthotics, night splints, manipulation interventions with conventional methods
      are effective to decrease pain and improve function. There are various physiotherapy
      treatment approaches in plantar fasciitis but there is no consensus about most effective
      treatment program. Stretching of plantar flexor muscles and plantar fascia is one of the core
      elements of the treatment plan. Strengthening exercises together with stretching were shown
      more effective than only stretching. Foot orthoses are thought to prevent increased pronation
      and relieving stress on plantar fascia in patients with plantar fasciitis. Usage of insoles
      with night splints is found more effective. Taping is also helpful to acute pain control.
      Short foot exercises as isolated intrinsic foot muscles strengthening helps to providing
      subtalar foot position and supports plantar fascia and foot arches. Manual techniques improve
      lower extremity joint mobility and decreases related pain. Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy
      is suggested to try after at least six month ineffective conservative treatments. If symptoms
      resist more than six months and non-conservative treatments are found ineffective, invasive
      approaches as steroid injections are applicable.

      Treatment of this common problem in population is important to ensure patients returning in
      earliest period to daily life with full physical capacity. There are many conservative
      options to treat plantar fasciitis but best treatment program combination was not clear The
      aim of this study is to compare intensive physiotherapy program, home based exercise program
      and control group decide the most effective rehabilitation program in plantar fasciitis.
    
  