
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an increasing common disease. It ranges from being asymptomatic
      to a highly disabling condition with a severe impact on quality of life. It is termed
      paroxysmal (PAF) when an episode lasts less than 7 days, persistent (PerAF) when it lasts
      more than 7 days and needs intervention and permanent (PermAF) when it is accepted as the
      long term rhythm. Treatment is based on symptom control and the prevention of complications
      such as stroke. When an attempt is made to restore normal sinus rhythm (NSR), this is termed
      'rhythm control'.

      Treatments for rhythm control of AF can be broadly divided into pharmacological and ablative.
      Ablative techniques1 are typically performed percutaneously using catheter-based technology
      (minimally invasive), though some surgical techniques also exist. They work on the principle
      that performing a series of 'burns' (scar) in appropriate places can prevent abnormal
      electrical signals forming and propagating within the heart.

      The problem of atrial fibrillation is vast. Prevalence ranges from 0.2% in the 45-54 age
      group, rising to 8% in the over 75s. Though the majority of patients can be satisfactorily
      treated medically, in a not insignificant portion, the drugs are either poorly tolerated or
      are ineffective. For these patients, the United Kingdom (UK) NICE guidelines recommend
      consideration of an ablation procedure. In Derriford hospital alone we see approximately 14
      patients suitable for AF ablation in a typical month.

      The electrophysiological consequences of ablation are unclear. It is not known whether
      complete bidirectional electrical block across the ablation lines isolating the pulmonary
      antral region from the rest of the left atrium is a prerequisite for long-term cure of Atrial
      Fibrillation (AF). Studies in canine models of atrial fibrillation have suggested that
      incomplete lines of block can be as effective in reducing AF burden as complete lines,
      however the limited number of follow up studies in humans that have assessed both patients
      with recurrent AF and also asymptomatic patients who appear to have been cured by catheter
      ablation have suggested that complete electrical isolation of the pulmonary veins is
      necessary for a cure. Advocates for ablation without assessing electrical block argue success
      rates in humans are similar whether circumferential electrical isolation of the pulmonary
      veins is achieved or not. Assessing freedom from AF and correlating it with the presence or
      absence of complete bidirectional electrical block, intra-operatively and at post one-year
      follow-up, will allow a further understanding of the mechanisms determining the success or
      failure of AF ablation therapies. This will be very important in knowing how to treat
      patients in whom AF still occurs and will guide the approach to subsequent interventions.

      Though there is a small risk involved in this study, the question it addresses will have a
      significant impact on the development of future AF ablation techniques. Within this group,
      over 300 separate ablation procedures have been performed with no deaths or significant
      complications. Previous groups have published trans-septal observational studies in humans
      demonstrating that previous ethics committees have appreciated the importance of such work.
      The 2012 Heart Rhythm Society (HRS)/European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA)/European Cardiac
      Arrhythmia Society (ECAS) consensus statement on catheter and surgical ablation for AF has
      recently highlighted the need for novel trial designs demonstrating 'durability of pulmonary
      vein isolation' with a repeat diagnostic electrophysiological study.

      This trial will therefore increase our understanding of the electrophysiological properties
      associated with successful ablation and how Atrial Fibrillation ablation and the HIFU
      procedure work.
    
  