
    
      Objectives:

      To evaluate the beneficial and harmful effects of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting
      (OPCAB) versus conventional coronary artery bypass grafting (CCABG) using a heart- and lung
      machine in patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease.

      Trial population:

      Consecutive patients > 54 years of age with three-vessel coronary artery disease with
      EuroSCORE of 5-16 undergoing elective or sub-acute coronary artery bypass grafting, giving
      written informed consent, and where randomisation can be accomplished preoperatively. The
      study will include 330 patients.

      Trial design:

      The Best Bypass Surgery Trial (BBS Trial) is a randomised trial. Patients will be randomised
      to one of two groups. The randomisation will be 1:1, in blocks, stratified by gender, age (55
      to 65 years; > 65 years), diabetes mellitus, and EuroSCORE (5-7; 8-10; 11-13; 14-16). The
      patients will be randomised to OPCAB surgery or CCABG surgery.

      The interventions:

      In the OPCAB group, the revascularization procedure will be performed on the beating heart
      with a stabilizer to demobilize the target coronary arteries. When access is needed for
      posterior coronary arteries a suction device will lift the heart. In the CCABG group, the
      revascularization procedure will be performed with the use of a heart- and lung machine in
      normothermia, aortic cross clamp, and with cold cardioplegic arrest. In both groups, the left
      internal mammary artery and saphenous vein grafts are standard graft material.

      Outcome measures:

      The aim of the study is to examine the value of OPCAB revascularization compared to CCABG
      revascularization on the following outcome measures:

        -  Primary: The composite outcome measure of mortality (of all causes), acute myocardial
           infarction, cardiac arrest with successful resuscitation, low cardiac output syndrome,
           or major neurological deficit.

        -  Secondary: Hyper dynamic shock; atrial fibrillation, respiratory insufficiency requiring
           intubation >24 hours , need for pacing > 1 day due to 2º AV-blockage or nodal rhythm;
           renal complications, i.e., serum creatinine > 200 μmol/l, or need for acute dialysis;
           re-operation for bleeding, pneumonia; serious adverse events; duration of stay in
           intensive care unit; duration of stay in the hospital; quality of life after 3 and 12
           month; graft patency at one year postoperatively defined by coronary angiography. In
           addition, cognitive function will be assessed after three and 12 months in the first 120
           patients randomized.
    
  