
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of
      lurtotecan liposome and cisplatin in patients with advanced solid tumors. II. Determine the
      toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxic effects, and the pharmacokinetics of this treatment
      regimen in this patient population. III. Determine any correlation between toxicity profile
      and pharmacokinetics of this treatment regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the objective
      tumor response to this treatment regimen in patients with measurable disease (previously
      untreated solid tumors) entered at the recommended phase II dose.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of lurtotecan liposome.
      Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour followed by lurtotecan liposome IV over 30 minutes
      on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Once the total dose of cisplatin is reached, patients receive
      lurtotecan liposome alone. Patients achieving complete response (CR) continue therapy for 2
      courses after documentation of confirmed CR. Patients achieving partial response (PR)
      continue therapy until progression or for 2 courses after documentation of stable PR.
      Patients with stable disease continue therapy for a maximum of 6 courses. Cohorts of 3-6
      patients receive escalating doses of lurtotecan liposome until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is reached. The MTD is defined as the dose at which at least 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, up to 10 patients with previously
      untreated solid tumors are treated at the recommended phase II dose (1 dose below the MTD).
      Patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-25 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-15
      months.
    
  