
    
      -  Primary purpose: pathophysiology and basic science The aim of this study is to enlarge
           the knowledge of the mechanism action of long acting formulations of amphetamines and
           the neurobiological basis of stimulant action. Furthermore, this study aims to test the
           predictions of the State Regulation Deficit Model (SRD) for the effect of stimulant
           medication and presentation rate of stimuli on task performance of children with ADHD.
           The basic hypothesis is that performance of children with ADHD and the effect of
           stimulant medication will depend on task demands and the presentation rate of stimuli.

        -  Enrollment: number of Subjects: 25 children with ADHD (Anticipated)

        -  Study Phase: phase III

        -  Study Design: This study will comprise 5 phases. The expected total duration of the
           study trial is 10 weeks for each subject.

             -  Phase 1: screening (week 1) At the beginning of the study an extensive screening
                procedure will be undertaken. At the screening visit, a physician and a
                psychologist will ascertain the inclusion and exclusion criteria by using several
                instruments (questionnaires, parent interview, intelligence test). Furthermore, the
                physician will assess cardiac risks by taking the family history for cardiac
                disease and physical examination. Also the length, weight and blood pressure of the
                children will be monitored.

             -  Phase 2: titration (week 2 - 5) If the screening indicates that the child is
                eligible and the parents would like to start a medication treatment for their
                child, they can participate in a 4-week open-label titration of LDX. The aim of
                this stepwise titration procedure is to determine the child's clinically most
                effective dose. LDX will be started at a dose of 30mg/day and adjusted up to 70
                mg/day if necessary. During the titration phase the parents will be asked to fill
                in a daily diary. Before the medication trial and at the end of each week of the
                medication trial, the investigators will measure symptom change and evaluate
                potential side effects of LDX. These assessments will include monitoring ADHD
                symptoms and physical examination for potential drug side effects. Furthermore, the
                physician will monitor weight, length, blood pressure and heart rate during each
                visit.

             -  Phase 3: maintenance of LDX (week 6 - 7) If the child benefits taking LDX, he/she
                will maintain his/her therapeutic dose for approximately two weeks.

             -  Phase 4: DBPC trial (week 8 - 9)

                  -  Intervention model, group assignment: single group, cross-over design

                  -  Number or arms (number of intervention groups): 2 arms, within-subject design
                     (2 treatment conditions for each subject: active medication vs. placebo)

                  -  Masking: double-blind (subjects, their parents and investigators will be blind
                     to treatment conditions)

                  -  Allocation: randomized

                  -  Study end point classification: NA The investigators plan to use a randomized
                     double-blind placebo-controlled crossover (DBPC) design. Children will be
                     tested twice (once after the administration of the optimal dose of LDX and
                     once after placebo) with a computer-based behavioral paradigm which measures
                     efficient arousal modification in response to changing environmental settings.
                     The investigators will use a Go/No-Go task with 4 different ERs (1 secs,
                     2secs, 4secs, 8secs). If children see an upright triangle (Go stimulus) they
                     have to respond; if children see an inverted triangle (No-Go stimulus) they
                     must withhold responding.

      Parents, children and experimenters will be blind to treatment conditions. For blinding
      purpose we will blindfold the children when taking IMP or placebo (e.g. LDX and placebo
      capsules are not completely identical; however, the difference is barely noticeable when one
      is blindfolded). The order of the treatment conditions (LDX vs. placebo) will be randomly
      assigned and counterbalanced across children. Between the treatment conditions there will be
      an interval of approximately 1 week. During these intervals LDX intake will be continued.
      Before each testing session there will be a washout period of at least 48 hours; the LDX or
      placebo is given the morning of the testing. Each testing session will take place at the same
      time of day; preferably in the afternoon to minimalize possible time of day effects and
      approximately 3-4 hours after the child took LDX or placebo.

      While children are performing the computer task, psychophysiological indices of effort and
      motor activation/preparation will be recorded: event-related potentials (ERP) (by using EEG),
      heart rate (by using EEG) and pupil size (by using eye tracking).

      o Phase 5: follow-up visit (week 10) At the end of the DBPC trial, the drug will be stopped
      and the children will be evaluated after approximately 1 week of washout period for safety
      assessment. During this visit possible alternative treatments for ADHD can also be discussed.
    
  