
    
      Selection of study population and recruitment. Costa Rica is divided in provinces that are
      further divided in cantons, which are subdivided into districts. Districts are conceptually
      divided into minimal geo-statistical units (MGUs), territorial units roughly equivalent to a
      block. These MGUs were defined by the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC) for
      the national census conducted in 2011; digital maps and census data by age and gender for
      MGUs are available.

      The study area being proposed for the 1DT was defined to reach an adequate catchment area in
      order to fulfill 1DT enrollment goals of 20,000 girls. This defined area includes ~125,000
      girls in regions where previous NCI/PEG studies were conducted as well as new provinces.

      For the feasibility study, three urban and three rural districts from three different
      provinces were selected: San Ignacio de Acosta and Tibas in San José; Desamparados and Cirri
      Sur in Alajuela and, Liberia and San Antonio de Nicoya in Guanacaste. MGUs in these districts
      will be ordered randomly and the first MGU within the selection will visited. An experienced
      study outreach worker (OW) will visit all houses within the selected MGU and will enumerate
      and collect information on all girls ages 12 to 16 residing in the MGU. At that time, if a
      potentially-eligible girl is present, the OW will invite her to participate in the
      feasibility study by informing her and her parent/legal guardian of the feasibility study,
      and if interested, will assign a participant study ID (PID). The informed consent/assent
      process for the feasibility study will be conducted at that time. Once consented/assented,
      the girl will be appointed to a medical office close to her house, where she will be expected
      to attend the feasibility study visit. If a potential participant or her parent/legal
      guardian is not present, the OW will leave study materials with the household and arrange to
      return at another time to discuss the study. The brochure will include a phone number in case
      the girl/parents want to get additional information by phone. Within an MGU, five contact
      attempts will be made per house. Once all houses in the selected MGU have been visited, if
      fewer than 15 households of participants have been enrolled, the next random selected MGUs
      will be visited (note, this is defined as girls in a household instead of individuals girls
      since girls within a household will likely be correlated in their response rate). If 15 or
      more households of participants have been enrolled after visiting the originally-selected
      MGU, then the team will move to the next district. This procedure will be repeated until
      approximately 15 girls have been enrolled in the district, but once an MGU is selected and
      visited, all houses in that MGU should be visited before moving to another district, even if
      more than 15 girls are enrolled, to allow for valid computation of the participation rate.

      Data on the number of houses approached, average number of visits necessary to collect
      information in each house (maximum of five visits), percentage of houses contacted during
      first visit, subsequent visits, number of houses where it was not possible to obtain
      information, number with girls in the age range, number of girls potentially eligible as
      determined during home visit, number which consent and agree to attend a study visit, and the
      true number of girls who attend the study visit, will be collected.

      Feasibility Study Clinic Visits. The guiding principle for the feasibility clinic visit is
      that it should parallel the clinic visits planned for the 1DT up to the point of
      randomization (which cannot be mocked in the feasibility study).

      Consent/assent/enrolment medical history. The first feasibility study clinic visit will start
      with an explanation of the proposed informed consent and assent of the 1DT (in other words, a
      mock consent procedure). Girls will be asked if they would be willing to participate in such
      study. A clinician will then obtain a medical history from the girl and her parent/legal
      guardians and, if the medical doctor considers necessary based on the medical history, she
      will perform a physical examination to confirm good general health. Reproductive history and
      hormonal contraceptive use will also be obtained by the doctor.

      Questionnaire. A self-administered questionnaire will then be administered. It will query
      information on years of education, socio-economic status, menstrual history, sexual history,
      and smoking. The questionnaire will be used to evaluate acceptance of self-administered
      questionnaire, perception of the sense of confidentiality of the answers provided, ability to
      understand the questions, percentage of girls needing help and completeness of the responses.
      Girls will be also presented with a picture of the female genital anatomy in order to
      evaluate their capacity to identify where a self-collected swab should be inserted.

      Urine. In the 1DT, all participants will be asked to collect 15mL urine specimens for a urine
      pregnancy test and to store residual volume for HPV testing. While we are not conducting the
      pregnancy test or the HPV testing during this feasibility study, we aim to evaluate the
      acceptability of collecting urine following the specific procedure needed to obtain urine
      samples suitable for HPV testing.

      Spit. In the 1DT, the immunogenicity subcohort will be asked to provide a saliva sample by
      spitting into a cryovial using a straw for the evaluation of mucosal immune response. Thus,
      we plan to investigate the acceptability of this sample.

      Blood. In the 1DT, blood specimens will be collected from all participants at the two
      vaccination visits, the twelve-month visit and yearly after that. The purpose of these blood
      collections will be to monitor immune response to vaccination. We will ask participants in
      the feasibility study to provide a total of 10 mL of blood. To assure that participation and
      retention rates in our trial are not negatively affected by the blood draws, refusal to have
      blood collected will be allowed, and will be documented.

      Self-collected Cervicovaginal Sample. In the 1DT, self-collected cervicovaginal samples will
      be used for HPV testing. Participants 15 and older who report having had sexual intercourse
      will be asked to self-collect a cervicovaginal sample.

      In order to protect participant confidentiality, study staff will administer detailed
      instructions and materials for sample collection to all participants 15 and older
      irrespective of sexual experience. All these participants will be instructed to collect the
      sample only if appropriate (defined as being sexually active). Refusal to collect this
      specimen among sexually-active girls will be documented. The self-collected cervicovaginal
      samples collected as part of the feasibility study will be used to assess the adequacy of the
      sample.

      Participants will be asked about their impressions of the study procedures and time expended.
      At the conclusion of the visit, they will receive a voucher for HPV vaccination at a local
      pharmacy, while in the 1DT, vaccination would be offered during the study visit.

      Six-month feasibility study visit. The second visit will occur six months following the
      baseline study visit. Qualified staff will conduct the second feasibility study visit, which
      will include a self-administered questionnaire addressing behaviors during the time between
      the enrollment and six-month study visit, blood specimen collection, and among participants
      age 15 and older who report having had sexual intercourse, a self-collected cervicovaginal
      sample. After answering questions about their impressions on the second visit procedures,
      they will receive a voucher for the second dose of the vaccine.

      Biological specimens obtained from participants in this study will be processed and stored to
      evaluate quality of the sample and to generate de-identified pools of specimens to be used as
      quality control specimens for various assays planned as part of the overall planning for the
      One-dose trial. This could allow for the formal evaluation of assay performance and testing
      batch effects in our future testing and maximize the quality of the research we conduct.
    
  