
    
      Since 2004 flu vaccination has been recommended by American College of Obstetricians and
      Gynecologists (ACOG) Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) for all pregnant
      women during flu season, regardless of the trimester of pregnancy. Many studies have examined
      the safety of influenza vaccination and found benefits beyond the simple prevention of
      maternal infection including the reduction of still birth. Recently evidence has emerged that
      women who have received a flu vaccination were less likely to experience premature labor. The
      investigators hypothesize that some of the maternal benefits of influenza vaccination might
      be based on other than prevention of the flu, possibly secondary to the induction of immune
      system pathways that favor immunological tolerance. Induction of immune system pathways that
      favor immunological tolerance has long been considered a possible path to improved embryo
      implantation and reduce miscarriages, though the topic is still somewhat controversial.

      Patients undergoing IVF will be randomized in two strata:

        1. History of recurrent miscarriage or implantation failure

        2. No history of recurrent miscarriage of implantation failure

      Consenting patients will be randomized to receive either influenza vaccine or a saline
      placebo. Vaccination will occur 10 days before initiating anticipated menses or fertility
      treatment cycle start.

      All patients will be receiving an offered a second injection at the time of negative
      pregnancy test or at the time of sign-out with a clinical pregnancy. The second injection
      will either be placebo or influenza vaccination depending on the original randomization.
      Patients and clinical staff will remain blinded to the original treatment assignment, except
      for the study coordinator and the single staff member assigned to administer the injection.
    
  