
    
      Schizophrenia (SCZ) is a chronic debilitating mental disorder that affects 2.4 million
      Americans and leads to considerable individual and societal costs. In patients with SCZ,
      cognitive deficits (CD) occur early in the course of the illness, are associated with more
      severe illness, and are the best predictor of functional outcomes. Nonetheless, to date, CD
      have been difficult to treat using available treatments. Recent studies suggest CD in
      patients with SCZ may arise from abnormal synchronization of distributed neural networks.
      Synchronization or synchronous firing of neurons, binds cortical areas into functional
      networks in a task and state-dependent manner. Thus novel therapies that improve abnormal
      neural synchrony may improve previously refractory symptoms arising from disordered brain
      networks.

      Neural synchrony or coherence in the gamma band (GBR, 30-45Hz) plays a central role in
      top-down attention, multisensory processing, perceptual binding and working memory (WM).
      Patients with SCZ exhibit abnormal GBR, and the magnitude of impairment is associated with
      the severity of cognitive disorganization. Given these results, improving GBR should improve
      CD, including WM in SCZ. This hypothesis has been tested and confirmed using repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Additionally, EEG-based neurofeedback (NFB) is
      hypothesized to improve GBR and cognitive function in patients with SCZ. NFB is a low-cost,
      easily administered and well-tolerated treatment. In healthy controls, Gamma-NFB improves GBR
      and cognitive function including WM. Thus, the investigators propose testing the feasibility
      and effectiveness of improving GBR using gamma-NFB in patients with SCZ using the framework
      of the R61/R33 mechanism.

      The first trial (R61) is a proof-of-concept study designed to assess target engagement and
      dose response curve. Thirty SCZ patients will receive G-NFB training for 12 weeks (2 weekly
      sessions of 30minute duration) and be assessed for 1) evidence of training, 2) Change in GBR,
      3) Change in WM and 4) Change in community functioning. The second trial (R33) aims to
      confirm target engagement based on training parameters obtained from R61, and to assess
      whether G-NFB is superior to an active-placebo neurofeedback intervention in improving GBR,
      WM and community functioning.
    
  