
    
      Objective The study objective was to evaluate the safety and technical efficacy of the
      CorPath 200 System in delivery and manipulation of commercially available coronary guidewires
      and rapid exchange balloon/stent catheter for use in percutaneous coronary interventions
      (PCI).

      I. Primary Endpoints A. Efficacy Device Clinical Success: Achievement of a < 30% final
      diameter stenosis after utilizing the CorPathTM 200 System to deliver a PTCA balloon and then
      stent to the target lesion, and successfully retract the devices without the occurrence of
      any In-Hospital MACE (Major Adverse Cardiac Event) evaluated at 48 hours post procedure or
      hospital discharge, whichever occurs first.

      B. Safety In-Hospital MACE: Defined as the composite of death (all cause mortality),
      recurrent MI, and target vessel revascularization (emergent coronary artery bypass surgery
      [CABG] or PCI) evaluated at 48 hours post procedure or hospital discharge, whichever occurs
      first.

      II. Secondary Endpoints A. Efficacy CorPath Success: Ability to navigate the guide wire and
      balloon/stent system utilizing the CorPath™ device to the target site without the occurrence
      of any In-Hospital MACE, evaluated at 48 hours post index procedure or hospital discharge,
      whichever occurs first.

      Subject Clinical Success: Achievement of a <30% final diameter stenosis of target lesion
      after treatment with PTCA/coronary stent without the occurrence of any In-Hospital MACE,
      evaluated at 48 hours post-index procedure or hospital discharge, whichever occurs first.

      B. Safety:

      MACE at 30 Days: Defined as the composite of death, recurrent MI and/or target vessel
      revascularization (emergent coronary artery bypass surgery [CABG] or PCI) evaluated at 30
      days post index procedure.

      Adverse Events:

      A summary of all adverse events observed in the trial summarized as either serious or
      non-serious and summarized by attribution.

      C. Clinical Utility

      Procedure Attributes:

        -  Reduction in radiation exposure to the primary operator based on radiation dosimetry
           measurements at the procedure table and on a primary operator.

        -  Total Procedure time based on the time of insertion of hemostasis sheath through the
           time of final guide catheter withdrawal.

      CorPath Device Attributes:

      Subjective assessment by the operator of the following device performance attributes:

        -  Movement of the guide wire (rotating and advancing) to the target.

        -  Maneuvering and position of the guide wire to the target.

        -  Movement of the stent/balloon (advancing) to the target.

        -  Ability to deliver the PTCA/stent system to the intended target lesion.

        -  Ease of use of the system by the interventional team.

      Material & Methods Corindus obtained approval (from the CORBIC Ethics Committee and INVIMA -
      Colombian Ministry of Health) in 2009 to conduct the clinical study "CorPath™ 200 System:
      Coronary Remote Catheterization Feasibility Study" at CORBIC Cardio-Neuro-Vascular Institute,
      Envigado, Colombia.

      The study is a single arm, open label, prospective registry to treat a de novo lesion (2.5 mm
      - 4.0 mm in diameter, 25.0 mm in length with >50% stenosis) utilizing the CorPath 200 System
      to deliver, manipulate and retrieve a guidewire and a balloon/stent catheter system.
    
  