
    
      Rationale:

      Pneumothorax is a common, usually invasively treated, disorder. The usual methods of
      treatment are needle aspiration (14-16 G needles) or chest drainage (16+ F catheters).

      A third therapeutic option is the use of small calibre catheters (< 16F). According to some
      studies, the success rates of these methods are comparable. These catheters have the same
      success rate as large bore chest tubes and treatment with them is less painful for patients.

      The use of Heimlich valves allows for increased patient mobility - or even out-patient
      treatment.

      According to a review by the European Respiratory Society, nowadays there is an availability
      of systems which are part of advanced intervention techniques. These devices are designed for
      ease of insertion allowing for the full mobility of patients. It is, however, not clear
      whether treatment with these new systems is less painful.

      The aim of this clinical trial is to compare the efficiency and analgesic use in the therapy
      of iatrogenic Pneumothorax when using the Pleuralvent™ system in comparison with large bore
      chest tubes (catheter 16F).

      Process:

      Following the completion of the initial screening (fulfilling of both inclusion and exclusion
      criteria) and the signing of informed consent, a patient with iatrogenic pneumothorax (PNO)
      will be treated with, according to randomisation, either the Pleuralvent™ system or with a
      large bore chest tube - 16F. A control chest X-ray will be performed immediately after the
      introduction of the therapeutic method and following 3 days of therapy.

      If no signs of PNO are present, the therapy will be terminated. In cases where the lung will
      not be completely expanded, the control X-ray will be repeated on the 5th, 7th and 10th day
      of therapy. If, following this, the PNO will persist without resolution, the therapy will be
      declared non-effective and other therapy modes will be used (conversion to large bore chest
      drainage in the Pleuralvent™group and surgical treatment in the chest drainage group).
    
  