
    
      Orthotopic liver transplantation has become the treatment of choice for patients with acute
      liver failure with poor prognostic signs. Survival following hepatic transplantation has
      improved in the last decade for a number of reasons. These include improvement in
      immunosuppression, improved methods for preserving and transporting organs, use of donors
      which had been previously considered unacceptable, use of reduced-sized grafts , and the use
      of living-donor hepatic transplantation. Despite encouraging survival statistics, there
      continues to be significant morbidity and mortality associated with hepatic transplantation.
      In addition, the success of hepatic transplantation has broadened the indications for this
      form of therapy without a concomitant increase in the number of donors available for these
      patients.

      Since the development of a method for isolating primary hepatocytes by collagenase perfusion,
      many investigators have demonstrated the efficacy of hepatocyte transplantation in the
      treatment of liver failure and inherited metabolic disorders in experimental animals.
      Treatment of liver diseases with transplantation of isolated hepatocytes rather than the
      whole liver has several theoretical advantages. Unlike the whole liver, isolated hepatocytes
      could be cryopreserved for instant availability and could be modified genetically or
      otherwise to enhance specific functions, stimulate proliferation or abrogate allograft
      rejection. Hepatocyte transplantation should be less stressful than whole liver
      transplantation because the host organ remains intact. Since the transplanted cells integrate
      into the host liver, they could provide restorative potential and the consequences of graft
      loss would be relatively minor. In addition, hepatocyte transplantation would not interfere
      with subsequent liver transplantation, should that become necessary.
    
  