
    
      Simplified Selective Digestive Tract Decontamination for the prevention of ICU infections in
      a setting of high-level antibiotic resistance

      Scientific Background:

      Aerobic gram-negative bacilli (AGNB), Gram-positive bacteria and fungi are responsible for
      hospital acquired infections. This problem is especially typical in intensive care units
      (ICUs) due to the complexity of disease and wide use of invasive procedures. The common use
      of empiric wide-range antibiotic therapy had lead to the development significant resistance
      of these pathogens and this group of bacteria was defined as Multi-Drug Resistant Organisms
      (MDRO). Among these bacteria the most important and virulent are: Carbapenem Resistant
      Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), Extended Spectrum Beta Lactamases (ESBL), Methicillin Resistant
      Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA), Vancomycin Resistant Enterococci (VRE) as well as Fluconazol
      resistant Candida.

      The main reservoir of these organisms is the intestinal tract, which raises the possibility
      that their primary eradication may lead to control of the MDRO epidemic.

      Selective Digestive tract Decontamination (SDD) has been studied extensively over the last
      10-15 years and there is a body of evidence that shows that this method can reduce acquired
      infections, bacterial drug resistance and mortality in various ICU settings. It should be
      pointed out however that many of these studies were performed in units with a low prevalence
      of infection from MDROs and that they were never performed in units were CREs are endemic.
      According to the described protocols, SDD was performed as a combination of an a oral
      antibiotic paste - Selective Oropharyngeal Decontamination (SOD) together with enteral
      medication given through a gastric feeding tube, as well as a few days of prophylactic
      intra-venous treatment with an early generation cephalosporin.

      This treatment method did not become a standard of care - mostly due to the concern that new
      resistance will develop to the prescribed enteral antibiotics, or that there will be a rise
      in the prevalence of other enteral infections as VRE, Clostridium difficile or MRSA acquired
      infections. Despite evidence that during the SDD treatment period there was actually a
      reduction of drug resistance, the Center for Disease Control and prevention (CDC) and the
      protocols of the surviving sepsis campaign do not recommend SDD as a means of coping with the
      MDRO epidemic. In published SDD protocols there was a use of wide-spectrum antibiotics that
      covered the range of gram-positive, gram-negative bacteria and fungi, without correlation to
      the results of primary screening in these patients. Even though this approach did not lead to
      a rise in bacterial resistance, it raised enough anxiety and resistance within the caregivers
      to prevent its penetration to daily use. The endemic spread of CRE infection at Rambam
      Medical Center has lead us to focus on these pathogens in our SDD program, while performing
      rigorous bi-weekly screening for all bacteria. We gave enteral antibiotic treatment (Neomycin
      + Polymixin E) targeting AGNB, and only if the primary screening found MRSA or Fungi, did we
      prescribe enteral preventive treatment against them (Vancomycin or Nystatin). Therefore, a
      prospective study was performed during 2011 at Rambam department of critical care medicine,
      on the influence of a simplified SDD protocol on the acquisition of AGNB infection in the
      ICU. The results show a significant reduction in blood stream infections and a change in the
      epidemiology of colonization of the respiratory tract - from resistant to sensitive bacteria.
      There was a concomitant reduction in the use of MDRO- targeted antibiotics.

      The proposed multi-center study is based on this successful experience and will focus on the
      influence of a simplified SDD protocol on colonization and infection with MDROs in israeli
      ICUs where CREs are endemic.
    
  