
    
      Alopecia areata (AA) is a common disease of the immune system, known as an "autoimmune"
      disease. In the disease, the immune system mistaken destroys the hair follicle, causing hair
      to fall out. Despite many people having this disease, research into its cause and into new,
      better ways to treat AA has lagged far behind other similar diseases of the immune system.
      Currently, there are no Federal Drug Administration approved drugs for AA. Abatacept (made by
      Bristol-Myers Squibb) is a safe intervention known to effectively treat rheumatoid
      arthritis,another "autoimmune" disease, by fighting inflammation. There are some genetic and
      chemical similarities between those with active rheumatoid arthritis and AA, suggesting that
      treatment with the same drug is likely to be effective.

      In mice specially designed for testing drugs for the treatment of human alopecia, this
      medication worked to prevent the disease AA from starting. To test Abatacept, we are going to
      treat 60 patients with moderate to severe AA for 6 months. To make the study results
      meaningful, there will be a control or "placebo" group that does not receive the study drug.
      Patients will be randomly assigned to either receive the real or the inactive medication, and
      neither the patient nor the doctor will know which it is. The effectiveness of the medication
      will be measured by changes in hair re-growth as determined by physical exam and photography,
      as well as by patient and physician scoring. Patients will be followed for another 6 months
      off of the drug to see if the effects of treatment last and if there is delayed response.
      Small scalp biopsies and peripheral blood will be taken at the beginning of the study before
      treatment and then after 4,12 and 24 weeks. The chemical analysis of these skin samples and
      blood will help us to understand how the disease happens, how the treatment works, and even
      guide us to better treatments in the future.
    
  