
    
      Despite the potential for anti-retroviral therapy (ART) to ensure maternal health and reduce
      vertical HIV transmission to as low as 1%, HIV-related maternal deaths and HIV infection
      among infants remain unacceptably high across sub-Saharan Africa. Prevention of
      mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) requires a complex series of interventions throughout
      pregnancy and after birth, and only an estimated 15-30% of eligible women complete this
      "PMTCT cascade". Drop-offs can occur in the PMTCT cascade if women refuse HIV testing, do not
      disclose their HIV status, or avoid essential health services because they fear negative
      consequences for their relationship with their male partner. Engaging both partners of a
      couple during pregnancy has the potential to enhance health decisions, increase healthcare
      utilization, and ultimately improve maternal, paternal, and infant health. The goal of this
      study is to develop and pilot a home-based couples intervention that includes safe HIV
      testing and disclosure for couples, alongside information and counseling for family health
      during the perinatal period. The investigators will adapt existing evidence-based Couples HIV
      Counseling and Testing (CHCT) protocols for the special needs of pregnant women and their
      male partners, and train pairs of lay health workers (one female and one male) to deliver
      this service as part of home visits in rural Kenya. As men rarely attend antenatal clinics in
      Kenya, a home-based strategy can reach the couple in a safe and convenient space and give
      them unprecedented access to family health information, CHCT services, and linkage to care.
      This intervention, based on an interdependence model of communal coping and behavior change,
      is expected to help couples to communicate, plan, and take action around HIV and family
      health. Building on our team's preliminary studies in this rural Kenyan setting, the
      investigators collected further formative data and translated our findings into a viable
      intervention model with input from local stakeholders. The investigators will then conduct a
      pilot study of the home-based couples intervention, in which the investigators will randomize
      pregnant women at two antenatal clinics to the intervention or standard care arms of the
      study, and follow them and their male partners until three months after the expected delivery
      date of the baby. The investigators will preliminarily assess the effects of the intervention
      on uptake of CHCT by couples, repeat HIV testing during pregnancy for HIV-negative women, and
      utilization of PMTCT and HIV services for HIV-positive women and men. The investigators will
      also explore the roles of potential mediators for these effects suggested by our
      interdependence conceptual framework (such as measures of couple relationship dynamics).
      Results from this study will provide evidence of the preliminary impact, acceptability, and
      feasibility of the intervention and the study methods that will allow our team to develop a
      larger-scale efficacy trial. Engaging pregnant couples in family health and PMTCT is an
      essential step towards reducing HIV-related maternal mortality and eliminating new HIV
      infections among children in sub-Saharan Africa.
    
  