
    
      CRC is the 2nd leading cause of cancer death among Hispanic women and men. Hispanics are more
      likely to be diagnosed at more advanced disease stages compared to non-Hispanic whites and
      have a lower probability of survival. A key way to decrease mortality from CRC among
      Hispanics is to increase rates of CRC screening and thereby early detection of CRC. To
      address low screening rates, thereby increasing the prevention and early detection of CRC,
      the proposed research seeks to increase CRC colonoscopy screening among Hispanics. The
      primary aim is to investigate the impact of a culturally targeted print educational
      intervention designed to increase CRC screening via colonoscopy in a diverse group of
      Hispanics 50 years of age and older. Our long standing (since 1999) research platform has
      included significant community input through ongoing meetings with our Community Advisory
      Board (CAB) soliciting their viewpoints and concerns. In addition, we consult with key
      community members on an ongoing basis for additional input. A Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT)
      will be conducted with 400 Hispanics within the context of the best clinical practices
      currently provided at Mount Sinai. There are three study arms: 1) best clinical practices
      plus culturally relevant print materials, 2) best clinical practices plus standard print
      materials and 3) best clinical practices alone. These three arms will allow the investigation
      of the addition of print materials and the comparison of culturally relevant to standard
      print materials to assess the differential impact of each print format. This comparison
      controls for the possible benefit of adding standard print materials to best clinical
      practices and allows for investigation of the additional benefit of culturally targeted
      relevant materials over and above that of standard materials. Further, by including feedback
      from the community, we will be able to clearly understand the benefits of, and be able to
      disseminate culturally targeted materials among this rapidly growing minority group. If, as
      hypothesized, the addition of the culturally targeted print materials leads to higher rates
      of colonoscopy, they can then be easily disseminated among health care settings treating
      Hispanics.
    
  