
    
      [Background] Skipping ALND, the follow-up treatment in SN-positive patients, has non-inferior
      oncological outcomes compared to SLNB-only group, given that there is no severe SN
      metastases.

      Axillary ultrasound can effectively exclude high nodal burden, showing 95% NPV in a
      systematic review.

      SLNB has morbidity including lymphedema, limited range of motion, pain, and other
      post-surgical complications, eventually leading to reduced quality of life.

      Considering improvement of imaging modalities and adjuvant care, survival outcome of SLNB
      must be re-evaluated. Especially research reflective of the regional specificities of Korea
      and Asia-Pacific is needed.

      [Study design] Prospective, Multicenter, RCT.

      [Statistical considerations] According to Z0011 trial, 5yr DFS in eligible patients is
      expected to be 86%, which is between previous data of 88.6% in cT1,2 and SN-negative
      patients4, and 83.9% in cT1,2 and 1-2 SN-positive patients.

      Non-inferiority margin is set at 5%. With 5% significance level and 80% power, 780 patients
      are needed in each group. Assuming a 10% drop out rate, 1734 patients need to be recruited.

      [Screening and Randomization] Participants undergo screening tests that assess eligibility
      according to inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      In order to identify axillary lymph node metastases, axillary ultrasound is first performed
      by radiologists. Patients showing normal features are enrolled, while for conditionally
      normal patients, with only 1 suspicion of low nodal burden, axillary lymph node biopsy should
      be performed. Suspicious patients are excluded under following conditions: patients with 1 or
      more suspicion of high nodal burden, 2 or more suspicion of low nodal burden, or T2 invasive
      lobular carcinoma patients with 1 or more low nodal burden. The severity of nodal burden is
      defined through the criteria.

      Patients who underwent radiological axillary staging are randomly assigned (1:1) to the study
      arm and the control arm before surgical care. Stratification is done based on trial centers
      and tumor sizes.

      [Post-surgical care] All patients are planned to receive ipsilateral whole breast radiation.
      Patients randomized to non-SLNB arm are recommended to follow high tangential radiotherapy
      protocol, in which upper margin of radiation field includes axillary level I and II or lies
      within 2CM from humeral head.

      Additional treatment may be performed if deemed necessary by the researcher

      [Objectives]

        1. Primary objective

           - 5yr invasive Disease Free Survival

        2. Secondary objectives

             -  5yr Overall Survival

             -  5yr Distant Metastasis Free Survival

             -  Axillary recurrence rate

             -  Patient reported AE

             -  QoL
    
  