
    
      Recent research suggests that musculoskeletal pain may be the most common complaint for which
      children are referred to a pediatric rheumatologist and is present in approximately 50% of
      all new patients. A small percentage of these patients will be diagnosed with a form of
      juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), which is marked by clinically significant pain. A larger
      percentage will be diagnosed with a musculoskeletal pain syndrome, that approximately 25% of
      them are chronic and defined as > = 3 months. The chronic pain symptom is a subjective one
      that professionals have to precise its outlines in term of semiology, nature and efficacity
      of past treatments, medical and family backgrounds. The professional then will have to
      pinpoint a diagnosis, while assessing the consequences of the pain and treating it.

      Most of the time this task is a complex one and professionals have to build their diagnostic
      on a body of clinical, paraclinical and more social, familial and psychological evidences. No
      clear protocol exists to help the professionals with differentiating the continuing activity
      of a somatic problem, some painful sequelae, a low threshold for the perception of pain, and
      psychological symptoms with somatic expression. This diagnostic process is lying on
      sub-clinical symptoms that investigators have to elicit in order to help professionals to
      better support their patients.

      This qualitative study will explore the daily clinical experience of the health professionals
      involved in the care of adolescents suffering from chronic musculoskeletal pain.
      Semi-structured interviews will be analyzed with a phenomenological approach (interpretative
      phenomenological analysis). The rich phenomenological description will be the first step of a
      more ambitious project of constructing a multidimensional scale that will help the
      practitioners with this complex diagnosis.
    
  