
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) among three sequential dose levels:
      single-agent tocilizumab 4 mg/kg, single-agent tocilizumab 8 mg/kg, and tocilizumab 8 mg/kg +
      atezolizumab 1680 mg (each administered with fractionated stereotactic radiation therapy
      [FSRT]), to be used for subsequent phase II testing. (Safety Run-In) II. To determine the
      efficacy of the combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R), atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT
      in recurrent glioblastoma (GBM), as measured by the objective radiographic response rate
      (ORR). (Phase II [Non-Surgical Cohort])

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with recurrent GBM treated
      with the combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R), atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT. (Phase
      II Non-Surgical Cohort).

      II. To estimate the overall survival (OS) in patients with recurrent GBM treated with the
      combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R), atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT. (Phase II
      Non-Surgical Cohort) III. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with
      recurrent GBM treated with the combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R), atezolizumab
      (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT. (Phase II Surgical Cohort) IV. To estimate the overall survival (OS)
      in patients with recurrent GBM treated with the combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R),
      atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT. (Phase II Surgical Cohort) V. To determine the rate and
      severity of adverse events (AEs) of the combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R), atezolizumab
      (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT in recurrent glioblastoma according to Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0. (Separately in the Nonsurgical and Surgical Cohorts)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effect of the combination of atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1) and FSRT, with
      versus (vs.) without tocilizumab (anti-IL6R), on the GBM immune microenvironment (phase II
      surgical cohort).

      II. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic impact of the combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R),
      atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT on peripheral blood immune cell populations (phase II
      surgical cohort).

      III. To detect tumor and/or blood biomarkers associated with the outcomes of OS, PFS, and/or
      ORR in patients with recurrent GBM treated with the combination of tocilizumab (anti-IL6R),
      atezolizumab (anti-PD-L1), and FSRT (phase II non-surgical cohort).

      OUTLINE:

      SAFETY RUN-IN: Patients receive systemic treatment with either tocilizumab intravenously (IV)
      over 60 minutes with or without atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Within 3-7 days,
      patients undergo FSRT for 3 fractions over 3-5 days. Starting 4 weeks from the first dose of
      systemic treatment, patients resume treatment with tocilizumab with or without atezolizumab.
      Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP I (NON-SURGICAL COHORT): Patients receive systemic treatment with tocilizumab IV over
      60 minutes with or without atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes (dependent upon the results of
      the Safety Run-In) on day 1. Within 3-7 days, patients undergo FSRT for 3 fractions over 3-5
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Starting 4 weeks from
      the first dose of systemic treatment, patients resume treatment with tocilizumab with or
      without atezolizumab. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP II (SURGICAL COHORT): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive systemic treatment with tocilizumab IV over 60 minutes with or
      without atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes (dependent upon the results of the Safety Run-In)
      on day 1. Within 3-7 days, patients undergo FSRT for 3 fractions over 3-5 days. Within 7-14
      days after FSRT, patients undergo surgery. Within 21-24 days from the first dose of systemic
      treatment, patients resume treatment with tocilizumab with or without atezolizumab. Treatment
      repeats every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive systemic treatment with atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1.
      Within 3-7 days, patients undergo FSRT for 3-5 fractions over 3-5 days. Within 7-14 days
      after FSRT, patients undergo surgery. Within 21-24 days from the first dose of systemic
      treatment, patients resume treatment with tocilizumab IV over 60 minutes with or without
      atezolizumab. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18,
      and 24 months.
    
  