
    
      The novel human severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes
      coronavirus disease (COVID-19). This acute respiratory syndrome is associated with activation
      of the innate immune system and a hyper-inflammatory response which can lead to
      life-threatening symptoms. There are a number of primary immunodeficiencies (PIDs) that
      prevent complete activation of innate immune cells or other pro-inflammatory mediators, as
      well as secondary immune deficiencies that evoke the same dysfunctional immune response.
      Because the extent to which these individuals experience COVID-19 is unknown, vaccination
      against SARS-CoV-2 is critical.

      In December 2020, the FDA announced Emergency Use Authorization for two mRNA-based SARS-CoV-2
      vaccines. While evaluation of the immune response to these vaccines in healthy volunteers is
      ongoing, no large-scale characterization of the immune response in immunodeficient
      individuals has been undertaken. This prospective cohort study will assess and describe the
      baseline and post-vaccination immune response in individuals with select immune deficiencies
      compared to healthy volunteers who receive a COVID-19 vaccine, as well as any adverse events
      (AEs) experienced after either dose. All required study visits for this protocol may be
      conducted remotely; in-person visits at the NIH are optional. Subjects who have not yet been
      vaccinated will undergo baseline blood sampling using finger stick microsampler kits and/or
      venous blood draw within 7 days prior to receiving the vaccine. Additional samples will be
      collected approximately 21 days after dose 1 and approximately 28 days after dose 2 (if
      applicable). Optional samples may be collected at 6, 12, and 24 months post-vaccination. If a
      subsequent booster dose is received while a participant is still on study, blood will again
      be drawn approximately 28 days after the booster dose. Participants who are able to attend
      in-person visits at NIH will have optional on-site blood draws 1 and 3 days after doses 1 and
      2 (as applicable). Research evaluations will include baseline severe acute respiratory
      syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) antibody titers to the spike (S), nucleocapsid (N), and
      receptor binding domain (RBD) proteins, to assess pre-vaccination SARS-CoV-2 exposure and
      evaluate responses to vaccination. Additional immune markers of interest may include presence
      of autoantibodies, transcriptomic profiling, T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire, among others.
      Participants who only submit finger stick home microsampler kits at the timepoints listed
      above will be evaluated for SARS-CoV-2 antibody titers and autoantibodies only. All subjects
      will be asked at baseline about prior COVID-19 diagnosis, symptoms, and severity, and will be
      asked additional questions at follow-up timepoints about vaccine AEs using standardized
      questionnaires.

      The goal of this protocol is to gain a comprehensive understanding of the variety of immune
      responses in immunodeficient individuals.
    
  