
    
      Today, there is a variety of treatment options in diagnosed rectal cancer. The standard
      treatment is surgery with removal of the tumour including surrounding fat and lymph nodes in
      a package. Prior to surgery, the patient may be given a shorter or longer radiation
      treatment, the latter in combination with cytostatics, depending on staging at the time of
      diagnosis. Cytostatic drugs can also be given post surgery. The choice of treatment for the
      individual patient is based on the assessment of the imaging, ie conventional X-ray,
      ultrasound, computed tomography, (CT), Magnet Resonance Tomography Imaging (MRI) and Positron
      Emission Tomography in combination with CT (PET/CT). An accurate staging assessment is
      crucial for adequate treatment of rectal cancer patients to avoid over treatment, which in
      itself causes unnecessary suffering, or under treatment with increased risk of relapse. With
      today's methods, tumor size, overgrowth of other organs and spread to other organs such as
      liver and lung can be reasonable assessed. On the other hand, there is great uncertainty when
      assessing spread to lymph nodes. Better safety is also needed for other prognostically
      important factors such as tumor involvement of the mesorectal fasciae (MRF), i.e. the rectum
      surrounding the tumor, and tumor growth in venous vessels outside the intramural invasion of
      the intestinal wall, EMVI.

      Hybrid imaging with PET combined with magnetic resonance imaging (PET/MR) is a novel method
      and there are currently no published studies comparing the outcome of fluoro-deoxy glucose
      (FDG) -PET/MR with CT, MR, PET/CT at staging of rectal cancer, both primarily and after
      radiation and cytostatics treatment (CRT). In this study, the investigator plan to evaluate
      the additional value for PET/MR in rectal cancer. Only patients to be operated are included
      and microscopic examination of the preparation, histopathology, will be the reference method
      with which survey data from the imaging methods are compared. The investigator also want to
      evaluate the relationship between the radiological findings and biomarkers in blood and tumor
      tissue to determine if there is a relationship that can provide additional prognostic
      information. The investigator will only include patients with intermediate and high-risk
      rectal cancer, as low-risk cancer is unusual with spread to lymph nodes. The study will be a
      prospective observation study in which all consecutive elective patients in Umeå with
      confirmed intermediate and high risk type rectal cancer, which give their consent, are
      included and examined preoperatively. Thereafter, imaging and blood and tumor tissue samples
      are examined and evaluated.

      Primary research questions:

        -  Can FDG-PET/MR provide improved accuracy in assessment of local tumor proliferation,
           lymph node metastasis and other important prognostic factors (MRF +, EMVI) in rectal
           cancer compared to currently used methods magnetic resonance imaging, (MRI), PET/CT or
           CT?

        -  Can FDG-PET/MR provide an improved accuracy in assessment of tumor regression following
           combined cytostatics and radiotherapy in rectal cancer compared to MRI or PET/CT?

        -  Can FDG-PET / MR in combination with blood and tumor tissue biomarkers provide
           additional prognostic information for intermediate and high-risk rectal cancer?

      Secondary research questions:

      • How does the accumulation of FDG change in rectal cancer tissue when examined after 60
      minutes vs examination after 90 minutes?

      Patients will be examined with a whole body FDG-PET CT, where the CT replaces the regular
      diagnostic CT examination. There is also a FDG-PET/MR of the pelvic region, where the MR part
      replaces the regular MRI examination. For patients with locally advanced disease undergoing
      combined radiation and chemotherapy, a further PET/CT and PET/MR are acquired at least 4
      weeks after the treatment, but before surgery. In future, patients who only need shorter
      radiation therapy may undergo further PET/CT and PET/MR before surgery, if time between
      radiation and surgery is extended as clinical routine.

      PET/CT and PET/MR are done immediately after each other with only one FDG injection of 4
      Mbq/kg body weight. The examinations will be reviewed and judged according to clinical
      routine, where all reviewers have access to all image data. An additional reading will then
      be done by experienced GI-radiologist and nuclear medicine physician to assess the additional
      value for PET/MR. The histopathological finding in the examination of the surgical
      preparation will be used as a reference method.

      In order to facilitate the assessment and correlation between individual lymph nodes in
      tissue analysis and imaging data, the operation specimen will, when this is possible, be
      examined with MRI postoperatively before the histopathological examination is performed.

      The study does not involve any extra visits in addition to clinical routine at the Department
      of Radiology, but gives a small increase in radiation dose, as PET/MR is done instead of MRI
      only and in addition to PET/CT after CRT, which is not clinical routine. According to
      national guidelines, PET/CT is intended for advanced rectal cancer, but for those not
      included in this group, there will be an increased radiation dose of PET in PET/CT. This
      increase of ionizing radiation is small and corresponds to approximately 2 years of
      background radiation.

      Radiological image data (PET/MR and PET/CT) is stored in the picture archiving and
      communicating system (PACS) as in clinical routine. Requests and reports are stored in the
      Department's Radiological Information System (RIS).

      The examination is subject to the same confidentiality as any routine imaging examination at
      the department. Image data will not be destroyed. Data is exported to external software for
      post processing and statistical processing. All processing in addition to clinical routine
      takes place in unidentified data. Only those responsible and employees in the project have
      access to conversion lists.

      The primary objective of this study is assessment of lymph node metastases. The best method
      today is MR which has a sensitivity of 77% and a specificity of 71%. With an estimated 20%
      prevalence of lymphoma metastases, an expected sensitivity of 90%, an expected specificity of
      80% and 80% statistical strength, and 95% confidence interval, 307 glands are required for
      sensitivity and 691 glands for specificity. As the investigator expect to identify 8 glands
      per patient, it means that about 39 patients is needed for the sensitivity and about 87
      patients for the specificity. The investigator round up the number of patients to 100 to
      compensate for any failure in the follow-up.

      Written information is provided to the patient and patient leaves his signature. All signed
      consent is given to the x-ray department where they are filed at the research department.
      Individuals who can not or do not want to give consent are not included. This also applies to
      individuals with reduced decision-making skills.

      The examination is subject to the same confidentiality as any routine x-ray examination at
      the clinic. Evaluation of the find takes place under safe forms within a limited circle and
      data is kept in safe storage. If external statistical consultation is required, patient data
      will be unidentified.
    
  