
    
      Rationale: In the Netherlands, of the approximately 15,000 women who are diagnosed with
      breast cancer each year, about 40% undergo mastectomy. A wide variety of breast
      reconstructive methods are offered to these women. In most cases, there is no clear medical
      recommendation on which procedure is the best. Decisions for breast surgery and
      reconstruction are frequently made during an emotionally burdensome and restricted timeframe.
      Women may find it hard to make a decision for the type of surgery and reconstruction, some
      feel that the decision is hurried and uninformed, and many have some degree of regret about
      their decision at a later date. To support women in making a well-informed decision about
      breast reconstruction, an online patient decision aid (pDA) has been developed.

      Objective: The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the impact of the use of the
      online pDA on the process of decision making regarding breast reconstruction and the decision
      quality. The secondary objective of the study is to evaluate the impact of the use of the
      online pDA on patient reported health outcomes, to identify possible moderators of the
      effect, and to investigate the cost-effectiveness.

      Hypotheses: It is hypothesized that the online pDA, as compared to usual care, will improve
      the decision making process about breast reconstruction (i.e. leads to less decisional
      conflict, higher satisfaction with information, higher levels of preparedness for decision
      making and higher perceived levels of shared decision making) and that it will improve the
      decision quality (i.e. leads to higher levels of knowledge about breast reconstruction and
      lower levels of regret).

      Study design: A multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be performed in eight
      hospitals. All consenting participants will be randomized into one of the two study arms
      (intervention group or control group). Women in both groups will be invited to complete
      questionnaires at baseline (i.e. before randomization), 1 week after consultation with a
      plastic surgeon and 3 and 12 months after breast surgery.

      Study population: 250 women will participate.
    
  