
    
      Anaemia is a condition in which the number of red blood cells or their oxygen-carrying
      capacity is insufficient to meet physiologic needs. Anemia is a condition characterized by a
      decrease in the concentration of hemoglobin in the blood. Hemoglobin is necessary for
      transporting oxygen to tissues and organs in the body. Iron deficiency is thought to be the
      most common cause of anaemia globally. Iron deficiency anemia is due to insufficient iron
      that is necessary to produce enough red blood cells that enables them to carry oxygen
      (hemoglobin). As a result, iron deficiency anemia is associated with fatigue, general body
      weakness, frequent tiredness, dizziness and lowered resistance to disease and drowsiness.
      Overall, morbidity and mortality risks increase for individuals suffering from anemia, a
      condition in which blood lacks adequate healthy red blood cells. Red blood cells carry oxygen
      to the body's tissues.

      Anemia is considered a serious public health problem worldwide with prevalence of 43% in the
      developing countries and of 9% in the developed ones. Research demonstrates that the majority
      of HCV treated patients with ribavirin became anaemic after treatment and they claimed that
      their quality of life was affected because of anaemia. Anaemia is one of the common side
      effects for Hepatitis C treated with ribavirin and remains a prominent concern. Partially,
      because Ribavirin destroys red blood cells by causing them to break open, or rupture and
      partially because of malnutrition due to the loss of appetite accompanying the treatment.
      Moreover addition of direct acting antiviral as Sofosbuvir to peginterferon plus ribavirin
      (PegIFN/RBV) increases the frequency as well as the severity, and hence, clinical relevance
      of anaemia, which has now become one of the major complications associated with hepatitis C
      therapy. Most significant factors associated with anaemia in patients receiving triple
      therapy include older age, lower body mass index (BMI), advanced fibrosis, and lower baseline
      haemoglobin.

      Hemoglobin lower than normallevels indicate anemia; The normal hemoglobin range is generally
      defined as 13.2 to 16.6 grams (g) of hemoglobin per deciliter (dL) of blood for men and 11.6
      to 15. g/dL for women. Severe anemia is manifested when Hb level is less than 8 grams (g) of
      hemoglobin per deciliter (dL) for both adult men aged 15 years and above and non- pregnant
      women aged 15 years and above Overall objective To help program planners plan regimens and
      guidelines to overcome therapy-induced anaemia with the use of functional food Objectives for
      direct beneficiaries

        1. Improving the lives of the anaemic patients by providing a set of interventions for to
           alleviate their anaemia

        2. improving participants' quality of life which was Dates fruits dependant.

      This study was conducted as three phases:

      The first phase included:

        1. Equipping the three main primary health care units by automated cell counter

        2. Training of the primary health care technicians to carry out screening for risk of
           anaemia

        3. Screening and assessing incidence of anaemia and measuring haemoglobin concentration
           (Hb) among 2341 HCV treated cases (>18 years to 70 years) followed by confirming the
           anaemic status

        4. Assessing the nutritional pattern and quality of life for the anaemic cases

      The second phase included:

        -  Development of recipe book to increase the number of nutritionally balanced meals and
           increase the frequency of iron-rich foods per week

        -  Provision of awareness and educational sessions at the community based associations for
           improving the patients' own nutrition situation through nutritional education about food
           rich in iron and counselling. Special focus will be on increasing patients' awareness
           for self-management of their status.

        -  Provision of Dates : Dates fruit intake for all the anaemic patients was provided for 16
           weeks (four months):Diagnosed anemic patients were given five pieces of Dates on daily
           basis for 16 weeks (each date fruits is about 10 -20 gm), of Dates. Dates was taken as
           breakfast on daily base.

        -  Provision of demonstration kitchen model

      the third phase was the evaluation phase for :

        1. Measuring change in the haemoglobin level

        2. Measuring the change of the nutritional habits for all anaemic cases'

        3. Measuring change of the quality of life indicators

      Monitoring process:

      A monthly monitoring sheet containing pictures and photos for the types of food was used for
      follow up of dietary habits. It was filled daily by the cases starting from the first day
      after the session for one month. Follow up was done for 6 months
    
  