
    
      PURPOSE:

      To determine the effectiveness of low level laser therapy on insulin resistance and
      inflammatory biomarkers in obese postmenopausal breast cancer risk women

      BACKGROUND:

      The American Obesity Association (2002, 2003) defines obesity as 'a complex, multifactorial
      chronic disease involving environmental (social and cultural), genetic, physiologic,
      metabolic, behavioral, and psychological components'. However, the most commonly used
      definitions of obesity are based on BMI, which is defined as weight in kilograms divided by
      height in meters squared. In adults, obesity is generally defined as a BMI of 30.0 or
      greater. Obesity has become a major contributor to the global burden of chronic disease and
      disability. It is a complex condition with serious social and psychological dimensions,
      affecting virtually all ages and socioeconomic group Obesity is associated with an increased
      risk of developing insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. In obese individuals, adipose
      tissue releases increased amounts of non-esterified fatty acids, glycerol, hormones,
      proinflammatory cytokines and other factors that are involved in the development of insulin
      resistance. In overweight and obesity, there exists low-grade chronic inflammation
      characterized by the increase of cytokines and serum concentrations such as fibrinogen and
      C-reactive protein (CRP) The areas of low - intensity laser use have expanded in several
      conditions by different mechanisms and ways. LLLT has been used as an important tool for the
      control of the inflammatory process. Its anti-inflammatory effect has been studied and its
      ability to induce analgesia under different conditions has also been reported. Because laser
      acupuncture appears to be safe, it could be considered as a complementary form of palliative
      care for prevention of cancer risk, especially for clinical problems for which conventional
      care options are limited. Investigations suggest the benefits of low-level laser therapy
      (LLLT) to improve noninvasive body contouring treatments, inflammation, insulin resistance
      and to reduce body fat.

      HYPOTHESES:

      Low level laser therapy in form of laser watch has no effect on insulin resistance
      inflammatory biomarkers in obese postmenopausal breast cancer risk women

      RESEARCH QUESTION:

      Does low level laser therapy has an effect on insulin resistance inflammatory biomarkers in
      obese postmenopausal breast cancer risk women?
    
  