
    
      This is a one-year project, and it will be divided into 2 Phases. Phase I will focus on
      translating our gender-specific smoking cessation programme into a smartphone application. In
      Phase II, the investigators will promote the smartphone application to female smokers in the
      community.

      Phase I: Translating our gender-specific smoking cessation programme into a smartphone
      application To translate our gender-specific smoking cessation programme into a smartphone
      application, an expert panel will be formed. The panel members include a chair professor, an
      associate professor, an assistant professor, a research assistant professor and a
      postdoctoral fellow, with all of whom have considerable experience in conducting studies on
      smoking cessation and tobacco control. The content of the smartphone application will be
      designed according to the gender-specific smoking cessation programme delivered by our women
      Quitline. In particular, the smartphone application aims to help female smokers abstain from
      cigarettes by their readiness to quit. For female smokers who are in the pre-contemplation or
      contemplation stage, the smartphone application will motivate them to quit by instructing
      them to list out the reasons for quitting, and providing them information about the damaging
      effects of smoking on health, especially those are specific to women. Regarding female
      smokers in the preparation stage, the smartphone application will assist them to
      individualize their own quit plan by computerized instructions, and provide generic tips how
      they can achieve abstinence step-by-step. Concerning female smokers in the action stage,
      skills for overcoming cigarette craving and withdrawal symptoms will be presented. In
      addition, hazardous effects of smoking will pop-up in their smartphones to remind them of
      smoking cessation throughout their quitting process. To address the needs and concerns of
      female smokers, gender-specific elements have been integrated into the smartphone
      application. In particular, the smartphone application will correct their misconceptions that
      smoking can be a method to control body weight and manage stress. At the same time, the
      smartphone application will display information about proper weight-loss strategies and
      relaxation techniques. Female smokers who need more intensive counseling can also contact our
      Quitline via the smartphone application.

      Phase II: Promoting the smartphone application for female smokers in the community In order
      to promote the smartphone application for female smokers, the investigators plan to recruit
      30 students from the University of Hong Kong to join this project. All recruited students
      will be invited to participate in a 1-day training workshop organized by our team. During the
      training workshop, the students will be educated on smoking hazards, the basic principles of
      smoking cessation and tobacco control policies.

      Female smokers will be recruited in smoking hotspots where rubbish bins with a collector of
      cigarette butts are nearby. The trained university students will approach female smokers at
      the smoking hotspots, and deliver a small souvenir to them. The souvenir is a pack of tissue
      paper, with its packaging containing smoking cessation messages and the QR code of the
      smartphone application. If the smokers accept the souvenir, the students will then introduce
      this project. For female smokers who are interested to join, the students will assist them to
      download the smartphone application, briefly go through its content, and encourage them to
      use it. To remind the female smokers to continuously use the smartphone application for
      smoking cessation, warning messages about the hazardous effects of smoking will pop up weekly
      in their smartphones.
    
  