
    
      The Gram-negative bacilli organisms Acinetobacter baumannii, Klebsiella spp., Escherichia
      coli, Enterbactor spp. and Pseudomonas aeruginosa have become a frequent cause of bloodstream
      infection and pneumonia in the hospital and other healthcare settings. Among these pathogens,
      antimicrobial resistance has emerged to many classes of antimicrobial agents. Most
      concerning, has been the emergence of resistance to group 2 carbapenems (such as imipenem).
      In several regions of the world, including Southeastern Michigan, strains of extensively-drug
      resistant Gram-negative bacilli (XDR-GNB) that exhibit resistance to most, and in some cases
      all types of available antimicrobial agents, including group 2 carbapenems, have emerged and
      disseminated. Treatment options for XDR-GNB typically include Colistimethate sodium (referred
      to as colistin in this study), used alone (monotherapy) or in combination with other agents.
      Unfortunately, resistance to colistin has begun to emerge in some strains of XDR-GNB, which
      is a truly concerning development, since colistin is one of the last remaining treatment
      options for XDR-GNB. No prospective, randomized controlled trials have been conducted to
      evaluate the clinical efficacy of colistin monotherapy versus colistin-containing combination
      therapy or the impact of these therapeutic modalities on the emergence of colistin resistance
      among XDR-GNB. We plan to conduct a double-blind randomized controlled trial including
      patients with pneumonia and bloodstream infection due to XDR-GNB. After enrollment, subjects
      will be randomized to receive 14 days of either colistin monotherapy or colistin plus
      meropenem.

      In the Detroit metro area, infections due to XDR-GNB have developed into a regional challenge
      and common problem. We have assembled a multi-disciplinary team that includes Infectious
      Diseases researchers, clinicians, infectious diseases pharmacists, microbiologists,
      epidemiologists and statistical experts to address critically important questions and
      challenges regarding the management of bloodstream infection and pneumonia due to XDR-GNB.
      Specifically, we hypothesize that the combination of colistin and imipenem will provide
      superior efficacy in the treatment of XDR-GNB pneumonia and bloodstream infection and will
      prevent the emergence of decreased susceptibility to colistin among XDR-GNB strains. We also
      aim to analyze tools that could be used in "real time" to aid clinicians treating patients
      with infection due to XDR-GNB. For example, we aim to analyze the association between the
      presence of in vitro synergy of the colistin and carbapenem (imipenem or meropenem)
      combination (as determined by E-test) and clinical outcomes; and the association between
      colistin plasma levels and clinical outcomes and the development of nephrotoxicity.
    
  