
    
      Aortic stenosis (AS) is a gradually progressive disease, characterized by an increase in
      calcium deposition leading to progressive narrowing of the aortic valve (AV). There are
      currently no effective medical treatment to halt the disease process and surgical valve
      replacement remains the only proven therapy when the valve becomes severely stenotic. AS is
      mediated by a chronic inflammatory disease process, very similar to that seen in
      atherosclerosis, but lipid-lowering therapy did not slow the progression of AS in the
      SALTIRE, SEAS, or ASTRONOMER trials. It is possible that these trials may have targeted
      patients in whom disease was too advanced for lipid-lowering therapy to be effective, or in
      whom atherosclerotic mechanism was not the central pathogenic process in AS. Because
      identifying and treating patients in earlier stages of AS would not be cost-effective, it
      seems more logical to explore alternative pharmacological approaches.

      AS has been thought to be a degenerative process basically induced by long-lasting mechanical
      stress, and hemodynamic factors such as shear forces, acceleration of blood flow,
      hypertension and rapid heart rate might contribute to progression of AS. Peak aortic jet
      velocity is known to be associated with clinical outcomes in mild and moderate AS, and our
      previous study showed that rate of progression was significantly associated with baseline
      aortic jet velocity in mild AS. Because beta-blocker therapy would decrease aortic jet
      velocity and heart rate, it might decrease hemodynamic stress and eventually slow down the
      degenerative process in patients whose disease is not too advanced for therapy to be
      effective. In a retrospective, observational study, beta-blocker therapy was associated with
      a favorable clinical outcome in AS.

      The investigators hypothesized that bisoprolol, a new generation beta-blocker, would decrease
      the rate of progression of AS by modifying hemodynamic factors favorably in patients with
      mild to moderate AS.
    
  