
    
      Overview of Procedures: All procedures will be conducted at either the UNC Hospitals
      outpatient clinic in Chapel Hill, NC, at the outpatient North Carolina Psychiatric Research
      Center (NCPRC), a specialized program of the University of North Carolina Center for
      Excellence in Community Mental Health in Raleigh, NC, at Carolina Behavioral Care in
      Hillsborough, NC, at the Lieber Schizophrenia Research Clinic at the New York State
      Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI) in New York, NY, or at Augusta University in Augusta, GA.

      Screening: During the initial clinic visit and after giving informed consent, prospective
      subjects' psychiatric and medical histories will be reviewed, physical exams conducted,
      demographics and vital signs taken, and blood and urine collected. Fasting labs will be
      ordered to measure metabolic parameters (lipid profile, glucose, hemoglobin A1C, insulin and
      lipids) as well as a complete blood count (CBC), electrolytes, liver/renal function tests,
      thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), urinalysis (UA), serum pregnancy test, and urine drug
      screen (UDS). The Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
      of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition) will be administered to confirm diagnoses and the
      Clinical Global Impressions-Severity (CGI-S) will be used to evaluate global psychopathology.

      The baseline visit will be scheduled within 28 days of the screening visit. A battery of
      assessments will be administered including the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity (CGI-S),
      the Alcohol Use Scale (AUS), Drug Use Scale (DUS), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS),
      Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS), three assessments to measure eating behavior
      (Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDE-Q), Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire (TFEQ),
      and Food Craving Inventory (FCI)). In addition to the paper pencil assessments, a 24 hour
      food recall assessment will be administered as a telephone questionnaire by trained personnel
      from the UNC Nutrition and Obesity Research Center. Accelerometry will also be used to
      estimate subjects' sedentary and active behavior. Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) will
      also be conducted at the baseline visit (UNC location only). Lastly, the first behavioral
      intervention lesson will occur at the baseline visit, providing direct lesson instruction and
      a diary for subjects' to take home for recording their homework and progress.

      At the completion of the baseline visit, subjects who continue to meet study inclusion
      criteria will be randomized to one of the three treatment groups (lorcaserin & metformin,
      lorcaserin, and placebo). Lorcaserin will be administered in dosages of 10mg with a maximum
      dose of 20mg. Metformin will be administered in dosages of 500mg with a maximum dose of
      2,000mg. In addition, matching placebos will be administered for each drug. Doses will be
      adjusted based on subject tolerability.

      All participants will be offered a behavioral intervention of weekly diet and exercise
      counseling aimed at modifying cardiovascular risk factors including weight, activity level,
      blood glucose, blood pressure and lipids. This intervention will be provided by a trained
      clinician in individualized sessions at all study visits after the Baseline Visit and
      supplemented with weekly interim phone calls to reinforce lessons between visits. The
      intervention was adapted from a weight-reduction program developed for patients with severe
      mental illnesses and was used in the Metformin in the Treatment of Antipsychotic-Induced
      Weight Gain in Schizophrenia (METS) and the Clinical Management of Metabolic Problems in
      Patients with Schizophrenia: Switching to Aripiprazole versus Continued Treatment with
      Olanzapine, Quetiapine, or Risperidone (CAMP) trials and is therefore well known to our
      research group and readily implemented as part of the current proposal.

      After study enrollment, subjects will be scheduled for a Week 1 and Week 2 study visit. The
      purpose of these visits will be to assess medication management (i.e., symptoms, adverse
      events/side effects, adherence, adjust dose as indicated), collect vital signs, and provide
      the behavioral therapy intervention. The CGI-S will be completed again at both Week 1 and
      Week 2, however, the BPRS and C-SSRS will be completed at Week 2 only.

      The next 5 study visits will be scheduled as bi-weekly in-person visits. These visits will be
      similar to Week 1 and Week, 2 with the addition of the Substance Use Scale and Alcohol Use
      Questionnaire. After the first two behavioral intervention sessions, interim telephone calls
      will be made between in-person study visits to each participant to reinforce elements of the
      program and to answer questions.

      After the Week 12 study visit, all in-person study visits will transition to monthly visits
      for the rest of the year. The interim telephone calls will be made bi-weekly between the
      in-person study visits to each participant to continue to reinforce elements of the program
      and to answer questions.

      At Week 52, all study measures and fasting labs will be collected again.

      Vital signs, adverse events, and side effects will be obtained at all in-person study visits.
      Monitoring labs and appetite regulating hormones will be done at Week 12, Week 24, Week 36,
      and Week 52.
    
  