
    
      Sepsis is a global health problem and an estimated 17 million cases of sepsis occur each year
      in the world .The early initiation of appropriate antibiotic therapy is determinant for the
      prognosis and survival of patients with bloodstream infections . Infections in patients
      suffering from hematological malignancies are a frequent problem, leading to higher mortality
      and morbidity, increased costs of health care and prolonged duration of hospitalization.
      Common among these infections are those involving the bloodstream. In febrile neutropenic
      patients, the attack rate of bloodstream infection was reported to be between 11 and 38% .
      Hematological malignancies by themselves or by their therapeutic strategies, put patients at
      risk for infections. Wide use of antibiotics and prophylactic agents in such patients has led
      to the development of resistance. The general term fungemia describes the presence of a
      fungal species in the blood while term bacteremia describes the presence of bacterial species
      in the blood A positive culture may indicate a widespread infection or commonly, the
      infection of an intravenous catheter .Fungal microbes are abundant in nature and are frequent
      colonizers on human mucosal surfaces. However, under conditions of impaired immune responses
      or a break in host barriers, fungi are able to invade normally sterile areas of the human
      body, where they can cause severe infections that are difficult to recognize and treat and
      are often ultimately lethal .Indeed, recent epidemiological data show that invasive fungal
      infections (IFIs) are frequently encountered in clinical practice, with the most common
      offenders, being Candida spp. and Aspergillus spp. In order to effectively eliminate these
      infections, early diagnosis and species identification are of paramount importance.
      Traditional diagnostic methods such as blood culture is still considered the gold standard
      .Indeed ,novel molecular and non molecular techniques have been developed and currently under
      clinical evaluation . The VITEK 2 is an automated microbial identification system that
      utilizing growth-based technology. With its colorimetric reagent cards, the VITEK 2 offers a
      state of the art technology platform for phenotypic identification methods. The application
      of the multiplex polymerase chain reaction PCR method in the diagnosis of bloodstream
      infections is designed to reduce the time for identification of the microorganisms grown from
      the positive samples to 24-48 hours, as pathogens are identified directly from a positive
      blood sample
    
  