
    
      Method:

        1. Non Randomized clinical trial with double-blind

        2. Participants will be recruited consecutively

        3. Matching technique will be applied following several variables adjustment

        4. Two-arm of the group participants are the normal group, the obese control group, and the
           obese intervention group

      Sample size calculation:

      The difference between two independent means sample size calculation is applied following the
      elements below:

      a. Type 1 error: 10% b. Power: 80% c. Effect Size: 0.9 (based on changes of LPS value) d.
      Dropout rate: 20% e. Hypothesis: Superiority Trial g. The number of participants per group:
      14

      Intervention :

        1. Extract: Liquid extract of Oryza sativa derived from 10 grams of Oryza sativa fine
           powder. The powder is mixed with 100 ml ethanol 50% and 0.5 ml of hydrochloric acid
           (HCl) in 300 C for 2 hours. A supernatant is extracted and evaporated at 35 C and dried
           and 60 C to remove any dissolving agents. This yields an extract of 624.27 mg.

        2. Anthocyanin level is measured using a spectrophotometer where 20 microliters of extract
           added to 2 mL Potassium Chloride (KCl) (with pH 1.0) and 2 ml Sodium Acetate (NaCH3COO)
           (pH 4.5). Absorption of 500 nm and 700 nm waves are measured and calculated using the
           cyanide-3-glucoside calculation where :

      anthocyanin level : (absorbance x 449.2 x dilution factor x 1000) / 26.9

      Control

      a. Active comparator using citric acid and sorbitol mixture

      Biological sample:

        1. Serum sample preparation :

           Participants should undergo fasting for 12 hours. Blood is drawn from the cubital vein
           to the plain tube and incubated for 30-45 minutes. Centrifugation of sample is done for
           15 minutes with 3000 rotation per minute to yield the serum. The supernatant then
           extracted and stored at -80 C.

        2. Feces primary Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) using 100-gram feces. The PCR primer for
           intestinal microbiota are enlisted below :

             1. Total intestinal microbiota (ACTCCTACGGGAGGCAGCAGT ATTACCGCGGCTGCTGGC),

             2. Firmicutes-Lactobacillus (TACATCCCAACTCCAGAACGAAGCAACAGTACCACGACC)),

             3. Bacteroidetes-Bacteroides fragilis (ATAGCCTTCGAAAGRAAGATCCAGTATCAACTGCAATTTTA),

             4. Actinobacteria-Bifidobacterium (CTCCTGGAAACGGGGTGGGGTGTTCTTCCCGATATCTACA),

             5. Proteobacteria-E.Coli (CATGCCGCGTGTATGAAGAACGGGTAACGTCAATGAGCAAA)

      Protection of Human subject according to Helsinki Declaration

        1. Participants are allowed to receive the information of research including purpose,
           possible intervention, and side effects.

        2. Possible side effect including :

        3. Participants are allowed to withdraw from the study for any reason.

      Statistical Analysis Plan

        1. Descriptive statistic of the baseline

        2. The bivariate analysis between all variables and the outcomes

        3. Paired t-test is intended to see the difference between microbiota profile, LPS, and ZO1
           within groups

        4. The independent-test to measure the difference in microbiota profile, LPS, and ZO1 value
           between groups

        5. Alternative statistical test: Linear mixed model to adjust the fixed and random effects.
    
  