
    
      The Study Drugs:

      It is not known which study drug or combination of study drugs is better at reducing side
      effects patients may experience during chemoradiation therapy. For this reason, researchers
      have chosen 4 study drugs that may help to reduce side effects. The study drugs will be
      tested alone and in combination with each other.

      Armodafinil is designed to prevent excessive sleepiness.

      Bupropion is an antidepressant with anti-inflammatory properties that may help reduce
      multiple symptoms.

      Curcumin is the active ingredient in the spice, turmeric. It may interfere with the
      production of cytokines (which cause inflammation), which may reduce multiple symptoms.

      Minocycline is an antibiotic. Minocycline has been shown to interrupt cytokine production,
      which may help to reduce multiple symptoms.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of
      dice) to join 1 of 16 groups. You may be assigned to receive no study drugs, 1 study drug, or
      a combination of 2, 3, or all 4 of the study drugs.

      During this study, you may receive 1 or more placebos. A placebo looks like the study drug(s)
      but has no active ingredients. There is a chance that you will be in a group that does not
      receive any study drugs at all. However, all patients are under standard care by their
      treating doctors.

      Neither you nor the study staff you will see in the clinic will know if you are receiving the
      study drugs and/or the placebo(s). However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will
      be able to find out which study drug you are receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take the study drugs/placebos every day for 10 weeks. You will take either single or
      combined study drug(s) or placebos by mouth everyday as instructed by the study doctor.

      You will be given pamphlets with more information about how to take the study drugs/placebos.

      You will be given a daily diary to write down when you take the study drugs/placebo. You
      should bring your study drug/placebo blister packs/sticks to the clinic to every study visit.
      You should also bring your diary to every visit.

      Completing the Symptom Questionnaire:

      Throughout the study, you will be asked to complete the symptom questionnaire. You will be
      asked about symptoms from therapy you may be experiencing and how they may be interfering
      with your daily activities. The study staff will either meet you during your regular clinic
      visit or call you at your home at a time that is convenient for you. In the clinic, you will
      complete the questionnaire by paper and pen, or by entering your answers into an electronic
      tablet computer. On the phone, study staff will ask you the questions and record your answers
      on paper or enter them into a computer. The symptom questionnaire will take up to 5 minutes
      to complete.

        -  During Weeks 1-10, you will complete the symptom questionnaire 2 times a week.

        -  During Weeks 11-16, you will complete the symptom questionnaire 1 time a week.

      Study Visits:

      Before you begin chemoradiation:

        -  You will complete 4 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your mood, and your
           quality of life. Completing all 4 of the questionnaires will take about 15 minutes.

        -  You will have a blood coagulation test, called a PT-INR, to make sure your blood clots
           normally.

        -  If you are a woman who is able to become pregnant, you will have a urine pregnancy test.
           The study staff will give you the pregnancy test kit at your scheduled visit, and will
           review and record the results of the test before your study prescriptions are filled by
           the pharmacy.

      After 4 weeks of chemoradiation:

        -  You will complete 1 questionnaire about your quality of life. This questionnaire will
           take about 2-3 minutes to complete.

        -  You will have a blood coagulation test, called a PT-INR, to make sure your blood clots
           normally.

      During the last week of chemoradiation (about Week 7):

      -You will complete 3 questionnaires about your symptoms, mood, and quality of life. These
      questionnaires will take about 10 minutes total to complete.

      After about Week 7, the study staff will call you 2 times a week to check on you until week
      10. This phone call should last only a few minutes. If you have experienced several side
      effects from chemoradiation, this phone call make take longer.

      About Week 12 (at a routine clinical visit):

        -  You will complete 3 questionnaires about your symptoms, mood, and quality of life.

        -  If you were smoking at the beginning of the study, you will complete a questionnaire
           that asks if you stopped smoking any time during the study. This will take a few
           minutes.

        -  You will have a blood coagulation test, called a PT-INR, to make sure your blood clots
           normally.

        -  You will be asked to complete another questionnaire that asks about your satisfaction
           with the study drug(s). This will take a few minutes.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for about 16 weeks. You will take the study drug(s) for 10 weeks and
      complete the symptom survey until 16 weeks. You will be taken off study if you experience
      intolerable side effects.

      This is an investigational study. Armodafinil is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of excessive sleepiness. Bupropion is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of depression. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of bacterial infection. Curcumin is not FDA approved. At this time, curcumin is
      only being used in research. The different possible combinations of these drugs being used in
      this study is investigational.

      Up to 32 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  