
    
      Hypoxia is an independent marker of a poor prognosis for subjects with metastatic melanoma
      (Simonetti 2012, Lartigau 1997). Hypoxic melanoma cells are more likely to exhibit a
      stem-cell like phenotype with an associated increased propensity for invasion, angiogenesis,
      and metastasis formation compared to normoxic cells. Moreover, this phenotype is also
      associated with treatment resistance. TH-302, a hypoxia activated prodrug (HAP), was designed
      to target the hypoxic nature of tumours while having a minimal effect on normoxic tissue.
      TH-302 belongs to a class of alkylating agents that have significant experimental and
      clinical activity (Brock 1989). Preclinical data support the hypothesis that TH-302 targets
      hypoxic regions of tumours and is also able to kill tumour cells in normoxic regions as a
      result of cytotoxin diffusion, leading to significant effects on tumour growth (Meng 2011).
      TH-302 has been investigated in over 700 subjects with solid tumours or hematologic
      malignancies, including subjects with metastatic melanoma. In this subset a disease control
      rate of 63% (3 subjects with partial responses and 9 subjects with stable disease out of a
      total of 19) was observed in an early phase clinical trial of TH-302 (Weber 2010). Predictive
      biomarkers for response and toxicity have yet to be identified for subjects with advanced
      melanoma treated with TH-302. Optimal patient selection may be critical to maximize the
      clinical benefit. A predictive biomarker approach will be investigated to try to identify
      subjects most likely to benefit from TH-302. Given the hypoxia-targeting mechanism of TH-
      302, it is believed that hypoxia biomarkers will be the most informative for identifying
      subjects likely to benefit from TH- 302; however, additional biomarkers including DNA repair
      biomarkers will also be investigated. In addition, this approach will also have potential to
      synergise with future immunotherapeutic approaches as suppressive T regulatory cells are
      thought to reside within hypoxic niches within the tumour microenvironment that would be
      amenable to targeting by TH-302.
    
  