
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the safety of immunization with autologous in vitro-treated tumor cells and
           dendritic cells in combination with sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with stage IV or
           recurrent melanoma.

        -  Determine the frequency of conversion of delayed tumor hypersensitivity tests in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the progression-free and overall survival in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the objective tumor response rate in patients with measurable melanoma treated
           with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to presence of measurable disease at study
      initiation (yes vs no).

      Patients undergo tumor cell harvest. Patients with multiple persistent sites of metastatic
      disease after harvest may receive systemic therapy (biologic therapy and/or chemotherapy)
      during tumor cell line expansion over approximately 4 months. The tumor cell line is
      expanded, irradiated, and treated with interferon gamma.

      Patients undergo leukapheresis to collect peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) to obtain
      dendritic cells (DC). The PBMC are treated with sargramostim (GM-CSF) and interleukin-4 for 7
      days to produce DC. The DC are then cultured with the treated tumor cells for 18 hours.

      Patients undergo delayed tumor hypersensitivity tests intradermally 1 week prior to
      vaccination and again at week 4. Patients receive vaccine therapy comprising autologous
      treated tumor cells and dendritic cells suspended in GM-CSF subcutaneously weekly for 3
      weeks. Vaccine therapy continues monthly for an additional 5 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year and then every 3 months for 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-80 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  