
    
      Rationale. The transition from pediatric to adult diabetes care is a challenging period for
      adolescents and emerging adults (ages 18-30 years) with type 1 diabetes (T1D). It is
      characterized by a deterioration in glycemic control (Hemoglobin A1c [HbA1c]), decreased
      adherence to self-management tasks and to clinic attendance and an increased risk of adverse
      outcomes. The investigators propose to examine group education visits as a potentially
      cost-effective approach. In emerging adults with T1D, the investigators hypothesize that
      group education visits, as compared with usual care, will result in better HbA1c, less
      adverse outcomes and better psychosocial outcomes after the transfer to adult care.

      Primary Aim. To determine the impact of group educations visits, compared with usual care, on
      HbA1c after the transfer to adult care.

      Secondary Aims. 1. To determine the impact of group education visits, compared with usual
      care, on time between last pediatric and first adult T1D visit (gap > 6 months), emergency
      department (ED) visits and hospitalizations, severe hypoglycemic events, stigma,
      self-efficacy, disease knowledge, transition readiness, quality of life (QOL) and diabetes
      distress, after the transfer to adult care. 2. To determine the cost-effectiveness of group
      education visits.

      Methods. The investigators will conduct a multi-site, parallel group, blinded (outcome
      assessors, data analysts), superiority Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) of adolescents with
      T1D (17 years of age) followed at one of the two university teaching hospital-based pediatric
      diabetes clinics in Montreal. Patients will be recruited over 24 months. Interventions will
      occur over 12-months. Follow-up will be to 24 months from enrollment. Allocation will be
      concealed with a 1:1 intervention to control ratio . Visits in the active arm will consist of
      a group education session followed by an individual appointment with the diabetes care
      physician every 3-months. The group education session, facilitated by a diabetes nurse
      educator or dietitian, will consist of a patient-driven discussion on topics relevant to
      adolescents with T1D. Patients in the control group, will have in parallel with the
      intervention group, individual appointments with their diabetes provider as per usual care.
      The primary outcome is the change in HbA1c measured at 24 months (HbA1c measured at 24 months
      - HbA1c measured at baseline). Secondary outcomes are delays in establishing adult T1D care
      (Y/N), T1D-related hospitalizations and ED-visits (rates/P-Y), severe hypoglycemic events,
      stigma, self-efficacy, diabetes knowledge, transition readiness, diabetes distress, and QOL.
      Assessments are at baseline, 12 and 24 months . Analysis will be by intention to treat.
      Outcomes will be calculated and compared between the two trial arms using differences with
      95% Confidence Intervals, along with a cost-effectiveness analysis.
    
  