
    
      This proposal will determine the effect of a common variant (CV) synonymous single nucleotide
      polymorphism (SNP) of the gene for the human trace amine associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) on the
      neural and behavioral response of subjects with methamphetamine (MA) use disorder (MUD) and
      healthy control subjects to acute MA administration. The SNP (rs8192620 on human [GRCh38.p7]
      chromosome 6 at 132,645,140 bp in htaar1, allelic frequency 22%) results from a change of
      adenine to guanine in a valine codon at amino acid 288 (v288v). MA is a potent agonist at the
      TAAR1 receptor, in addition to its actions at the dopamine transporter and the vesicular
      monoamine transporter. In rodents, a decrease in TAAR1 expression or non-functional TAAR1
      receptor is associated with an increase in striatal dopamine (DA) signaling.

      The scientific premise of this project is based on 1) preliminary findings that support a
      model that the CV alters RSFC of the striatum, a dopaminergic terminal region, and associated
      behavior in chronic MUD, 2) published reports that delineate the effect of TAAR1 on DA
      signaling and 3) preclinical evidence that TAAR1 influences sensitivity to rewarding and
      aversive effects of MA.

      Furthermore, this proposal will address questions that have important implications for
      understanding and treating patients with MUD, as the TAAR1 receptor is implicated in MA
      self-administration. As an allele of the murine TAAR1 gene associated with an inactive
      receptor leads to increased MA intake in homozygotes, it is critically important to study the
      feasibility of exploiting human variant htaar1.

      The investigators propose a model based on this premise that makes testable predictions about
      the interaction of the CV with chronic and acute MA administration in MUD. The investigators'
      preliminary data show that the CV causes over-expression of TAAR1 in cell culture.
      Stimulation of the TAAR1 receptor decreases dopaminergic signaling in mesocorticolimbic and
      corticostriatal networks. The investigators propose that this effect in conjunction with
      chronic MA use causes neuroadaptations that result in the increased striato- and
      corticolimbic RSFC as well as increased drug craving observed in MUD subjects with the CV.
      The investigators can indirectly test the hypothesis of decreased DA release due to
      ever-expression via MA administration. The effect of acute MA administration on RSFC in
      humans is not known but acute administration of S-amphetamine and methylphenidate reduce RSFC
      in salience attribution and default mode networks presumably via increased DA release.
      Stimulation of over-expressed TAAR1 should blunt this effect in CV carrying individuals
      compared to WT. There are no published reports on neural effects of the interaction between
      either chronic or acute MA administration and htaar1 genotype in humans, therefore this
      proposal represents a unique opportunity to determine whether the RSFC response to acute MA
      administration in humans is mediated by genotype.
    
  