
    
      The trial may/will utilize the following immunosuppressive medications: tacrolimus
      (life-long), sirolimus (life-long), daclizumab and infliximab You will be maintained on the
      lowest doses possible with all the medications.

      GROUP (1A): The first four participants will be assigned to Group A. These participants will
      receive an islet cell transplant alone from two donors. They will receive the following
      immunosuppressive medications: tacrolimus (lifelong), sirolimus (lifelong), and daclizumab.
      They will not receive the immunosuppressive medication infliximab. GROUP (1B): The second
      four participants will be assigned to group B. These participants will receive an islet cell
      transplant alone from one donor. They will receive the following immunosuppressive
      medications: tacrolimus (lifelong), sirolimus (lifelong), daclizumab and infliximab. Patients
      in this group who are not able to stop injecting insulin by three months after the transplant
      may be eligible to receive a second islet cell transplant.

      Further participants will alternate group assignments in the same above-mentioned manner. The
      participants in both groups will receive the following immunosuppressive medications for
      life, tacrolimus and sirolimus. All participants will be required to live no more than two
      hours from the transplantation center.

      When the islets become available, you will be notified to come immediately to the hospital
      for your transplant. At that time numerous tests and laboratory samples will be performed to
      make sure you are ready and healthy for your transplant.

      You will have your islet cell transplant done in a special radiology procedure room in a
      hospital. You will have local anesthetic in the area of your liver on your right side along
      with sedatives that will minimize any discomfort the procedure might cause. A very small
      (thin) needle will be inserted through your liver into your portal vein where the islet cells
      are then injected.

      All participants will need to be followed at the Diabetes Research Institute after transplant
      for laboratory sampling, testing and for general islet cell transplant care.
    
  