
    
      The Study Drug:

      Armodafinil is designed to help promote wakefulness in patients suffering from fatigue.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 3 tablets each day
      during Weeks 1, 2, 4, and 5. You will not take any tablets during Week 3.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to a study group. The tablets you
      receive will depend on which study group you are in. You will have an equal chance of being
      assigned to either group:

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will take armodafinil during Weeks 1 and 2 and a placebo
           during Weeks 4 and 5. A placebo is a tablet that looks like the study drug but has no
           active ingredients.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will take a placebo during Weeks 1 and 2 and armodafinil
           during Weeks 4 and 5.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know to which group you are assigned. However, if needed
      for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are receiving at any time.

      You will be given a fatigue diary and a drug diary. You will fill out the fatigue diary every
      day by answering 2 questions about fatigue. You will fill out the drug diary every day by
      writing when you take the study drug/placebo. You will return any unused drug/placebo at the
      end of Weeks 2 and 5.

      At Week 5, you will be asked if you preferred the first period (Weeks 1 and 2 of the study)
      or the second period (Weeks 4 and 5 of the study). If your doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest and you are benefitting at this point, you will be able to continue taking the study
      drug and you will have additional study visits.

      If you are one of the patients selected for the PK testing, the final results of the PK
      testing for your entire group will need to be completed before you can start the long term
      use of the study drug. If you take the study drug after Week 5, you will take 3 tablets every
      day for the rest of the time that you take the study drug.

      Study Visits:

      At the end of Weeks 1, 3, and 4:

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms that you may be having and about any other drugs
           that you may be taking.

        -  You will complete 2 questionnaires about fatigue and activity. It will take about 10
           minutes to complete these questionnaires.

        -  Your blood pressure will be measured (Weeks 1 and 4 only).

      At the end of Weeks 2 and 5:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  You will complete the same questionnaires you completed at screening.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you were selected for PK testing during screening, you will also have PK blood
           samples drawn at the end of Week 2 and Week 5.

        -  You will complete the series of tests that check your memory, motor skills, and thinking
           that you completed at screening.

      At Weeks 10, 15, 20, and 25:

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms that you may be having and about any other drugs
           that you may be taking.

        -  You will complete the 2 questionnaires about fatigue and activity.

        -  Your blood pressure will be measured.

      If you are not scheduled to come to MD Anderson at Weeks 1, 3, 4, 10, 15, 20, and 25, the
      procedures to be performed at these times can be performed at home. You will be called and
      asked the questions described in these visits. You will take 2 separate blood pressure
      measurements 5 minutes apart for each day and report results to the research staff over the
      telephone. If you choose to take your blood pressure measurements at home, you will be
      provided with a home blood pressure monitor at screening and taught how to use it. The
      monitor will be returned to study staff at the end of the study.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug as part of this study for up to 24 weeks. If you are
      benefiting after 24 weeks, you may continue taking the study drug off study. If you are one
      of the patients selected for the PK testing, the final results of the PK testing for your
      entire group will need to be completed before you can start the long term use of the study
      drug. You will be taken off study at any time if you have intolerable side effects or if the
      study doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      End of Treatment:

      About 6 months after the end of Week 5, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will complete the same questionnaires you completed at screening.

        -  You will complete the series of tests that check your memory, motor skills, and thinking
           that you completed at screening.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      Follow-Up:

      The study staff will call you about 30 days after your last dose of study drug and ask about
      any symptoms or complaints you may have had, as well as about any other drugs you may be
      taking. This call will last about 10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Armodafinil is FDA approved and commercially available to
      help improve wakefulness in adults who experience excessive sleepiness. Its use in
      cancer-related fatigue is investigational.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  