
    
      GM102 is a humanized low fucose monoclonal antibody with a high affinity to AMHRII receptor
      (fetal receptor mediating the activity of AMH, reexpressed in a variety of solid tumors).
      GM102 acts through engagement of immune cells (macrophages, natural killer (NK) cells) to
      trigger ADCC (antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity) and phagocytosis of tumor cells.

      AMRHII expression was found in 73% of primary colorectal tumors tested.

      Advanced/metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) remains an unmet need disease, with few
      therapeutic options beyond two or three lines of therapy.

      CRC is characterized by a tumor microenvironment (TME) particularly rich in macrophages and
      more specifically macrophages capable of tumor phagocytosis. The pattern of the TME remains a
      major prognostic factor in the metastatic setting.

      C201 consists of two parallel cohorts for patients with advanced or metastatic colorectal
      cancer in two different settings of the disease:

        -  Cohort I (GM102 single agent) in refractory patients, having exhausted all therapeutic
           options. Patients will receive GM102 alone at the dose of 7 mg/kg administered by
           intravenous infusion at Day 1, Day 8, Day 15 and Day 22 of each 28-day cycle

        -  Cohort II (GM102 in combination with trifluridine/tipiracil) in patients candidate to
           receive single agent trifluridine/tipiracil, after at least two lines of treatment for
           the advanced or metastatic disease. Patients will receive GM102 at the dose of 7 mg/kg
           administered by intravenous infusion at Day 1, Day 8, Day 15 and Day 22 and
           trifluridine/tipiracil at 35 mg/m² per dose twice daily orally administered on Days 1 to
           5 and Days 8 to 12 of each 28-day cycle.

      Patients will be treated with GM102 (Cohort I) or GM102 and trifluridine/tipiracil (Cohort
      II) until confirmed progression or toxicity.

      A Trial Steering Committee (TSC) will analyze and qualify GM102 activity and toxicities and
      will provide recommendations on the Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) continuation.
    
  