
    
      Depression is a serious medical condition. It occurs in people of all ages, but only in the
      past two decades has depression in children and adolescents been taken seriously. Children
      and adolescents with depression may exhibit such behaviors as pretending to be sick, refusing
      to go to school or getting in trouble at school, clinging to a parent or worrying that the
      parent may die, sulking, or acting in a negative or grouchy manner. A previous study
      demonstrated that, when administered by clinicians in school-based clinics, individual
      interpersonal psychotherapy is effective in reducing depressive symptoms and improving global
      and social functioning. This study will assess the effectiveness of group interpersonal
      psychotherapy (IPT-AG) versus treatment as usual (TAU) in improving depressive symptoms of
      adolescents in school-based health clinics.

      Participants in this 16-week single-blind study will be randomly assigned to receive either
      IPT-AG or TAU in a school-based clinic. Participants assigned to receive IPT-AG will attend
      two to three, 40-minute individual pre-group sessions, followed by 12, 90-minute group
      therapy sessions and two additional individual sessions-one midway through the group sessions
      and another upon completion of group therapy. TAU will consist of counseling sessions as
      regularly conducted by the school clinic social worker and/or referral to another agency.
      Study visits will occur at baseline and Weeks 4, 8, 12, and 16, or upon early termination. At
      the end of 16 weeks, participants assigned to receive IPT-AG will continue in a maintenance
      program in which they will receive IPT-AG once a month for an additional 6 months. All
      participants will also be assessed 6 and 12 months post-treatment to measure depressive
      symptoms, global and social functioning, satisfaction with care, and utilization of other
      services.
    
  