
    
      Many speculations regarding the decline in human fecundity are believed to be related to
      environmental factors, including life style. Among many other factors, perceived
      psychological stress has been suggested to alter both male and female fertility.

      There are many ways to asses stress, one of which is done by filling questionnaires. DASS-21,
      a 21-item questionnaire, is a set of three self-report scales (Depression, anxiety, stress
      scale). The negative emotional states of depression, anxiety and stress can be measured using
      DASS21.

      Each of the three DASS scales contains 7 items. Each item is rated on a four-point scale of
      severity. By using DASS scale, stress and anxiety level of the subject can be monitored in
      different situations in life.

      Another way to asses stress can be done by measuring peptides that are secreted in acute and
      chronic stress, one of them is cortisol.

      Cortisol is a glucocorticoid class steroid hormone; it is produced in humans by the zona
      fasciculate of the adrenal cortex within the adrenal gland. It is quantified as a marker for
      hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis reactivity. In humans, cortisol levels are increased in
      stress, depression, and selected systemic diseases such as Cushing's syndrome as well as in
      response to low blood-glucose concentration as well as a response to psychosocial stress.

      The experience of chronic adversity or stress is well-known to be associated with a range of
      negative effects on health. A crucial neuroendocrine axis involved in mediating these effects
      is the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis leading to the secretion of the glucocorticoid
      cortisol.

      Measurement of long-term endogenous production of cortisol can be done by taking urine,
      saliva or serum samples, while each of these measurements has advantages and limitations. All
      these methods require multiple samples to provide an assessment of cortisol levels over
      prolonged periods of time and it is important to note that those measures reflect acutely
      circulating cortisol level or integrated cortisol secretion over the examined sampling
      period. Another aspect is that acute cortisol level fluctuates markedly depending on many
      factors such as circadian rhythmicity, acute stress, cigarettes smoking, alcohol, or
      exercising.

      Another strategy is to measure cortisol is a repeated sampling at different time of the day
      over several days. But, in order for this strategy to be effective, large number of sampling
      points during the day are needed.

      Taking together, real assessment of long term cortisol secretion can be difficult, thus a new
      technique has been developed using hair. Positive association between hair cortisol and
      accumulated salivary free cortisol was seen, and it was concluded that hair cortisol reflects
      long term cortisol secretion.

      In infertile couples who come for evaluation facing stressful time that can cause an even
      more reduction in fecundity, the investigators will measure long term cortisol secretion and
      understand the effect of stress and cortisol on infertile couples.
    
  