
    
      The primary goal of the BLUSHED AHF pilot trial is to determine whether an early lung
      ultrasound (LUS) guided, protocol-driven ED AHF strategy-of-care leads to more rapid and
      sustained resolution of congestion, as measured by LUS B-lines. If the investigators are able
      to demonstrate this necessary and sufficient information - targeted strategy-of-care is more
      effective than usual care - they will apply for a follow on study to achieve the following
      aim.

      Aim 1: To demonstrate the effectiveness of a targeted decongestion strategy - LUS guided,
      protocol-driven ED AHF management - will result in improved 30-day outcomes vs. usual care.
      This aim will be tested using a randomized, controlled, unblinded, pragmatic, multi-center,
      simple trial design.

      The pilot trial may determine that ED management alone is insufficient to impact the outcome.
      Thus, the investigators may need to modify their subsequent trial design to include targeted
      therapy throughout hospitalization. However, the pilot study will demonstrate whether
      targeted therapy effectively reduces B-lines.

      PUBLIC HEALTH IMPACT Over one million hospitalizations for AHF occur every year in the US.
      Within 30 days after hospitalization, over 25% of AHF patients will be dead or
      re-hospitalized.4 Up to 67% of patients will be re-hospitalized and 36% will be dead by one
      year. For patients aged 65 years and older, AHF is the most common and most expensive reason
      for hospitalization. Despite major reductions in morbidity and mortality for chronic HF,
      considerably less progress has been seen in AHF.

      Congestion is the primary reason why AHF patients present to the ED seeking medical care.
      Congestion is manifest by signs and symptoms of heart failure (HF); dyspnea, orthopnea,
      edema, and weight gain. Yet, how to best assess, grade, and manage congestion is not well
      established.

      Freedom from congestion is associated with improved outcomes; Yet many patients leave the
      hospital inadequately decongested. The absence of robust, reliable methods to assess
      congestion is a primary reason why it is not well-assessed. A recent consensus statement
      published in 2010 highlights this fact: "…no method to assess congestion…has been validated."
      The investigators would argue many ED AHF patients are poorly assessed prior to treatment. In
      addition, they are poorly re-assessed prior to hospitalization to gauge the success or
      failure of initial management. While physical exam is currently the cornerstone of congestion
      assessment, it lacks sensitivity and inter-rater reliability.

      The investigators challenge the current paradigm of relying on insensitive methods of
      congestion to guide therapy. Furthermore, they argue the lack of a robust evidence base for
      ED management of congestion contributes to poor outcomes.
    
  