
    
      There are two parts to this study. First, the investigators propose a prospective,
      observational study of subjects with connective tissue disease (CTD). Data on CTD diagnosis,
      disease activity, medications, electrolytes, anti-Ro Ab status, QT interval and serum for
      measurement of inflammatory markers and cytokines will be collected. Please see the research
      strategy for details of the protocol. The investigators expect that QTc prolongation will
      have a positive correlation with anti-Ro Ab positivity, elevated measures of inflammatory
      markers and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines, especially IL-6.

      The second part of the study will include a subgroup of subjects who have QTc prolongation of
      more than 500 milliseconds. This is a proof of concept study to investigate whether
      immunosuppressive treatment with moderate dose of prednisone will reduce QTc in CTD patients
      exhibiting an excessive QTc prolongation of >500msec. Patients enrolled in the prospective
      observational study with QTc prolongation of more than 500 msec will receive oral prednisone
      40mg daily for 3 days followed by 20mg for eleven days (a total of 2 weeks) with the goal to
      shorten or normalize the prolonged QTc. Other factors that may cause prolonged QTc will be
      evaluated and corrected as needed. Inflammatory markers, cytokines, and QTc will be measured
      at baseline and serially at days 3 and 14 (end of treatment). The investigators will monitor
      changes in QTc during three 24-hour periods during treatment at baseline, day 3 and day 14.
      Risks of prednisone include elevated serum glucose levels, edema, increased risk of infection
      and blood pressure elevation. The dosage and duration of prednisone used in this study is
      similar to that given for a severe allergic reaction. The PI will monitor the patients for
      potential side effects which will immediately be addressed.
    
  