
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for a regimen
      combining WEE1 inhibitor AZD1775 (AZD1775) with belinostat in patients with
      refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis
      (CML-BC), or intermediate-2 or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and selected
      previously untreated poor-prognosis patients with AML.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the toxicities of this regimen. II. To observe and record anti-tumor activity.
      III. If responses are observed, to determine what relationship, if any, exists between such
      responses and tumor protein 53 (p53)/fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) mutational status.

      IV. To describe pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions, if any, between AZD1775 and belinostat.

      V. To test the feasibility of performing correlative studies involving leukemic blasts
      obtained pre-treatment and 24-hours post-treatment to determine if events associated with in
      vitro synergism (eg, down-regulation of phosphorylated [p]-Wee1 and p-checkpoint kinase 1
      [Chk1]; dephosphorylation of cyclin-dependent kinase-like 1 [cdc2] at both tyrosine [Tyr]15
      and threonine [Thr]14; increased expression of gamma H2A histone family, member X [H2A.X] and
      of p-histone H3 [HH3]) can be recapitulated following exposure to AZD1775 and belinostat in
      patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive belinostat intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes once daily (QD) on days 1-5
      and 8-12 and WEE1 inhibitor AZD1775 orally (PO) QD on days 1-5 and 8-12. Courses repeat every
      21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving
      complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi),
      cytogenetic complete remission (CRc), or molecular complete remission (CRm) who do not go on
      to have stem cell transplant may only continue treatment for 3-4 additional courses after
      response.

      After completion of study treatment, all patients are followed up for 30 days and responding
      patients are followed up every 2 months for 1 year.
    
  