
    
      Intestinal dysmotility is increasingly recognised as a debilitating manifestation of
      mitochondrial disease both in adults and children (1). It is a frequent symptom of other
      neurological conditions including Cerebral Palsy, Multiple Sclerosis and Parkinson's Disease.
      Symptoms of intestinal dysmotility are often overlooked and frequently under-diagnosed in its
      early stages.

      Indeed, in its most severe form, intestinal dysmotility may manifest as intestinal pseudo
      obstruction (IPO), characterised by a clinical picture suggestive of mechanical obstruction,
      exemplifying the need for early detection and management. To date, symptoms of intestinal
      dysmotility in slow transit time constipation, limited fluid and calorie intake, weight loss,
      and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and in severe cases intestinal pseudo obstruction
      (2, 3). Moreover, the bacteria that reside within the gastrointestinal (GI) tract compete for
      nutrients, contributing to weight loss due to malabsorption of fat (4), protein and
      carbohydrates (5, 6), vitamin (7-11) and iron deficiency (12) are often evident. Further
      problems include poor digestion and absorption food, an impaired immune system, and an
      impaired drug absorption ability, all of which influence patient health, quality of life and
      increases National Health Service (NHS) costs.

      A low residue diet is a form of low fibre diet (<10g fibre per day) that is used to minimise
      symptoms of intestinal dysmotility by reducing faecal volume and bulk and hence bowel
      workload, ensuring limited bowel activity and colonic rest. It has been shown to be both
      tolerable and efficacious in other conditions associated with intestinal dysmotility;
      however, its role in patients with mitochondrial disease and intestinal dysmotility, is
      unknown.

      This feasibility study proposes to systematically gather data on whether a low residue diet
      is tolerable and has an effect on intestinal dysmotility and health-related quality of life
      in in patients with mitochondrial disease.
    
  