
    
      The paradigm The accumulation of damage to molecules, cells and tissues over a lifetime that
      contributes to aging eventually leads to frailty and malfunction. The past decade has seen
      fundamental advances in our understanding of the aging process and raised optimism that
      interventions to slow ageing may be on the horizon. The aging process is linked to energy
      deficit due to tissue hypoxia and mitochondria dysfunction.

        -  Mitochondria dysfunction- Mitochondria are the primary generator of energy by means of
           ATP synthesis and their dysfunction leads to cellular function decline and degenerative
           changes. In addition, mitochondria dysfunction in stem cells decreases the capabilities
           for tissue regeneration.

        -  Tissue hypoxia- Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory response that damages arterial
           blood vessels. It begins in childhood and progresses throughout life. A vicious cycle
           occurs as mitochondrial dysfunction accelerates atherosclerosis and the waning of
           microvasculature, resulting in decrease blood supply and ensuing relative tissue
           hypoxia. The decrease oxygen supply to the mitochondria further exacerbates
           mitochondrial dysfunction.

      Hyperbaric oxygen can increase the partial pressure of dissolved (non-hemoglobin-bound)
      oxygen 20-30 fold and produce two main effects. First, it can eliminate the relative tissue
      hypoxia induced by atherosclerosis. Second, because mitochondria function is directly
      influenced by the partial pressure of dissolved oxygen, hyperbaric oxygen can amend
      mitochondrial dysfunction. Thus, the investigators suggest hyperbaric oxygen as a novel
      method for breaking the vicious cycle of degeneration and perhaps even for reversing the
      aging process.

      The study is designed as a prospective crossover study aiming to evaluate the therapeutic
      effects of HBOT on the Brain, Cardiovascular and Immune system, Skin, Erectile (sexual
      functions), liver and Kidneys, of aging population.

      After signing an informed consent form, patients will be invited for baseline evaluations.
      All patients would be evaluated 3 times - at baseline, after 3 months of follow up, and after
      additional 3 months of HBOT protocol. The evaluation will include cognitive assessment,
      questionnaires, MRI scans, blood tests and skin photograph and biopsy. In addition, blood
      tests will be drawn before and after the 20th, 40th and the 60th sessions for stem cells and
      mitochondria tests.

      Patients will receive 60 daily sessions, 5 days/week, 90 minutes each with 5 minutes air
      break every 30 minutes, 100% oxygen at 2 ATA.
    
  