
    
      The AUS is the gold standard for treatment of severe SUI, particularly in patients following
      surgical resection of the prostate for prostate cancer. In fact, severe urinary incontinence
      can be the most distressing complication following radical prostatectomy and results in a
      negative impact on quality of life (Haab, Trockman et al. 1997). Placement of an AUS has been
      shown to result in an improved quality of life in these patients. AUSs are small devices that
      prevent urinary flow via compression of the urethra, thus mimicking the native urinary
      sphincter. They have been available, albeit with occasional improvements or changes in
      design, since the 1970's. When placed in the standard fashion (ST) a small incision is made
      in the patient's perineum or scrotum and a fluid-filled cuff is placed around the bulbar
      urethra (the portion of the urethra between the bladder neck and penis). Connected to the
      cuff with tubing, is a balloon filled with fluid that is placed behind the pubic bone or in
      the space between the peritoneum and abdominal muscles. A control pump is placed in the
      scrotum and allows the device to cycle, thus either exerting pressure to close off the
      urethra or releasing pressure to allow the urethra to open and the patient to void. 73-76% of
      patients will experience dramatic improvement in incontinence with very minimal leakage (0-1
      pads per day) and 88-89% report significant improvement or cure. Two years following implant,
      9% of patients will experience a significant decline in the functionality of the device and
      report severe incontinence. At 5 years, 28% will need to undergo revision of the device
      (Dalkin, Wessells et al. 2003). Long-term complications associated with the device include
      urethral erosion in 5% of cases, urethral atrophy, infection, and mechanical failure of the
      device.

      Patients undergoing radical prostatectomy frequently undergo radiation treatment during the
      course of their illness. Radiation to the pelvic region is responsible for compromising blood
      flow to the urethra and fibrosis. As a result these patients are at a moderate risk of
      developing complications and ultimately failure of the device necessitating removal and/or
      replacement. Factors that put patients in a high-risk category include a history of
      urethroplasty for urethral stricture, a history of a prior artificial urinary sphincter, and
      a history of open surgery for bladder neck contractures (scarring at the entrance to the
      bladder). Patients who develop a complication as listed above, often require a replacement
      AUS in a different location than the first cuff. This is done more distally in the penis
      where the urethra is narrower and there is less tissue to fill the cuff. This puts them at a
      higher risk for further complications. Several authors have recently published their
      experience with a modification to the standard technique in patients at a high risk for
      failure (Guralnick, Miller et al. 2002) (Aaronson, Elliott et al. 2008). The modified
      technique, termed transcorporal placement (TC), has been shown to be beneficial in this
      subset of patients. In one study, 28% of high-risk patients with ST placement developed
      erosion or infection, which required explanting the device compared with 13% in the TC group
      (4). Continence was also better in this high-risk group when TC placement was used, compared
      with ST, 89% vs 61%. TC placement also reduces the risk of injury to the urethra during
      surgery. Unlike in ST, TC placement involves placing the device around the urethra but also
      incorporating a flap of the tough tunica albigunea. The same incision is made as for the ST
      approach, and then an incision is made in each corpus cavernosum (cylinders of tissue that
      allow for erection). This allows the cuff to be placed around both the urethra and through
      the lining of the corporal bodies, increasing the bulk of tissue behind the urethra to
      protect it from erosion.

      It has been suggested that placing the cuff near the erectile tissues might cause erectile
      dysfunction and as a result few surgeons perform this procedure on potent patients. However,
      scant data exist to support or refute this hypothetical effect on erectile function. Despite
      its success in patients at high risk of erosion, the TC approach has never been adequately
      tested in patients without a high risk of failure. It is unknown if this is a technique that
      only benefits this subset of patients or whether all patients might experience better
      long-term continence with less risk for erosion.

      Study Objectives

      The purpose of this study is to improve long-term patient outcomes and reduce complications
      and morbidity in patients with male SUI who are candidates for AUS insertion after radiation.
      The results from this study will provide clinicians evidence for superiority of either the ST
      or TC AUS. Our null hypothesis is that there is no difference in outcomes (as defined below)
      for AUS done in a TC vs. ST method. The alternative hypothesis is that one procedure is
      inferior/superior to the other.

      Primary endpoint: AUS revision or removal surgery. These include surgery for mechanical
      failure, cuff erosion, impending erosion (discretion of surgeon), urethral atrophy, urinary
      incontinence and persistent retention due to small cuff.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Rate of post-operative urinary retention. Urinary retention defined as urinary catheter
      placement for more than 5 days in the period between AUS implantation and AUS activation
      (typically 4-8 weeks postoperatively) Incontinence at 3 months post-operatively measured
      using 24-hour pad weight test. Erectile function at 3 months as measured via the Sexual
      Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) Incontinence and QoL impact at 3 months as measured by the
      Incontinence Severity Index (ISI) and the Incontinency Impact Questionnaire Short From
      (IIQ-7)
    
  