
    
      Adrenal incidentalomas are unsuspected adrenal masses found during abdominal imaging. With
      the widespread use of computed tomography and MRI, adrenal incidentalomas are found in
      approximately 2% of patients. In an endocrinology setting, the majority of these masses are
      benign adenomas of the adrenal cortex. Approximately 10% of these adenomas display little
      excess of cortisol secretion associated to some degree of secretory autonomy but that are
      insufficient to generate overt Cushing's syndrome ("Subclinical Secreting Cortisol
      incidentalomas" or SCSI). However, hypertension and to a lesser degree obesity and impaired
      glucose tolerance are very frequent amongst patients with SCSI. The hypothesis that the mild
      hypercortisolism associated with SCSI is responsible for these clinical consequences is
      substantiated by few studies describing improvement after resection of SCSI. However, these
      studies were retrospective, uncontrolled and suffered from imprecision and numerous
      methodological bias. Thus, whether surgery is more beneficial than medical treatment is
      currently unknown and there is no consensus on the appropriate treatment for SCSI.

      Patient selection Run-In period. Discontinuation of previous antihypertensive treatments and
      prescription of a standardized anti-hypertensive drug regimen (SAHR). Monthly Blood Pressure
      (BP) measurement using home BP monitoring. The duration of the Run-In periods will be ≤ 6
      months and will end when BP will be controlled with the SAHR at two consecutive visits.

      End of RI Second endocrine assessment for eligibility Randomization (Ra): 24h Ambulatory BP
      measurement, anthropometric and metabolic evaluation. Quality of life and cognition
      questionnaires. Randomization in 2 groups : Gr 1 Treatment group : Surgery followed by
      intensive medical care ; Gr 2 : Control Group : intensive medical care only.

      Ra + 1Mo: Surgery in Group 1 Ra + 2.5 Mo to Ra + 13 Mo: 6 weeks interval follow-up Evaluation
      of home BP monitoring and adaptation of the SAHR. A step by step reduction of the SAHR will
      be attempted in the two patient groups at Ra+2.5Mo. A second attempt will systematically be
      performed in both groups at Ra+8.5 Medical evaluation of associated metabolic conditions
      (obesity, diabetes, dyslipidemia) and adaptation of treatments Record of medical events and
      side effects of treatments Ra + 13Mo: Final evaluation. Endocrine assessment. 24h Ambulatory
      BP measurement, anthropometric and metabolic evaluation. Quality of life and cognition
      questionnaires.
    
  