
    
      The proposed research and testing being done during this study includes:

        1. Screening evaluation and consent - Individuals will be asked questions to help the
           investigators determine if they are eligible to participate. This includes questions
           about medical history pertaining to blood pressure, medicines, and certain medical
           conditions, and if the individuals are willing to use the technology provided by the
           study. For individuals who are eligible to participate, an opportunity will be provided
           to discuss the study and complete the consent process.

        2. Group assignment and randomization - Participants will be randomly assigned to one of
           three groups: a study team member will select one of sixty identical envelopes, each
           containing a group assignment, with 20 envelopes containing each of the three group
           assignments. This random group assignment determines the frequency with which
           participants will monitor their blood pressure at home. The randomization between three
           different groups will help investigators determine how often survivors can consistently
           monitor their blood pressure.

        3. Educational session - After participants have been assigned to a group, they will be
           instructed on how to set up and use the home blood pressure monitoring device.

        4. Monitoring blood pressure at home - Participants will be asked to monitor their blood
           pressure at home in the morning and evening using a remote monitoring device over a
           three-month period. Frequency of monitoring depends on the random group assignment. The
           device is the iHealth Wireless Blood Pressure Monitor which is a wireless blood pressure
           monitoring device that fits snugly around one arm and automatically measures and records
           blood pressure in about one minute. The device will be paired with the participant's
           smart phone or study-provided iPod Touch, which is then used to operate the device and
           save the blood pressure readings. After completion of the three-month monitoring period,
           participants will be asked to return the device (and iPod Touch, if applicable).

        5. Reminders to use the device - Participants are to start monitoring their blood pressure
           when they return home after completion of their St. Jude visit. During the educational
           session, participants will be asked to set up reminders on their smart phone or
           study-provided iPod Touch to alert them to monitor their blood pressure. Depending on
           how often they are assigned to monitor their blood pressure, they may also receive email
           and/or text reminders to prompt them to monitor their blood pressure. In addition, a
           study team member may contact them if they have three or more measurements above 140/90
           mm Hg, as that reading is considered hypertensive. A study team member may contact
           participants if they are not monitoring as specified by their group assignment to
           attempt to troubleshoot any barriers and/or technical issues.
    
  