
    
      There is ongoing debate on the optimal means of laser stone fragmentation, and Moses
      technology is the latest advancement to raise questions regarding clinical utility. Initial
      preclinical studies demonstrated significantly reduced stone retropulsion and higher stone
      ablation volume with Moses technology, leading to the conclusion that the system allows more
      efficient laser lithotripsy. Human studies also showed that laser lithotripsy with Moses
      technology utilized laser energy in less time for stone fragmentation: 10.0 (2.6-15.0) min
      without vs 6.0 (2.8-13.0) min with Moses technology.

      Others have evaluated the cost effectiveness of Moses technology in their own cohort of 40
      patients who underwent standard laser lithotripsy by comparing a 35% projected decrease in
      procedure time against the cost of the Moses laser fiber and machine. Mean stone size was
      10.2 mm in this group of patients, and mean lasing time was 3.0 minutes. While a significant
      positive association was seen between stone size and laser time, cost analysis failed to show
      a benefit in using Moses technology across sizes.

      To date, there are limited clinical data obtained through rigorous study methodology. In
      addition, knowledge gaps remain regarding the effect of Moses technology on other clinically
      meaningful outcomes such as stone-free rate. Therefore, the investigators propose a
      multi-center, prospective, randomized, double blind clinical trial to further assess the
      effect of Moses technology for lithotripsy. The investigators aim to study a broader range of
      outcomes which will be facilitated by being the largest study to date. The investigators also
      aim to study novel outcomes such as grading retropulsion and visibility by independent
      blinded review as well as effects of Moses technology on independently reducing surgeon
      burnout. Indeed, a randomized, double blind clinical trial evaluating Moses technology in 66
      patients undergoing ureteroscopy was presented as a 2018 European Association of Urology
      abstract. While this single center study demonstrated safety and reduced fragmentation time
      as well as procedure time using Moses technology, it did not show a significant difference in
      stone-free rates. This study is also yet to be published as a manuscript.
    
  