
    
      It is during aging of patients, especially those with polypathological disorders and in whom
      cognitive disorders appear, that the most complex and ethical questions arise. In this
      context, these patients are frequently referred to geriatric consultations or memory centres
      for a global assessment of their cognitive functions and life skills in order to optimize
      their care and anticipate their medical and medico-social future. The assessment of
      decision-making capacity is essential in this regard.

      Nevertheless, there is no test that specifically explores this issue and, therefore, people's
      decision-making abilities may not be properly estimated and may prevent some patients from
      making decisions when they would be able to do so.

      Thus, although the issue of decision-making has generally been explored from a
      neuropsychological perspective in many studies, there is no specific test or score for
      decision-making capacity, as it is a complex process. The question of decision-making
      capacity in complex situations is therefore addressed by a multiple analysis of many
      parameters, including different neuropsychological data, which are then synthesized by the
      clinician in a standardized geriatric assessment to get an idea, among other things, of the
      overall ability to make decisions.

      Given the difficulty of this and the ethical and societal issue, the research question
      focuses on the contribution of neuroimaging technologies to the assessment of decision-making
      capacity.

      In fact, several studies have explored the issue as part of the functional neuroimaging
      study. The investigators note, in particular:

        -  Decision-making studies were conducted using the EEG-High Resolution (EEG-HR) technique.
           It is a technique for electromagnetic analysis of brain functions with excellent
           temporal resolution and quite good spatial resolution. This allows, during functional
           decision tests, a detailed analysis of the temporality of the activation of the frontal
           and prefrontal areas.

        -  Functional MRI (fMRI) is a neurological imaging technique whose main strength lies in
           its spatial acuity. Thus, the performance of functional decisional tests under
           functional MRI allows a detailed analysis of the recruitment of the different zones
           between the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the median ventromedian cortex.

      These 2 neuroimaging techniques allowed a neuro-functional analysis of decision making, based
      on the realization of more specific tests, modelling decision making. Among these models, the
      Iowa Game Task and the Balloon Assessement Risk Task are frequently used.

      Nevertheless, all these tests and explorations were conducted independently, and no studies
      have investigated the contribution of a neurofunctional approach to patient decision-making
      through complementary explorations in EEG-HR and functional MRI as diagnostic tools as part
      of an overall gerontological evaluation.

      The question that arises is therefore that of the development of diagnostic tools.
    
  