
    
      Fetal complete (3°) atrioventricular block (AVB), identified in the 2nd trimester in an
      otherwise normally developing heart, is almost universally associated with maternal anti-Ro
      autoantibodies, which transcytose the placenta via the trophoblastic IgG receptor, FcγRn. The
      burden of 3° AVB is considerable: perinatal mortality of 18% exceeds that for all non-cardiac
      congenital anomalies combined, and almost all survivors require lifelong cardiac pacing with
      its associated complications. It has been speculated that full expression of conduction
      disease occurs by sequential fetal progression from normal rhythm (NR) to 1° AVB [prolonged
      AV interval assessed by echocardiogram (echo)], to 2° AVB (irregular cardiac rhythm or
      bradycardia), culminating in 3° AVB. Fetal heart rate and rhythm monitoring (FHRM) suggests a
      time interval of ~12 hours for the transition from NR to 3° AVB, albeit the culprit biologic
      processes (inflammation leading to fibrosis) likely initiate prior to clinical detection.
      Anecdotal evidence suggests this transition period, marked by an irregular rhythm and/or
      bradycardia, may be the only window of opportunity for anti-inflammatory treatment to restore
      NR.

      A barrier to preventing progression to 3° AVB is the absence of a technique to accurately
      surveil for the precipitate transition from NR to 3° AVB. Surveillance limited to weekly
      echos (current standard of care) may be too infrequent to detect this transition period when
      treatment is most likely to be effective. We have now obviated this obstacle and shown that
      ambulatory FHRM by the mother at home with confirmation of abnormal findings by echo is not
      only feasible but may afford rapid treatment restoring NR. Combining results from studies
      comprising 275 anti-Ro+ pregnancies, 87% completed monitoring with a false positive rate of
      5%. In 4 cases of 2° AVB identified by FHRM and treated <12h, AVB reversed. Remarkably, no
      cases of 2° or 3° AVB were missed, suggesting mothers can recognize abnormal FHRM, reducing
      or precluding the need for weekly echos.

      The proposed project combines the expertise of fetal cardiologist Bettina F. Cuneo, MD,
      initiator and PI of the FHRM program, and rheumatologist Jill P. Buyon, MD, founder/director
      of the largest extant registry of anti-Ro-mediated AVB, whose research on the pathogenesis
      supports a fetal inflammatory component associated with high-titer antibodies. Participants
      will be referred from 35 sites in 3 sequential Steps: 1) Screening for high titer anti-Ro60
      or Ro52 centrally in Dr. Buyon's lab; 2) Surveillance by FHRM 3x daily and weekly echo; 3)
      Treatment of 2° AVB identified by FHRM confirmed by echo. Feasibility of FHRM supported by
      weekly echo of high-autoantibody-titer mothers will be leveraged to address the efficacy of
      expeditious (<12 h after detection) treatment of 2° AVB as well as the incidence/outcome of
      AV interval prolongation and extra-nodal disease.
    
  