
    
      Background:

      Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-associated adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is
      an aggressive lymphoproliferative disorder.

      Chemotherapy has had limited impact on survival.

      The interleukin 2 receptor alpha (IL-2R alpha) (CD25) is over expressed on ATL cells and the
      smoldering and chronic stages of ATL are often interleukin 2 (IL-2) dependent.

      The monoclonal antibody daclizumab (Zenapax) inhibits interleukin 2 (IL-2) binding to its
      receptor.

      It is hypothesized that daclizumab may inhibit ATL growth.

      Objectives:

      To determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of humanized anti-Tac (daclizumab,
      Zenapax) in patients with ATL.

      To define the dose of Zenapax required to saturate IL-2R alpha in patients with ATL.

      To determine the clinical response to humanized (Hu) anti-Tac (Zenapax) of patients with
      Tac-expressing smoldering and chronic stage adult T cell leukemia.

      To determine the serum dieaway curve (pharmacokinetics) of infused humanized (Hu) - anti -
      Tac in patients who have ATL.

      Eligibility:

      Smoldering and chronic stage HTLV-1-associated adult T cell leukemia.

      At least 5 percent of malignant cells in the peripheral blood or lymph nodes must react with
      the anti-Tac (CD25) antibody.

      Age greater than or equal to 10-years-old.

      Patients must have measurable disease.

      Patients with and without prior treatment.

      Patients must have a granulocyte count of greater than or equal to 500/micro L,

      platelets greater than or equal to 25,000/micro L,

      and creatinine less than 3.0 gm/dL.

      Design:

      Phase I patients on cohorts 1-4 received the following: cohort 1: 2 mg/kg over 60 minutes
      intravenously on days 1 and 2; cohort 2: 4 mg/kg over 90 minutes intravenously on day 1,
      single dose; cohort 3: 6 mg/kg over 90 minutes intravenously on day 1, single dose; and
      cohort 4: 8 mg/kg over 90 minutes intravenously on day 1, single dose.

      Patients with smoldering or chronic stage ATL will be treated with intravenous daclizumab 8
      mg/kg on day 0 and weeks 2, 5, 8, 11 and 14.

      Patients achieving a response will continue on treatment with daclizumab 8 mg/kg every 3
      weeks for up to 24 months.

      Patients achieving a complete response (CR) will continue on treatment with daclizumab 8mg/kg
      every 3 weeks for up to 24 months.

      Patients achieving a partial response (PR) will be maintained on daclizumab 8 mg/kg
      administered every 3 weeks provided the PR is maintained and no serious adverse event or
      toxicity related to daclizumab therapy is observed.
    
  