
    
      Patients will be identified during their presurgical clinic visit or anesthesia preoperative
      clinic visit for eligibility. The electronic medical record (Epic) will also be used for
      prescreening of potential study participants by reviewing the clinic visit daily schedule or
      operating room schedule. Then patient charts will be reviewed for initial data collection to
      determine the eligibility of potential subjects with the use of a HIPAA waiver form.

      A discussion of risks, benefits, and alternatives will be performed. Following the
      discussion, informed written consent for clinical care and participation in the study will be
      obtained.

      Roughly one half of the patients (n =62) will be randomized to the intervention group. This
      group will receive the intervention bundle which consists of providing ear plugs and eye
      masks to patients and their family members. Roughly one half of the patients (n =62) will be
      randomized to the control group. This group will receive "usual care", which does not include
      ear plugs or eye masks and lacks specified times for laboratory draws and imaging studies.
      For each of the two groups, the investigators will collect RCSQ scores, CAM-ICU scores, and
      modified FS-ICU scores. The investigators will administer the RCSQ to these patients
      following every night they spend in the SICU and the modified FS-ICU questionnaire
      immediately prior to their discharge from the ICU. The RCSQ is a short, 5-question, validated
      survey instrument for measuring sleep quality in ICU patients. The FS-ICU is a short,
      validated survey instrument for measuring family satisfaction with care and decision making
      in the ICU. The modified version is more focused on satisfaction of the patient rather than
      their family member(s). The CAM-ICU is a validated screening test for delirium, and scores
      are currently charted in the electronic medical record (EMR) as a part of routine monitoring
      in the SICU. The anticipated length of time for the project is 28 weeks.
    
  