
    
      Hip fracture is a major public health problem, with striking consequences for the older
      patient, her family and the health care system. More than 350,000 persons over age 65 will
      fracture a hip in the United States during the coming year at an estimated annual cost of
      over $12 billion; by 2040, over 650,000 hip fractures will occur annually in this group.
      Between 18-33% of older hip fracture patients die within one year of their fracture,
      depending upon the specific population studied. Most surviving hip fracture patients
      experience reduced mobility and lose their ability to function independently. As many as 45%
      of those who are community dwelling at the time of their fracture are discharged to
      institutions post-hospitalization, and 15-25% remain institutionalized for a year
      post-fracture. Further, significant strain is observed in over a third of family caregivers
      as long as a year post-fracture. Depending upon the population studied and function being
      assessed, an estimated 25-75% of those who are independent before their fracture can neither
      walk independently nor achieve their previous level of independent living within a year
      following their fracture and 10- 20% of those who sustained a hip fracture can expect to have
      another osteoporotic fracture within two years.

      This protocol consists of two components related to the recovery after hip fracture
      (described below):

      EXERCISE INTERVENTION TRIAL. With few exceptions, which are restricted primarily to studies
      of comprehensive in-patient rehabilitation, little systematic attention has been given to
      evaluating strategies for improving functioning, bone, and muscle post-hip fracture.
      Strategies that have been shown to improve bone, muscle, and function in older persons who
      have not fractured a hip may be useful if applied to persons following hip fracture. Exercise
      is one of the strategies that have received considerable attention. Exercise training in
      older adults also has beneficial effects on bone density, muscle strength, and physical
      functioning, as well as cardiovascular fitness, and risk reduction for falls and fractures.
      An exercise program that combines weight-bearing and resistance exercises can increase bone
      mineral content in postmenopausal women. Little information is available on whether a
      home-based exercise program can be used to achieve similar benefits compared to a more
      structured, on-site exercise program. This issue is particularly relevant in older, frail
      women who have sustained a hip fracture because many are unable and unwilling to travel to
      exercise facilities.

      Results of the studies of exercise are instructive of potential benefits for older persons
      following hip fracture. Most of the work to date has been restricted to relatively healthy,
      select samples of older persons who have been recruited into rigorously controlled randomized
      experiments. Hence, while they are efficacious in benefiting a select group of older persons,
      it is not known whether these interventions will be accepted by a frail older population
      which has become suddenly disabled by a hip fracture, nor is it known whether these
      interventions will be beneficial to this group which is losing bone, muscle and function at
      an accelerated rate.

      Because losses in BMD following hip fracture place these women at greater rise of subsequent
      fracture and may delay or prevent full recovery of ambulatory ability, it is important to
      optimize fracture healing and prevent loss of bone. One therapeutic option for these patients
      that may be effective is to increase physical activity through exercise.

      Despite these profound losses in function, bone, and muscle, we remain uncertain about the
      extent to which these losses can be attributed to the fracture, and only limited attention
      has been given to preventing such losses. In addition, we seek to understand the role of
      exercise in relation to bone metabolism and levels of hormones thought to regulate bone
      metabolism following a hip fracture. Elucidating these mechanisms will be valuable for
      understanding the effects of exercise on bone health. The purpose of this study is to take an
      intervention known to be beneficial in select populations, into the real world setting and
      apply to frail older persons who have become suddenly disabled by a hip fracture. It is
      essential to test the effectiveness of the intervention following a hip fracture.

      With a waiver for authorization obtained at each hospital, the study nurse will do a chart
      review of hip fracture patients to determine study eligibility and then explain the study to
      the potential participant, obtain consent, and get baseline study measures within fifteen
      days of fracture. The project coordinator will notify the exercise trainers of which
      participants have been randomized to the treatment group, and the trainer will set up the
      first home visit.

      After completing the baseline interview the participant will be assigned to one of two study
      groups. One group is the treatment group and one involves no treatment and are followed as
      usual care. Those assigned to the treatment group will be visited by an exercise trainer who
      will visit the participant three times a week for the first two months of the study, two
      times per week during months three and four, one time per week during months five and six,
      two times a month during months seven and eight, and one time a month during months nine
      through twelve. During months seven through twelve of the study the trainer will contact the
      participant by telephone once each week during the weeks that he or she does not go the
      participants' home.

      Follow-up interviews, performance assessment, DEXA scans, ultrasound measurements (only for
      34 participants) and blood draws will be done at two, six and twelve months following hip
      fracture. The baseline and follow-up interviews will last approximately two hours.

      NON-HIP FRACTURE COMPARISON. Bone loss that occurs in older women is believed to result from
      uncoupling of bone remodeling. Despite the loss of BMD with aging, the cellular mechanisms
      for fracture healing appear to remain intact. Fracture healing can be divided into three
      phases: inflammatory, reparative, and remodeling. The first two phases are dependent
      primarily on the local trauma effects of the fracture and are completed within approximately
      five weeks; hence, exercise intervention would be expected to have little or no effect on
      these processes. The remainder of the approximately six-month duration of femoral neck
      fracture healing involves modeling and remodeling of the callus. Because skeletal loading may
      modulate remodeling, exercise should have an effect during this period. Even after completion
      of healing, mechanical factors are expected to continue to affect remodeling of the femur.
      Bone resorption, mediated by osteoclastic activity, is the first phase of a remodeling cycle.
      In the post-fracture context, in which both fracture debris removal and callus remodeling are
      ongoing, high levels of markers of resorption would be anticipated.

      We will attempt to separate out the effects of hip fracture on bone turnover from those of
      aging in persons with low bone mineral density. Bone turnover of hip fracture patients
      receiving usual care will be compared to bone turnover in a similar group of women who have
      not fractured their hips (i.e., matched on age, ability to ambulate independently, and with
      low BMD).
    
  