
    
      A key component of COPD is airway inflammation. Current tools for assessing airway
      inflammation and oxidative stress, such as fibre-optic bronchoscopy with bronchial wall
      biopsy and bronchial fluid lavage, are invasive procedures not suitable for routine clinical
      practice or regular repeat sampling. Sample analysis requires a series of laboratory
      measurements and results can take over 24 hours to become available.

      Non-invasive methods of measuring airway inflammation assess exhaled gases. Fractional
      exhaled Nitric Oxide (FeNO) measures eosinophilic airway inflammation. However, FeNO does not
      provide information about neutrophilic airway inflammation, a recognised component of Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).

      In contrast, measurement of Exhaled Breath Condensate Hydrogen Peroxide (EBC H2O2) is
      performed during normal tidal breathing, and is well tolerated even in patients with severe
      airways obstruction and those unable to perform a consistent controlled exhalation. It is
      also not limited to inflammatory cell specific inflammation. It has the potential to diagnose
      COPD and to give information about the degree of airway inflammation.

      Exhalation Technology Ltd. Have developed a novel, handheld device (Inflammacheck™) which can
      produce a measurement of EBC H2O2 levels at the patient's side. By detecting EBC H2O2 levels
      immediately, Inflammacheck™ could tell potentially clinicians and patients the current level
      of global airway inflammation in a simple, effort independent manner. This could be used by
      clinicians to diagnose COPD both in hospital and in the community. Previous studies using the
      'Inflammacheck™' device have shown that there is a difference in the EBC H2O2 between
      participants with COPD and those with no underlying lung disease. It has the potential to
      further measure increased levels of airway inflammation that may indicate an exacerbation of
      a persons' respiratory disease.

      The 'Inflammacheck™' device now requires a study in a clinical setting to validate its use in
      accurately diagnosing COPD.

      The investigators hypothesise that the The 'Inflammacheck™' device will be able to accurately
      diagnose patients with COPD using EBC H2O2 as compared to the gold standard of Spirometry.
    
  