
    
      Objective #1: To develop and test a computer program that automatically collects enhanced
      pedometer data, records the data in a format suitable for statistical analysis, and generates
      a personally tailored motivational web page and distributes an e-mail reminder message to
      encourage the participant to log on to his/her website.

      Objective #2: To compare total daily steps in people with diabetes randomized to two
      different 6-week pedometer and web-based walking interventions. The two interventions will
      differ only in the emphasis for goal setting and feedback.

      Group 1: Emphasizes 10-minute minimum duration of physical activity bouts

      Group 2: Emphasizes total daily steps without regard to duration of walking bouts

      Objective #3: To compare steps accumulated in walking bouts lasting for at least 10 minutes
      between the same two groups of participants with diabetes.

      Objective #4: To assess the feasibility, cost, dropout rate and participant satisfaction with
      a pedometer and web-based walking intervention for participants with diabetes.

      This study will consist of three phases. Phase I will be the development of a web-based
      interactive system including data downloading and tailored messages.

      Phase II is a usability testing phase in which 8 participants will be recruited to wear the
      pedometer, interact with the web-based system and give feedback for final development. The
      Usability phase will occur exactly like the Phase III outlined below except that the
      participants will be assigned to a study group rather than randomized, and they will be
      on-study for 2 weeks only - one week for the enrollment phase and one week of the
      intervention phase. At the end of the intervention week, they will not complete the post
      survey but will instead complete a feasibility/usability survey and meet with the study staff
      to help define improvements and adjustments for the Phase III trial. To maximize the
      Usability Phase, the feedback received from the first four participants will be incorporated
      in the website before the last four participants are enrolled.

      The final phase (Phase III) will include a total of 40 men and women ages > 18 years old, who
      have Type II Diabetes and are interested in starting a walking program. If they meet
      eligibility and sign a consent form they will enroll in a randomized control trial comparing
      two similar interventions to promote walking. Both interventions are 6-week pedometer-based
      interventions that rely on step-count feedback to motivate participants to increase their
      walking. Tailored behavioral, informational and motivational messages will be delivered on
      the website and the enhanced pedometer work by participants will automatically upload
      time-stamped step count data to a central computer. One of the interventions, the "10 minute
      bouts" intervention will emphasize bouts of walking lasting at least 10 minutes and of at
      least moderate intensity. The second intervention called the "total steps" intervention will
      emphasize total accumulated daily step counts without regard to duration or intensity of
      walking bouts.
    
  