
    
      Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitors are currently used in the therapy of erectile
      dysfunction (ED), which is considered to be an early symptom of cardiovascular disease (CD).
      Impairment of endothelial function is the early lesion preceding atherosclerosis and is
      common to ED, CD and vascular complications of diabetes mellitus (DM). Continuous
      administration of the PDE5 inhibitors tadalafil or sildenafil for four weeks in men with
      increased cardiovascular risk or type 2 DM has been shown to improve endothelial function
      measured by flow-mediated dilation and reduction of inflammatory markers. The goal of this
      study is to investigate whether chronic, long-term treatment with vardenafil improves and/or
      prevents deterioration of systemic endothelial function in patients with type 2 DM. Study
      design: longitudinal, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled interventional study.
      Patients: 106 male patients (n determined by power analysis) with type 2 DM diagnosed and
      classified according to the guidelines of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes.
      Beside the antidiabetic treatment, patients will be randomly assigned to receive either
      placebo or vardenafil, 10 mg p.o. two times a day for 24 weeks. Exclusion criteria: all
      contraindications to treatment with PDE5 inhibitors. Age range: 40-60 years. Sample size
      determined by power analysis assuming variations of the primary end point of ± 10% from
      baseline at 0.05 α level with a power of 80%, a two-sided test and a dropout rate of 15%.
      Primary end point: serum endothelin 1 levels (decreased/not increased in the verum group vs.
      not decrease/increased in the placebo group). Other parameters and measurements: Complete
      clinical workup, weight, height, waist-hip ratio, serum lipids and glucose, hemoglobin
      glycated (HbA1c), micro- and macroalbuminuria, homocysteine, high reactive C-protein (hsCRP),
      interleukin-6 (IL-6), Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α, fibrinogen, adiponectin, testosterone,
      sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and estradiol. All parameters measured at baseline, 4
      weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks on medication as well as 4 and 24 weeks after discontinuation of
      the study drug. Study duration: two years. Statistics: descriptive statistics, ANCOVA and
      multiple regression analysis or non-parametric tests as appropriate by STATA. Ethics: The
      trial will be registered. Ethics committee approval and patient informed consent will be
      obtained. Expected outcome and objective: Monitoring of endothelial function deterioration in
      type 2 DM during chronic administration of Vardenafil. Possibility for a long term-follow up
      study. Publication in a high impact factor journal.
    
  