
    
      The combination of Oxaliplatin and Gemcitabine has synergistic effects on a variety of human
      cancer cell lines in vitro. Clinically, it has demonstrated activity in other malignancies
      including lung, and pancreas. In the former study, poor prognosis advanced non-small cell
      lung cancer patients received Gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 and Oxaliplatin 65mg/m2 both on days 1
      and 8. The overall response rate was 16%, with no reports of neutropenic fever. In the latter
      study, locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer patients received Gemcitabine
      1000mg/m2 on day 1 and Oxaliplatin 100mg/m2 on day 2 every 2 weeks. The overall response rate
      was 31%. The toxicity profile included grades 3 to 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia in 11%,
      14% for nausea or vomiting, 6.2% for diarrhea, and 11% for peripheral neuropathy, with no
      toxic deaths

      There has been one feasibility study evaluating the combination of Oxaliplatin and
      Gemcitabine in advanced transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the urothelium. Twenty patients
      with advanced urothelial carcinomas who were treated with Gemcitabine and Oxaliplatin at
      1500mg/m2 and 85mg/m2 IV respectively, both on day 1 of a 14 day cycle. The median number of
      cycles was 5 and ranged from 1 to 7. A total of 90 cycles were delivered with 87 assessable
      for toxicity in 19 patients. No neutropenic fever occurred and G-CSF was not used although
      allowed as needed. Grades 3 to 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were observed in 9 (10%)
      and 3 (3%) of the courses given respectively. Grades 1 to 2 neuropathy was noted to be common
      with only one patient suffering grade 3 neuropathy. Non-hematologic adverse effects were
      found to be mild. Response rates were not provided.

      In summary, there is favorable evidence of antitumor activity in vitro and in clinical
      studies for a variety of cancers. Furthermore, the toxicity profile of this combination is
      also favorable. It is therefore logical to evaluate the effectiveness and tolerability of
      this combination in advanced urothelial carcinoma.
    
  