
    
      Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) kills more people in the UK than any other condition, and
      causes symptoms of angina (chest pain) in many more. Acute chest pain accounts for
      approximately 600,000 NHS admissions per annum, but this includes many other types of chest
      pain not due to heart problems. Examination, blood tests and an electrocardiogram (ECG) are
      used to try and decide the cause of chest pain.

      Many patients have a low risk of CAD and can be discharged without further investigation.
      Others are at high risk of CAD and must have further tests such as invasive coronary
      angiography. Unfortunately in many patients the initial tests are equivocal and they are felt
      to have an intermediate probability of CAD. Investigation of symptoms in this group may take
      place in the in-patient setting, warranting a hospital stay of several days, or alternatively
      some investigations may be performed as an out-patient with subsequent time spent on waiting
      lists. This results in extensive use of NHS resources and anxiety for the patients whilst
      awaiting diagnosis, often needlessly as approximately half of patients admitted with acute
      chest pain are eventually discharged without a cardiac cause found.

      The new technique of cardiac computed tomography (CCT) offers rapid non-invasive diagnosis of
      CAD. If disease is detected further investigations can be planned; when excluded, patients
      may be safely discharged. Detection of clinically insignificant disease will initiate primary
      preventative strategies but excludes CAD as the cause of acute symptoms. We will randomise
      250 patients presenting to Chelsea and Westminster Hospital with acute chest pain who have
      intermediate likelihood of CAD to early CCT or current standard practice. We hypothesise
      that, when compared to standard practice, early CCT will reduce admission length, reduce NHS
      and other costs and improve quality of life without an increase in adverse events.
    
  