
    
      The primary research question of the proposed study is this: Is a water-based exercise plus
      cognitive training intervention efficacious in improving cognitive outcomes for Veterans with
      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI)? The investigators address the need to improve cognitive
      function in this vulnerable population through a novel multi-component training program that
      will combine two interventions: water-based exercise and cognitive training. The proposed
      four-year randomized controlled trial will compare water-based exercise + cognitive training
      (WATER+CT) to a Usual Care Control Condition (UC). The primary aim of the proposed research
      is to evaluate the efficacy of WATER+CT to improve cognitive function in Veterans with MCI.
      Secondary aims of the proposed research are: 1) to evaluate the efficacy of WATER+CT to
      improve peak oxygen consumption and 2) to evaluate the durability of the cognitive benefits
      derived from WATER+CT. Exploratory aims of the proposed research are to evaluate moderators
      and mediators of treatment response.

      These aims will be tested in a single-blind randomized controlled trial that will compare the
      efficacy of WATER+CT to UC. This trial will include 130 Veterans meeting criteria for MCI age
      50-90 with half randomized to WATER+CT and half randomized to UC. For the WATER+CT condition,
      the exercise training (i.e., WATER) consists of a six-month long individualized exercise
      program of water-based exercises. During this phase, Veterans will come to thrice-weekly
      group sessions at Aquatic Therapy Center at the VA Palo Alto Health Care System (VAPAHCS).
      After completion of the exercise program, Veterans will begin classroom-based cognitive
      training at the VAPAHCS for up to two months. The CT is based on an efficacious training
      program that is structured around two components, pre-training and mnemonic training, both of
      which have been used successfully in persons with MCI. Veterans randomized to the UC control
      condition will receive educational materials about brain health in addition to their usual
      care, which is the care they would typically receive in the VA. After completion of the
      active treatment phase, Veterans will transition to the six-month long follow-up phase. At
      the end of the six-month long follow-up phase, participants will return to the VA for a final
      follow-up visit.

      Participants will complete a variety of neuropsychological measures taping into areas of
      cognition such as attention, executive functioning, and memory. Participants will also
      undergo physical fitness assessments including a 6-minute walk test and an exercise treadmill
      test. To study possible predictors of response to treatment, the investigators will also
      collect biological (cardiovascular functioning and BDNF plasma levels) and genetic data (APOE
      and BDNF genotypes) from these participants. The investigators hope to provide evidence of
      the efficacy of an exercise training augmentation for cognitive training thus laying the
      groundwork for future VA health care system wide deployment of a lifestyle intervention to
      prevent Alzheimer's disease.
    
  