
    
      Devices and technologies for at-home interventions could provide to PwMS with mild disability
      useful tools to successfully maintain own physical, cognitive and emotional status by
      performing at-home physical activity/exercises and avoiding outpatient interventions.
      Together, new devices and technologies could help in overcoming all barriers (i.e.
      transportations, working time, etc.) hindering the adherence to and, consequently, efficacy
      of the outpatient treatments.

      Although Pilates did not show any significant advantage over standardized physical therapy in
      the current literature, it is a good method to promote physical activity, sensorimotor
      integration and cognitive stimulation. Thus, it could be a treatment option to improve
      fatigue, balance and walking abilities in PwMS; consequently, Pilates could be suggested by
      the clinician as a physical activity to be integrated in the daily life.

      This possibility could be made more feasible using new tools such as those offered by low
      cost devices.

      The main MS-FIT project purposes are to provide and to test a tool based on serious game
      concept of Pilates-inspired exercises for daily use at home, by mixing the entertainment
      aspects typical of the videogames and the possibility to perform physical activity.

      The MS-FIT tool does not pursue therapeutic aims as rehabilitation does, but it could have a
      positive impact on prevention and health in MS.

      MS-FIT, by using the Microsoft Kinect Motion Controller Xbox or similar to deliver adapted
      physical activity, offers the possibility to transform the Pilates exercises into a virtual
      reality game.

      MS-FIT, through a multicentre approach, would provide:

        -  Feasibility study

        -  RCT study

      All the 14 participating centres will select a dedicated therapist who will be responsible
      for patient training in using the MS-FIT tool.

      All the subjects recruited following the inclusion/exclusion criteria will sign an informed
      consent and all the procedures (feasibility and RCT) will be in agreement with the
      Declaration of Helsinki (1964) and approved by Local Ethical Committee.

      No trial-specific procedures will be conducted before informed consent has been obtained, and
      participants will be reminded that they may withdraw from the trial at any time without it
      affecting the quality of their care in the future.

      Participants with relapses during the period of their involvement in the project will be
      considered as drop out and will be considered in the analysis for the entire period of study
      participation.

      Feasibility study

      Primary objective:

      • the refinement of the tool for the final customized version to be used in a RCT MS study.
      The primary objective will be reached by fixing eventual bugs relieved during the feasibility
      study and taking into account results from the assessment in terms of technology
      acceptability and satisfaction-to-use, adherence to the intervention, intervention safety and
      the physical effects of the intervention.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  the estimation of human resources necessary for the RCT.

        -  the estimation of the effect of the intervention and its variance necessary to calculate
           the appropriate sample size for the RCT.

      Due to the nature of the feasibility study and based on previous literature showing that a
      sample size of 25-40 subjects per arm is adequate for a feasibility trial, the investigators
      will recruit 28 PwMS per arm. All the 14 participating centres will recruit a total of 56
      recruited patients following the inclusion and exclusion criteria. In the range of EDSS
      inclusion criteria 28 subjects will be recruited with lower disability (EDSS 2-3) and 28 with
      higher disability (EDSS of 3.5 or 4). For both levels the subjects will be randomized into
      two groups: MSFITFeas (MS-FIT at-home + "unspecific physical activities") and CTRLFeas
      ("unspecific physical activities"). Randomization will be provided by an independent
      randomization service at FISM accessed via a web-based system, using computer-based block
      randomization (1 factor: EDSS score 2-3 and 3.5-4). Patient will be allocated to MSFITFeas
      and CTRLFeas in a 1:1 ratio. Confirmation emails will be sent to Centres PI.

      The MSFITFeas group will self-manage MS-FIT at-home for 6 weeks, performing at least 3
      sessions/week for a total of 30 minutes of exercises (also distributed during the day with a
      minimum slot of 10 minutes) for each session. During this period Xbox One and Microsoft
      Kinect 2.0 will be delivered to the participants for the aims of the study. Before starting
      the at-home intervention each subject will be trained to the use of the platform by a
      therapist. No rehabilitative interventions except sphincter and speech rehabilitation and
      psychological support, are admitted for the 6 weeks of participation to the project. The
      execution of unspecific physical activities, if not already practiced, will be suggested to
      the participants. For the 6 weeks of participation to the project CTRLFeas will be similar to
      MSFITFeas group except for the execution of MS-FIT at-home.

      The protocol for the Feasibility study will consist on (Figure 2):

        -  T0 evaluation (PRE)

        -  6 weeks of intervention

             -  MSFITFeas: unspecific physical activities + MS-FIT at-home

             -  CTRLFeas: unspecific physical activities

        -  T1 evaluation (POST)

      The evaluation for the Feasibility study are described in the section Outcome Measures.

      Deliverables Deliverables of the Feasibility study will be the final customized tool, a set
      of indications for the management of the RCT, the sample size estimation for the RCT.

      Focus group A nested qualitative study on 14 participants will explore patients' experiences
      of MS-FIT via Focus Group Meeting (FGM). The objectives are to provide insight into the
      quantitative results, explore strengths and limitations of the intervention with MS-FIT, so
      as to guide the RCT.

      The report of each FGM analysis will be submitted to FGM participants for review (respondent
      validation).

      Deliverables Deliverables of the nested qualitative study will be the delivery of the report
      of the FGM analysis.

      RCT study

      Primary Objective:

      • evaluation of the change in TUG.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  evaluation of the physical effects also in terms of self-reported outcome, upper limb
           performances, resistance in walking and physical activity, cognitive and psychosocial
           effects, quality of life and wellbeing. Differences in physical and cognitive
           performances due to the genetic features will be evaluated also considering subgroups
           identified through the polymorphism analysis.

        -  evaluation of the acceptability and satisfaction-to-use, adherence to the intervention,
           intervention safety through the measurements of endpoint already listed for the
           Feasibility study.

      The RCT sample size will be definitively calculated based on the results from the feasibility
      study. However, by considering the literature about Pilates in MS, the investigators can
      preliminary estimate the needed sample size. In particular, the investigators refer to the
      TUG post-intervention improvement found by Karlon et al. in a group of PwMS performing
      Pilates. For our aim, the investigators can consider this result even if no differences
      between Pilates group and control group (Physiotherapy) were found. Pilates group improved
      the performance in TUG of about 1.8s, that could be considered as clinically relevant for
      PwMS. By considering a variability of about 3.4s, a power of 80%, a level of significance
      (two sided) of 5% and a potential loss of 15% of patients at follow-up, the estimation of the
      necessary sample size consists of approximately 63 subjects for the experimental group (a
      total of 126).

      All the 14 participating centres will be involved in the patients' enrolment. The subjects
      will be randomized into two groups: MSFITRCT (MS-FIT at-home + "unspecific physical
      activities") and CTRLRCT ("unspecific physical activities"). The randomization will be
      carried out using a web based procedure and will be centrally managed. A stratified
      minimization/adaptive algorithm will be used in order to balance the baseline EDSS (2-3 vs
      3.5-4) factors across the two groups.

      The MSFITRCT group will self-manage MS-FIT at-home for 12 weeks, performing at least 3
      sessions/week for a total of 30 minutes of exercises (also distributed during the day with a
      minimum slot of 10 minutes) for each session. During this period Xbox One and Microsoft
      Kinect 2.0 will be delivered to the participants for the aims of the study. Before starting
      the at-home intervention each subject will be trained to the use of the platform by a
      therapist. The follow-up (FU) evaluation will be after 6 weeks since the end of the
      intervention. No rehabilitative interventions except sphincter and speech rehabilitation and
      psychological support, are admitted for the 18 (12 + 6) weeks of participation to the
      project. The execution of unspecific physical activities, if not already practiced, will be
      suggested to the participants. For the 18 (12 + 6) weeks of participation to the project
      CTRLFeas will be similar to MSFITFeas group except for the execution of MS-FIT at-home.

      At the end of the 18 weeks, the participants of the CTRLRCT group will be offered the MS-FIT
      intervention.

      The requirement that the enrolled patients will have not to perform any supervised physical
      activity or rehabilitative intervention is in line with recent studies showing that most of
      PwMS with mild disability (78.34% EDSS <4) were not treated with rehabilitation.

      The subjects involved in the feasibility study will be excluded from the RCT study in order
      to avoid bias effects.

      The protocol design for the RCT study will consist on (Figure 3):

        -  T0 evaluation (PRE)

        -  12 weeks of intervention

             -  MSFITRCT: unspecific physical activities + MS-FIT at-home

             -  CTRLRCT: unspecific physical activities

        -  T1 evaluation (POST)

        -  T2 evaluation (FU) - after 6 weeks from T1

      The evaluation for the RCT study are described in the section Outcome Measures. Moreover,
      blood samples will be collected at T0 to investigate if genetic polymorphisms of candidate
      regulators of neuronal plasticity could be correlated to the response to the proposed
      protocol. According to previous report MS subjects of the two RCT groups could be subdivided
      in subgroups with respect to the polymorphism features. For example, for the CNR1 gene the
      subdivision could be based on the number of AAT repetitions (short AAT: homozygous or
      heterozygous for allele with ≤11 repeats of AAT triplets; long AAT: homozygous for allele
      with ≥12 repeats of AAT triplets).

      Differences among subgroups in terms of physical and cognitive performances will be
      evaluated.

      In particular, all patients will be genotyped for a total of 55 genetic polymorphisms of 23
      potential regulators, like: Homer1; AKT1; RAPTOR; D2R; GAPD; CHAT; p53; BRCA2; LIG4; XRCC5;
      CYP3A4; NBS1; MDM2; CNR1, ATTn; CNR2; GRIN1; GRIN2B; TRPV1; FAAH, COMPT; (Brain-derived
      neurotrophic factor) BDNF.

      Blood sample will be assessed from participants early in the morning after awakening (8h). To
      synchronize the sample for lifestyle variables, subjects were requested to avoid excessive
      physical activity the last three days before the blood sampling, sleep for 7-8h the night
      before study, avoid starving, and eat a usual breakfast in the morning (approximately 1h
      before the time of the breakfast).

      The samples will be collected by each participant centre and shipped to the IRCCS Neuromed,
      Pozzilli, Isernia (Prof. Diego Centonze) for the analyses.

      Deliverables Deliverables will be the report of the results of the trial and the final
      guidelines to make available and easy-to-use the MS-FIT tool

      Criteria for Premature Withdrawal

      Criteria for the premature withdrawal are:

        1. Patients withdrawal of the consent anytime;

        2. Any medical conditions that the investigator determines jeopardize the patient's safety
           if she/he continues the study and/or study results;

        3. Patient's no-compliance to complete the study procedures

        4. MS Treatment changes during the study
    
  