
    
      - Pneumonia in young children remains a global epidemic and a leading cause of death in
      under-5 children. The annual incidence is approximately 156 million patients worldwide; and
      pneumonia and its complications led to approximately 0.92 million under-5 deaths in 2015.

      In adult patients, cardiac events such as congestive heart failure (CHF) are among the
      leading complications associated with increased morbidity and mortality, but the association
      in pediatric patients is not well Established

      At Suratthani Hospital, Thailand study therefore investigated the characteristics and factors
      associated with CHF in under-5 children with pneumonia and respiratory failure (RF). Also,
      revealed that Pneumonia with respiratory failure is associated with CHF even in healthy
      children without cardiac risks. The awareness and early recognition of CHF, particularly in
      male, and bacterial pneumonia is important in order to provide immediate treatment to reduce
      complications.

      - A diagnosis of heart failure due to right ventricular affection requires a high index of
      suspicion since symptoms of heart failure such as easy fatiguability and tachypnoea are
      obscured by the primary pulmonary disease itself.6 The American Heart Association recommends
      early echocardiographic studies to diagnose pulmonary hypertension in children with
      obstructive apnea and sickle cell anaemia.2 Systolic pulmonary artery pressure can be
      estimated by echocardiographic Doppler assessment using definition of mean pulmonary artery
      pressure of >25mmHg. A ten-year review of chronic cor pulmonale secondary to respiratory
      diseases in Ghana was propelled by the fact that early diagnosis can lead to treatment of the
      respiratory disease, which would then improve a child's cardiac status. Nine cases of chronic
      cor pulmonale secondary to respiratory diseases were admitted during the period. Three had
      bronchiectasis as shown in Table 1. Of the three with bronchiectasis, one had congenital lung
      aplasia; one had a repair of tracheoesophageal atresia at the age of one week. The other was
      HIV-positive with bronchiectasis secondary to pulmonary tuberculosis.

      Children with right heart failure should be investigated for pulmonary cause since early
      recognition and treatment would improve outcome

      Until 1987, the only system available for grading HF in children was the New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) classification. However, this system was based on limitations to physical
      activity for adults, which did not translate well for use with children, particularly
      infants.2 Therefore, we developed a symptom-based classification using more age-appropriate
      variables. new Ross HF classification from grades I to IV

      Several authors have modified Ross scoring system to expand its use to older children.

      with all this recent data on factors predictive of outcomes in children with HF that a
      revision in how we grade symptom severity is required. It also is apparent that age
      stratification is required to encompass the changes in signs and symptoms that children
      manifest from infancy to late childhood. A classification system should include the
      biomarkers, echo parameters of systolic function and mitral or systemic atrioventricular
      valve (AV) insufficiency, and reflect exercise limitations reflected by feeding and growth in
      infants and exercise capacity indicated by percentage of predicted maximal oxygen uptake
      (VO2) in older children. Therefore an age-based Ross classification using the original
      variables that proved to be sensitive and specific and adding the new evidence-based data.
    
  