
    
      This is a feasibility study using a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design in which 100
      Native Hawaiians (NHs) and other Pacific Islanders (PPs) will be randomized to either a
      3-month diabetes self-management group (DSMG; N=50) or a delayed intervention control group
      (CG; N=50). Participants in the DSMG will receive culturally-tailored, group diabetes
      self-management education delivered in a community setting by trained community peer
      educators. To meet this objective, we have partnered with four community-based organizations:
      1) Hawai'i Maoli Association of Hawaiian Civic Clubs, 2) Ke Ola Mamo Native Hawaiian Health
      Care System, 3) Kokua Kalihi Valley Comprehensive Family Services, and 4) Kula No NÄ Po'e
      Hawai'i. These four organizations provide services to a large number of Pacific People to
      include, but not limited to, Native Hawaiians, Samoans, Filipinos, and Chuukese. They already
      have intervention research experience as members of the PILI 'Ohana CBPR Project. The 3-month
      face-to-face intervention will be community-based and community-led by trained community peer
      educators from these four partnering community organizations. Individuals with a hemoglobin
      A1c (HbA1c; average blood sugar levels) >=8% will be recruited for the study because they
      represent the most at-risk for diabetes-related complications.

      Over a 1-year accrual period, the community partners will recruit and enroll 100 eligible NHs
      and PPs (25 participants per a participating community), as well as deliver and evaluate the
      intervention in their respective community settings. The primary outcomes of our study are
      hemoglobin A1c and self-reported diabetes specific quality of life. Secondary outcomes are
      cholesterol levels (including HDL, LDL, total cholesterol, and triglycerides), blood
      pressure, body mass index, and psychosocial adaptation.
    
  