
    
      This study will provide prevalence data on the occurrence of optic nerve head cupping in
      children with static encephalopathy in a much larger cohort than previously reported in
      literature (the largest cohort in literature is n=35). Children with a large optic nerve cup
      are treated as "glaucoma suspects". A routine glaucoma work-up in a child includes an
      examination under anesthesia or sedation, since children are unable to co-operate and stay
      still for accurate intraocular pressure measurements. These procedures often have to be
      periodically repeated and are a major financial burden. Importantly, they also carry
      substantial health risks, especially to the premature neonate who needs ICU monitoring after
      any anesthesia procedure. Roughly half of the children who undergo an examination under
      anesthesia for suspicion of glaucoma are found not to have the disease.

      Children with a diagnosis of static encephalopathy attending the Pediatric Neurology clinic
      will be recruited. Interested patients will undergo a routine dilated eye examination after
      obtaining the consent and assent. The optic nerve head parameters (size, shape, color,
      cup-disc ratio, vessel tortuosity) will be recorded by 2 ophthalmologists experienced in the
      evaluation of the optic nerve. Some of the children (who are physically able to sit up in a
      chair and look straight ahead without blinking) will be offered disc photographs. This will
      be a one-time examination done during the routine clinic visit.

      The prevalence of optic disc cupping (≥ 0.5) in a population of children with static
      encephalopathy with onset from 24-36 weeks will be obtained. Comparison of the cup/disc ratio
      in the 2 groups of children based on the approximate timing of the neurological insult will
      also be done.

      The results of this study may allow pediatric ophthalmologists and glaucoma specialists to
      spare a child with static encephalopathy and isolated optic nerve head cupping extensive,
      risky and expensive glaucoma work-up.

      This study will also provide more information on the patho-physiology of the developing
      visual nervous system.
    
  