
    
      Mindfulness is a practice of "careful attention to mental and physical processes." ("Glossary
      of Buddhist Terms," 2018) Mindfulness is a component of various types of spiritual practices
      including meditation, specifically, from Buddhist tradition. While there are many types of
      meditative activities, Western medicine has begun to focus on practices most closely related
      to Vipassana Meditation, also known as, Insight Meditation. Mindfulness can be considered a
      component of meditation practices, but can also be practiced and incorporated in to an
      individual's daily activity.

      While meditation has long been a practice in several Eastern religions and spiritual
      practices, it most notably came to Europe and North America in the early 1960s. By 1976, the
      Insight Meditation Society, one of the first retreat centers in the United States, was
      founded by Joseph Goldstein, Sharon Salzburg, and Jack Kornfield ("Celebrating 40 Years
      (1976-2016)," 2018). From this, developed the medical research around mindfulness of Jon
      Kabat-Zinn, Founder of the UMass Medical School Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR)
      Program ("History of MBSR," 2017).

      Mindfulness practice has gained popularity as a first line medical intervention for three
      main reasons. Mindfulness practice is non-invasive, non-pharmacologic, and has no significant
      side effects (Cebolla, Demarzo, Martins, Soler, & Garcia-Campayo, 2017). Since it is
      non-invasive, mindfulness on its own is rarely harmful, however, if used in the place of
      proven interventions can be dangerous. Those utilizing mindfulness practices and meditation
      must still be under the care of appropriate medical professionals. As a non-pharmacologic
      intervention, it can be cost effective and not financially prohibitive or burdensome for
      patients. While the quality of instruction and subsequent practice should be further
      investigated, the practice itself has the potential to be available at little cost. Much like
      exercise, meditation and mindfulness practice can be subject to failure if a patient is not
      compliant to the regimen. Since there is still much to know about the impacts of the types
      and qualities of meditation on an individual level, its potential benefits can greatly
      outweigh any risks.

      For the purposes of this study meditation and meditative activities will not be limited only
      to mindfulness, which can be one aspect of meditation. Meditation can be categorized into
      three areas. Focused attention (FA) or concentration meditation is a practice in which the
      practitioner focuses their attention on a singular idea or object (Rinpoche, 1980) as in
      breath awareness, metta or loving-kindness meditation, or a repeated word or phrase as in
      transcendental meditation. This has typically become a starting point for most novice
      practitioners. Open-monitoring (OM) includes mindfulness practice, in which the practitioner
      seeks to become aware of physical and emotional states, responses, and activities. The third
      category of meditation is one that combines both Focused Attention and Open-monitoring
      Meditation. This includes Vipassana practice, or Insight meditation, from which Kabat-Zinn
      has developed the MBSR model. The first two practices rarely are exclusive of each other, but
      rather, a practitioner's session may include FA and OM.

      Previous study of meditation has demonstrated activations and changes in specific regions of
      the brain. Findings from Manna et al., indicate that expert meditators control cognitive
      engagement in conscious processing of sensory-related, thought and emotion contents, by
      massive self-regulation of fronto-parietal and insular areas in the left hemisphere, in a
      meditation state-dependent fashion. We also found that anterior cingulate and dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortices play antagonist roles in the executive control of the attention setting
      in meditation tasks. … Finally, our study suggests that a functional reorganization of brain
      activity patterns for focused attention and cognitive monitoring takes place with mental
      practice, and that meditation-related neuroplasticity is crucially associated to a functional
      reorganization of activity patterns in prefrontal cortex and in the insula. (2010) Others
      have confirmed through the use of fMRI that meditative methods of MBSR, Mindfulness Cognitive
      Behavioral Therapy (MCBT), and dispositional mindfulness - the present moment awareness in
      daily life - change functional and structural components of the prefrontal cortex, cingulate
      cortex, insula, hippocampus, and amygdala after an eight-week program. These findings
      indicate emotional and behavioral changes being related to those functional and structural
      changes (Gotink, Meijboom, Vernooij, Smits, & Hunink, 2016). These changes were found to be
      similar to those noted in experienced meditators.

      Others found changes in functional connectivity in the medial prefrontal cortex, right
      thalamus/parahippocampal gyrus, and bilateral anterior insula/putamen during meditation.
      These findings were associated with top-down cognitive, emotion, and attention control in the
      practice of mental silence in Sahaja Yoga meditation (Hernandez, Barros-Loscertales, Xiao,
      Gonzalez-Mora, & Rubia, 2018).

      A meta-analysis by Merkes of fifteen studies on the effects of MBSR has demonstrated improved
      functional outcomes for chronic conditions including "fibromyalgia, chronic pain, rheumatoid
      arthritis, type 2 diabetes, chronic fatigue syndrome, multiple chemical sensitivity, and
      cardiovascular diagnoses." This analysis also reported no negative outcomes between baseline
      and follow-up assessments (Merkes, 2010).

      While it can be difficult to differentiate and locate the source of a patient's tinnitus, it
      is thought to originate in any combination of three areas - namely peripherally from the
      auditory system, centrally, or from somatosensory input. Tinnitus is commonly associated with
      specific regions of the brain, particularly, the Dorsal Cochlear Nucleus, Central Auditory
      Pathway, and Auditory Cortex (Han, Lee, Kim, Lim, & Shin, 2009). Most recently, using
      residual inhibition, Sedley et al. found tinnitus activity in the thalamus, and contrary to
      expectations, almost all of the auditory cortex and large portions of the temporal, parietal,
      sensorimotor, and limbic cortex (2015).

      Given tinnitus is believed to cause neuroplastic changes in several areas of the brain (Han
      et al., 2009) and that meditation and mindfulness activities are shown to make restorative
      changes in those same areas while improving emotional responses, this study investigates the
      association between the amount of time spent and type of meditation and relief from tinnitus
      through reduction of bother.

      McKenna et al., have found significant reduction of bother in patients with chronic tinnitus
      through the use of Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT), a standardized approach to
      tinnitus management following an eight-week MBCT program led by clinical psychologists. They
      rightly point out that much of the current research in non-standardized approaches, like the
      one proposed in this study, has been limited by small sample sizes (2018). This study looks
      to add to the body of research for non-standardized interventions and lead to the possibility
      of increased access to care for patients.
    
  