
    
      The pilot study is designed in two phases. The first phase is intended to provide data on
      some key points that need to be addressed prior to future funding applications to the CIHR
      and the NHLBI. These applications are currently tentatively planned for the fall of 2005. The
      second phase of the pilot study is intended to more completely establish the feasibility of
      successfully completing the full trial by examining the issue of contamination and the
      ability of the intervention to generate a difference between the groups with regard to use of
      efficacious therapies and control of modifiable risk factors, or intermediate variables on
      the causal pathway to the clinical end-points in the full-scale trial. The second phase will
      also address the need to describe the operation of the experimental intervention more
      thoroughly. Finally, the second phase of the pilot study will compare the randomized study
      groups with regard to short-term quality-of-life outcomes.

      Phase1

        1. How long does it take to recruit 100 patients per study site?

        2. What recruitment strategies are most efficient?

        3. How do the baseline characteristics of those recruited compare to referred populations,
           and to the general population with CKD?

        4. How do the nephrologist and nurse work together to provide care to those in the
           intervention group?

        5. What is the nature of the care provided by the nurses and physicians to those in the
           intervention group?

        6. Is the study nurse able to manage the patient load?

        7. How much time and resources are needed to a) provide care, b) to carry out study
           measurements?

        8. Can health care resources used be measured for economic analysis?

      Phase II

        1. What is the rate of loss to follow-up?

        2. What is the overall estimate of the primary outcome event rate?

        3. By one year of follow-up, what is the difference between the study groups in terms of:

             1. Protocol interventions used (estimates contamination)

             2. Proportion i) smoking; and proportion achieving ii) BP, iii) lipid, iv) diabetes,
                v) anemia, vi) acidosis, vii) mineral metabolism targets

             3. Quality of Life

             4. Satisfaction with care andomized, parallel, two group, multicentre, clinical trial
                of people with CKD, with or without diabetes mellitus or proteinuria. The intention
                is to roll the pilot study into the full-scale trial if the pilot itself is deemed
                successful. A laboratory-based case finding method will be used preferentially to
                identify potential participants. This will be supplemented by practice-based
                case-finding approaches where necessary to ensure recruitment of a representative
                population. Randomization will be by a central computer-based telephone process.
                Stratification will be by center and presence of diabetes and proteinuria. The
                intervention consists of a protocol guided, multiple risk factor and chronic
                disease care model-like approach delivered by a trained nurse supported by a
                nephrologist and will be based in a nephrology clinic like setting.
    
  