
    
      This is an Individual Patient Expanded Access IND with the primary goal of treatment for an
      individual with Parkinson's Disease. There are no FDA approved, fully restorative treatments
      for Parkinson's Disease. The subject will receive a total of twelve autologous HB-adMSCs
      infusion of 200 million cells.

      Primary Objective:

      1. To evaluate the efficacy of HB- adMSCs by improving activities of daily living in a
      subject with Parkinson's Disease.

      Secondary Objective:

        1. To evaluate the efficacy of HB- adMSCs by improving quality-of-life in a subject with
           Parkinson's Disease.

        2. To assess the safety of multiple administrations of HB-adMSCs in a subject with
           Parkinson's Disease

      7.3. Statistical Measures

      Data analysis will be limited to descriptive statistics of the following:

        -  Incidence and severity of adverse events as measured by CBC, CMP, coagulation panel.

        -  C-reactive protein and Sedimentation rate will be measured to evaluate the ability of
           HBadMSCs to alter Parkinson's Disease related inflammation.

        -  Changes in brain and dopamine availability reflected in PET Scan results.

        -  Changes in motor function as measured by the UPDRS score.

        -  Changes in motor function as documented in video records

        -  Changes in function abilities as measured by the Schwab and England Activities of Daily
           Living score.

        -  Changes in quality-of-life scores as measured by the subject evaluations in the "Social
           Roles and Activities" surveys.

      7.4 Measurement Tools

        -  UPDRS

        -  Neuro-QOL Scale v1.0

        -  Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living score.

        -  Video recordings

        -  Writing Samples

        -  Modified Hoehn and Yahr Staging score

        -  Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living score.
    
  