
    
      The purpose of this study is to characterize the safety and anti-tumor efficacy of sequential
      partial liver transplantation followed by bone marrow transplantation from the same living
      related donor. This treatment applies to patients whose cancer remains confined to the liver
      but is too widespread to be removed by surgery or treated by a liver transplant from a
      deceased donor. The purpose of this combined treatment is to reduce the risk of the cancer
      coming back after the liver transplant The bone marrow transplant may reduce the risk of
      cancer relapse in two ways. First, patients who have combined bone marrow and solid organ
      transplants may be able to get off all anti-rejection drugs, which inhibit the immune system
      from destroying cancer cells. Second, the donor's bone marrow contains cells of the immune
      system, which can attack any cancer cells that remain after the liver transplant.

      This trial is a phase II, single arm, open-label, single center pilot study to assess a
      reduced-intensity conditioning regimen, bone marrow transplantation and high dose
      post-transplantation cyclophosphamide (PTCy) in recipients of a partial liver allograft from
      a Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-matched or -haploidentical living related donor in patients
      with HCC. The trial includes analyses of tumor characteristics and the number and phenotype
      of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes in the explanted tumor. The trial also includes periodic
      monitoring of circulating hepatocytes to correlate with tumor response.

      The study is expected to take two years to complete accrual of six patients, and the primary
      objective of this trial is to characterize recurrence-free survival at 1 year following bone
      marrow transplantation among recipients of prior partial liver transplantation from the same
      donor. Secondary objectives include documenting percentage of patients who become tolerant of
      the transplanted liver, i.e. off immunosuppression for >6 months without biochemical evidence
      of liver rejection, and characterizing the relationship between donor chimerism and
      transplantation tolerance.
    
  