
    
      Radiation therapy (RT) is a central treatment modality for 74% of head and neck cancer (HNC)
      patients where preservation of the form and function of localised organs and tissue is of
      prime importance. Radiation therapy offers the possibility of organ preservation by providing
      a non-surgical approach to curative treatment, while helping to limit the extent of surgery
      in cases where definitive surgery is unavoidable. Radiation therapy also has an important
      role in maintaining quality of life in the palliative management of incurable HNC, where it
      can prevent and alleviate pain, bleeding, tumour fungation and difficulty with swallowing,
      breathing and speech.

      State-of-the-art RT for HNC delivers lethal radiation doses to the cancer while sparing vital
      organs situated just a few millimetres away. To achieve this level of accuracy, tight-fitting
      thermoplastic head and neck masks are used to immobilise the patient in the desired treatment
      position for the duration of each of their RT treatments. These thermoplastic immobilisation
      devices are accepted internationally as the necessary standard and included in published
      guidelines. Open masks are an emerging immobilisation measure and a first step to reduce
      patient discomfort and anxiety. An open mask has a smaller visual restriction and fewer
      restraint points.

      Although, thermoplastic immobilisation masks are the accepted clinical standard for HNC RT,
      it is widely recognised and acknowledged that there are several limitations with their use.
      Changes to the mask's fit may be needed due to patient weight loss, tumour shrinkage, or
      treatment related oedema. Thus, radiation therapists are required to monitor the mask for fit
      throughout the treatment course, undertake imaging at regular intervals and make corrections
      as per published guidelines and local protocols. There is also risk of movement of the
      patient within the mask, which may lead to under dosing of the target and overdosing of
      organs at risk. Court et al. reported that patients in their study needed to be repositioned
      in the immobilisation mask before treatment for 14% of fractions; 30% of the repositioning
      was for shoulder shifts of 1 cm or greater. Neubauer et al. observed shoulder motion of 2-5
      mm in each direction on average (20 mm max). These shifts resulted in coverage loss (dose to
      99% of the clinical target volume decreased by up to 1Gy) or increased dose to organs at risk
      (e.g., dose to brachial plexus increased by 0.7Gy).

      The ACRF Image X Institute at the University of Sydney has developed a novel surface guidance
      system, 'Breathe Well', that can be mounted to any RT imaging and treatment couch. This
      system is currently being used in a clinical trial (NCT02881203) to guide breast cancer
      patients into a reproducible breath hold: the patient's chest position is measured via
      surface imaging and the system delivers visual feedback to the patient via a screen for the
      patient to correct their breath hold level if necessary (i.e., surface guidance). 'Breathe
      Well' uses off-the-shelf electronics, most importantly a sensor which includes an optical and
      a depth camera, delivering frames at a rate of 30Hz and allowing the patient and operator to
      see an augmented reality video feed, including the surface depth information.

      We will apply optical and depth cameras for head and neck surface monitoring by integrating
      an additional sensor and adapting it to the different location of treatment

      Pilot-stage, single-arm study investigating the technical feasibility and patient acceptance
      of a non-interventional, non-invasive, mask-free surface detection system.

      Twenty people who have previously been treated for HNC with RT using a head mask will be
      asked to lie in a treatment position for the normal amount of time taken for individual
      radiation therapy treatments (20 minutes) while a mask-free surface detection system detects
      and records their location and movement. Data collected by the surface detection system will
      be analysed to determine the feasibility of using the equipment to detect location and
      movement over this period, and patients will be asked to complete surveys before and after
      the session to report their anxiety and comfort.
    
  