
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This was the first study in patient care informatics in which nutrient analysis methodology
      was used on a day-to-day basis to motivate low literate individuals to improve their food
      choice behavior and physical activity. The deliverables of this investigation included
      revised and enhanced software, professional documentation, and a participant workbook. These
      materials were designed so that they could be integrated into any risk factor reduction
      program for low literacy populations.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The CAI featured voice recognition, giant cursor movement, and a graphics-based environment
      using pictures to facilitate an exceptionally easy to use and understand software program and
      booklet. The voice recognition technology was linked with compact disk read only memory (CD
      ROM) to visually display food choices and physical activities for ease of recording data by
      the individual. The software was formatted so that health professionals could select
      preference levels which corresponded to the motivational level of the individual. The
      four-session CAI intervention had two planned maintenance sessions. The output was
      personalized and in color. It was designed to identify problematic foods in the diet, improve
      food selections, and increase physical activity. Stars were printed for adherence to
      individual goals.

      One hundred and fifty (150) men and 150 women, between age 20 and age 44, with a reading
      level of 8th grade or less, who were between 20 percent and 40 percent over their ideal body
      weight, were randomly assigned to three groups. The design compared a control group without
      the intervention, a group experiencing the CAI intervention and hands-on computer use, and a
      group experiencing the intervention but not the CAI component or computer use. All groups
      were pretested, posttested, and follow-up tested at six months and twelve months following
      baseline. The primary outcome measures were weight loss, nutrient intake, and physical
      activity. Data were analyzed using a two-way analysis of covariance and appropriate t-tests.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  