
    
      Nicotine dependence is accepted as the most common disease and can be treated with medical
      methods like other diseases. Scientifically proven pharmacotherapy as well as cognitive and
      behavioral therapy play an important role in reducing cigarette smoking. In this context, it
      is suggested that the motivation of the person should be questioned, the daily behavioral
      models should be questioned, the elements triggering the desire for smoking should be
      identified and the methods of combating them should be developed and the usual vital actions
      including eating and drinking should be organized. Consumption of acidic foods causes acidic
      pH in the mouth and salivation increases in order to neutralize it. After meals; tea or
      coffee, it was reported that smoking desire increases.

      Caffeine is another psychostimulant substance found in varying proportions in coffee and tea,
      and its antagonistic effects on the locomotor system are at adenosine receptors level.
      Stimulated at low doses and depressed at high doses. Nicotine has a stimulating effect on
      locomotor activity in chronic use. The chronic use of caffeine causes tolerance in many
      effects, and nicotine use decreases tolerance effects and also potentiates the effects
      stimulated through the dopaminergic pathway. It has been reported that smokers consume more
      caffeine than non-smokers. There are also studies reporting that there is no interaction
      between caffeine and nicotine and that cocaine consumption increases cigarette smoking as
      well as epidemiological studies that relate caffeine and nicotine concurrent consumption to
      pharmacological effects rather than pharmacological effects after food and between studies
      that are the two most common actions due to stress. However, this effect is not entirely due
      to the pharmacological effects of caffeine, but influences the intraoral pH and affects the
      cigarette smoking desire. In this study, the main aim is to investigate the effect of changes
      in salivary pH on the desire to smoke and how the drinking behavior of water affected this
      desire.
    
  