
    
      This is a prospective randomized, unicentric, intervention study aimed at evaluating the
      effect of the combination of two probiotics on seminal quality and subsequent reproductive
      outcomes of infertile patients. As it is a food supplement, we will be subject to the
      Biomedicine Regulation and not to the Clinical Trials Regulation, as already classified by
      the Spanish Drug Agency. The study will be conducted on infertile patients at the IVIRMA
      Valencia clinic for two years to complete planned interventions and data collection and
      analysis. The reference population includes infertile patients coming to the clinic for
      IVF/ICSI assisted reproduction treatment with own or donated oocytes.

      Patients will come to the clinic to undergo the treatment. If their characteristics are in
      accord with the inclusion criteria, the study will be presented and explained to them and
      their partners so they can evaluate their participation in it. If they wish to participate,
      they will sign an informed consent form, and they will be randomized using a
      computer-generated randomisation list into the control group (who will receive placebo) or
      the treatment group (who will receive the probiotic compound).

      The success rate in patients with these characteristics, confirmed by the evaluation of
      historical information from the clinic's own database, is approximately 35% of the cycles
      using own oocytes, which can be used as a valid approximation. In a unilateral contrast test,
      assuming a risk of an alpha error of 0.05 and a beta (statistical power) of 80%, to
      demonstrate a difference of 15% thanks to the intervention, we need a number of 134 cases per
      arm and, assuming losses of 5% during the follow-up, this number would be rounded to 140
      cases per study group, which makes a total of 280 couples to be included in the study.

      The trial is double-blind: the patient, the investigator and all site personnel (with the
      exception of the trial nurse/coordinator and/or pharmacy assistant) will remain blinded
      throughout the course of the trial as to which treatment each subject received, including the
      assessing physician, the embryologist and other auxiliary members of the team.

      The male assigned to the experimental group will start taking a 50% combination of the two
      probiotics (Lactobacillus rhamnosus CECT8361 and Bifidobacterium longum CECT7347) at a dose
      of 109 CFU/day on the same day of the first visit. The probiotics will be supplied by the
      company ADM Biopolis S.L. (Valencia, Spain). The carrier of lyophilized probiotics is
      maltodextrin and the mixture is encapsulated in hypromellose capsules. The patient will take
      one capsule daily corresponding to the administration of 109 cfu/day. The patient should take
      these probiotics for at least 21 days before undergoing an assisted reproduction cycle.
      Patients receiving the placebo will be following the same instructions. For both groups of
      patients, a seminal sample will be collected on their first visit to evaluate the baseline
      quality of the semen, as well as a microbiome analysis will be carried out using 16S rRNA
      sequencing (by ADM Biopolis) to determine the status of the semen at the starting point of
      the study. After 21 days, the patients will be appointed to deposit a second semen sample in
      order to perform the IVF/ICSI cycle. This sample will also be analysed, both for semen
      parameters and microbiome. Values obtained from both of the samples collected will be
      compared to observe the effect of the administration of the probiotic on the quality of sperm
      and its microbial population.

      Fresh semen samples will be evaluated by means of a spermiogram following the standard
      operating procedures, in which data will be collected on volume, pH, sperm concentration,
      sperm mobility, cell viability and morphology. In addition, a DNA fragmentation analysis will
      be carried out using the Halosperm G2 kit (Halotech) based on the sperm chromatin dispersion
      technique. A part of the fresh sample will be frozen by submersion into liquid nitrogen and
      then storage in a -80ºC freezer, and sent to ADM Biopolis to perform the taxonomical
      identification of the bacterial populations in the semen samples using 16S rRNA sequencing
      with the Ion Torrent platform (Lifetechnologies).

      Once the IVF/ICSI has been performed and oocytes have been correctly fertilised, embryo
      selection and blastocyst transfer will be carried out according to the usual medical practice
      to the woman's uterus, so that they can continue their development in the womb.

      During recruitment, the couple will also sign a consent form allowing the team to collect
      data from the results of the cycle, both during embryo development and during the pregnancy
      and the delivery.

      A database will be defined with the variables destined to be analysed according to the
      objectives set: semen quality analysis, sperm DNA fragmentation, microbial analysis, embryo
      development, gestation and delivery. The exported data will be duly codified in order to
      protect the clinical and personal information of the patients according to the Spanish data
      protection law. Finally, and prior to the statistical study, an exploratory data analysis
      will be carried out to review the quality of the information extracted.

      The main variable of the study is the live birth rate per cycle defined as the percentage of
      cases in which a complete treatment of assisted reproduction is carried out with control or
      experimental semen, which manage to obtain offspring for each cycle of ovarian stimulation
      included in the study.
    
  