
    
      POEM (Peroral Endoscopic Myotomy) is an endoscopic procedure most commonly used to treat
      achalasia. Achalasia is a disorder resulting from the inability of esophageal muscles to
      relax. Consequently, patients experience difficulty swallowing, reflux, and weight loss.
      Treatment options for achalasia are generally divided into 2 categories: A) treatment with
      medication, or B) treatment via a procedure. Medical treatment is generally reserved for
      patients to unwell to undergo procedures as the efficacy is low. Additionally, patients tend
      to experience many side-effects. There are also procedural options used to treat achalasia
      which include surgical myotomy and POEM. The POEM procedure is advantageous because it is
      less invasive, but is at least as equally effective for symptomatic relief when compared to
      the surgical myotomy. The POEM procedure, performed under general anesthesia, involves
      inserting an endoscope into the esophagus where a specialized knife is able to cut a new
      pathway through the esophageal tissue. The knife is then used to incise, and therefore
      loosen, tight muscles within the esophagus, lower esophageal sphincter, and the upper region
      of the stomach that are responsible for the symptoms. At the conclusion of the procedure,
      clips are placed in the esophagus to close the incision. Currently, patients are given
      intravenous ketorolac, oral viscous lidocaine and narcotic analgesics as needed to manage
      post-operative pain. This study, however, seeks to improve patient's post-operative pain
      levels by placing ropivacaine (a local anesthetic) into the newly cut pathway that is created
      in the POEM procedure. It is hypothesized that the topical irrigation of the POEM tunnel with
      ropivacaine will result in decreased pain scores and a decreased need for additional pain
      medications. Patients consented to participate in the study will be randomized to receive
      either ropivacaine (intervention group) or saline (control group). Pain will be assessed at
      0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours post-admission to the recovery unit using validated pain scales.
      Additionally, the Quality of Recovery (QoR-15) patient survey, will be completed prior to
      discharge. This measure will capture the patient's initial post-operative health condition
      and help capture the overall patient experience.
    
  