
    
      Population:

        -  As identified in Epic, Kaiser Permanente Southern California (KPSC) Fontana Family
           Medicine patients with a depression diagnosis recorded during the prior week (rolling
           basis).

        -  Target study enrollment: 150 participants per arm (300 total)

      Recruitment:

        -  Kaiser Permanente (KP) will send eligible patients a postal letter inviting them to
           participate in study. Interested patients will be directed to the Enrollment/Assessment
           Website, a website to be developed by vendor Waypoint Health Innovations. The
           recruitment letter will contain (i) a description of the study, (ii) the web address for
           the Enrollment/Assessment Website, (iii) the patient's Study Identifier (ID).

        -  Additionally, KP will send eligible patients for whom KP has an email address an email
           inviting them to participate in the study.

      Screening and Enrollment (Enrollment/Assessment Website):

        -  A patient interested in applying to the study will visit the Enrollment/Assessment
           Website and input his/her unique Study ID. The website will verify that the entered
           Study ID is on a pre-loaded list. If valid, the patient may continue to screening
           assessments.

        -  Patient will complete the 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) depression symptom
           assessment. Patients with eligible PHQ-9 scores may continue to Informed Consent page.

        -  The Informed Consent (IC) page will contain (i) the Informed Consent text including
           contact information for any questions patient may have; (ii) fields for first name, last
           name, date of birth, email address, and phone number; (iii) a check box labeled "I
           understand the above information and agree to participate…" (or similar); and (iv) a
           "submit" (or similar) button.

        -  To enroll in the study, the patient must complete all fields, check the box, and click
           submit button. The website will validate that every field has been completed and that
           the phone number and email fields have the correct format (e.g. name@domain.com for the
           email field).

        -  If all fields are complete, the website will store the Study ID, first name, last name,
           date of birth, email address, and phone number that patient entered into the website.
           They will be stored in an encrypted database for use by researchers.

        -  Additionally, the website will store the complete Informed Consent page (including
           Informed Consent text, first name, last name, date of birth, email address, phone
           number, and checked box) in a single encrypted record, timestamp it, and place a digital
           certificate on it. The digital certificate will allow us to prove that no one tampered
           with any part of the IC document after the participant clicked submit.

        -  The website automatically randomizes participants to treatment or control arm.
           Participants continue in website to baseline assessments.

        -  After baseline assessments, control arm participants go to a page in the
           Enrollment/Assessment Website telling them to expect assessment again in 2 months, while
           treatment arm participants will be given instructions for enrolling in Thrive.

        -  Researchers would have access to the completed IC forms to print and/or mail to patients
           who request a copy.

        -  Weekly, KP research coordinator will review new participants' study ID, name, and date
           of birth (DOB) the participant entered to ensure they match KP records. Individuals who
           entered information that does not reasonably match KP records would be removed from the
           study.

      Coaching:

      • KP will send each treatment arm participant four emails encouraging them to use Thrive,
      with the exception that the second email will be replaced by a phone call from KP for
      patients who have not achieved a minimum level of activity in Thrive at that point.

      Endpoint and Follow-up Assessments:

      • KP will ask each study participant to visit Enrollment/Assessment Website 2 and 6 months
      after study enrollment to complete assessments.
    
  