
    
      Safe and effective analgesia is an important unmet medical need in children. Despite efforts
      to promote non-pharmacologic interventions, drug treatment remains the standard of care for
      children experiencing severe pain following surgery. Inadequate pain relief after invasive
      surgery, and side effects from analgesics such as morphine occur frequently in up to 50% of
      children. A study of patient controlled analgesia (PCA) morphine use after spine surgery in
      adolescents observed a 45% incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting and 7% incidence of
      respiratory depression. Presently, evidence-based dosing guidelines for opioid therapy have
      not been ascertained in the pediatric patient population, and remains a trial and error
      method. Despite aggressive pain management after spine surgery, findings showed that neither
      children's pain nor their analgesic use diminished significantly over time. As such, there is
      a critical knowledge gap in the medical literature that significantly impacts the pediatric
      pain management. Moreover, chronic postsurgical pain (CPSP, defined as pain attributable to
      the surgical procedure lasting for more than 2 months after surgery critically impacts 13-30%
      of children having surgery, and leads to chronic pain as adults imposing extraordinary annual
      costs on the health care system ($560-635 billion). It has been recently shown that pain
      unpleasantness predicts the transition from acute to moderate/severe persistent post-surgical
      pain, whereas anxiety sensitivity predicts the maintenance of moderate/severe post-surgical
      pain from 6 to 12 months after surgery. Spine fusion in adolescents is a particularly painful
      surgery with 15% incidence of pain even 5 years after surgery, and hence will serve as a good
      surgical model to evaluate the behavioral and genetic predictors of chronic postoperative
      pain. In recognition of this therapeutic challenge the investigators plan to evaluate the
      determinants of inter-individual differences in opioid analgesic responsiveness, adverse
      effects, pain perception and predictors of chronic postoperative pain in children.
    
  