
    
      The MRKH syndrome is a congenital disorder characterized by absence of uterus and at least
      the two thirds of the vagina, a female phenotype and a normal karyotype XX.

      These patients have normal ovaries and fallopian tubes. The external genitalia are normal.
      This syndrome was described by Mayer (1829), Rokitansky ( 1838), Kuster ( 1910) and Hauser (
      1961). About one in every 4500 female babies has this condition. This syndrome represents 85%
      of congenital vagina aplasia and is the second cause of primary amenorrhea after disorders of
      sexual development. These women are unfertile.

      The malformation can be isolated or associated with other malformations called MURCS
      (Müllerian duct aplasia, renal aplasia, and cervicothoracic somite dysplasia), as kidney (
      30%), bone ( 10%) or cardiac malformations ( 1%).

      The most common age for MRKH to be diagnosed is when the woman hasn't started her period (
      85%).Some girls may find out at an earlier age when there is a severe malformation , during a
      systematic gynaecological examination or during an pelvic ultrasound. When the women are
      older, the syndrome can be diagnosed during studies for infertility.

      A pelvic ultrasound is usually the first test performed to assess presence of uterus. A
      magnetic resonance imaging may be used to complete the investigations. These tests can also
      confirm if there are two ovaries and two kidneys. Sometimes, a very small uterus can be seen,
      it's a uterine horn.

      The psychological management is essential to take care of the women affected.It seeks to
      understand the impact of the diagnosis announcement and the various treatments offered. The
      follow-up can be different for each girl and her parents during several appointments.

      Therapeutic management can be proposed when the girl is ready because the therapeutic is long
      and difficult. Two therapeutic approaches can be proposed: to create a vagina using dilators
      or having a surgical procedure. In France, vaginal reconstruction with dilators is the most
      used. This method consists in dilating the vagina progressively with different sizes of
      dilators in order to obtain a vaginal opening of 8 cm around 6 months after treatment
      initiation. This method is successful in about 75% of cases. Complications are exceptional.

      Surgery is an option for patients who are unsuccessful with dilatators or patients who prefer
      surgery. A number of operations are appropriate for the correction of vaginal agenesis.
      Vecchietti procedure and sigmoid vaginoplasty are the most commonly used techniques in
      France.

      In national and international publications, it is impossible to compare scientifically the
      results of the different technique because of the small effective in each studies and because
      of the the lack of standardized assessment. Studies report the functional result for each
      technique but none compare the techniques used. No studies compared the result in terms of
      anatomical and function results, complications and quality of life.

      The demonstration of a positive correlation between the anatomic criteria and the functional
      results would help to guide the surgical technique. The lack of correlation would suggest
      that a perfect anatomical reconstruction is not essential. If it is demonstrated, the
      management should focus on other criteria like psychological management. Several factors seem
      to influence the general and sexual quality of life of women affected by the Rokitansky
      syndrome. Our objective is to evaluate the importance of these factors to improve the
      treatment of these women.
    
  