
    
      STUDY AIMS AND OBJECTIVES Aim: To address the uncertainties relating to the design and
      conduct of a tele-rehabilitation programme and substantive phase 3 randomised controlled
      trial to evaluate its effectiveness for people that have been hospitalised with COVID-19 and
      required additional respiratory support (non-invasive and / or invasive ventilation).

      Objectives: Specific study objectives will address uncertainties in four areas.

        1. Recruitment: To identify contact:consent ratio, screen failure rate, recruitment and
           participant retention rate. This will inform the number of sites needed to enrol
           sufficient participants within an acceptable timeline.

        2. Intervention: To assess the acceptability and fidelity of the intervention by measuring
           adherence in delivery and uptake. Identify additional rehabilitation needs that are not
           addressed by the tele-rehabilitation programme.

        3. Data quality: To assess the amount and pattern of missing data for study measures. Data
           variability across the range of outcome measures will also be assessed. These findings
           will inform the choice of primary and secondary outcomes for a definitive trial.

        4. Outcome: To assess the best primary outcome and agree other study measures for a
           definitive trial by identifying i) data completion (objective 3), ii) data variability
           for potential primary outcome measures to inform sample size calculation for the
           definitive trial.

      In addition to the above feasibility study objectives changes in symptoms, quality of life
      and measures of functional capacity over time to provide preliminary insights into the
      natural history of recovery post COVID-19 and potential effect of tele-rehabilitation will be
      explored.

      . STUDY DESIGN Single centre, fast-track (wait-list), randomised controlled feasibility trial
      of tele-rehabilitation for patients that have been hospitalised with COVID-19 and required
      non-invasive and/or invasive mechanical ventilation. Patients will be randomised 1:1 to
      fast-track or wait-list groups using random permuted blocks.

      SUMMARY The tele-rehabilitation programme will be delivered by trained therapists and will be
      structured using conventional pulmonary rehabilitation principles.

      Participants will be randomised to fast-track or wait-list groups. All participants will
      receive the intervention during the course of the trial. Participants randomised to the
      fast-track group will receive the intervention 14 ± 7 days after randomisation. Participants
      randomised to the wait-list group will receive the intervention 56 ± 7 days after
      randomisation.

      TELE-REHABILITATION INTERVENTION The tele-rehabilitation programme will be delivered via an
      NHSX / NHS Digital approved commercial video conferencing application. It will comprise an
      initial assessment followed by 12 classes delivered by video link over a 6 week period.
      Participants will be advised to undertake exercises on 5 days each week Participants will be
      contacted by the interventional physiotherapists prior to commencing the intervention and
      undertake a virtual (telephone or video) consultation to check eligibility, accessibility and
      safety to exercise with remote supervision. At this consultation they will be provided with
      the exercise programme based on their current level of exercise tolerance and functional
      activity level. Twice a week they will be invited to join a virtual exercise and education
      group during which the therapists can observe the participants undertaking the exercises.
      This will allow for safety checks, progression or modifications to be made to the exercises
      by the therapists. Participants will be taken through a warm up and cool down plus exercise,
      after which they will be invited to stay to receive educational advice on relevant topics
      such as managing breathlessness; managing fatigue; diet and hydration; the importance of
      exercise; returning to the workplace etc. Participants will also be allowed time to share
      experiences with each other to engender a sense of community and peer support.

      ARRANGING THE INTERVENTION Site staff will be trained in local procedures for referral for
      the intervention. Referral will be undertaken immediately following randomisation and
      participants informed of their group allocation and start date of the intervention.

      Intervention Fidelity Training in the tele-rehabilitation programme will be provided for the
      therapists involved in intervention delivery. The tele-rehabilitation being delivered has
      been developed locally as the standard clinical care. For the purpose of the trial, training
      will be delivered by local therapist familiar with the intervention. A record of staff
      training in the intervention should be retained in the site file and only those that have
      received training should be involved in intervention delivery.

      Delivery of the intervention should be documented by the delivering therapist within the
      participant's medical record and CRF. If any components of the intervention are not delivered
      then the reason for this must be documented in the participant's medical record and CRF.

      OUTCOMES AND MEASURES This is a feasibility trial and therefore the primary outcome measures
      address areas of uncertainty relating to design and delivery of tele-rehabilitation and a
      Phase 3 randomised controlled trial. These outcomes are termed feasibility outcomes. As part
      of this trial a number of clinical outcomes will be evaluated with the aim of identifying the
      most appropriate primary outcome for a subsequent trial and evaluating acceptability and
      suitability of these measures.

      Feasibility Outcomes

      The following feasibility outcomes will be assessed:

        -  Recruitment: Contact to consent ratio; screen failure rate; recruitment rate;
           retention/follow-up rates at each time point.

        -  Data quality: completion of clinical outcomes (questionnaires and other assessments) at
           each time point and patterns of missing data for the study measures.

        -  Intervention: Adherence in delivery and uptake documented in the clinical record.

      Clinical outcomes will be measured and data synthesized to inform the sample size of a
      definitive trial.

      The traffic light system will be used for feasibility outcomes Clinical Outcomes

        1. Symptoms

             -  The modified Medical research Council Dyspnoea Scale (mMRC) will be used to assess
                the effect of breathlessness on participants' daily activities. This 5 stage scale
                measures perceived respiratory disability.

             -  Numerical rating scales (NRS, scored 0-10 where 0 = no breathlessness and 10 =
                worst possible breathlessness) will be used to assess the following aspects of
                breathlessness over the past 24 hours: best breathlessness / past 24 hours, worst
                breathlessness / past 24 hours, distress caused by breathlessness / past 24 hours,
                coping with breathlessness / past 24 hours. The NRS or visual analogue scale (VAS)
                is recommended as a unidimensional measure of breathlessness in palliative care
                studies [1]. The NRS is preferable to the 0-100mm VAS [2]. It is highly correlated
                with VAS scores, but has better test-retest reliability [3, 4], utility [5] and
                research in pain shows that patients find them easier to use than VAS scales [6].
                Although average NRS is often used, we will only use best and worst intensity NRS
                as "average" has been shown to be prone to "Peak-end" bias [7]. Distress has been
                used as primary outcomes in trials of breathlessness complex intervention services
                [8].

             -  Cough VAS will be used to assess participants cough.

             -  The Modified FACIT-F Scale (version 4) will be used to measure fatigue. This tool
                has been demonstrated to a valid and reliable tool in a range of malignant and
                non-malignant diseases including chronic obstructive pulmonary diseae (COPD) [9].

        2. Quality of Life The EQ-5D-5L and the EQ visual analogue scale (EQ VAS) will be used to
           measure participants quality of life. The EQ-5D-5L measures 5 dimensions of health state
           (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pan/discomfort and anxiety/depression) using 5
           levels (no problem, slight problem, moderate problems, severe problems, extreme
           problems). The EQ VAS asks patients to self-rate their health on a vertical VAS from
           'the best health you can imagine' to 'the worst health you can imagine'[10].

        3. Mood The hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS) [11]. The HADS is a short well
           validated screening assessment tool which will not add unnecessarily to a participant's
           burden.

           The EQ-5D-5L anxiety and depression domain will also provide insight into participants'
           mood.

        4. Exercise Capacity

      The One-Minute Sit-to-Stand Test (STST) assesses the number of times a participant can
      transition between the sitting and standing positions in a 1 minute period. The STST has
      shown good correlation with other well validated measures of functional capacity in people
      with chronic respiratory disease [12] and is suitable for an elderly population [13].
      Participants will undertake this assessment in their own homes while observed over a video
      link. The requirement for specific equipment and space precludes the use of other measures of
      functional capacity (for example, the 6-minute walk test or incremental shuttle walk test).
      Other than a chair, the STST requires no specialised equipment and therefore can be
      undertaken by participants in their own homes.
    
  