
    
      Anesthesiologist was informed about the patients (Post clipping for cerebral aneurysm) having
      neurological deterioration (hemiparesis, aphasia, apraxia, hemianopia, or neglect), or a
      decrease of ≥ 2 points on the Glasgow Coma Scale(GCS) and in whom the duration of symptoms
      lasted for at least 1 hour. Anesthesiologist was also informed if increased cerebral blood
      flow velocity was found on routine daily Transcranial Doppler(TCD) evaluation of such
      patients. A cerebral Computed tomography(CT) scan was performed at this time to rule out
      ventricular dilation or any other focal brain lesion explaining the clinical symptoms. In
      such patient Central venous pressure(CVP) was maintained at 8-10 mm of Hg and systolic blood
      pressure was maintained between 160-200 mm Hg (using infusion of vasopressors such as
      phenylephrine or dopamine if required). Oral/ nasogastric nimodipine (60 mg 4 hourly) was
      continued and hemoglobin was maintained at ≥ 10 gm/dl.

      Diagnosis Of Vasospasm By Transcranial Doppler A 2 megahertz (MHz) transcranial Doppler
      ultrasound probe was used to insonate vessels through the temporal acoustic window.
      Extracranial Internal Carotid Artery (ICA) was insonated in the neck using a linear probe of
      8- 13 MHz. Using Transcranial Doppler (TCD) probe, a tracing of waveform of Middle Cerebral
      Artery (MCA) was identified and confirmed using standard criteria. Peak Systolic Velocity and
      Mean Flow Velocity were assessed. Pulsatility Index and Resistivity Index were assessed.
      LINDEGAARD ratio was calculated.

      Diagnosis Of Vasospasm By Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) Patients were shifted to
      Digital subtraction Angiography room and an emergency cerebral angiographic study was
      performed using Philips Allura Xper FD20/10 machine. Vasospasm was diagnosed on DSA and the
      vessel diameter was measured at the mid A1 segment of Anterior cerebral artery(ACA) and mid
      M1 segment of Middle Cerebral Artery (MCA). Vasospasm was classified as mild (<25%), moderate
      (25% to 50%), or severe (>50%) with respect to two - dimensional diameter at the mid A1 and
      mid M1 segment of ACA and MCA respectively. Location of vasospasm was classified as
      unilateral vs bilateral, single vessel involvement vs multiple vessel involvement or diffuse
      vasospasm (bilateral with multiple vessel involvement). Parenchymal filling time was
      calculated as the time delay between initiation of contrast injection till the appearance of
      parenchymal blush. Venous sinus filling time was calculated as the time delay between the
      initiation of contrast injection till the appearance of superior sagittal sinus. After
      diagnosis of vasospasm patients were administered ultrasound guided Stellate Ganglion block
      using 10 ml of 0.5% Injection Bupivacaine on the same side of vasospasm or the side
      contralateral to the focal neurological deficit.

      Ultrasound Guided Stellate Ganglion Block - Technique Patients were kept supine with the neck
      in slight hyperextension. Under aseptic conditions, transducer is placed on the surface of
      the neck at the level of Cervical (C6) vertebrae. The internal jugular vein, carotid artery,
      thyroid gland, trachea, C6 vertebrae, transverse process of C6, esophagus, longus colli with
      its covering prevertebral fascia and esophagus are visualized. The transducer was pressed
      between the trachea and the carotid artery to retract the artery laterally as well as to
      position the transducer near the longus colli. A 25-gauge Quincke spinal needle was inserted
      paratracheal towards the middle of the longus colli muscle. The endpoint of the injection was
      the ultrasound image of the tip of the needle as it penetrates the prevertebral fascia
      covering the longus colli muscle. The drug is then injected and spread of drug is visualized
      as distension of prevertebral fascia around the longus colli muscle in real time.

      Post Block Assessment-

      • Development of ipsilateral Horner Syndrome at 5 minutes interval till 30 minutes after
      block to confirm successful Stellate Ganglion Block.

      At thirty minutes after the block the following parameters are assessed:-

        -  Neurological condition (GCS score, motor deficits, aphasia, apraxia, hemianopia or
           neglect). Assessment was done by a blinded neurosurgeon.

        -  Hemodynamic parameters: heart rate, blood pressure

        -  Transcranial doppler measurement of flow velocity in MCA, Pulsatility index(PI),
           Resistivity Index(RI) and LINDEGAARD ratio.

        -  Digital subtraction angiography was repeated to measure diameter of the vessels affected
           by vasospasm, change in grading of vasospasm, any increase in vessel diameter,
           parenchymal filling time and venous sinus filling time. Any increase or decrease in
           parenchymal and venous sinus filling time was noted.

      Block Failure- Block was considered a failure if no signs of Horner's syndrome appeared after
      30 minutes of SGB block.

      Ineffective Stellate ganglion block- Block was considered ineffective after 30 minutes of
      Stellate ganglion block

        -  If there was no neurological improvement

        -  No improvement in Transcranial doppler findings to normal level or no significant change
           in affected vessel diameter, grading of vasospasm, parenchymal filling time and venous
           sinus filling time in second Digital subtraction angiography Rescue Management In case
           of ineffective block, patients were given intra-arterial nimodipine at rate of 0.1
           milligram / minute for a maximum dose of 3 milligram /artery as a rescue measure.

      Following this improvement, these patients were monitored in Intensive care unit(ICU).

      Management Of Patient In Intensive Care Unit

        -  Avoidance of hypotension. Maintenance of Systolic Blood Pressure(SBP) at 160-200 mm of
           Hg using vasopressor {(phenylephrine 2-17microgram/Kg/min) and/or (dopamine-5-10
           microgram/kg/min)}

        -  Avoidance of hypovolemia, maintain Central venous pressure at 8-10 mm of Hg

        -  Maintenance of Hemoglobin ≥ 9gram/decilitre

        -  Oral/nasogastric Nimodipine 60mg 4 hourly. Clinical course of patients was followed.
           Baseline neurological, hemodynamic and TCD parameters were reassessed by the
           anesthesiologist at 30 minutes . Patients with effective block were reassessed for
           neurological status and flow velocity measurements by Transcranial Doppler at 6 hours,
           12 hours, 24 hours, 36 hours and 48 hours after Stellate ganglion block. Patients with
           ineffective block who received rescue management were not reassessed for neurological
           status and flow velocity measurements using Transcranial Doppler at various intervals by
           the anesthesiologist. However the complications occurring in them, the duration of their
           stay in the hospital and the final outcome in the form of discharge or death was noted.

      Complications Of Stellate ganglion block Procedure and drug-related complications were noted.

      Complications During Hospital Stay Complications occurring in the post Stellate Ganglion
      Block period during the entire hospital stay other than those due to the stellate ganglion
      block per se were noted. Duration of hospital stay was also noted.
    
  