
    
      This is a single-center, single-blind, all comer, randomized controlled trial. Patients
      scheduled for isolated aortic valve replacement (AVR) due to aortic stenosis at "Virgen de la
      Victoria Universitary Hospital", Málaga, Spain, will be eligible. Ninety-six patients will be
      randomly assigned to either partial upper sternotomy (ministernotomy, 48 patients) or full
      sternotomy AVR (48 patients). Sample size was determined for an Alpha error of 0.05,and Beta
      error of 0.1 for a power of 90% in detecting 0.10 difference points in quality of life
      EQ-5D-5L-index or 10 points in EQ-5D-5L-Visual Analogic Scale.

      Inclusion criteria is severe aortic stenosis referred for medically indicated isolated aortic
      valve replacement due to aortic stenosis in patients >18 years.

      Exclusion criteria are left ventricular ejection fraction less than 40%, previous cardiac
      surgery, urgent/emergent surgery, infective endocarditis, need of concomitant procedures
      other than isolated Morrow miectomy and thorax deformity.

      CE-marked and FDA-approved mechanical (Sorin Carbomedics®) and stented bioprosthetic aortic
      valves will be implanted (Carpentier Edwards Perimount® and Sorin Crown®). Perceval S
      Sutureless bioprosthetic valves (LivaNova®) could be used if needed in very small aortic
      annulus or high risk patients Quality of Life postoperative outcomes will be assessed, as QOL
      measurements and health status with the EQ-5D-5L® questionnaire (QOL index, health visual
      analogic scale, severity index and health index), repeatedly assessed preoperatively and
      postoperatively at 1-6-12 months. Clinical postoperative complications and outcomes will be
      registered at 1 month and 1 year as main secondary and safety end-point (combined end-point
      of 4 and 6 major complications) Patient Satisfaction will be assessed with a 20 question
      cardiac-surgery specific satisfaction questionnaire (SATISCORE®).

      Survival will be assessed at 1 year. Clinical pre and postoperative characteristics will be
      registered. Routine blood sampling will be performed pre- and postoperatively. All available
      data will be collected prospectively. Informed consent) will be obtained from patients
      meeting the inclusion criteria before the initiation of any study-specific procedures.

      The Institutional Review Board Ethic Comittee approved this study.
    
  