
    
      This is a prospective, double-blind, multicentered, randomized controlled trial to determine
      the effectiveness of low-intensity pulsed ultrasound in decreasing the time to union of
      scaphoid non-unions after operative fixation as measured by serial CT scanning. Multiple
      centers across Canada will be involved in the study. Blinding will include patients,
      surgeons, research assistants, as well as all data handlers and analysts until trial
      completion or mid-term analysis. Baseline demographics including age, hand dominance, work
      status and medical co-morbidities of the patients will be collected to allow for comparison
      of the groups to ensure similarity.

      Patients will be identified during clinic appointment for the initial consultation for
      surgical fixation of their scaphoid non-union. Patients consenting to surgical fixation will
      be assessed for inclusion and exclusion criteria and, if appropriate, will be consented and
      evaluated for baseline range of motion, grip strength, SF-36, DASH and both resting and
      activity VAS scores. Pre-operative radiographs will be assessed for the degree of wrist
      arthritis present. No restrictions will be placed on the selection or scheduling of surgical
      procedures, but the use of other adjuvants such as bone morphogenic protein will be limited.

      Bioventus will provide visually identical active and sham Exogen 4000 units. The units will
      undergo randomization and will be given consecutively numbered labels. Devices will be
      securely stored at each clinical study center. All clinical centers and personnel involved
      will be blinded to the randomization. Two weeks post-operatively subjects will attend the
      cast clinics and be assigned the next sequential device. The device will be applied through a
      window cut into the standardized cast with a center point over the anatomic snuffbox. This
      cast will remain in place until the fracture is united on CT or 7 weeks at a minimum.

      Treatment will be self-administered for 20 minutes once daily by the patients. The device
      will be equipped with a system to document compliance with the treatment. Treatment will
      continue until the subject has greater than 50% cortical bridging on CT scanning with
      multi-planar reconstruction. Union will be confirmed by both an orthopedic surgeon and an
      independent musculoskeletal radiologist. Treatment will also be terminated if the subject
      continues to have non-union present at 6 months postoperatively. Subjects will be assessed
      for trabecular bridging using serial CT scans until the union is documented. CT scans will
      take place every 4-6 weeks until union is established. Standard scaphoid and wrist
      radiographs will be completed within 1 week of the CT scan. Patients who do not have
      documented union will be classified as persistent non-unions but will be asked to continue
      and attend clinical follow-ups until 1 year. Patients will be required to attend follow up
      visits at 2, 8, 12, 16, 24, 52 and 104 weeks for functional assessments. Patients requiring
      additional surgery such as bone grafting as deemed necessary by their treating surgeon will
      be scheduled at the surgeon's discretion and the surgery will be recorded as a trial adverse
      event.
    
  