
    
      The investigators have 3 specific aims:

      Specific Aim #1: Compare patients' postoperative pain experience and satisfaction with pain
      control using two different opioid prescribing schemes.

      The investigators' working hypothesis is that postoperative pain control and satisfaction
      will be non-inferior between patients routinely prescribed opioids vs. those not routinely
      prescribed opioids prior to surgery.

      Participants will be asked to complete a pain diary and assessment of their pain control
      satisfaction postoperatively. Pain control will be assessed by Likert scores (0-10) and
      satisfaction with pain control will be queried using an integer scale of 0-5 using REDCap or
      paper survey for the first 7 days postoperatively.

      Specific Aim #2: Examine the opioid use of patients following midurethral sling.

      The investigators will test the hypothesis that most patients who undergo MUS do not use
      prescribed opioid regardless of prescription scheme.

      Given the investigators' standard of care preoperative education, including detailed
      instruction on non-opioid related pain management, they will prospectively examine the use of
      opioids after MUS under two different opioid prescribing routines. Women who agree to
      participation will be randomized to either be discharged home from surgery with a standard
      opioid prescription vs. only prescribed opioids if requested. The amount of opioid used will
      be collected via REDCap or paper survey for the first 7 days postoperatively. Investigators
      will also assess the subsequent requests for opioid prescription (among those not routinely
      given opioid prescription at discharge) or refill (among those who are initially given a
      standard amount of opioid upon discharge).

      Specific Aim #3: Predict postoperative pain and opioid use after MUS with a brief
      psychometric questionnaire.

      The investigators will leverage brief psychometric survey instruments in combination with
      individual demographic and clinical factors to predict postoperative pain and opioid use
      following MUS. They will seek to identify patients at risk for higher opioid needs or other
      pain interventions preoperatively, with a view to target education, prevention, and
      interventions on this population.

      The project is original in comparing current clinical prescribing patterns with restrictive
      opioid prescribing. It capitalizes on providers' new ability to electronically prescribe
      opioids for patients who require them after discharge from the hospital, thereby decreasing
      the potential impact on patients and providers if prescribed opioid is requested once the
      patient has been discharged. The proposed work is innovative, because it examines recently
      developed psychometric survey instruments to identify patients at risk of postoperative pain.
      At the completion of this project, it is the investigators' expectation that the combination
      of work proposed in aims 1 -3 will optimize prescribing of opioids following this common MUS
      procedure, reducing the potential for both excessive opioid use (and adverse sequelae)
      postoperatively as well as unused opioid for subsequent misuse.
    
  