
    
      Interdigital neuroma, or Morton's Neuroma, is a painful forefoot disorder characterized by
      plantar pain and paresthesias radiating to toes. The condition was first described in 1845 by
      Lewis Durlacher as a painful "neuralgic affection" of the plantar nerve between the third and
      fourth metatarsals. T.G. Morton, in 1876, attributed the painful symptom complex to a
      "neuroma." His observation was confirmed by Hoadley who, in 1893, performed a curative
      excision of a "neuroma" between the third and fourth metatarsals.

      Current understanding of interdigital neuroma is based on Gauthier's conclusion in 1979 that
      the symptom complex was a result of an entrapment neuropathy of the interdigital nerve by the
      overlying transverse metatarsal ligament. Presently, no definitive single etiology has been
      confirmed. Additional potential pathoetiologies include the aberrant anatomy of the plantar
      nerve in this location, trauma and extrinsic mass effect above or below the level of the
      transverse metatarsal ligament.(3,6) The histological appearance of the affected nerve,
      however, is consistent and suggests that "neuroma" is a misnomer for this condition. The
      nerve tissue demonstrates demyelination and deposition of amorphous eosinophilic material,
      but no exuberant proliferation of nerve endings characteristic of neuroma.(3)

      Multiple treatments have been recommended for the management of interdigital neuroma. The
      usual algorithm begins with an attempt at conservative therapy consisting of shoe wear
      modifications and the application of a metatarsal pad. Failure of conservative management may
      prompt a trial of corticosteroid injections.(8) Persistent symptoms ultimately require
      surgical excision or division of the transverse metatarsal ligament, both of which have good
      long term outcomes in literature.(2,7)

      Recently, serial ethanol injection therapy has been reported to be an effective alternative
      to surgical excision and has been widely adopted in the treatment of Morton's neuroma.
      Dockery et. al. reported 89% success rate in a series of 100 consecutive patients treated
      with 3 to 7 injections of 4% ethanol solutions with an average follow-up of 13 months.
      Fanucci and Masala reported a 90% success rate at 10 month follow-up after 3 to 7 injections
      of 30% alcohol in a consecutive series of 40 patients. However, none of these studies were
      performed in a randomized, double blinded fashion with adequate controls. Therefore, no
      scientifically valid conclusions concerning treatment efficacy can be made.

      The proposed study investigates alcohol sclerosing therapy for the treatment of Morton's
      neuroma in a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial. The primary end
      point will be evaluation of patient physical function according to the standardized SF-36
      questionnaire after the treatment period. Secondary end points include evaluation of pain and
      satisfaction levels after treatment using, respectively, a standardized and a novel
      questionnaire.
    
  