
    
      Schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disorder that affects approximately 1% of the general
      population and continues to be one of the major challenges of modern medicine due to the
      tremendous human suffering and economic costs that it involves. Once the diagnosis of
      schizophrenia or a related chronic psychosis has been made, the majority of patients will
      only partially respond to presently available pharmacological treatments and will be
      afflicted by long-standing deficits affecting all aspects of mental functioning.

      This unfavourable outcome highlights the importance of preventive treatment for schizophrenia
      and related psychoses. The notion of early pharmacological intervention during the prodromal
      phase of these disorders has a dual aim: 1) to treat active prodromal symptoms and 2) to
      prevent further deterioration and progression toward the full-blown disorder and chronicity.
      Overall, it raises the possibility of preventing, delaying or ameliorating the onset of the
      diagnosable disorder. This type of intervention, although already in use in other medical
      branches and potentially ground-breaking for mental health delivery systems, has not been
      systematically assessed in the past. Recently, the development of improved criteria for
      detecting individuals at high risk for developing schizophrenia and related psychoses, has
      led to the first clinical trials that assessed the role of atypical antipsychotics (i.e.,
      risperidone and olanzapine) for these subjects. The results of these studies indicate that
      significant clinical benefits nay be derived from early intervention but also point to the
      drawbacks of exposing patients at a very early stage of illness to antipsychotic drugs that
      are associated with debilitating (i.e. motor, metabolic) side effects.

      The overall aim of the proposed project is to assess the efficacy and safety of the
      N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor (NMDAR) modulator, glycine transport inhibitor
      sarcosine (N-methylglycine) for the treatment of individuals fulfilling schizophrenia
      prodromal syndromes criteria. NMDAR's dysfunction plays a cardinal role in schizophrenia
      pathophysiology and the establishment of neurodevelopmental deficits. During the last decade
      it was demonstrated that pharmacological treatment with compounds that enhance NMDAR-mediated
      neurotransmission due to their agonistic activity at the NMDAR-associated glycine site (e.g.
      glycine, D-serine) leads to significant symptom reductions in chronic schizophrenia patients.
      Furthermore, preliminary findings suggest that glycine treatment may also be beneficial for
      patients at high risk for developing schizophrenia. By increasing glycine synaptic levels,
      sarcosine may generate improved therapeutic effects in high risk individuals. Sarcosine is a
      natural amino acid that has already been shown to reduce positive, negative and cognitive
      symptomatology in chronic as well as acute schizophrenia patients. Advantages of sarcosine
      vs. glycine site agonists use include the relatively low dose required and the lack of known
      side effects. Synthetic compounds conceptually similar to sarcosine are presently in various
      stages of development by major pharmacological companies.

      In the proposed project, during a three-year period, 60 individuals fulfilling prodromal
      criteria will be randomly entered in a 16 week parallel group, double-blind, placebo
      controlled trial with 2 gr/day sarcosine, with an optional 8 week open-label extension.
      Clinical, neurocognitive, electrophysiological, amino acids (i.e. glycine, serine, glutamate)
      levels and genetic assessments will be performed during the study. The specific aims of the
      proposed project are: 1) to assess the efficacy and safety of sarcosine as active treatment
      for prodromal symptoms, 2) to assess sarcosine effects in terms of relevant amino acids serum
      levels, neurocognitive performance and relevant brain electrophysiological parameters and 3)
      to supply preliminary data in regard to the capacity of sarcosine treatment to delay/prevent
      conversion to full blown psychotic disorder. The overall importance of the proposed project
      consists of its potential to lay the foundations for an innovative type of treatment for
      schizophrenia prodromal states.
    
  