
    
      Hospitalizations of Nursing Home (NH) residents are frequent and associated with numerous
      complications and increased health care costs. Previous research suggests that as many as
      two-thirds of such hospitalizations may be avoidable. Anticipated changes in Medicare
      reimbursement will reduce financial incentives that favor hospitalization, but could result
      in reduced care quality if NH staff does not have the training and clinical tools to manage
      residents in the NH when acute changes occur. INTERACT (Interventions to Reduce Acute Care
      Transfers) is a quality improvement program that utilizes tools based on established clinical
      guidelines. The tools target three key strategies to reduce potentially avoidable
      hospitalizations: 1) preventing conditions from becoming severe enough to require acute
      hospital care; 2) managing selected acute conditions in the NH; and 3) improving advance care
      planning for residents among whom a palliative or comfort care plan, rather than acute
      hospitalization, may be appropriate. Preliminary research involving 30 NHs demonstrated a 17%
      reduction in hospitalizations compared to the same six-month period in the previous year. The
      cost of the intervention was $7,700; projected savings to Medicare of reduced hospital
      admissions from a 100-bed NH were $125,000/year. While these results are promising, the
      effectiveness of INTERACT in reducing hospitalizations remains to be tested in a controlled
      trial. The proposed project will therefore involve an interdisciplinary team of experienced
      NH researchers in conducting a randomized controlled trial to test the implementation of the
      INTERACT program. NHs randomized to the INTERACT intervention will participate in 3-months of
      training, and receive support during the 12-month implementation period by an experienced
      nurse practitioner through regular multi-NH conference calls, monthly individual calls, and
      as-needed telephonic or email communication. The effects of implementing the INTERACT
      intervention on hospitalization rates will be compared to a randomly assigned group of usual
      care control NHs and a group that will self-monitor hospitalization rates only. The
      hypotheses to be tested are:

      1) INTERACT implementation NHs will have a greater reduction in hospitalization rates than
      the control and monitoring only NHs during the 12-month implementation compared to a 12-month
      baseline period; and 2) reductions in Medicare expenditures for hospitalizations in the
      INTERACT intervention NHs will exceed the estimated costs of implementing the intervention.

      The specific aims of this project are to:

        1. Determine the effectiveness of implementing the INTERACT quality improvement program in
           reducing hospitalization rates.

        2. Calculate the differences in Medicare expenditures for hospitalizations between NHs
           implementing INTERACT, the usual care control group, and NHs in the monitoring
           hospitalization rates only group.
    
  