
    
      I. Sample size calculation The number of participants required to show statistical
      significance is based on previously published studies in which vascular function was assessed
      in HIV patients (Agu et al., 2019). An error probability (α) of 0.05, and power (1- β) of
      0.80 and an average effect size (d) of 0.5 were used to calculate the sample size (n= 64
      persons). Assuming a 25% drop out rate, we will use N = (64 + (64*25)/100) = 80 mothers/group
      to ensure that we will have enough sample size/group to show statistical significance. Total
      number of participating mothers will therefore be 160 (80 cases and 80 controls) and their
      offspring - 160.

      II. Ethical approval Ethical consent and permission to carry out the research project will be
      obtained from the Faculty of Health Sciences Research and Ethics Committee (HRSEC) at Walter
      Sisulu University (WSU). The purpose of the study will be explained to women attending the
      antenatal clinic in the Umtata General and Nelson Mandela Academic Hospitals, Mthatha,
      Eastern Cape Province. Pregnant women who will be willing to participate will be required to
      sign informed consent forms to participate in the study and to allow their children to
      participate in the study from birth.

      III. Study design A prospective case control study design will be used in this study.

      IV. Selection criteria Sub-Saharan women with singleton uncomplicated 8-11 week old
      pregnancies, be HIV positive for the case group and HIV negative for the control group.
      Pregnant women with type 2 diabetes, gestational diabetes, renal and cardiovascular diseases
      or any critical health condition will be excluded from the study

      V. Experimental Plan

      Work Package 1 (Pregnant women):

      Three antenatal visits will be recorded for this study - These visits will be done during the
      first, second and third trimesters of gestation.

      The following information and parameters will be assessed during each antenatal visit:

        1. Baseline information: Maternal demographic, obstetric and family history of
           cardiovascular diseases during the first visit using a questionnaire - once off at the
           start of the study.

        2. Anthropometric measurements: Height and weight will be determined as per recommendations
           of the NHANES, 2009 recommendations. BMI will be calculated using the formula
           weight/(height (m) x height (m)).

        3. Blood pressure measurements: Office blood pressure will be measured as described by
           Muntner et al., (2019) in triplicates at three minutes intervals after 10 minutes of
           rest in the seated position. This will be followed by 24 h ambulatory blood pressure
           measurement for determination of day time/night time blood pressure and dipping
           phenotype.

        4. Placental morphometry, architecture and vascularization: Uterine arteries, umbilical
           artery and middle cerebral artery and uterine artery mean pulsating index will be
           determined by ultrasound. Foetal cerebroplacental ratio will be calculated when
           possible.

        5. Endothelial function tests: Carotid intima media thickness, pulse wave velocity and flow
           mediated slowing and retinal artery assessment will be measured using ultrasonography
           and Vicorder (Ellins, 2017). Retinal microvasculature will be studied to determine
           endothelial function.

        6. Markers of endothelial function: Endocan, asymmetric dimethyl arginine (ADMA) and nitric
           oxide (NO) will be assayed using ELISA kits as per manufacturers' instructions.

        7. Markers of oxidative stress: Lipid peroxidation, total antioxidant capacity and
           8-hydoxyl-2-deoxyguanine (8-OHdG) will be determined using ELISA kits as per
           manufacturer's protocols.

        8. Lipid profile indices: Total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol and HDL
           cholesterol, and oxidized LDL-cholesterol will be measured as per manufacturer's
           protocol.

        9. Insulin Resistance: Fasting glucose, glycated haemoglobin and insulin concentrations
           will be determined using kits as per manufacturer's methods. The HOMA-IR formula will be
           used to calculate insulin resistance from fast glucose and insulin.

       10. Renal function indices: glomerular filtration rate (GFR), creatinine and albumin will be
           determined and albumin to creatinine ratio computed.

      Work Package 2 (Neonates):

      During delivery, cord blood will be collected for assessment of markers of oxidative stress
      and endothelial function and epigenetic markers in the foetus. The following data will be
      collected:

        1. Anthropometric measurements: The weight, length, cranial circumference of the child will
           be measured.

        2. Blood pressure measurements: Casual blood pressure will be measured by oscillometry
           using disposable arm-size appropriate cuffs. Blood pressure will be measure in
           triplicates with five minutes intervals at least one hour after baby's meal and when
           baby is sleeping (Samantha et al, 2015).

        3. Markers of endothelial function: Endocan, asymmetric dimethyl arginine (ADMA) and nitric
           oxide (NO) will be assayed using ELISA kits as per manufacturers' instructions.

        4. Markers of oxidative stress: Lipid peroxidation, total antioxidant capacity and
           8-hydoxyl-2-deoxyguanine (8-OHdG) will be determined using ELISA kits as per
           manufacturer's protocols.

        5. Lipid profile indices: Total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol and HDL
           cholesterol, and oxidized LDL-cholesterol will be measured as per manufacturers
           protocol.

        6. Insulin Resistance: cord blood glucose and insulin concentrations will be determined as
           per manufacturer's methods. The HOMA-IR formula will be used to calculate insulin
           resistance.

        7. Renal function indices: glomerular filtration rate (GFR), creatinine and albumin will be
           determined. The Albumin to creatinine ratio will also be determined.

        8. Epigenetic markers: Urine concentrations of 5-methyl-2-deoxycytidine and trimethyl
           histone H3K9 using Elisa kit as per manufacturer's methods.

      Work Package 3 (Mothers at 3 months post-natal follow-up)

      Mothers will followed up three months after delivery. During this visit no blood nor will
      urine samples be collected from the mothers. Urine samples will be collected from babies for
      measurement of CVD risk makers. The following data will be collected:

        1. Anthropometric measurements: Height and weight will be determined as per recommendations
           of the NHANES, 2009 recommendations. BMI will be calculated using the formula
           weight/(height (m) x height (m)) for both mother and baby.

        2. Blood pressure measurements: Office blood pressure will be measured as described by
           Puntner et al., (2019) in triplicates at three minutes intervals after 10 minutes of
           rest in the seated position. This will be followed by 24 h ambulatory blood pressure
           measurement for determination of day time/night time blood pressure and dipping
           phenotype - mother

        3. Blood pressure will be measured in the baby in the supine position.

        4. Endothelial function tests: Carotid intima media thickness, pulse wave velocity and flow
           mediated slowing and retinal artery assessment will be measured using ultrasonography
           and Vicorder (Ellins, 2017). Retinal microvasculature will be studied to determine
           endothelial function in the mother.

        5. Endothelial function tests: pulse wave velocity and flow mediated slowing using the
           Vicorder in the baby (Ng et al, 2018).

      Work Package 4 (Child):

      Data will be collected from children at three, twelve and twenty four months after birth as
      follows:

        1. Anthropometric measurements: The weight, length, cranial circumference of the child will
           be measured.

        2. Blood pressure measurements: Casual blood pressure will be measured by oscillometry
           using disposable arm-size appropriate cuffs. Blood pressure will be measure in
           triplicates with five minutes intervals at least one hour after baby's meal and when
           baby is sleeping (Samantha et al, 2015).

        3. Endothelial function tests: pulse wave velocity and flow mediated slowing using the
           Vicorder (Ng et al, 2018).

        4. Markers of endothelial function: Urine samples will be collected for Endocan, asymmetric
           dimethyl arginine (ADMA) and nitric oxide (NO) assays using ELISA kits as per
           manufacturers' instructions.

        5. Markers of oxidative stress: Lipid peroxidation, total antioxidant capacity and
           8-hydoxyl-2-deoxyguanine (8-OHdG) will be determined in urine samples using ELISA kits
           as per manufacturer's protocols.

        6. Renal function indices: Urine creatinine and albumin will be determined. The Albumin to
           creatinine ratio will also be determined.

        7. Epigenetic markers: Urine concentrations of 5-methyl-2-deoxycytidine and trimethyl
           Histone H3K9 using elisa kit as per manufacturer's methods.

        8. Endothelial function tests: pulse wave velocity and flow mediated slowing using the
           Vicorder (Ng et al, 2018).
    
  