
    
      This single-blind, randomized clinical trial aims to compare two different, commercially
      available materials to assess their relative efficacies in socket preservation procedures
      after tooth extraction. Patients presenting with single teeth deemed clinically hopeless and
      treatment planned for removal in the normal course of clinical dentistry will be considered
      for this study. If eligible, a ridge/socket preservation procedure will be performed at the
      time of extraction. Periodontics residents will perform the procedure under the supervision
      of board certified staff. Patients will be randomized via concealed random number sequence
      into one of four groups, based on a combination of materials and graft placement techniques.
      Patients will be equally distributed into the following groups: (1) dense
      polytetrafluoroethylene (Cytoplast) (2) Cytoplast with additional buccal augmentation/onlay
      graft, (3) human amniotic-tissue derived membrane (BioXclude), and (4) BioXclude with
      additional buccal augmentation/onlay graft. All four treatment groups are consistent with the
      current standard of care, and this study seeks to compare techniques and materials as part of
      routine, clinical/periodontal therapy in order to determine superiority. Approximately 150
      patients will be enrolled and distributed equally among the four groups. Any post-operative
      complications will be managed and documented during follow-up appointments at 1, 2 and 4
      weeks. Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) will be used as the primary assessment tool, and
      scans will be compared between a pre-operative baseline time point and a scan taken after 4
      months of healing to prepare for implant placement. The primary dependent variables will be
      (1) percent of baseline alveolar ridge changes (both horizontal and vertical) and (2) whether
      or not the anticipated dental implant could be placed appropriately. Secondary outcomes
      include ease of use, perceptions of pain, complications, cost-effectiveness, and changes in
      keratinized tissue.
    
  