
    
      Sepsis is a major cause of mortality in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Efforts have been made
      to reduce the time needed to diagnose sepsis in order to reduce mortality from sepsis-related
      multi-organ dysfunction .

      Markers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein (CRP) and White Blood Cell count (WBC)
      have proved far from ideal in identifying critically ill patients who need antimicrobial
      therapy, because the sensitivity and specificity for bacterial infection is low.

      Procalcitonin (PCT) is a 13 kDa 116 amino acid polypeptide, initially described as a
      prohormone of Calcitonin, a hormone of the calcium metabolism produced in the medullary
      C-cells of the Thyroid gland5-7. However, recent studies demonstrated that the variant PCT
      associated with infection can be produced by other tissues.

      As kinetic studies on baboons and humans have shown a rapid release within 2-4 hours after
      injection of bacteria or bacterial toxins, PCT is a substance which is released more rapidly
      than CRP. The plasma half-life of PCT is close to 24 hours. Measurements of PCT in healthy
      individuals have shown very low serum levels (<0.05 ng/ml).

      In 1993, Assicot et al. reported that elevated levels of serum procalcitonin were closely
      related to the onset of bacterial infection and seemingly correlated to severity of
      infection.

      Several clinical studies have detected a high PCT level in patients with evidence of systemic
      bacterial infection, while relatively low PCT levels, on the other hand, occur in patients
      with only local bacterial infection or viral infection.

      Other studies have shown low to only moderately elevated PCT in uninfected patients after
      major surgery, trauma and after myocardial infarction.

      A reduced usage of antimicrobial therapy has been demonstrated when treatment was guided by
      PCT in patients with suspected lower respiratory tract infection, who were admitted to a
      medical emergency department. Only few studies, however, have investigated the PCT day-to-day
      changes for several days in respect of the clinical outcome in a population at risk of
      contracting serious infections.

      The aim of the present study was to assess the ability of PCT-, CRP- and leucocyte
      measurements in early identification of critically ill patients, who are at high risk of
      mortality. The study was a one-year study.

      Methods Patients From January 2 through December 2002, we conducted an observational study
      including all patients (except livertransplanted patients) admitted to the multi-disciplinary
      intensive care unit 4131 at Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital, a secondary and
      tertiary reference hospital. Patients were included on admittance to the ICU. In cases of
      re-admittance, only measurements from the first admittance were included in the study.

      When sepsis was suspected, we performed culture samples from all suspected sites before
      antibiotic therapy was initiated. Surveillance culture samples were performed twice a week
      from all patients, including blood cultures from indwelling catheters.

      Data of co-morbidity and mortality were registered real-time and were verified via the
      central hospital register for Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital.

      In all analyses, mortality was defined as all-cause mortality. The primary endpoint was
      90-day survival; secondary endpoints were survival while admitted to the ICU and 30-day
      survival.

      Blood samples Blood samples for PCT measurements were collected by the nursing staff in the
      ICU on a daily basis between 6.00 a.m. and 7.30 a.m. in accordance with the assumed half life
      of PCT. PCT analyses were performed by laboratory technicians at the Department of Clinical
      Microbiology, using an immunoluminometric assay (Lumitest-PCT, B.R.A.H.M.S. Diagnostica,
      Berlin, Germany). The threshold of detection was 0.1 ng/ml serum, according to the
      manufacturer.

      Blood samples were collected as a routine test in accordance with the ethical procedures of
      the hospital.

      All blood samples were stored at 4o Celsius, and were analysed within maximally 72 hours. As
      a control of the PCT analysis and storage, we made double determinations. Ten blood samples
      were analysed single-blinded three times daily at a standardised time for three days.

      PCT-day-to-day change analysis Standard empiric antimicrobial treatment of sepsis in this ICU
      includes: Meropenem and Ciprofloxacin, when relevant supplemented with: Metronidazole,
      Vancomycin, Linezolid and occasionally other antibiotics according to clinical findings,
      patient tolerance, suspected site of infection and bacterial cultures from foci and from
      surveillance cultures combined with susceptibility patterns. Treatment of invasive fungal
      infection included Caspofungin, Liposomal Amphotericin B or Voriconazole, or combination
      therapy with these according to Candida species identification and susceptibility pattern
      from Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) in surveillance cultures.
    
  