
    
      Study design: Prospective controlled study experimental comparative Study duration: 1 year
      The number of patients to enroll: 20 patients. After being randomized, selected patients who
      meet the criteria for inclusion and exclusion will be assigned 1:1 in two groups. A group
      will start treatment with FMT through frozen capsules, and ART at the same time; and another
      group will star placebo capsules and ART.

      The frozen capsules will be ingested orally at a frequency of 15 capsules every 12 hours for
      four doses 7 days prior ART start and on weeks 0, 4, 8 and 12 after ART start. Each capsule
      must be ingested over a period no longer than 1 hour of the anterior capsule.

      Subsequently, blood samples will be taken through peripheral vein puncture with the
      extraction of 10 ml of venous blood to monitor the immune status with CD4 T lymphocytes and
      HIV viral load. A total of 4 blood samples will be taken during week 4, 8, 12 and 24 after
      ART start.

      Medical consultations will be made every 4 weeks, on days -7 days prior ART start, day 1, 30,
      60, 90 and 120 where vital signs, symptoms or signs of organ systems, determination of
      weight, BMI, adverse effects and elimination criteria will be assessed.

      In addition, feces samples from each patient will be taken during medical consultation on
      week 0, 8 and 24 after ART start to evaluate the modification of the intestinal microbiome
      after the intervention on both groups.

      During the study period, subjects may carry a free diet, moderate intake of alcohol and
      perform their daily activities as they refrain free from any of the elimination criteria.

      The study will last 1 year and the samples taken will be frozen and stored in the Infectious
      Diseases Department of the Hospital.

      Selection of Fecal Microbiota donors:

      The selection of fecal microbiota donors is based on:

        -  Medical history, body weight, no medication uses such as antibiotics and proton pump
           inhibitors, no trips and no diarrhea 6 months prior donation.

        -  The absence of chronic infections such as Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, and HIV determined
           by immunoassay.

        -  Negative Rose Bengal test and V.D.R.L

        -  Normal complete blood count and liver function tests.

      Fecal sample analysis:

        1. Fresh microscopy analysis to detect leukocytes and parasites (including protozoa and
           helminths)

        2. Stool culture to rule out the presence of enteropathogens, including Salmonella spp.,
           Shigella spp., Aeromonas spp., Plesiomonas spp., Vibrio spp. and Clostridiodes diffcile.

        3. Gastrointestinal panel by multiple polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using BioFire
           Filmarray which includes the detection of:

           Bacteria: Campylobacter (C. jejuni, C. coi, C. upsaliensis), Clostridiodes difficile
           (toxins A / B), Plesiomonas shigelloides, Salmonella spp., Yersinia enterocolitica,
           Vibrio (V. parahaemolytic , V. vulnificus and V. cholerae), Escherichia coli O157: H7,
           enteroaggregative E. coli (EAEC), enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC), enterotoxigenic E.
           coli (ETEC), Shiga toxin producing E. coli (STEC) stx1 / stx2, Shigella sp.
           enteroinvasive E. coli (EIEC).

           Virus: Adenovirus F 40/41, Astrovirus, Norovirus GI / GII, Rotavirus A, Sapovirus (I,
           II, IV and V) Parasites: Cryptosporidium sp., Cyclospora cayetanensis, Entamoeba
           histolytica and Giardia lamblia.

        4. Detection of genes associated with drug resistance by endpoint PCR; including genes
           encoding extended spectrum beta-lactamases (TEM, CTX; SHV, CMY) and carbapenemases (VIM,
           NDM, IMP, KPC, OXA-48).

      Once all the stages of evaluation are completed only negative subjects for all the tests and
      in which there is no evidence of infection are selected as donors. The scrutiny and
      laboratory tests are considered valid during the following 4 weeks, so if new donation of
      feces is required, the process will be carried out again.

      Sample Preparation fecal microbiota All samples will be mixed with 10% glycerol and frozen at
      -70°C in a period not exceeding 60 minutes after collection. They will be mixed and then
      suspended in saline 0.9%. The final mixture will be filtered to remove particles greater than
      330 microns, finally adding glycerol as cryoprotectant. This mixture is carried to the
      encapsulation process using sterile capsules for enteral liberation, in two sizes. The first
      capsule is filled with a mixture of feces and sealed with its counterpart, and then the
      sealed capsule becomes encapsulated in a second capsule. The final product is stored frozen
      until 60 minutes before use. The administration will only be oral.
    
  