
    
      Older patients, who fulfil the eligibility criteria, are invited to participate in the study.
      After having signed informed consent, participants who meet the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will a screening procedure (V-VST). Viscosities for the V-VST: <50, 200mPa路s and
      800mPa路s. Two questions will be performed to the patient on palatability and acceptability.
      Palatability will be assessed by the 5-points hedonic scale and acceptability with the
      Scorecard - Food Action Rating Test. After it, a Videofluoroscopy (VFS) will be performed.
      For the VFS, participants will swallow 10mL boluses (by duplicate) of thin liquid and 5
      different thickened viscosities of Tsururinko Quickly (1600, 800, 400, 200 and 100 mPa路s)
      with a stablished safety rule: when the subject aspirates at the first bolus of thin liquid,
      the second volume will not be given and the measurements will continue with the thickened
      varieties to the thinnest viscosity. In case the subject aspirates at one thickened bolus,
      the VFS ends for this specific patient. As all patients will start with thin liquid, each
      patient will be its own control with the non-thickened viscosity vs the others in order to
      establish the safety of swallow for all the levels performed. Patient's swallow will be
      studied with VFS in a lateral projection and images will include the oral cavity, pharynx,
      larynx and cervical oesophagus. After each bolus, the patient will be asked to give their
      opinion on the palatability of this specific bolus.

      Before VFS, a bolus of 200 and 800mPa路s (without contrast) will be given to the participant
      in order to perform the oral incubation analysis. Participants should keep the bolus in their
      mouth for 30" and then spit it out. The bolus is then analysed with the viscometer at the
      shear rate of 50s-1 (estimated value at the oral cavity) and 300s-1 (estimated value at the
      pharynx). Viscosity values will be compared to the viscosity values without oral incubation.
      The day after the completion of the VFS participants will be asked by phone for AE.
    
  