
    
      Optimising the cardiac output is essential to ensure adequate organ perfusion in patients who
      are undergoing major surgery. To enable this cardiac output (CO) is frequently monitored
      during operations using a variety of techniques; one such technique is trans-oesophageal
      Doppler ultrasound also known as oesophageal Doppler monitoring (ODM). ODM measurement of CO
      is a less invasive technique than many currently used methods, and has recently been
      recommended by NICE for adoption in clinical practice. The matching of microvascular blood
      flow and CO is advantageous for visceral organs, in marrying demands for oxygen and nutrients
      to their delivery. Major surgery and the attendant requirement for general anaesthesia can
      result in dramatic changes in blood pressure (BP) and CO. These changes can be corrected by
      the administration of vasoactive drugs such as phenylephrine and ephedrine, although it is
      unclear what effects these drugs have on microvascular blood flow (MVBF) to the
      intra-abdominal viscera. Whilst they correct falls in BP, and hence may increase visceral
      flow, this increased BP is partially mediated via splanchnic vasoconstriction, which may
      result in decreased blood flow. A greater appreciation of the effect of these vasoactive
      drugs on the CO and MVBF may help with the development of more refined algorithms for their
      use in the clinical setting. In our clinical physiology laboratories we regularly employ
      contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) using a Phillips iU22, to measure MVBF in healthy males
      following a variety of physiological challenges. This minimally invasive ultrasound based
      imaging technique is ideal for gaining an insight into the effect various physiological
      interventions have on tissue blood flow and could be readily used to chart changes in
      visceral MVBF and CO following vasoactive drug administration. Transference of this
      investigative approach to a clinical setting has the potential to greatly improve the care of
      the surgical patient under anaesthesia.
    
  