
    
      The primary goal of the current study will be to evaluate the use of a new smart phone
      application (app; Stay Quit Coach) in preventing relapse to smoking among individuals with
      PTSD. The enhanced technology intervention will combine mobile contingency management (mCM),
      guideline-based smoking cessation counseling, bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy
      (NRT), and use of the Stay Quit Coach. For this study, we will propose a clinical trial with
      a two-group design in which 20 smokers with PTSD will be randomized to either:

      QUIT4EVER, an intervention that combines guideline-based smoking cessation counseling,
      bupropion and NRT, mCM and Stay Quit Coach.

      COMBINED CONTACT CONTROL (CCC) an intervention that is identical to QUIT4EVER except Stay
      Quit Coach will not be included. The CCC controls for compensation, monitoring, time and
      attention effects.

      Specific aims are to:

      AIM 1: evaluate the efficacy of QUIT4EVER on rates of abstinence from cigarettes (assessed
      with multiple measures including bioverified abstinence) during short and long term
      abstinence (measured at 3 and 6 months).

      Hypothesis 1: QUIT4EVER will be associated with increased long term abstinence (self-reported
      and bio-verified prolonged abstinence at the 3 and 6 month follow-up).

      AIM 2: assess the impact of QUIT4EVER on counseling treatment completion and medication
      adherence.

      Hypothesis 2. Increased abstinence associated with QUIT4EVER will be partially mediated by
      increased telephone counseling treatment completion and greater medication adherence.

      AIM 3: calculate the relative cost-effectiveness of the QUIT4EVER intervention in quality
      adjusted life years (QALY).

      Hypothesis 3: QUIT4EVER based treatment will result in greater cost-effectiveness compared to
      the control condition as measured by the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.

      Overall, results of this study could lead to a highly efficient, effective, and easily
      disseminated treatment method for reducing smoking among smokers with PTSD and other
      psychiatric disorders.
    
  