
    
      Brief summary:

      The aim of work is to assess the extent of anxiety and affective disorders symptoms and
      cognitive performance in newly diagnosed patients with obstructive sleep apnea. In the second
      phase, follow the changes in these areas after 2 months and after 1 year of continuous
      treatment. The investigators can then compare the change of symptoms and cognitive
      performance in terms of compliance with treatment.

      Course:

      Recent papers discus the interconnection of anxiety and affective disorders and the
      deterioration of cognitive functions in patients with untreated obstructive sleep apnea.
      Contemporary literature also describes the effect of PAP on affective and anxiety disorders,
      but the results of published works are controversial and often contradictory. The effect of
      OSA treatment on cognitive function is explored more and studies show improvement of
      cognitive function while adhering to regular overpressure breathing at night. In this study
      patients diagnosed with OSA (Porti 7- F + G, Germany or Alice 5- Respironics, USA) indicated
      for PAP (AHI> 15) therapy admitted for PAP pressure adjustment will be given by investigator
      The Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Beck's anxiety inventory and Beck's depression inventory. Then
      each participant will undergo clinical examination by the investigator using
      Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview to assess whether the participant meets the
      ICD-10 criteria for major depressive disorder. In the next step each participant will
      complete three given cognitive tests (Trail making test, D2 test, Controlled Oral Word
      Association Test). Results of the cognitive test will be adjusted for age and compared with
      the population norms for each test to assess the presence of cognitive impairment at the
      beginning of treatment. In the next phase participants will use PAP device in the home
      environment for two months. At outpatient control after 2 months, participants will complete
      Beck's anxiety inventory and Beck's depression inventory and Epworth sleepiness scale. In the
      last phase participants will use PAP device for another 10 months in the home environment so
      the total period of treatment will be 1 year. At the outpatient control after 1 year of
      treatment participants will complete Beck's anxiety inventory and Beck's depression inventory
      and Epworth sleepiness scale, each participant will then again complete three given cognitive
      tests (Trail making test, D2 test, Controlled Oral Word Association Test). Information on
      average use over a 1-year period and compliance with treatment will be provided from the PAP
      device. Participants will be then divided into two groups, compliant (over 4 hours of PAP
      treatment per night on average) and non-compliant (less then 4 hours of PAP treatment per
      night on average) and the data from the questionnaires and cognitive tests will be compared.
    
  