
    
      RECRUITMENT AND CONSENT:

      Participants will either be recruited from primary-, secondary-, and tertiary-care centres or
      from self-referral (general public). Montreal patients will be recruited from the Douglas
      Institute and associated Integrated University Health and Social Services Centres
      (CIUSSS)-Ouest de l'ile Local Community Services Centres (CLSCs) (CLSC Verdun and CLSC
      Lasalle), Jewish General Hospital (JGH) Psychiatry clinics (Institute for Community and
      Family Psychiatry) and associated CIUSSS-Centre-Ouest family medicine clinics/CLSCs: CLSC
      Benny Farm, CLSC Rene Cassin, CLSC Côte Des Neiges, CLSC Metro, CLSC Parc Extension, Herzl
      Family Medicine JGH, St-Mary's Dept. of Psychiatry, and McGill University Health Centre
      (MUHC) Dept. of Psychiatry. London participants will be recruited from London Health Science
      Centre (LHSC) sites (Victoria Hospital and University Hospital) and Parkwood Institute -
      Mental Health Care Building. Participants will be screened for eligibility and given a letter
      of information (LOI) for their review. After 24 hours, a research assistant will contact the
      participant and, if they are interested in participating and eligible to participate in the
      research study, they will be recruited into the study after valid consent is received.

      STUDY INTERVENTION:

      This study is a 12-week, randomized controlled trial seeking to recruit 192 participants with
      late-life depression total across two sites - (1) McGill University, Montreal, Quebec (QC),
      and (2) University of Western Ontario in London, Ontario (ON). Participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of two conditions: Sahaj Samadhi Meditation (SSM) or the Health Enhancement
      Program (HEP). The SSM intervention will be offered by trained and certified teachers from
      the Art of Living Foundation at Montreal and London between August 2018 and August 2021. The
      HEP intervention will be offered by a trained Nurse Practitioner, Social Worker,
      Psychologist, Occupational Therapist or other qualified professional at Montreal and London
      between August 2018 and August 2022. Raters, clinicians, and care providers will be blind to
      participant study condition.

      SSM (the experimental group) and HEP (the active control group) require participants to
      attend training for 4 days, attend weekly follow-up sessions, and to practice the trained
      techniques at home for 20-minutes per day (details of each intervention can be found below).
      Participants will additionally be asked to fill out "homework logs" to record days they
      practiced the trained technique. A total of 3 assessment sessions are planned for
      participants to attend: to occur at baseline (0-week) as well as at 12-week and 26-week
      follow-ups.

      MENTAL HEALTH ASSESSMENTS:

      Participants will be screened using the Screening for Cognitive Impairment in Older Adults
      (Mini-Cog), Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
      pre-screening questionnaire, the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview, the Test of
      Premorbid Functioning, and the Antidepressant Treatment History Form (ATHF). Participants
      will be tested for the primary outcome, depression, using the Hamilton Depression Rating
      Scale (HAM-D17). The secondary outcome, executive functioning, will be measured by the
      Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) Digit Span, Delis-Kaplan (D-KEFS) Verbal Fluency
      Test, Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure-Copy Trial, and the California Verbal Learning
      Test-II-Short Form. Measures of primary and secondary outcomes will be administered at all 3
      assessment sessions. All measures are described below.

      BLOOD DRAW:

      Blood draws will be performed at baseline (0-weeks) and 12-week follow-up by a qualified
      nurse at the CLSC in Montreal and Parkwood Mental Health in London. The blood collected will
      be stored at the Douglas Mental Health University Institute in Montreal, QC, and at Robart's
      Research Institute in London, ON.

      GAIT:

      Gait data will be collected in London, Ontario, only. The data to be collected is weight,
      height, waist circumference, and hip circumference. Gait data will be measured alongside the
      Falls Efficacy Scale (FES-I) (described below).

      MRI:

      The investigators aim to recruit a total of 50 participants (25 from each group) from the
      SSM/HEP study into a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study that will involve MRI scans at
      baseline and at the 12-week follow-up. Participants eligible for this sub-study will have had
      to complete the MRI pre-screening questionnaire. Those who are part of this sub-study will be
      invited to attend two MRI scanning sessions, which are expected to take about 1.5 h, to occur
      at baseline and the 12-week follow-up. Each MRI appointment will be completed in addition to
      the tasks described above.
    
  