
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (recommended phase 2 dose, RP2D) of flotetuzumab,
      when given as a single agent.

      II. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of flotetuzumab in CD123-positive advanced acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) (Cohort A) and other hematological malignancies (Cohort B), by
      evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity, attribution, and duration of
      the toxicity.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Obtain preliminary estimates of remission; (complete remission [CR], complete remission
      with incomplete count recovery [CRi], complete remission with partial hematological recovery
      [CRh] or morphologic leukemia free state [MLFS] in Cohort A or CR/molecular response [MR] in
      Cohort B) rate and duration.

      II. Estimate 1-year overall survival. III. Evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) status in
      responders in the ALL cohort.

      IV. Evaluate the percentage of patients who receive subsequent allogeneic transplantation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine immune profile pre- and post-treatment with flotetuzumab. II. Assess the
      association between CD123 expression and tumor response. III. Assess the association between
      alterations in tumor genetic or microenvironment with response.

      IV. Assess cytokine levels during therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive flotetuzumab via continuous intravenous (IV) infusion on
      days 1-28. Patients who achieve stable disease (SD)/partial remission (PR) (Cohort A) or
      PR/clinical improvement (CI) (Cohort B), receive an additional induction cycle. Patients who
      achieve PR (Cohort A) or PR/CI/major molecular response (MMR) (Cohort B) after cycle 2
      re-induction, may continue induction therapy for up to 4 more cycles.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients who achieve CR/CRi/CRh/MLFS (Cohort A) or CR/MR (Cohort B)
      after cycle 1 or cycle 2 of induction therapy, receive flotetuzumab via continuous IV
      infusion on days 1-28 for up to 5 and 6 cycles, respectively, in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with PR (Cohort A) or PR/CI/MMR (Cohort B) who
      have received up to 6 cycles of induction therapy may receive up to 2 cycles of consolidation
      therapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SUPPORTIVE CARE: Patients also receive acetaminophen orally (PO) or ibuprofen PO every 8
      hours for 48 hours, diphenhydramine or equivalent IV or PO every 8 hours for 48 hours,
      ranitidine or equivalent IV every 8 hours for 48 hours, and dexamethasone IV up to 30 minutes
      prior to dosing and then at 12 hours after dosing on week 1 days 1 and 7.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months
      for 1 year.
    
  