
    
      Medication resistance to antidepressant therapy, or Treatment-Resistant Depression (TRD), is
      the main reason, if not main indication, for which patients are presently referred for
      electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in hopes of a rapid, definitive response (APA 2001 ECT Task
      Force Report). While the causes of TRD remain unclear, this category of patients includes
      those who have incomplete remission, those who relapse rapidly and frequently, those who have
      psychotic depression, those who develop chronic depression, and those who often have comorbid
      medical and psychiatric illness (Sackeim 2001, Sharma 2001, Fava and Davidson 1996, Thase
      1995). Moreover, while increased age per se is not a barrier to antidepressant response, many
      elderly, especially those with comorbid medical or neurological illness, are unable to
      tolerate courses of aggressive pharmacotherapy or seem to have a less robust response to
      pharmacotherapy, and possibly to ECT alone, with significant residual functional and
      cognitive impairment (Reynolds 1998, Stoudemire 1998, Lebowitz 1997, Gurland 1991).

      Compared to patients who are not medication resistant, who generally retain the highest
      likelihood of response to ECT alone, patients with TRD have a lower response rate to ECT with
      average estimates of response to ECT alone between 50-60% (APA 2001 ECT Task Force).
      Additionally, while ECT for most patients may provide acute remission, those patients with
      TRD remain at high risk for rapid relapse (Sackeim 2001, Petrides 2001, Sackeim 1990, Aronson
      1987). Consequently, ECT alone may be insufficient to achieve remission or to prevent
      relapse. Interestingly, resistance to some types of medication was found also to predict
      resistance to ECT alone, i.e., resistance to tricyclic antidepressants correlated with a less
      likely response to ECT, though the same prediction did not hold for serotonin reuptake
      inhibitors (Prudic 1996, Prudic 1990).

      In general, for some patients with TRD, studies support the use of combined medication
      approaches, and specifically, have demonstrated the safety, tolerability and effectiveness of
      an antidepressant with an antipsychotic medication, though usually for patients with comorbid
      psychosis (Wheeler 2000, Shelton 1999, Barak 1999). Case reports exist in the ECT literature
      about the safety and tolerability of ECT and antipsychotics, and improved efficacy, albeit
      generally for patients with psychotic depression or other treatment resistant psychoses
      (Kupchik 2000, Bhatia 1998, Ranjan 1996, Farah, Beale, and Kellner 1995, Minter 1979).
      However, no studies systematically, or prospectively, investigate whether the specific
      combination of ECT plus an atypical antipsychotic offers a true treatment alternative to
      improved efficacy of ECT for patients with TRD.

      This study reviews the experience and outcome of combining ECT and an atypical antipsychotic
      medication, risperidone, for TRD in various populations in an academic, university-based
      setting, and furthermore, explores in a pilot randomized open-label study whether ECT plus
      risperidone bears closer scrutiny in more rigorous study designs as a novel treatment
      approach.
    
  