
    
      INTRODUCTION After the first cases identified in Wuhan city (China) on December 2019, the
      novel coronavirus designated SARS-CoV-2 has caused a global epidemic of respiratory illness
      named COVID-191. To date, more than, 3,000,000 cases have been reported worldwide, including
      more than 300,000 deaths.

      Typical COVID-19 patients present with fever, myalgia or fatigue, and dry cough. Severe cases
      progress to severe dyspnoea and hypoxemia within one week after the onset of symptoms 3-5. In
      hospitalized COVID-19 patients, the prevalence of hypoxemic respiratory failure is around
      20%, and more than 25% of them may require intensive care treatment.

      The increasing number of COVID-19 cases has challenged the healthcare systems worldwide.
      Given the current overflow of critically ill patients in the Emergency Departments (EDs), an
      early identification of patients who need admittance to an intensive care unit (ICU) because
      of an increased risk of unfavourable outcome is necessary. Although general guidelines for
      ICU admission and triage exist, only limited guidance is available for the specific setting
      of COVID-19 patients.

      In this context of overwhelming demand for medical assessment and triage in ED, early warning
      scores (EWS) may be useful. EWS are based on a rapid and quantitative assessment of changes
      in vital signs, and were developed to identify and track patients at risk of deterioration in
      non-critical areas of the hospital in order to ensure an early stabilisation and ICU transfer
      when appropriate and prevent avoidable cardiac arrest. However, in recent years these scores
      have been used in ED to predict ICU admission and mortality. Use of EWS has recently been
      proposed for the triage of COVID-19 patients in ED. However, their usefulness has not been
      demonstrated yet.

      METHODS Study design This is a retrospective observational study conducted in the ED of the
      largest urban teaching hospital in Rome, a referral center for COVID-19 in central Italy. The
      participants reviewed the electronic medical records (EMR) of all adults (>18y) patients
      admitted to ED for suspected COVID-19 over three consecutive weeks from March 1 to March 21,
      2020, tested for COVID-19 according to the WHO interim guidance.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria Study will include only patients whose diagnosis is
      confirmed with real-time reverse-transcriptase-polymerase-chain-reaction assay of nasal and
      pharyngeal swab specimens.

      Will be excluded from the study cohort pregnant women, patients discharged from ED with
      normal chest x-ray findings, and patients who were already mechanically ventilated on ED
      arrival. For patients with more than one access to our ED, only the latest access will be
      included in the analysis.

      Study variables The following information will be extracted from digital clinical records:
      age, sex, clinical history and presentation, temperature, heart rate (HR), respiratory rate
      (RR), arterial blood pressure (BP), Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score, oxygen therapy,
      peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), and chest x-ray findings.Clinical signs, including SpO2,
      will be assessed on arrival at the ED. National Early Warning Score (NEWS), National Early
      Warning Score 2 (NEWS2), Quick Sepsis Related Organ Failure Assessment (qSOFA), Modified
      Early Warning Score (MEWS), and Rapid Emergency Medicine Score (REMS) will be calculated for
      each patient. For NEWS2 calculation, patient will be considered at risk of type 2 respiratory
      failure if had a confirmed history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

      Study endpoints The primary study endpoints considered will be death or ICU admission within
      7 days from arrival at the ED. Secondary endpoints will be death or ICU admission within 24
      and 48 hours from ED arrival.

      Criteria for ICU admission The criteria for ICU admission of COVID-19 patients in include
      need for invasive respiratory support, or extra-pulmonary organ failure such as circulatory
      shock requiring vasopressors, or renal failure. These criteria are expected to be consistent
      throughout the study period.

      Statistical Analysis and sample size Continuous variables will be reported as median
      [interquartile range], and will be compared at univariate analysis by Mann-Whitney U test.
      Categorical variables will be reported as absolute number (percentage), and will be compared
      by Chi-square test (with Fisher's test if appropriate).

      Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis will be used to estimate the overall
      performance of the evaluated scores in predicting the defined adverse outcomes. For each
      score threshold values will be calculated sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value
      (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), positive likelihood ratio (+LR), and negative
      likelihood ratio (-LR). The Youden index will be used to estimate the optimal cut-off points
      for sensitivity and specificity. The comparison between the ROC AUCs will be made according
      to DeLong method. A p value ≤ 0.05 will be regarded as significant. Data will be analyzed by
      IBM SPSS statistics v25® (IBM, IL, USA).

      Sample size. For a correct estimation of ROC Curve a minimum of 50 patients for each endpoint
      should be included in the analysis. Given the estimate flow of at least 300 COVID-19
      confirmed patients in the study period, and the actual rate of ICU admission in these
      patients (about 20%), the sample should be adequate for statistical estimation.

      Aim of the study The objective of the present study is to assess the ability of EWS to
      predict ICU admission and mortality in COVID-19 patients in the emergency department.

      Ethical considerations All the patients accessing the "COVID" ED signs a comprehensive
      ethical agreement for collection of blood samples and clinical data, for bio-bank and
      research purposes (Informative mod 147 25/06/2019).
    
  