
    
      More cancer patients are now being cured or living a long time with the disease. Prostate
      cancer (PCa) is one of the cancer diseases, where the treatment can give some late side
      effects and cause reduced life quality.

      This project will as a part of a ph.d. study, test and evaluate a rehabilitation programme,
      which will empower the mens health and give them resources to face at new everyday life.

      The project is consisted of a randomised controlled test of the intervention and qualitative
      evaluation.

      More and more Danish men are diagnosed with PC, the incidence increased with 34 percent from
      2005-2007. This is caused partly due to a change in the age in the society and due to earlier
      diagnostics. PCa is now the most known cancer occurring in men in Denmark.

      If the disease has not yet been metastasized, it is possible to use radiotherapy often in
      combination with anti hormones. It is possible to cure the patient, íf his disease is
      discovered in time, but there are some late side effects bond to the treatment, and they have
      influence of the patients quality of life. These are: impotence, incontinence, problem with
      the bowels, anxiety and depression.

      The project is as followed:

      Rehabilitation: Examine if a focused interdisciplinary intervention has influence of the
      patients generic and specified quality of life after curative radiotherapy due to prostate
      cancer. The intervention contains nursing consultation with information about late side
      effects, an individual plan and counselling in toilet habits, smoking cessation, weight
      control and psychological problems after treatment. Furthermore the patients are having
      physiotherapy with pelvic floor examinations. The nurse can refer to other collaborators.

      Methods: Prospective randomised controlled study. Material: 160 patients are included. 80
      patients in the intervention group and 80 patients in the control group.
    
  