
    
      Study plan Two investigator-initiated protocols (one for US, one for Spain) will be enrolling
      in parallel. The first 50 participants will be recruited concurrently in US and Spain.

      Stage 1 Stage 1 will include up to 50 participants with advanced TN disease. Available tumor
      block is required in all participants per inclusion criteria. Analysis of this tumor block
      will be used for correlation of predictive markers and clinical response in order to define
      potential subpopulation that benefit from BKM120. In Stage 1, all participants will have
      biopsies done at baseline, cycle 1 day 28/cycle 2 day 1 and end of treatment to analyze drug
      effect in the PI3K and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) pathway. This will aid to
      understand the pharmacodynamic effects of BKM120 in tumors with similar genetic background
      (triple negative disease). The enrollment of Stage 1 will ensure that at least 10 paired
      evaluable biopsies are obtained. After the enrollment of the first 29 evaluable subjects
      enrolled overall in Stage 1 (considering the US and the Spanish protocol), the Steering
      Committee will perform an interim analysis of safety and efficacy. If absolutely no activity
      is observed, the clinical trial will close and no more subjects will be enrolled. If there
      are early signs of activity (one patient or more achieving clinical benefit response),
      enrollment will proceed until 50 participants are enrolled in Stage 1. After 50 patients have
      been enrolled, we will analyze preliminary responses to treatment depending on the molecular
      status of each patient.

      Stage 2 Were the trial to continue at the end of Stage 1, 50 participants would have been
      treated and their clinical status and response to therapy will be available. Also, paraffin
      blocks from these participants will have been analyzed for predictive markers of treatment
      effect. If there is clinical activity observed in Stage 1 and this analysis shows preliminary
      signs of response in a subpopulation based on the presence or absence of tumor PI3K pathway
      alterations, participant pre-selection may be implemented for Stage 2 (justified in an
      amendment before proceeding to Stage 2.
    
  