
    
      The maintenance of close-to-normal blood glucose levels slows the onset and progression of
      long-term microvascular, and possibly macrovascular, complications in patients with type 1
      diabetes. Artificial pancreas or integrated CLC [a CLC algorithm which takes into account
      continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) readings and the effects of previous insulin infusions to
      continuously compute the amount of insulin dose to be administered] aims to minimize, in real
      time, glucose variability and prevent extreme glucose excursions (hypoglycemia and
      hyperglycemia). Despite important developments in sensor and pump technology, the artificial
      pancreas system must cope with anatomical and functional barriers other than the ones
      encountered by the normally functioning glucose-insulin system in physiology. For instance ,
      CGM devices measure glucose concentration in the interstitium, not in the blood compartment,
      introducing a time lag due to glucose diffusion from plasma to the interstitial fluid.
      Furthermore, insulin (actually, one of current fast insulin analogues) is delivered into the
      subcutaneous adipose tissue, not in blood, and directly accesses the systemic, not the portal
      circulation. Owing to these hindrances, developing a smart and suitable CLC algorithm still
      is an ongoing process. This research aims to alleviate these shortcomings by carrying out
      clinical physiology study aiming at improving development and optimization of a suitable
      control algorithm.

      Twenty adults patients with type 1 diabetes, regularly attending the Division of
      Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases of University of Verona School of Medicine, using
      continuous subcutaneous fast insulin analogue infusion (CSII) through a permanent pump and on
      subcutaneous glucose sensing will be enrolled.

      Inclusion criteria (see below for more details) are diagnosis of type 1 diabetes as defined
      by WHO for at least 12 months or confirmed C-peptide negative. Exclusion criteria are
      recurrent severe hypoglycemia unawareness or clinically significant nephropathy, neuropathy,
      or proliferative retinopathy.

      Standard clinical parameters will be assessed in all patients. Metabolic tests will be
      carried out at the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases of University of Verona
      School, starting at 08:00 a.m. on two separate days in random order and after a 10-12-h
      overnight fast. Two metabolic tests will be performed: a euglycemic insulin clamp and a
      standardized mixed meal test.

      A. Euglycemic insulin clamp. A standard euglycemic insulin clamp will be carried out to
      assess insulin sensitivity, as previously described (1). Subjects will be instructed to use
      their usual nocturnal fast insulin analogue basal rate, to be left unchanged for at least
      five hours before the beginning of the test. A CGM device will be inserted two days before
      the test and calibrated with capillary blood glucose (measured by glucometer) at
      pre-established hours of the day. Human insulin concentration will be raised with an i.v.
      prime (0.8 U/m^2 BSA) and maintained constant by an i.v. infusion (40 mU/min·m^2 BSA). Plasma
      glucose will be allowed to fall until it reaches the physiologic range (i.e. < 5.6 mmol/L),
      after which it will be clamped at 5.0 mmol/L for at least 60 min by appropriately changing an
      intravenous infusion of 20% dextrose. Glucose will be measured at bedside by a YSI Glucose
      Analyzer. Blood samples will be collected at timed intervals to measure plasma insulin (both
      fast analogue and human insulin), free fatty acids, and glucagon. Continuous glucose
      (interstitial glucose) monitoring will be performed throughout the insulin clamp.

      B. Mixed meal test. This test will be performed to assess the pathophysiology of glucose
      control during a standardized physiologic challenge. Subjects will be on an Indian corn free
      and cane sugar free diet for at least one week before study and will be instructed to use the
      usual nocturnal fast insulin analogue basal rate, to be left unchanged for at least five
      hours before the beginning of the test. A CGM device will be in place and properly working
      throughout the test. All participants will ingest a standardized mixed meal (292 Kcal, 38,9 g
      carbohydrates, 8,9 g fats and 14 g proteins), under the form of maize polenta plus seasoned
      Italian parmesan cheese, and will be monitored for 300 minutes thereafter. Right before meal
      ingestion, a s.c. fast insulin analogue bolus will be administered by the pump, according to
      individual insulin-to-carbohydrate ratio and correction dose. The 13C/12C ratio of maze
      starch is different from other carbohydrate sources and allows the detection of
      polenta-derived glucose in the circulation. Plasma glucose, free fatty acid, amino acid,
      insulin, glucagon, and incretin hormone concentrations will be assessed at baseline and
      during the entire test. The plasma 13C/12C glucose ratio throughout the test will be
      monitored by isotope ratio mass spectrometry. CGM data will be collected. This test will
      determine the time courses of plasma glucose, 13C/12C glucose ratio (hence, meal-derived and
      endogenous glucose), insulin, free fatty acids, aminoacids, glucagon, and incretin hormones
      during a mixed meal.

      In both studies, blood samples will be put in ice and quickly spun at 1500 g at +4°C.
      Plasma/serum will be collected and stored at -80°C. Both tests (insulin clamp and mixed meal)
      will form the biological biobank of this study.

      The combined analysis of insulin clamp and mixed meal test data will allow to build a
      comprehensive model of the glucose insulin system during a mixed meal test in each subject,
      thereby resulting into an in silico virtual patient, according to a well established
      methodology developed in our laboratory. The collection of virtual patients with type 1
      diabetes undergoing a mixed meal test will form the in silico biobank derived form this
      study. Virtual patients will be used to carry out Metabolic Control Analysis (MCA), i.e. to
      compute glucose control coefficients (CCs), which quantify the role played by each component
      (e.g.: absorption rate of the fast insulin analogue, carbohydrate absorption through the gut,
      etc.) of the system in determining glucose concentration at each time point during the mixed
      meal in patients with type 1 diabetes, in close parallelism to the analysis previously
      carried out by us in patients with type 2 diabetes undergoing an intravenous glucose
      tolerance test (2). Furthermore, the incretin hormone, glucagon and substrate response to a
      mixed meal will be quantified, allowing the putative identification of further modifiers of
      the glucose-insulin system (one for all: glucagon). This database will be instrumental in
      devising a control algorithm able to guarantee a normal glucose regulation during a mixed
      meal in patients with type 1 diabetes with CGM on insulin pump therapy.
    
  