
    
      This study is a prospective, single arm, observational study of patients at Red Cross War
      Memorial Children's Hospital receiving treatment for laryngotracheal stenosis using a
      modified tracheal dilatation balloon. The tracheal balloon dilatation procedure is clinically
      well-established and is standard practice in the study institution. In this study, a
      modified, improved tracheal balloon will be used to treat patients. Data to be collected
      during the procedure include measurement of the stenotic segment prior to and after
      dilatation, using both the modified Myer-Cotton grading system and sizing the stenosis using
      endotracheal tubes diameter, documenting the site of the stenosis (distance from vocal
      cords), periprocedural oxygen saturation nadir (using plethysmography) and heart rate. All
      other procedures will be as per routine care. Each procedure will be monitored by a senior
      anaesthetist who is not a member of the research team. Their role will be to ensure the
      safety of the patient.

      The tracheal balloon dilatation device consists of a catheter tube which has an inflation
      port at its proximal end and a balloon at its distal end. The balloon is provided in a
      narrow, folded condition to allow entering and traversing the stenotic portion of the airway.
      As with all tracheal dilatation balloons, when inflated with an inflator equipped with a
      pressure manometer, the device generates an outward radial force to dilate the stenotic
      portion of the airway. The balloon differs from previous devices used for dilatation of
      tracheal stenosis in that it is modified to have a large central channel when inflated, which
      allows gas flow through the balloon.

      All materials in the device are medical grade and sourced from specialist medical suppliers.
      The balloons specifically have undergone biocompatibility testing according to ISO 10993-1
      (Biological testing of medical devices) and passed all tests. Safety of the devices has been
      rigorously demonstrated through in vitro bench testing, and balloons have been shown to
      survive a minimum of 10 inflations to rated burst pressure without bursting. The devices are
      manufactured by a facility experienced in production of endovascular balloons, in an ISO
      14644 Class 7 compliant clean-room in a manufacturing facility that has a certified ISO 13485
      quality management system. The balloons are tested as part of an ongoing quality control
      process, to ensure that tight tolerances are maintained in terms of wall thickness, nominal
      diameter and rated burst pressure. Furthermore, every tracheal balloon device will have been
      pressure tested to 16 atm before being used, to ensure that no leaks are present.

      The device has been assessed in three previous studies, in manikin, animal and adult human
      use settings. The studies proved that it is possible to adequately ventilate patients through
      the modified balloon dilation device. There was no incident of arterial desaturation below
      90%. No serious adverse events were recorded.

      The study will be conducted over a 12 week period, with an average of 1 patient per week
      undergoing the procedure at the study site. Recruitment is thus estimated at 12 patients (not
      procedures).

      All research and procedures will take place at Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital.
      Patients will be treated in the operating theatres and will recover in the recovery room,
      followed by the ENT ward. Patients who have suspected airway narrowing and present to the
      Department of Otolaryngology will be approached by for potential involvement in the study.
      The process will be explained obtain written informed consent obtained. The patient will then
      be treated as per routine care and will be included in the study should inclusion and
      exclusion criteria be satisfied.

      All patients will undergo a thorough routine preoperative assessment. Anaesthesia will be
      standardized in the absence of specific complication. Routine continuous operative monitoring
      will be used for all cases, including electrocardiogram, non-invasive automatic blood
      pressure and pulse oximetry.

      A rigid laryngoscope will be inserted into the patient's airway and placed in suspension. The
      level and severity of the stenosis will be evaluated and the tracheal balloon dilator will be
      placed at the level of the stenosis under direct vision, using an endoscope. The patient will
      be kept breathing spontaneously if they do not have a tracheostomy tube. Ventilation will be
      maintained using a tracheostomy tube, if available.

      The balloon will be inflated with water using an inflation device, under direct vision. The
      pressure in the balloon will be adjusted to 6-8 atmospheres and maintained for at least 1
      minute, unless arterial desaturation occurs (SpO2 < 90%) Dilatation will be performed 3
      times.

      Heart rate and peripheral arterial oxygen saturation will be continuously monitored
      throughout the procedure. These values will be recorded automatically at one-minute intervals
      from induction until completion of the dilatation phase, and then at 2.5-minute intervals
      until recovery from anaesthesia. The stenosis will be graded according to the Myer-Cotton
      staging system for subglottic stenosis, as well as, the internal diameter of the stenosis
      being measured (using an endotracheal tube) before and after dilatation.

      Adverse events will be recorded in data collection forms. Adverse events will include:

        -  Arterial desaturation below 90%

        -  Loss of airway patency

        -  Inability to ventilate

        -  Patient coughing or movement

        -  Haemorrhage

        -  Inability to pass the bronchoscope

        -  Balloon failure

        -  False passage

        -  Tracheal injury

        -  Oesophageal injury

        -  Gastric haemorrhage

        -  Pneumothorax

        -  Pneumomediastinum

        -  Subcutaneous emphysema

        -  Vocal cord injury

        -  Mediastinitis

        -  Chest pain

        -  Laryngospasm

        -  Bronchospasm

        -  Atelectasis

        -  Pulmonary oedema

        -  Hypoxia

        -  Aspiration of water (in case of balloon failure)

      Data analysis Data will be collected intraoperatively using a data collection form. This will
      be transferred to an electronic spreadsheet for analysis. As this is a single-arm study
      without control devices, no comparative statistics will be calculated. Where appropriate,
      data will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation.
    
  