
    
      The study will be done at the outpatient General Clinical Research Center (GCRC) at Charlton
      7 and will involve two visits. Visit 1 will take about 3 hours, and Visit 2 will occur 2 days
      after Visit 1 and will take about 2 hours.

      You will be put in one of two groups by chance (as in the flip of a coin). One group will be
      taking placebo (an inactive substance), the other group 180 mg pyridostigmine in time release
      formulation. Both placebo and pyridostigmine will look identical and will be taken as one
      capsule per day for 3 days. Neither you nor the study doctor will know at the time of
      treatment whether the treatment being given is active or inactive. However, in case of an
      emergency, this information will be available.

      For each of the two visits, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  When you arrive at the GCRC, you will have a general medical and neurological
           examination and height and weight measurement.

        -  Questionnaires. You will be asked to answer a series of questions on your autonomic
           symptoms (such as rapid heart rate, feeling of tiredness, cold and sweaty hands) at each
           of your two visits. The questionnaire you will be given during your first visit should
           take approximately 30 minutes to complete. The questionnaire you will be given during
           your second visit should take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

        -  Autonomic Reflex Screen. An autonomic reflex screen will be done during each visit. This
           consists of the following:

             -  Quantitative sudomotor axon reflex test (QSART): QSART is a routine clinical test
                that evaluates the response of the sweat gland to a drug, acetylcholine. One
                capsule is placed on your forearm and three on your leg and foot. The testing is
                done by passing a small electrical current, for 5 minutes, to activate the nerves
                that supply the sweat glands. You will feel a slight burning sensation.

             -  Cardiovascular recordings: Blood pressure, heart rate, and other cardiovascular
                measurements will be studied by placing electrodes on the chest and a finger or
                wrist cuff for continuous blood pressure recordings.

             -  Valsalva maneuver: This involves blowing very hard into a bugle (like blowing up a
                balloon) for 15 seconds.

             -  Head-up tilt: Following a period of rest (at least 5 minutes), you will be tilted
                up to an angle of not more than 80 degrees and recordings will be made for up to 30
                minutes. On Visit 1, one hour after you have taken the study medication, this test
                will be repeated. This test will be done only once on Visit 2.

             -  Hormone level measurements: This will be done during each visit. An IV will be
                inserted into a vein in your arm from which approximately one teaspoon of blood
                will be drawn while you are lying down and one teaspoon after standing up. This
                will be repeated only on Visit 1, one hour after the study drug is given. A total
                of four teaspoons of blood will be drawn on Visit 1 and 2 teaspoons will be drawn
                on Visit 2.
    
  