
    
      Background Intramedullary nails have in recent years become the preferred technique compared
      to DHS when treating proximal femur fractures. A Norwegian RCT has showed the same frequency
      of postoperative pain, functional outcome and rate of reoperations comparing the two
      techniques. Nails are usually provided in a long and short model. Deciding which nail length
      to use is highly discussed, and often a long nail is preferred, because it gives a
      theoretically more stable and secure fixation of the femur. There are, however many
      advantages of using a short nail. It is less time consuming as there is no need for reaming,
      securing the long nail distally requires more fluoroscopy time, and distal locking of the
      long nail has also been shown to increase the risk of perioperative fractures. Perioperative
      bleeding and postoperative blood transfusions are reduced when using a short nail, and a long
      nail may also give more pain distally around the thigh and around the knee owing to cortical
      impingement. Finally, the long nail is more expensive compared to short models. There is a
      perception in the orthopedic society that there's a higher risk of periprosthetic fractures
      with short nails, but the latest generations of nails have improved this problem. Most
      studies report no difference in periprostetic fractures between long and short nails.
      Recently, new extended-short versions of medullary nails are being produced. The
      extended-short nail combines the mechanical properties seen in a long nail and the surgical
      simplicity of a short nail. This new nail type may replace the use of several long nails
      being placed just to be on the safe side, and thus reduce operating time, bleeding and
      postoperative pain associated with a long nail. Biomechanical studies have showed that the
      mechanical properties of long and extended-short nails are predominantly comparable, but to
      our knowledge no clinical studies comparing the extended-short and long nails have been
      performed to date. The advantages of an extended-short nail are potentially great, which
      makes it important to clarify which opportunities there are to benefit from this type of nail
      for certain types of fractures, both in the interest of the patient as well as the economic
      healthcare perspective.

      Purpose In a well-defined population of patients with proximal femur fractures within a
      certain anatomical area the aim is to compare the extended-short nail with the long nail, to
      evaluate differences in functional and surgical outcome.
    
  