
    
      Conventional mapping strategies used to find the "source" of "atrial tachycardia" within the
      heart are technically challenging resulting in long procedure times. Sometimes the wrong
      source is found resulting in ablation at the incorrect site.

      In a retrospective study conducted by investigators at Imperial College, Ripple Mapping (RM)
      found the source of the tachycardia 80% of the time, compared to only 50% with conventional
      maps (known as local activation time maps). They have since studied the reasons why did not
      achieve 100%, but could not improve matters with a retrospective data-set. They believe that,
      in future, Ripple mapping will find the source of the tachycardia first time, and every time.
      The purpose of this study is to prospectively test whether Ripple Mapping is better at
      finding the source of the "atrial tachycardia" (AT) than conventional local activation time
      mapping.

      Patients referred for clinically indicated AT ablation by their electro-physiologist will be
      recruited. For each patient recruited to the study, they will be block randomized into 2
      arms: Ripple Mapping guided AT ablation, or Conventional AT guided Ablation (local activation
      time mapping). Following explanation of the study the patients will be allowed time to decide
      on whether they would like to participate.

      Following completion of the consent procedure the patient will undergo the electrophysiology
      study as is routine standard practice. This is usually performed by inserting plastic tubes
      (catheters) into the heart using the vessels in the groin. Once the catheter is in the atrium
      (top chambers of the heart) the catheter will be moved to different locations in the chamber
      to gather the electrical information of the tissue. Using "CARTO3v4 ConfiDENSE", a
      3-Dimensional map of the geometry of the heart chambers will be constructed.

      Patient randomized to RM will proceed as follows: Once sufficient points have been collected,
      the Ripple Map will be played in order to diagnose the source of the tachycardia. In the
      context of a clear diagnosis, the operator can proceed to ablation at the defined source from
      the Ripple map. Termination of the tachycardia with ablation will be used to confirm the
      diagnosis was correct. A single entrainment is permissible where the diagnosis is unclear.

      Patients randomized to conventional local activation time (LAT) mapping will proceed
      according to standard practice of the operator. When the operator is satisfied adequate
      number of points have been collected, the operator can proceed to ablation if the diagnosis
      is clear. A single entrainment is permissible where the diagnosis is unclear. The endpoints
      measured will include:

        1. Tachycardia change or termination following first series of ablations with Ripple
           Mapping vs local activation time mapping.

        2. The reliance on entrainment.
    
  