
    
      Design: This is a single center, cross-sectional study of patients with multiple sclerosis,
      who will each, undergo both, [C-11]MRB-PET (norepinephrine transporter binding) and
      [F-18]PBR06-PET (microglial activation), in addition to 7 Tesla brain MRIs. Patients will
      also undergo cross-sectional estimations of blood markers.

      Genotype Testing:

      Blood sample drawn on the initial screening visit will be used to obtain genomic DNA for
      genotyping for polymorphism within the TSPO gene on chromosome 22q13.2, using a Taqman assay.
      High affinity and medium affinity binders will be included while the low affinity binders
      will be excluded from the study.

      PET Scanning:

      During the PET scan visits, all women subjects of child bearing age will undergo a stat
      quantitative serum hCG pregnancy test and only women with a negative test will undergo the
      radiopharmaceutical injection. The radiotracers will be produced using standardized
      procedures. At the time of imaging, the subjects will be positioned in the gantry of a
      high-resolution PET/CT camera. Head alignment will be made, relative to the canthomeatal
      line, using projected laser lines whose positions are known with respect to the slice
      positions of the scanner. A head support apparatus will be used to minimize head
      motion.Dynamic data over 120 minutes for PET quantification will be acquired, according to
      previously described methods for both tracers.

      MRI Scanning:

      High resolution MRI scanning will be performed using the 7T Siemens MAGNETOM Terra MRI unit
      at Brigham & Women's Hospital (BWH).

      Serum assays:

      Serum measurements for inflammatory markers and relevant neurochemicals will be performed
      according to established procedures.

      Clinical Data

      The following non-imaging, clinical data will be obtained:

      Modified fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS) Fatigue Severity Status Scale (FSSS) Expanded Disability
      Status Scale (EDSS) Timed 25-feet walk (T25W) MS Functional Composite (MSFC) Symbol digit
      modalities test (SDMT) MSQOL-54 scale (QOL) Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) Beck's
      Depression Inventory (BDI) Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale (CES-D)
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)
    
  