
    
      Portal hypertension is an important factor affecting the clinical outcomes of cirrhosis
      patients, and its severity determines the occurrence of development of cirrhosis
      complications, such as rupture and bleeding of gastroesophageal varices, ascites, and
      hepatorenal syndrome. The direct measurement of portal pressure is an extremely invasive and
      high-risk procedure. In addition, changes in intra-abdominal pressure will affect the portal
      pressure, which leads to unreliable results. The hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) is
      the difference between wedged hepatic venous pressure and free hepatic venous pressure and
      reflects the pressure difference between the hepatic portal vein and the intra-abdominal
      veins. In recent years, the status of HVPG in clinical application of cirrhotic portal
      hypertension has gradually improved. In 2016, the American Association for the Study of Liver
      Diseases (AASLD) issued a consensus on risk stratification, diagnosis, and management of
      portal hypertensive bleeding in cirrhosis and re-emphasized the value of HVPG in assessing
      the cirrhosis staging, occurrence of complications and treatment goals. However, HVPG is an
      invasive test and requires technical skills of the operator and specialized instruments. HVPG
      measurement and anesthesia can cause stress responses in the body, which in turn lead to
      inflammatory response and immune function suppression. Thus, the perioperative care for
      patients undergoing HVPG measurement is crucial. This research trial studies comprehensive
      patient and medical worker questionnaires in predicting complications in patients with
      cirrhosis undergoing HVPG measurement. Comprehensive patient and medical worker
      questionnaires may help identify complications, such as the need for assistance in taking
      medication, decreased mobility and released tension that may improve outcomes.
    
  