
    
      At discharge from outpatient treatment, researchers will recruit 300 young adults and
      randomly assign them to recovery support as usual control condition or the Smartphone
      Addiction Recovery Coach for Young Adults (SARC-YA) experimental condition. Participants in
      the experimental conditions will receive a smartphone, a calling/texting/data plan, and the
      SARC-YA mobile applications for the first 6 months post treatment discharge. Experimental
      participants will 1) complete a 2-3 minute recovery-focused ecological momentary assessment
      (EMA) at 5 random times a day, receive feedback on their current answers, and provided access
      to behavioral charting of their past answers over time; and 2) receive continuous access to a
      suite of self-initiated ecological momentary interventions (EMI) to support their recovery
      via tool box of coping tools, apps related to getting support, and apps related to
      maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Data include standardized assessments, urine tests, mobile
      phone metadata, EMA responses, and EMI utilization. The study's aims and their associated
      hypotheses are:

      Aim 1: Test the effects of experimental assignment on the frequency of substance use.

      H1 Relative to the control group, participants in the experimental group will have lower
      scores on the quarterly Substance Frequency Scale (3, 6, 9 months post- discharge). Aim 2:
      Evaluate the extent to which the experimental effects are moderated by baseline substance use
      frequency. H2 The Substance Frequency Scale Scores at intake will moderate the effects of
      experimental on the quarterly subsequent Substance Frequency Scale scores. Aim 3: Test the
      extent to which the frequency of substance use mediates the effects of experimental
      assignment on other aspects of recovery including SUD symptoms, HIV risk behavior, quality of
      life, mental wellness, and days of school. H3a Relative to the control group, participants in
      the experimental group will have better scores on other aspects of recovery (reverse of
      number of SUD symptoms, reverse of HIV risk behaviors, quality of life, mental wellness, days
      of school) in the quarterly interviews. H3b Higher Substance Frequency Scale scores
      (regardless of assignment) in a given quarter will be associated with worse scores on other
      aspects of recovery in the next quarter. H3c Substance Frequency Scale scores in a given
      quarter will mediate the impact of the experimental assignment on other aspects of recovery
      in the next quarter. Aim 4: Within the experimental condition, determine the degree to which
      EMA responses (e.g., use, withdrawal, craving, negative and positive affect) and EMI
      utilization predict the duration of abstinence (to be done within experimental condition.)
      H4a The duration of abstinence will be negatively related to EMA measures of the recency of
      use, withdrawal, craving, low self-efficacy to resist relapse, increased negative affect, and
      decreased positive affect. H4b The duration of abstinence will be positively related to
      immediate and cumulative EMI utilization.
    
  