
    
      The new H1N1 influenza virus seen in 2009 has been designated a pandemic by the World Health
      Organization, due to the sustained community outbreaks seen in the United States and Mexico.
      Based on preliminary data, it appears children and young adults were particularly at risk of
      the H1N1 virus. People infected with HIV were also more susceptible to severe influenza
      infections than those who are uninfected. Children with HIV infection, then, have a
      compounded risk of H1N1 infection. Higher doses of influenza vaccines are associated with the
      development of higher levels of serum antibodies, which are needed to resist infection.
      Higher vaccine doses can be used to improve vaccine effectiveness in at-risk populations.
      This study tested the safety and immune response of HIV infected children and youth to a high
      dose of a vaccine for the new H1N1 influenza virus.

      Participation in this study lasted 7 months and had two steps. The first step involved
      receiving the first dose of H1N1 virus vaccine, and the second step, occurring 21 days later,
      involved receiving the second dose of vaccine. Each dose of vaccine was delivered via two
      intramuscular shots (four total injections). After receiving each dose of the vaccine,
      participants were given a diary to record any symptoms or reactions. Participants were
      stratified into three groups by age, including 4 to 9 years, 9 to 18 years, and 18 to 25
      years.

      Participants completed five scheduled visits, taking place at screening, study entry, Days 21
      and 31, and after 7 months. Measurements taken on these visits included a medical history,
      physical and neurological exams, a blood draw, and, when applicable, a pregnancy test. In
      addition to these visits, participants received up to three additional phone calls or visits
      occurring 2 and 10 days after the first dose of vaccine and 2 days after the second dose of
      vaccine to check for reactions to the vaccine.
    
  