
    
      Petrolatum (also commonly called Vaseline) is a very well known moisturizer that has been
      used since the 1800's. Not only has it been used to help with dry skin, but it is also
      marketed as a substance that protects minor cuts and burns. It is widely used by
      Dermatologists as a substance to apply to wounds from cutaneous surgical procedures. In a
      large study, petrolatum was shown to be as effective as one of the major topical antibiotics
      to help prevent infection in patients who underwent dermatologic procedures. Not only are the
      other topical antibiotics expensive, but also they are commonly the cause of an allergic
      reaction in up to 10% of the population. Until now, no reason has been found to explain why
      petrolatum is effective in infection prevention. In a recent study, skin biopsies of skin
      that had petrolatum applied to them were obtained. Upon analysis certain "antimicrobial
      peptides" (peptides that possess anti-bacterial properties that help fight infection) have
      been found to be elevated. This could provide an answer as to why petrolatum was as effective
      as the topical antibiotic in the study mentioned above.

      This study hopes to improve our understanding of how the immune system acts and how the skin
      responds to petrolatum. In order to reach this goal, normal volunteers, will be patch tested
      with petrolatum. Then, biopsies will be taken of the skin at the sites where petrolatum was.
      Also, small biopsies will be taken from an area that received a patch but no petrolatum and
      an area that did not receive a patch to serve as controls. The biopsied skin samples will
      then be studied in a laboratory by methods such as immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR analysis,
      which will help define the response of the immune system to petrolatum. The rationale for the
      study is to better define petrolatum's effects in skin and how it is effective at preventing
      infections.
    
  