
    
      Effect of dapagliflozin on nighttime blood pressure in type 2 diabetes

      TYPE OF STUDY: Randomized, multicentric, placebo-controlled, single-blind pilot study.

      CENTRES: Three university hospitals and the primary care centres in their area in Madrid
      (Clínico San Carlos, La Paz, 12 de Octubre)

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To investigate the effect of the addition of 10 mg daily of dapagliflozin to the treatment of
      diabetic patients compared to the addition of placebo on the change in nighttime blood
      pressure (measured by ABPM) over 12 weeks among patients with albuminuria levels ≥ 30 and <
      3000 mg/g creatinine and estimated glomerular filtration rate ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To investigate the effect of the addition of 10 mg daily of dapagliflozin to the
           treatment of diabetic patients compared to the addition of placebo on the change in
           nighttime blood pressure (measured by ABPM) over 12 weeks in the subgroup of patients
           with high (30-300 mg/g creatinine) albuminuria levels.

        -  To investigate the effect of the addition of 10 mg daily of dapagliflozin to the
           treatment of diabetic patients compared to the addition of placebo on the change in
           nighttime blood pressure (measured by ABPM) over 12 weeks in the subgroup of patients
           with very high (>300 mg/g creatinine) albuminuria levels.

        -  Changes in albuminuria, office BP and HBA1C in the two subgroups of patients
           investigated

      METHODS:

      This clinical trial will be conducted according to this Protocol, under the Regulation (EU)
      No 536/2014 and all regulatory requirements applicable to clinical trials and following the
      principles of Good Clinical Practice.

      PATIENTS:

      Type 2 diabetic patients recruited in the primary care setting in the area of three
      university hospitals in Madrid, irrespectively of the time since diagnosis and type of
      treatment received for their diabetes.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE INTERVENTION: The drug under evaluation, dapagliflozin, is approved to be
      used in adults who are 18 or older with type 2 diabetes mellitus for improving glycemic
      control and can be used in monotherapy when diet and exercise alone do not achieve good
      glycemic control and metformin use is not indicated due to intolerance, or in combination
      with other hypoglycemic agents, including insulin, when these, added to diet and exercise do
      not achieve good glycemic control. In this study it will be used in agreement with the terms
      in which its use is authorized.

      The participants in the study, in addition to the treatment for their diabetes that were
      receiving from their attending physician, will receive 10 mg once daily of dapagliflozin or
      placebo resembling dapagliflozinin. The randomization scheme follows below.

      RANDOMIZATION:

      Two strata will be considered based on albuminuria levels:

        -  High albuminuria (30-300 mg/g creatinine)

        -  Very high (>300 mg/g creatinine) Patients will be randomized to either dapagliflozin or
           placebo in a 2:1 ratio.

      Total number of patients: 225; distributed as:

        -  150 diabetic patients treated with dapagliflozin (10mg/day in a single dose), half of
           them with high albuminuria levels (albuminuria 30-300 mg/g of creatinine) and half with
           very high albuminuria levels (albuminuria > 300 mg/g of creatinine)

        -  75 diabetic patients treated with placebo, half of them with high albuminuria levels
           (albuminuria 30-300 mg/g of creatinine) and half with very high albuminuria levels
           (albuminuria > 300 mg/g of creatinine) Randomization will be stratified by albuminuria
           strata and participating hospital (three hospitals); center specific randomization lists
           (active treatment or placebo) will be prepared centrally at the project office with a
           treatment code assigned to each patient. Allocation will be concealed by means of
           sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes that contain the medication code
           assigned. The envelopes have to be opened sequentially and only after the participant's
           name is written on the appropriate envelope.

      VISITS, VARIABLES AND MEASUREMENTS:

      Four clinical visits are planned in every patient at 0 (recruitment and randomization), 4, 8
      and 12 weeks. Information on personal and family history of disease, clinical examination
      (including office BP determination), ABPM and blood and urine samples will be obtained on
      visits 0. The variables measured in the blood and urine samples depend on the criterium of
      the attending physician. For this trial, only HbA1c, serum creatinine, estimated glomerular
      filtration rate (eGFR) and albuminuria are mandatory. All this information, except personal
      and family history of disease, will also be collected at week 12. Thirty days after the end
      of the medication (visit of week 12) all participants will be contacted by telephone to
      assess safety. For the initial laboratory data required in the CRF, data obtained in primary
      care in the previous 3 months could be valid. These data will be repeated at the end of the
      study. Informed consents for the study will be signed by the patients before coming to the
      hospital. Blood samples extractions included in this protocol will be done, handled and
      analyzed at each clinical setting according to usual clinical practice. No blood sample
      storage will be needed in this study.

      ABPM will be measured using Mobil-o-Graph that will give us 24 hours brachial and central BP
      as well as pulse wave velocity and heart rate. As diary of activity of the patient will not
      be recorded, in this study, nocturnal (or nighttime) blood pressure refers to measurements
      within the period from 12.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m.

      SAMPLE SIZE CONSIDERATIONS: For the main objective of the study, changes in mean nocturnal
      systolic blood pressure will be compared between the active treatment and placebo groups.

      The use of SGLT2 inhibitors has been reported to be associated with reductions in office
      blood pressure of 4-8 mmHg, reductions that could be even higher with the use of ambulatory
      BP monitoring.15 Accepting an alpha error of 0.05 in a two-sided test, 150 patients are
      needed in the active treatment group and 75 in the placebo group (2:1 randomization) to have
      an 80% power (beta error=0.2) to detect as statistically significant a difference greater
      than or equal to 5 mmHg in mean nocturnal BP between placebo and active treatment
      (conservative estimate of the expected effect). The standard deviation is assumed to be 12
      mmHg and it is expected a drop-out rate of 9%.

      In the prespecifiedsubgroup analysis by albuminuria levels, this sample size (75 in active
      treatment and 37 in placebo) allows to detect as statistically significant, within each
      albuminuria stratum and with the same asumptions and alfa and beta errors, a difference
      greater than or equal to 7,1 mmHg in the reduction of mean nocturnal BP between both groups
      (active treatment and placebo), an effect still within what can be expected.

      DATA MANAGEMENT: Data will be collected in an electronic CRF by participating doctors and
      nurses both at the hypertension units and at primary care centers. A range of acceptable
      values and logical rules among variables will be implemented to improve quality of data and
      reduce the need of queries.

      The processing, communication and transfer of data will be in accordance with the provisions
      of the Organic Law 15/1999, December 13th, on the protection of personal data.

      Trial documentation will be kept and storaged in each site for 25 years after completion of
      the study.

      PLAN OF ANALYSIS: The main analysiswill compare baseline and final visit values of nocturnal
      blood pressure and all the rest of quantitative variables of interest within each stratum of
      albuminuria by means of paired t-test. Changes of nighttime blood pressure from baseline to
      final visit among patients with high and very high albuminuria levels will be compared to
      placebo with t-test.

      Variables will be described by means of mean (and standard deviation) or proportion depending
      on the type of variable considered. Whenever the test of hypothesis may involve discrete
      variables, chi-squared testwill be used.

      Comparability of treatment and placebo groups will be tested (t-student or chi-squared test,
      depending on the variable) to assess randomization, and linear regression will be used to
      adjust for potential confounders, if needed; stratum of albuminuria at randomization will be
      forced in the model.

      To respond to secondary objectives, the same analyses will be done for each stratum of
      albuminuria at randomization.

      Only patients that complete the 3-month follow-up will be analyzed. Patients who do not
      complete the follow-up will be compared to those who adhere to the protocol.

      No interim analysis is planned. A p value<0.05 will be considered as statistically
      significant.

      END OF THE TRIAL:

      The trial will end with the last visit of the last patient recruited. The study may be
      terminated if the study procedures are not being performed according to Good Clinical
      Practice (GCP). The promotor also may terminate the entire study prematurely if concerns for
      safety arise within this study or in any other study with dapagliflozin.

      ETHICAL ISSUES:

      At the recruitment visit, all patients meeting criteria and invited to participate will
      receive adequate written information on the study and will have the opportunity to ask the
      investigator any question regarding their participation and will be given enough time to make
      a decision. Following all this, they will sign and date their acceptance to participate in it
      prior to randomization. This is a trial proposed as "low level of intervention trial" ["RD
      1090/2015 de 4 de diciembre"] and every participant will be covered by an insurance for this
      instances.

      This study will be done conforming to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and
      posterior amendments, Good Clinical Practice and the applicable legislation including the
      requirements of the Spanish law of data protection ("Reglamento General de Protección de
      Datos (Reglamento (UE) 2016/679 del Parlamento Europeo y del Consejo, de 27 de abril de
      2016", "Ley Orgánica 15/1999 de 13 de diciembre, de protección de datos de carácter
      personal", and "RD1720/2007"), as described in the "Information for the patient sheet". Data
      will be entered online and stored securely in a centralized database in a devoted server. To
      access the eCRF, an user name and password with limited access to allow the development of
      the study will be assigned to every investigator in the trial (including coordinators and
      CRO). All personal identification data of the patients will be dissociated from the rest of
      the data and only the attending physicians will have access to that information to allow the
      follow-up. All data will be treated anonymously in the analysis and no report from the study
      will contain any information that allows to identify the patients.

      The clinical study will be reviewed by health authorities and an ethic committee and the
      study will only be started when the approval from the regulatory authorities and the ethic
      committee is obtained.

      At the end of follow-up, every patient will be informed of the treatment group in which he
      remained during the study and continue the standard care for his/her condition by his/her
      attending physician.

      POTENTIAL RISKS AND BENEFITS OF THE STUDY: The drug under investigation is accepted and of
      common use in Spain for the treatment of the type of patients that will be included. It will
      be administered as approved in its specifications. Its use is evidence based and its safety
      and efficacy are well documented.

      All tests and procedures included in the study are normal clinical practice in the diabetic
      patient with the exception of ABPM that poses no risk for the patient and is basic for the
      main outcome of the study.
    
  