
    
      Despite the intense research for improving outcomes in heart failure, evidence remains scarce
      (and mostly observational) for dietary sodium restriction, arguably the most widely
      recommended self-care measure for heart failure. In explicit acknowledgement of the evidence
      gaps and unclear benefits, the recent European Society of Cardiology guidelines have not
      assigned a level of evidence to sodium intake recommendations and the American College of
      Cardiology (ACC) and American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines do not provide a specific
      target level of sodium intake for patients with HF.

      Although it seems reasonable to restrict sodium below <3000 mg/d in heart failure, it is
      currently unknown how "low" is appropriate for these patients.

      This study will attempt to provide the basis to evaluate the above guidelines by determining,
      in consecutive HFrEF patients with EF ≤40% during an acute HF admission, the proportion of
      patients who: (1) are willing to participate in a 12-week feeding trial; (2) meet the trial
      eligibility criteria; and (C) subsequently continue to consume ≥3000 mg/d sodium 15-30 days
      post discharge despite discharge instructions. This will allow the investigators to estimate
      enrollment rates in a full-scale trial.

      This study will randomize 50 eligible patients to prepared meal plans with either 1500 mg/d
      vs. 3000 mg/d sodium for 12 weeks .

      The hypotheses of the present study are that (1) ≥ 90% of patients will be retained on the
      study by 12 weeks (or at first outcome or safety event) and (2) patients will be compliant
      with provided food ≥ 90% of the study days.

      Study Primary Endpoints:

      (i) Overall on-study retention and (ii) compliance with the prepared food, assessed via daily
      food diaries and 24-h urine collections at baseline, 4, 8, and 12 weeks.

      Study Secondary Endpoints:

      Estimate trends in (1) all-cause mortality, readmissions, and emergency room visits; (2)
      NT-pro-B-type natriuretic peptide levels; and (3) diet palatability and quality of life,
      between the two arms.

      Safety endpoints:

      Safety of the intervention assessed by vital sign and laboratory assessments. This pilot
      study is expected to yield critical information necessary and sufficient to design a
      full-scale clinical trial that will provide evidence for dietary sodium recommendations in
      heart failure.
    
  