
    
      Introduction: Enhanced Recovery Programs (ERP) in colorectal surgery reduce postoperative
      morbidity and shorten length of hospital stay with no increase in readmission rates. However,
      poor adherence to ERP elements remains a challenge. Recent studies suggest that the use of
      mobile device applications has the potential to improve patient compliance with treatment
      guidelines. We recently developed and pilot tested a mobile app to support an ERP for
      colorectal surgery which collects patient-reported recovery information and engages patients
      as stakeholders in their recovery process. The overall aim of this study is to estimate the
      extent to which the use of this mobile device app impacts adherence to postoperative ERP
      elements in comparison to standard preoperative education.

      Methods. The proposal is for a two-group, assessor-blind, randomized trial including adult
      patients with colorectal diseases planned for surgical resection.

      Participants will be randomly assigned into one of two groups:

        1. usual perioperative education and audit, or

        2. a mobile device application for postoperative education and self-audit.

      The intervention will be delivered through a tablet present at the bedside with an
      application which links education, recovery planning, and daily self-assessment to a plan of
      care. It educates patients about daily recovery milestones and track their adherence. The
      primary outcome will be patient adherence to postoperative enhanced recovery elements. Other
      targeted outcomes include self-reported recovery, satisfaction and patient activation.
      According to an a priori power analysis, a sample of 104 patients (52 per group) is targeted
      for this trial.

      Significance: This study will contribute evidence regarding the use of mobile device
      technology for education and the direct involvement of patients as stakeholders in
      postoperative recovery.

      The study findings have the potential to increase patient engagement in the care pathway,
      which has the potential to increase compliance to pathway elements and improve postoperative
      outcomes.
    
  