
    
      A considerable body of preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that dysregulated activity
      of noradrenergic systems in the brain is involved in the development of mood disturbance,
      anxiety, and fear. Neuroanatomical and neurophysiological studies of the noradrenergic system
      provide a basis for relating increased activity of this system to the behavioral expression
      of fear and anxiety and the somatic symptoms and cardiovascular changes that accompany severe
      anxiety states. Previously, extensive research has been done on the role of noradrenergic
      mechanisms in panic disorder (PD), and it has been suggested that in at least a subgroup of
      PD patients an abnormality of noradrenergic mechanisms may exist. Studies in patients with PD
      using the alpha2-adrenoreceptor (AR) antagonist yohimbine showed that a subgroup of PD
      patients exhibit abnormalities in the regulation of noradrenergic function. Yohimbine, which
      activates noradrenergic neurons, has been shown to produce greater increases in anxiety,
      somatic symptoms, blood pressure and plasma levels of the noradrenergic metabolite MHPG in
      some patients with PD relative to healthy controls. The effect of yohimbine on brain regions
      hypothesized to be involved in the pathogenesis of PD has not been determined in PD patients
      using modern neuroimaging techniques. The anxiogenic effects of yohimbine do not occur in all
      PD patients, although the neurobiological basis for this differential response to yohimbine
      has not been identified.

      This research project proposes to address these two unresolved questions. The effects of
      yohimbine on regional cerebral glucose metabolism will be determined in PD patients and
      healthy controls. In addition, preliminary data will be obtained as to whether the behavioral
      and cerebral metabolic responses to yohimbine relate to functional polymorphisms of the COMT
      gene which affect catecholamine metabolism.

      It is predicted that yohimbine will produce decreases in cerebral metabolism in the
      prefrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, and anterior cingulate. Healthy controls will
      exhibit an inverse direction of change in these brain regions. These findings would be
      similar to those we have previously observed in PTSD patients and may reflect an altered
      dose-response effect of yohimbine in PD and PTSD relative to controls since preclinical
      pharmacological studies of stress have shown that high levels of norepinephrine release in
      the brain decrease brain metabolism whereas lower levels increase brain metabolism. In terms
      of polymorphisms of the COMT and other catecholamine systems-related gene polymorphisms, it
      is predicted that the low-activity COMT (met allele) alleles will be associated with greater
      behavioral and cerebral metabolic responses to yohimbine.
    
  