
    
      Rationale Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways affecting persons of all
      ages and is recognized as one of the most common chronic diseases. With a continuously
      increasing prevalence and associated morbidity and mortality, asthma poses a tremendous
      clinical and economic burden on healthcare systems and on the society as a whole.

      According to a report published by the Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) in 2004 an
      estimated 300 million people in the world have asthma, and more than 2 million Canadians have
      asthma. Canada has one of the highest asthma prevalence rates in the world (8.5%, aged 12 and
      over) and it is a major cause of hospitalization.

      The direct and indirect costs associated with asthma are expected to rank among the highest
      for chronic diseases due to the high prevalence in conjunction with the significant
      healthcare utilization associated with the disease and the considerable restrictions asthma
      imposes on the physical, emotional, social, and professional lives of sufferers. The cost of
      asthma varies dramatically across disease severity, and it is expected that these costs are
      greater when the condition is sub-optimally managed and controlled. Although a number of
      publications have been reported on the economic burden of asthma, there is a lack of
      information on the cost of asthma based on disease severity and level of disease control in
      Canada. Moreover, no study has compared the annual cost of uncontrolled and "well-controlled"
      asthma patients. Although population-level direct costs have been previously reported through
      the use of administrative healthcare databases in various provinces, these databases cannot
      provide clinical data and are limited to subjects who have a public drug insurance plan.

      The proposed study aims to i) estimate the annual indirect cost of asthma and ii) the impact
      of asthma on absenteeism, presenteeism and work productivity in Canada. This information is
      essential to further quantify the burden of asthma on patients and the healthcare system in
      the Canadian setting.

      Overall Objectives The overall objective of this study is to describe the impact of asthma on
      patients with moderate to severe asthma and to estimate the indirect costs of asthma care in
      asthmatic patients followed in tertiary clinics specialized in the field of asthma in Quebec,
      Canada.

      Primary objectives

        -  To estimate the annual indirect costs of asthma in asthmatic patients followed in
           tertiary clinics specialized in the field of asthma in Quebec, Canada

        -  To estimate the annual indirect cost of asthma by asthma severity and control status
           (uncontrolled, partly controlled, well controlled) of asthmatic patients followed in
           tertiary clinics specialized in the field of asthma in Quebec, Canada

      Secondary objectives

      • To determine the impact of asthma on work productivity in asthmatic patients followed in
      tertiary clinics specialized in the field of asthma in Quebec, Canada.

      Study Design

      A prospective cohort study will be conducted to measure the indirect economical burden of
      asthma on patients. Patients will be selected and recruited from the BD-Asthma registry and
      followed prospectively for 1 year. Recruited patients will be asked to complete
      questionnaires at regular intervals for 1 year to measure indirect cost of disease, using the
      Valuation of lost productivity (VOLP) questionnaire.

      Recruitment of patients All eligible patients from the BD-asthma will be invited to
      participate. Patients approached for participation will be provided verbal and written
      information on the project and, if the patient agrees to participate, they will be asked to
      sign the participation consent form. The forms will be collected by the research coordination
      centre (either at the clinic or the physicians' office or directly with the patient). All
      recruited eligible patients that have provided their consent will be included in this study.

      Source Population The population is defined as individuals diagnosed with asthma (ICD9 codes
      493.x).

      Study Population The study population is defined as having had at least one diagnosis of
      asthma (ICD9 codes 493.x) recorded in the BD Asthma database between February 2010 and
      February 2012.

      Clinical information Patient characteristics and clinical information on asthma will be
      obtained from the BD-asthma database.

      Data Collected For each patient, the following data will be collected

        -  Patient demographics

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Income

        -  Level of education

        -  Smoking

        -  Disease management and Treatment utilization in the year prior to recruitment

        -  Physician visits and follow up

        -  Hospitalizations (number and total days)

        -  Emergency room visits

        -  Disease characteristics

        -  Asthma history

        -  Year of first diagnosis of asthma severity

        -  Asthma Control Questionnaire score

        -  Lung function measures

      Data Analysis Methods For each participant, the percentage of time missed from work over a
      year will be calculated. We will use the human capital approach to calculate the costs of
      asthma due to lost productivity, incorporating both absenteeism and presenteeism in the
      calculation of the productivity loss. We will calculate the number of work days in which the
      person was unable to attend the workplace, and the number of days and percentage of time lost
      during the days the person's work was affected by their asthma. The fraction of time lost
      from work in the past year will be multiplied by the average income in Quebec. Finally, this
      value will be multiplied by the coefficient generated by the VOLP, which reflects the
      relative value of the productivity loss. In addition, we will calculate the VOLP multiplier
      for each participant which, combined with the percentage of time missed from work, will
      create a measure of productivity loss adjusted for the relative importance and
      replace-ability of the participant's profession.

      Sample Size and Power

      One hundred subjects will be randomly selected from the BD-Asthma registry.

      Limitations

      The study population may not be representative of the general asthma population, as moderate
      to severe asthma will be over represented in these tertiary centers.
    
  