
    
      Hypothesis: We believe that early post-operative administration of enteral glutamine
      following cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in high risk patients will reduce
      inflammation and nonscomial infections, reduce length of ventilator support, reduce need for
      vasoactive support, reduce secondary organ dysfunction, reduce length of hospital stay in the
      CVICU, and reduce mortality.

      Objectives:

        -  To assess the feasibility of early glutamine supplementation

        -  To evaluate the safety profile of early glutamine supplementation

        -  To evaluate efficacy the impact of early glutamine on clinically important
           post-operative complications and outcomes, including: systemic inflammation, nosocomial
           infections, mortality, and health resource utilization

      Methods: Study Design, Setting, and Patient Population: The proposed study is a Phase II,
      randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial. This trial will be performed in the
      Cardiovascular Surgical Intensive Care Unit (CVICU) of the Mazankowski Alberta Heart
      Institute (MAHI), Alberta Health Services. The proposed trial plans to enroll 100 consecutive
      eligible patients.

      Inclusion:

        -  Consent (obtained pre-operatively)

        -  Adult - aged 18 years or older;

        -  Planned cardiac surgery with CPB;

        -  Elevated risk for post-operative morbidity, defined by a pre-operative European System
           for Operative Cardiac Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) > 6.

        -  Able to receive enteral nutrition through nasal/oral gastric or post-pyloric feeding
           tube.

      Exclusion:

        -  Planned heart or lung transplantation

        -  Planned cardiac surgery without cardiopulmonary bypass;

        -  Peri-operative support with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) or left
           ventricular assist device (LVAD).

      Study Protocol: Eligible patients will be identified during pre-operative assessment in the
      pre-operative clinic (PAC). All eligible patients or their surrogate decision-making/legal
      guardian will then be approached to obtain informed written consent.

      Each consenting participant will be randomly allocated (1:1) to receive post-operative
      enteral glutamine or identical placebo. Investigators, surgeons, intensivists, bedside nurses
      and participants will remain blinded to study allocation.

      Glutamine supplementation will be dosed at 0.5 g/kg satisfactory body weight (SBW)/day
      divided every 8 hours, starting 6 hours post-operatively and continued for 5 days. The dose
      of 0.5 g/kg SBW/day was effective in clinical studies using enteral glutamine in critically
      ill and/or burn injured and major trauma patients. The glutamine supplementation or placebo
      will be delivered via naso- or oro-gastric feeding tube after confirmation of placement by
      chest X-ray. For participants who are extubated prior to 5 days, enteral glutamine will be
      given by mouth for the duration of the 5 day period. Glutamine and placebo will be mixed in
      orange juice to maintain blinding.
    
  