
    
      Peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) is defined as the partial or total obstruction
      of one or more lower extremity arteries, most often of atherosclerotic origin. It is a common
      disease whose 5-years mortality is near 30%.The positive diagnosis is based on clinical
      examination and measurement of the ankle-brachial index (ABI), which is the ratio of systolic
      pressure of ankle and brachial systolic pressure. The threshold value for the diagnosis is
      <0.90. Physiopathologically, mitochondria have the predominant role of providing the ATP
      necessary for the energetic needs of myocytes, which increase drastically during muscle
      contraction during exercise. This energy production is of course conditioned by the
      availability of oxygen. In patients with PAOD, the decrease in blood flow secondary to
      significant stenosis has the direct consequence of disrupting oxygen delivery to distal
      muscles and thus limiting muscular performance. Because mitochondrial respiration is the only
      metabolic pathway capable of providing the energy needed to sustain an effort of several
      minutes, intermittent claudication in PAOD has logically been related to a hemodynamic
      mechanism of intermittent muscle hypoperfusion. Recently, an increasing number of
      histological or functional studies have suggested that episodes of ischemia-reperfusion could
      induce mitochondrial dysfunction. Medical treatment of patients frequently includes statins
      while a direct deleterious effect on mitochondrial function has been suspected, inducing a
      deterioration of the muscular oxidative capacity which would increase the factors
      hemodynamics and may accumulate in mitochondrial myopathy. In the light of these elements, it
      is clear that there would be a benefit in being able to distinguish and quantify 1) the part
      of the reduction of mitochondrial activity secondary to the hemodynamic factor alone due to a
      decreased muscle perfusion 2) the mitochondrial involvement (mitochondriopathy) potentially
      induced by oxidative stress in PAOD. 2 sub-groups are distinguished to identify the
      statin-induced mitochondrial dysfunction.
    
  