
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center randomized, controlled study designed to evaluate the
      safety and effectiveness of Cortoss® Synthetic Cortical Bone Void Filler in vertebral
      augmentation using the percutaneous vertebroplasty technique. Study eligible patients with
      painful osteoporotic compression fractures will be randomized (2:1) to vertebroplasty with
      Cortoss (treatment group) or PMMA (control group), respectively. Patients will not be told
      which treatment they will receive (single blind study design). Safety and effectiveness will
      be determined by comparing the success rate of the treatment group to the success rate of the
      control group. Secondary endpoints will include Quality of Life, Patient satisfaction,
      evaluation of the patient's pain and function post-operatively compared to baseline, and
      maintenance of vertebral body height and alignment.

      For the purposes of this study, vertebral augmentation, or vertebroplasty, is defined as a
      minimally invasive procedure utilizing manual instruments and radiological guidance to
      deliver an in-situ polymerizable material to stabilize a collapsed or fractured vertebral
      body. The goal is to alleviate pain caused by the fracture and enhance or prevent further
      deterioration of function.

      This multi-center study will evaluate Cortoss for the augmentation of one or two vertebra(e),
      fractured as a result of osteoporosis, located between (and including) the levels of the
      sixth thoracic and the fifth lumbar vertebrae. A total of 243 patients will be enrolled at up
      to 19 sites. All subjects must have radiographic evidence of a vertebral body fracture due to
      osteoporosis. After complying with all eligibility criteria, subjects will sign an informed
      consent document and will be randomized into vertebroplasty treatment with Cortoss or PMMA
      (1:1 ratio). Patients will be followed for at least 24 months and recruitment is expected to
      take between 9 and 12 months. Visits and assessments are planned according to the time and
      events schedule.
    
  