
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer and the fourth leading
      cause of cancer mortality worldwide. Colorectal cancer is the 7th commonest cancer in Egypt,
      representing 3.47% of male cancers and 3% of female cancers. Cancer metastasis in the liver,
      which develops in 50% of CRC patients, represents the major cause of death in those patients
      .

      CRC can be easily cured with surgery, if it is discovered and diagnosed early. Although in
      the recent years much progress has been achieved in screening for cancer, the prognosis of
      colorectal cancer is still poor. Colonoscopy is the standard screening method to detect early
      CRC .

      Moreover, the other CRC screening tests (such as sigmoidoscopy, fecaloccult blood test
      (FOBT), tumor markers, fecal immunochemical test (FIT) and radiologic tests) have low
      sensitivity and specificity or high cost . Therefore, there is a great need for non-invasive
      and accurate biomarkers for detection of CRC.

      Focusing into the physiological risk factors, genetic alterations may result from external
      influences like chemicals, radiation as well as pathogens (viruses) that disrupt the genome
      stability. Besides extensive studies on DNA damages in cell cycle regulation, past few
      decades evident the role of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) in the context of tumor biology. The
      existence of non-protein coding RNAs was known over years, where biological functions of
      these RNAs have been uncovered by progressive investigations. Non-coding RNAs have further
      classifications, among which the functions of micro RNAs (miRNAs) have been thoroughly
      explored. Thus, the concentration on the other type of ncRNA, the long non-coding RNAs
      (lncRNAs), is a yet emerging field in the research of cancer biology. A fraction of the
      genome comprises these lncRNAs who are actually poorly translated as compared to other
      protein coding counterparts.

      LncRNAs are transcripts of longer than 200 bp.They have important roles in cellular processes
      like transcriptional regulation, chromosome remodeling, post-translational modifications and
      disruption in them may lead to disease conditions.

      Colon cancer associated transcript-1 (CCAT1) is consistently upregulated in and is associated
      with pathogenesis of a number of malignancies, including gastric carcinoma, colon cancer,
      gallbladder cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma.

      CCAT1 was identified initially in colon cancer Zhao (2016), who demonstrated that high
      expression of CCAT1 in CRC plasma may be used as predictive biomarker for screening of CRC.

      The dysregulated expression of CCAT1 affects not only tumorigenesis, but also clinical
      manifestation, such as tumor size, lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, differentiation,
      invasion, patient survival and treatment outcome. This finding renders CCAT1 attractive as
      target for therapeutic intervention in cancer. The current available studies of the
      expression, clinical relevance, biological behavior and regulatory mechanism of CCAT1 in
      various cancers have been described. Also, the potential roles of CCAT1 in the diagnosis,
      prognostic evaluation and treatment of cancers have been discussed.
    
  