
    
      RA is a chronic condition that causes inflammation of the joints and surrounding tissues.
      Symptoms may include pain, stiffness, swelling, and sometimes destruction of joints. RA can
      affect any joint, but it is most common in the wrist and fingers. More women than men get RA,
      and it often starts between the ages of 25 and 55. The course and severity of the disease can
      differ significantly from person to person. Some people with RA may have the disease for only
      a short time, or their symptoms might come and go, but the severe form of RA can last a
      lifetime. The purpose of this study is to identify genetic and other factors that determine
      the severity of RA in African Americans.

      Participants in this study will include African Americans with RA and healthy African
      Americans with RA. There are two arms: (1) longitudinal; and (2) cross-sectional. The
      longitudinal arm has completed enrollment and is still in the follow-up phase. This consists
      of visits at baseline (less than 2 years disease duration; 3 years disease duration; and 5
      years disease duration).

      For the cross-sectional arm, there will be one study visit for all participants, which will
      last approximately 1 to 2 hours for participants without RA (controls) and 2 to 3 hours for
      participants with RA. For all participants, this visit will include a medical history review;
      questionnaires regarding health, functional ability, family, education, and work history; and
      blood and urine collection. For participants with RA, this visit will also include
      examination of the joints for pain and swelling, X-rays of the hands and feet, and a physical
      examination.

      The urine samples will be stored for future analyses of protein and chemical markers. The
      blood samples will be used in three different ways: (1) isolation of DNA; (2) isolation of
      serum and plasma; and (3) isolation of RNA. Part of the blood samples will be used by the
      investigators to identify genes or proteins that may predispose people to develop RA or that
      may influence disease outcome or treatment response. If participants agree, their blood cells
      will be put through a procedure called immortalization, which will provide researchers with
      sufficient DNA for all future studies associated with this study and for other related
      projects. If the immortalization process fails, participants may be asked for an additional
      blood sample with which to repeat the procedure. However, participants will not be provided
      with any information on their genes.
    
  