
    
      Cochlear Implants (CI) are now a well-accepted treatment for individuals with severe to
      profound hearing impairment. Compared to using one CI, bilateral CIs are known to provide
      access to some of the benefits of binaural hearing like improved speech understanding in
      noise (primarily due to headshadow), improved localization, reduced stress and fatigue, and
      improved quality of life (e.g., Dunn et al. 2012, Litovsky et al. 2012, Härkönen et al. 2016,
      Reeder et al. 2014, Agrawal 2008). However, a number of CI recipients are unable to or choose
      not to be implanted bilaterally for many reasons. Those with acoustic hearing in the
      contralateral ear can benefit significantly by using a hearing aid in that ear (bimodal
      hearing) (Ching et el. 2006, Dorman and Gifford 2010, Dorman et al. 2015, Dunn et al. 2005,
      Firszt et al. 2012, Illg et al. 2014, Farinetti et al. 2015).

      Unilateral CI recipients do not have access to advantages of bilateral and bimodal hearing.
      In addition to reduced speech understanding in noise, especially when the speech source is
      located towards the non-CI, they can also experience increased stress and fatigue. Studies
      have shown that a CROS device, when worn on the contralateral, non-implanted ear, can help
      overcome speech understanding deficits due to head-shadow. The effect of such technology on
      quality of life of the CI recipient and their frequent communication partners has not been
      evaluated over an extended duration of use.

      Study methodology:

      Fifteen unilateral CI recipients will participate in this study. Testing will be conducted at
      the University of Utah Hospital ENT clinic. The study will comprise of 2 clinic visits
      separated by a take-home phase of 6 months. A designated FCP will be a part of each study
      visit, preferably.

      Following are the test measures for CI recipients:

        -  Questionnaires

        -  Data logs

        -  Pure-tone audiometry

        -  Speech intelligibility

      Following are the test measures for FCPs:

      • Questionnaires

      Speech testing will be conducted in a sound booth with a two speaker set-up (± 90°). AZBio
      sentences (Spahr et al., 2012) presented at 65 dB A will be the target stimuli. The
      interferer will be a multi-talker babble. The babble will be presented at an individualized
      level for each participant where their performance in noise in SCROS(Off)NCI configuration is
      half of their performance in quiet in SCROS(Off) configuration.

      Study devices: For speech testing in the sound booth, a study Naida CI Q90 sound processor
      will be used. For the take-home phase, recipients will use their own Naida CI processor (Q70
      or Q90). A Naida Link CROS will also be used for sound-booth testing as well as the take-home
      phase.

      Workflow:

      After recruiting, following will be mailed to the participants to be completed prior to the
      study visit and hand carried to visit 1:

      For each CI subject:

      (i) Informed consent form (ii) APS-SSD (Schafer et al, 2013, modified by H. Snapp, 2017)
      (iii) Nijmegen questionnaire (adapted from Hinderink et al, 2000)

      For each CI subject's frequent communication partner:

      (i) Informed consent form (ii) SOS-HEAR
    
  