
    
      Background

      Cancer-related fatigue (CRF) and its impact on patients quality of life has been an
      increasing subject of research. However, in Germany exists a lack of evidence-based
      interventions consistent with the multidimensional character of fatigue. The objective of
      this study is to develop and evaluate a self-management program for disease-free cancer
      patients to cope with CRF.

      Methods

      Based on evidence extracted from a literature review a curriculum for the self-management
      program was elaborated. The curriculum is currently being reviewed and validated by an expert
      group of oncologists, psycho-oncologists, nurses, social workers, physical therapists, health
      scientists, and patients. The modules will be pretested with a small number of patients,
      discussed in terms of feasibility and acceptance.

      To determine the efficacy of the program a randomised controlled trial will be conducted: 300
      patients will be allocated to an intervention or a waiting control group. Data will be
      collected before randomisation, after intervention, and after a follow-up of 6 months.

      Results

      As essential subjects for the curriculum were identified:

        -  medical background and causes of CRF

        -  physical activity and moderate exercise

        -  restructuring daily schedules

        -  energy conservation

        -  stress-management and relaxation strategies

        -  coping with negative emotions

        -  integrating the new knowledge into every day life.

      The program aims at impacting on health-related self-efficacy by the training of problem
      solving, goal setting, and cognitive techniques as knowledge transfer hasn't proved
      sufficient to achieve changes in behaviour. According to this we developed a curriculum
      wherein detailed information for every module concerning objectives, background, didactic
      methods and materials are provided. Based on the curriculum train-the-trainer seminars are
      held in order to educate on moderation techniques, group dynamics, and clinical background of
      CRF. The program will be administered by qualified health professionals in groups of eight
      patients. It includes six weekly sessions 90 minutes each dealing with the topics listed
      above.

      The results of the pre-test are currently being analysed.

      Discussion

      Due to the fact that there are no comparable self-management programs for cancer survivors
      with fatigue the development of the curriculum has been complex. Therefore the critical
      appraisal by the experts was an important step to validate the program: their contributions
      have been integrated into the curriculum. The experts appreciated the program as filling in a
      gap of outpatient cancer care.
    
  