
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the control of chemotherapy-induced nausea (CIN) in the acute phase provided
           by a 5-HT3 antagonist combined with acupressure versus placebo acupressure in children 4
           to 18 years of age being treated with chemotherapy including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg/m2/dose,
           ifosfamide plus etoposide/doxorubicin, or cyclophosphamide plus an anthracycline.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the control of CIN in the delayed phase provided by a 5-HT3 antagonist
           combined with acupressure versus placebo acupressure in children 4 to 18 years of age
           being treated with chemotherapy including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg/m2/dose, ifosfamide plus
           etoposide/doxorubicin, or cyclophosphamide plus an anthracycline.

        -  To compare the control of chemotherapy-induced vomiting and retching (CIV) in the acute
           and delayed phases provided by a 5-HT3 antagonist combined with acupressure versus
           placebo acupressure in children 4 to 18 years of age being treated with chemotherapy
           including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg/m2/dose, ifosfamide plus etoposide/doxorubicin, or
           cyclophosphamide plus an anthracycline.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according chemotherapy regimen
      and anti-emetic Regimen 5-HT3 agonists (ondansetron or granisetron.) Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients wear Sea-Band acupressure wristbands on each wrist beginning
           approximately 30 minutes prior to the first cisplatin-containing chemotherapy course and
           continually for 24 hours after the last chemotherapy dose (acute phase), and for a
           maximum of 7 days or until the next chemotherapy course starts (delayed phase). Patients
           are allowed to take bands off intermittently (up to 4 times a day, for no more than 15
           minutes each time) to relieve pressure or to bathe. Patients also receive standard of
           care anti-emetic prophylaxis comprising granisetron, ondansetron, or dexamethasone
           during chemotherapy according to institutional or physician preference.

        -  Arm II: Patients wear placebo wristbands on each wrist and receive standard of care
           anti-emetic prophylaxis during chemotherapy as patients in arm I.

      Patients, parents, or guardians are instructed to complete an impatient and an outpatient
      diaries on nausea severity and the time of each emetic episode. Patients, parents, or
      guardians also complete a questionnaire about acupressure at the end of the study.
    
  