
    
      There are a total of 3 study visits, (some visits may be broken into separate visits per
      preference of subject), including socket fitting visits (which could be 2 separate visits), a
      baseline visit, and a final visit. During the socket visit, which may consist of a three
      visits plus socket adjustments (as needed by the participant) on separate days (up to 4
      weeks), limb shape capture, measurement or tracing, diagnostic static fitting and diagnostic
      static fitting, and delivery of a definitive "research" socket will be done. At the baseline
      visit, participants will perform seated tasks, standing tasks, and treadmill walking tasks.
      Residual limb health measurements will be taken before and after the activity period,
      including surface electrical capacitance, Transepidermal Water Loss (TEWL) measurement,
      hyperspectral imaging, Hitachi Aloka ultrasound imaging, Laser Speckle Imaging (LSI)/Blood
      Flow, and digital imaging during the baseline visit as well. The final visit, using the
      research socket, will consist of the same tasks and measurements as the baseline visit and
      questionnaires will be completed. The subject may choose to break up the final visit tasks
      into 2 different visits if desired.

      After completion of the study, participants will be given the choice to keep the research
      socket or return to using their original prosthesis as normal. The study prosthetist will be
      available to review and adjust the fit of their standard of care prosthesis at this time.
      Note: Due to physical change and limb volume fluctuation over the study period, it is
      possible that at the end of the study the standard of care prosthesis will not fit your
      residual limb as it does at the beginning of the study. At the completion of the study, it is
      recommended that the subject follow up with their primary care prosthetist for socket
      evaluation and fitting.

      There may be risks that are not known about at this time. Side effects, risks, and
      discomforts may result from study participation.

        -  Prosthesis placement: While the goal of this project is to create a more comfortable
           prosthesis, it is possible that the subject could experience discomforts commonly
           associated with prosthesis use, such as perspiration, dry skin, rash, itching, blisters,
           high pressure in the socket, looseness in the socket, and mechanical rubbing that leads
           to ulceration.

        -  Treadmill task:There is a risk of falling during the research activities. This risk is
           mitigated by the ability of participants to self-select pace for the treadmill task and
           observation of treadmill activities by research staff.

        -  Transcutaneous Oxygen Measurement (TcOM) and skin temperature: The PeriFlux System 5000
           uses non-invasive probes that will measure the skin temperature and transcutaneous
           Oxygen Measurement and poses minimal risk to the subject. The probe head is affixed to
           the residual limb by an adhesive sticker. Removal of the sticker after data acquisition
           may cause minor discomfort similar to removing a small band-aid.

        -  Hyperspectral Imaging: This non-invasive imaging technique poses minimal risk to the
           subject. A small fiduciary marker sticker is placed on the subject's limb to calibrate
           camera settings. Removal of the sticker after imaging may cause minor discomfort similar
           to removing a small band-aid.

        -  Laser Speckle Imaging (LSI): LSI is a non-invasive blood flow imaging technique. Laser
           speckle imaging is very routinely used for blood perfusion measurement in clinical
           applications. We do not anticipate any radiation exposure. Laser applications such as
           for LSI for diagnostic purposes are of Class 1 (<0.4 mW) are considered harmless for the
           eye and skin."

        -  Hitachi Aloka Ultrasound:Ultrasound imaging is a noninvasive technique and is a minimal
           risk procedure.

        -  TEWL and Surface Electrical Capacitance Measurements: TEWL and Surface Electrical
           Capacitance measurements are noninvasive and propose less than minimal risk.
    
  