
    
      Invasive coronary angiography with fractional flow reserve (FFR) is considered as the
      reference standard of daily clinical practice. This invasive approach is associated with
      potentially life-threatening complications, high expenditures, relatively high radiation
      exposure, and some patient discomfort. Noninvasive cardiac computed tomography angiography
      (CCTA) becomes a robust alternative to the invasive approach, especially when supported by
      other functional and anatomical noninvasive imaging modalities such as cardiac magnetic
      resonance (CMR), single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and echocardiography
      (Echo). Notwithstanding, their invasive counterpart, particularly a multimodal intravascular
      imaging (including fractional flow reserve/ FFR, quantitative flow reserve/ QFR, optical
      coherence tomography/ OCT, intravascular ultrasound/ IVUS, VH-IVUS) is able to rule out the
      high-risk, vulnerable and obstructive atherosclerosis dramatically optimizing clinical
      outcomes. The clinical value of these techniques remains questionable, especially if compared
      between noninvasive and invasive imaging methods.

      The modern-day imaging modalities allow clinical cardiology to study the natural history of
      atherosclerosis that can predict certain clinical outcomes paving the way for a reduction of
      cardiovascular mortality. The retrospective studies have shown that most atherosclerotic
      plaques responsible for future acute coronary syndromes are angiographically mild, and the
      lesion-related risk factors for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) are poorly
      understood. Pathological studies have shown that thrombotic coronary occlusion after rupture
      of a lipid-rich atheroma with only a thin fibrous layer of intimal tissue covering the
      necrotic core (a thin-cap fibroatheroma) is the most common cause of myocardial infarction
      and death from cardiac causes. However, the prospective identification of thin-cap
      fibroatheromas has not been achieved, in part because the imaging tools to identify them in
      vivo did not exist until recently (Stone GW, et al, 2011; DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1002358). Both
      CCTA and quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) provide us with the potential of the
      advanced imaging of atherosclerotic lesions, but accuracy and safety remain the keystone
      limitations of these approaches. CCTA has the unique advantage over detecting non-calcifying
      plaques in addition to calcifying lesions, thus allowing for direct visualization of early
      atherosclerosis stages such as lipid and fibrous atheroma, which are risk factors for future
      coronary events. Long-term studies report an increased risk of the adverse outcomes
      associated with vulnerable fibroatheroma, whereas calcifying lesions tend to remain rather
      stable. Studies investigating the accuracy, outcome, and, thus, the diagnostic benefit of
      coronary CCTA in chest pain patients are scarce (Plank F, et al, 2014;
      doi:10.1136/openhrt-2014-000096). The accuracy of some advanced imaging modalities has
      recently developed to overcome existing limitations, however, the accuracy and precision of
      those measurements in the different stage lesions have not been established (Kan J, et al,
      2014).

      In a prospective international multicenter observational study, 1080 stable chest pain
      patients (REALITY Advanced registry of CCTA patients) with the suspected chronic coronary
      syndrome will be enrolled. All of them will undergo computed tomography angiography, CMR,
      and/ or SPECT, and Echo. One of the cohorts will be examined with multimodality invasive
      imaging including quantitative coronary angiography with or without further percutaneous
      coronary intervention, FFR, QFR, OCT, and some of them - with IVUS, VH-IVUS. The plaque size
      and relevant stenosis, a composition of the atherosclerotic lesion, major adverse
      cardiovascular events (all-cause death, death from cardiac causes, myocardial infarction, or
      rehospitalization due to unstable or progressive angina, ischemia-driven revascularization)
      will be judged to be related to either originally treated (culprit) lesions or untreated
      (non-culprit) lesions. Moreover, the clinical potential of both non-invasive and invasive
      imaging, as well as anatomical vs functional modalities in two real-world patient flows, will
      be estimated with the special focus on the natural progression of atherosclerosis, clinical
      outcomes, and safety (contrast-induced nephropathy, radiocontrast-induced thyroid
      dysfunction, and radiation dose). The diagnostic accuracy will be analyzed.

      The follow-up period will achieve 12 months prospectively with collected clinical events and
      imaging outcomes which will be determined at the baseline and 12-month follow-up.

      The independent ethics expertise will be provided by the Ural State Medical University
      (Yekaterinburg, Russia) and Central Clinical Hospital of the Russian Academy of Sciences
      (Moscow, Russia). The monitoring of the clinical data with imaging as well as further CoreLab
      expertise (expert-level post-processing multimodal imaging software of Medis Imaging B.V.,
      Leiden, The Netherlands) will be provided by De Haar Research Task Force,
      Amsterdam-Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

      The clinical data of the REALITY Advanced Registry include information of the complex
      examination with a 64-128-slice CT, two interviews with the risk factor modification
      recommendations, lab screening (serum fasting glucose, asparagine transaminase, alanine
      transaminase, total bilirubin, carbamide/ urea, creatinine, total cholesterol, triglycerides,
      LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, VLDL cholesterol), markers of the myocardium damage
      (myoglobin, troponin I, creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB, brain natriuretic peptide -
      NT-proBNP), complete blood count, ECG, and Echo. The Registry patients will be tested with
      HeartAge, SCORE, Duke ACC/ AHA, Duke - DCS, Diamond-Forrester - DFM, The Seattle Angina
      Questionnaire - SAQ, Duke Activity Status Index -DASI, and EQ-5D-5L. Patients will be
      screened for the major risk factors and their modification: unhealthy blood cholesterol
      levels, high blood pressure, smoking, insulin resistance, diabetes, overweight or obesity,
      lack of physical activity, unhealthy diet (elements of Mediterranean and so-called 'Russian'
      diet), older age, genetic or lifestyle factors, family history of early heart disease.
      Moreover, such factors as CRP, sleep apnea, stress, and alcohol consumption will be assessed.

      The eligibility criteria which the candidates must have fulfilled will be verified and the
      optimal clinical strategy will be estimated by the Heart Team, the Data Safety, and
      Monitoring Board. The clinical outcomes will be examined by the independent clinical endpoint
      adjudication committee.

      The CCTA will be undergone in accordance with the 2016 SCCT (Society of Cardiovascular
      Computed Tomography) guidelines for the performance and acquisition of coronary computed
      tomographic angiography (Journal of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography/JCCT 2016;10:435e449).
      The results of the CCTA will be interpreted taking into account the 2020 SCCT Expert
      Consensus Document on Coronary CT Imaging of Atherosclerotic Plaque (JCCT 2020) and the 2021
      SCCT Expert Consensus Document on Coronary Computed Tomographic Angiography (JCCT 2021). All
      non-invasive and invasive imaging procedures will be performed in accordance with local site
      practice, national, international, and societal guidelines including Society for
      Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance (SCMR), American Society of Echocardiography (ASE),
      European Association of Percutaneous Cardiovascular Interventions (EuroPCR/ EAPCI), Society
      for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions (SCAI).

      The imaging data from non-invasive (CCTA, FFR-CT, CMR, SPECT, Echo) and invasive (QCA, FFR,
      QFR, OCT, IVUS, VH-IVUS) methods will be handled and analyzed with the expert-level
      post-processing imaging software (Medis Suite Solutions: MR, XA, QFR, CT, Intravascular,
      Ultrasound) from Medis Medical Imaging Systems B.V. (Leiden, The Netherlands), if applicable.
      Raw imaging data will be transferred to the independent CoreLab (De Haar Research Task Force,
      Rotterdam-Amsterdam, The Netherlands) and analyzed by two experienced readers, blinded to the
      patient's information. The interobserver disagreements will be resolved by a third reader.
      FFR-CT is scheduled to be assessed by the ElucidVivo Research Edition software from Elucid
      Bio, Boston, MA, U.S.A.

      The REALITY project is a part of the JHWH (Jahweh) International Advanced Cardiovascular
      Imaging Consortium. The main objective of the Consortium that is uniting international
      efforts of both Academia and Industry is a synergistic development of the advanced
      machine-learning imaging software in order to integrate benefits of both non-invasive and
      invasive imaging providing the daily clinical practice with the robust tool for the
      anatomical and functional examination of coronary atherosclerosis, PCI-related arterial
      remodeling, and relevant myocardial function.

      The main aim of the REALITY Advanced trial is to evaluate the natural history of
      atherosclerosis within the concept of the Glagovian arterial remodeling in stable chest pain
      patients with the assessment of the clinical potential/ prognostic value and safety of the
      different noninvasive and invasive imaging tools as CCTA (and/ or CMR, SPECT, Echo), QCA,
      FFR, QFR, and applicable intravascular imaging (OCT, IVUS, VH-IVUS) handled with the advanced
      post-processing imaging software. Some preventive and therapeutic strategies will be
      examined, focusing on the place in routine clinical practice of such noninvasive imaging
      approach as CCTA vs relevant invasive imaging. The currently developed noninvasive imaging
      tools, including 64-128-320-slice CCTA processed with the high-accuracy machine-learning
      imaging software, can upgrade the noninvasive imaging's clinical value in contrary to the
      invasive approach, evaluating the significance of coronary atherosclerosis with related
      high-risk features of the arterial remodeling, predicting clinical outcomes, and avoiding
      unnecessary invasive intravascular interventions. The optimization of the diagnostic strategy
      and associated interventional approach can pave the way for dramatic improvement of clinical
      outcomes and cost-effectiveness of coronary artery disease (CAD) clinical management and,
      therefore, for substantial cardiovascular mortality reduction.

      The REALITY Advanced trial pursued several objectives as follows:

        1. To compare anatomical methods of noninvasive (CCTA, CMR) vs. invasive (QCA, OCT, IVUS,
           VH-IVUS) imaging with a focus on the options such as:

             1. High-risk and vulnerable features of lesions, including plaque composition with
                particular attention to the size of the necrotic core, the thickness and
                histological condition of the cap, signs of erosion, rupture, local thrombosis,

             2. Arterial remodeling,

             3. Significance of a 40% plaque burden as a keystone threshold for progression of
                atherosclerosis and clinical outcomes,

             4. Perivascular inflammation,

             5. Culprit vs. non-culprit lesions,

             6. Assessment of the blood flow physiological patterns, including invasively measured
                vs. calculated fractional flow reserve, wall shear stress (if applicable) derived
                from both noninvasive and invasive imaging and handled by the advanced
                post-processing imaging software,

             7. Diagnostic accuracy in comparison between various imaging modalities.

        2. To match noninvasive and invasive anatomical (CCTA, QCA, OCT, IVUS, VH-IVUS) vs.
           functional (Echo, CMR, SPECT, MSCT) imaging, particularly if the anatomical significance
           of coronary atherosclerosis compared to the time trajectory of the cardiac function with
           a focus on:

             1. Ischemia (assessed by stress testing with CMR, SPECT, MSCT, Echo),

             2. Strain (both regional and global with different imaging modalities),

             3. Inflammation, including edema, fibrosis, particularly with CMR (hyperemia with EGE/
                early gadolinium enhancement, edema with T2 weighted imaging, and scar/necrosis or
                fibrosis with LGE/ late gadolinium enhancement),

             4. Local coronary hemodynamics,

             5. Diagnostic accuracy in comparison between various imaging modalities.

        3. To calculate the predictive value (with some risk stratification models) of different
           noninvasive and invasive imaging modalities amid various therapeutic strategies and
           invasive interventions. The performance of each strategy will be examined for
           sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value
           (NPV), and receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve.

        4. To conduct epidemiological analysis of the involved population and evaluate the
           cost-effectiveness of the different noninvasive and invasive strategies in stable chest
           pain patients, including:

             1. Direct effects: cost of imaging test, cost of complications due to imaging testing,
                effects of radiation, effects of contrast material, other complications of
                noninvasive and invasive imaging, psychological effects of the imaging test,

             2. Indirect effects: cost of the treatment, cost of complications of treatment, cost
                of health outcome, medical pathway, and health outcome depending on a medical
                decision based on the image test result, psychological effects of the test result.
    
  