
    
      At this time, there are over 131,000 Veterans in US prisons and over 50,000 in US jails. When
      discharged, these Veterans will be forced to cope with high rates of psychosocial and health
      issues including homelessness, divorce, mental illness, and infectious diseases.

      One of the most significant consequences of incarceration is a high rate of unemployment.
      Evaluations of employment find those with felony histories worked, on average, between 10%
      and 23% fewer hours than those without felony histories. These negative employment outcomes
      are caused by a combination of eroded skills, poor social connections, legal restrictions,
      and stigma.

      Though the VA offers a number of vocational rehabilitation and reintegration services, these
      services are typically not targeted towards Veterans with criminal histories. Also the
      programs have limitations restricting the range of Veterans that can be served. For example,
      Veterans living a great distance from a major medical center, rural Veterans, homeless
      Veterans, and Veterans without transportation may have difficulty accessing services.

      To reach the most Veterans, tele-health and distance learning methods must be developed to
      bring services to the Veterans rather than bring the Veterans to the services. Already well
      integrated into many educational classrooms, distance learning can be a very effective method
      of imparting training, skills, and information while mitigating many of the logistical
      limitations encountered by Veterans with histories of incarceration.

      To be successful distance learning should incorporate a number of different best practices.
      Distance learning should be engaging, avoiding long periods of reading. It should focus on
      small 'chunks' of information to improve learning and retention. Due to differences in
      learning, a multiple modality approach is most likely to be successful. Questions, short
      quizzes, and problem based activities with immediate feedback should be used to keep
      participants both engaged and to assess progress.

      An important aspect to effectively implementing distance learning is to provide blended
      learning or a hybrid between asynchronous learning, where the participant and teacher are not
      interacting in real-time, and synchronous learning, where the participant and teacher are
      interacting directly with each other either in person or across some type of medium. Used
      effectively, hybrid distance learning can bring a number of positives aspects to the learning
      environment, including the ability to review information and lessons, practice and role
      playing, more time to reflect on answers, and less pressure to respond in a group.

      Based on effective distance learning principles, the Compass system was developed. Compass
      builds on a previous pilot online system, the About Face Online System (AFOS), which placed a
      vocational manual into an online fillable format; however, though Veterans engaged the AFOS,
      a number of limitations were identified that limited Veterans' enthusiasm, including use of
      extended reading passages, no direct interaction with a person, and not enough focus on
      interviews.

      Compass uses distance learning best practices including the use of both synchronous and
      asynchronous learning. The asynchronous components of Compass use video and online content.
      Veterans are also quizzed at each step of the process on what responses should be given
      through a multiple choice method. Synchronous components of Compass include tele-health
      practice interviews, phone coaching sessions, and live-chat features that are used to assist
      Veterans tailor their information and improving their interview skills.

      This study is a four-year project to compare the effectiveness of the Compass system to basic
      resources. 150 Veterans with legal convictions and mental illness and/or substance use
      disorders will be followed for six months. Half will receive access to the Compass system and
      half will receive only basic resources (i.e. a hard copy vocational manual). Outcomes
      evaluated are employment and interview skills.

      The goals of the study are:

        1. Compare rates of employment of Compass to those receiving basic resources.

        2. Compare improvements in interviewing skills between those receiving an online program to
           those receiving basic resources.

      Hypotheses/expected results

      1) Veterans using Compass will have superior rates of employment and improved interviewing
      skills compared to those receiving basic services.
    
  