
    
      Treatment induced neuropathy of diabetes (TIND), also referred to as insulin neuritis, is
      thought to be a rare iatrogenic cause of neuropathy that occurs in the setting of rapid
      glycemic control in individuals with a history of prolonged hyperglycemia.

      In a recent paper, the investigators reported that a systematic review of all patients seen
      in a tertiary diabetic neuropathy referral center resulted in the diagnosis of TIND in >10%
      of patients seen over a 5 year period of time. These individuals developed symptoms of
      neuropathy as a consequence of a sudden improvement in glycemic control. The neuropathy
      associated with TIND is a painful small fiber and autonomic neuropathy of acute onset, but is
      also associated with the simultaneous development of retinopathy and nephropathy.

      TIND differs from the most prevalent generalized neuropathy of diabetes, the distal
      sensory-motor polyneuropathy, in several respects. The neuropathic pain has an acute onset,
      appearing within 8 weeks of glycemic change in contrast to the more insidious onset in the
      Diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy (DSP). The pain in TIND is more severe, and poorly
      responsive to interventions including opioids, whereas most patients with DSP respond to
      non-opioid interventions. Although the distribution of the pain is length dependent in
      individuals with TIND, it is frequently far more extensive than in DSP and the associated
      allodynia and hyperalgesia are much more prevalent. Autonomic symptoms and signs are common,
      prominent and appear acutely, in contrast to the relatively lower prevalence, gradual onset
      and slow progression in DSP. Finally, both the pain and autonomic features may be reversible
      in some patients.

      The pathogenic mechanisms whereby this change in glucose results in nerve damage and/or
      dysfunction are not known. Proposed mechanisms include endoneurial ischemia due to epineurial
      arterio-venous shunts, apoptosis due to glucose deprivation, microvascular neuronal damage
      due to recurrent hypoglycemia and ectopic firing of regenerating axon sprouts, but these
      possibilities are unproven. A potential role for inflammation as a cause of TIND is supported
      by studies showing an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines provoked by experimental
      hypoglycemia. This is reinforced by the association of hyperalgesia with prior exposure to
      hypoglycemia.

      Other microvascular complications are commonly seen in patients with TIND. The simultaneous
      development of TIND, retinopathy and nephropathy in our cohort suggests a common systemic
      mechanism likely resulting in microvascular disease. Prior reports of 'early worsening
      retinopathy' associate a greater risk of retinopathy development with every percentage point
      decrease in the glycosylated hemoglobin, a result that parallels the neuropathy development
      in TIND. Furthermore, a link between hypoglycemia, production in pro-inflammatory cytokines,
      and the development of retinopathy has been proposed.

      Treatment induced neuropathy is an iatrogenic cause of an acute, painful autonomic neuropathy
      in patients with poor glycemic control. Although the underlying mechanism is not yet known,
      there is a clear relationship between a rapid rate of glycemic control and the development of
      microvascular complications. Our preliminary data on upregulation of cytokines in individuals
      with TIND, and the similar findings noted in early worsening retinopathy, suggest the
      possibility that early intervention may improve outcomes.

      The investigators have studied over 100 individuals with TIND in a longitudinal fashion. The
      characteristic disease progression is well described and related to the magnitude of the
      change in HbA1c. All patients develop severe neuropathic pain and progressive small fiber and
      autonomic neuropathy. The neuropathy progresses over 18-24 months and then may gradually
      improve.

      The investigators have studied 4 patients with TIND that developed the acute onset of
      autonomic and peripheral neuropathy in the setting of rapid glycemic control. All 4
      individuals had regular detailed neurological examinations, skin biopsy analysis of nerve
      fiber density, autonomic function testing and retinal examinations.

      Within 4 weeks of the onset of neuropathic pain (within 8 weeks of the change in glucose
      levels), they were offered a trial of immune globulin administration at a dose of 2grams/kg
      divided into 5 doses of 0.4 grams/kg for 5 days. In 3 of 4 patients there was significant
      improvement in neuropathic pain (>50%) and autonomic dysfunction with 4 weeks of immune
      globulin administration. In addition, there was a clinically significant increase in
      intra-epidermal nerve fiber density after 6 months (findings not seen in the large cohort of
      individuals that were untreated). One patient did not exhibit any clear improvement in
      neuropathic pain or autonomic dysfunction. Prior to immune globulin administration the
      investigators measured circulating cytokine levels in these 4 individuals. Those that
      responded tended to have higher circulating cytokine levels than that the individual that did
      not.

      The investigators propose a prospective therapeutic study to determine the efficacy of IVIG
      in improving both neuropathic pain and nerve fiber structure and function in individuals with
      TIND. In addition, the investigators will attempt to define mechanisms that will predict
      success in this trial.
    
  