
    
      Anesthetic management in patients coming for electrophysiology procedures is extremely
      important and hemodynamically challenging in order to minimize interference on the
      electrophysiology studies (EPS) and the ability to trigger arrhythmias while also maintaining
      patient comfort and limited movement. Various anesthetic combinations are administered to
      provide sedation, analgesia/sedation, or general anesthesia. The ideal agent should produce
      rapid loss of consciousness while ensuring cardiovascular stability and prompt recovery with
      few adverse effects. Our goal is to study anesthetic techniques and the effect on
      electrophysiology procedures to determine the best anesthetic combination in terms of
      effectiveness, adverse effects, pain relief, and patient comfort.

      Adult patients scheduled for electrophysiology procedures will be enrolled in the study and
      randomly assigned to an anesthetic group based on their schedule procedure. Sedation cases
      for supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT)/premature
      ventricular contraction (PVC) ablation, and atrial flutter (aflutter) procedures will be
      randomly assigned to one of three groups: 1) monitored anesthesia (local anesthesia with
      sedation and analgesia/pain reliever) with propofol (induce sleep), 2) monitored anesthesia
      with ketamine (sedation) + propofol (induce sleep), or 3) monitored anesthesia with
      remifentanil infusion (pain reliever) + propofol (induce sleep). Sedation cases for
      ventricular tachycardia (VT) ablation and atrial fibrillation (afib) procedures will be
      randomly assigned to one of two groups: 1) monitored anesthesia (local anesthesia with
      sedation and analgesia/pain reliever) with propofol (induce sleep), or 2) monitored
      anesthesia with ketamine (sedation) + propofol (induce sleep). General anesthesia (GA) cases,
      including VT ablation and afib procedures will receive general anesthesia (state of
      unconsciousness) with sevoflurane (loss of consciousness) + O2. Anesthesia factors, such as
      hemodynamics and cerebral oxygen saturation will be continuously monitored and recorded
      throughout the study. In addition, we will be looking at standard echocardiogram and
      electrophysiology (EP) parameters. The patient's pain level, level of sedation, and
      satisfaction will also be measured using scales, assessments, and surveys.
    
  