
    
      In the last decade the stimulation of denervated muscles became part of the rehabilitation of
      spinal cord injuries (SCI). Not at least because of the promising results of the RISE project
      (Use of electrical stimulation to restore standing in paraplegics with long-term denervated
      degenerated muscles). In this European project it was shown that electrical stimulation of
      denervated muscles in SCI increased muscle mass and improved the trophic situation of the
      lower extremities. Furthermore, structural altered muscle into fat- and connective tissue
      could be restored into contractile muscle tissue by stimulation. However it has been shown
      that an extended time after SCI hinders the stimulation impact. The denervation process can
      be divided in four chronologically running steps. Muscle fibrillations are present some days
      after lesion followed by a loss of tension during electrical evoked tetanic contraction.
      After months a severe disorganization of the contractile structure in the muscle occurs and
      finally ends after years in a replacement of muscle fibers into fat tissue and collagen. The
      best results have been seen within three years after SCI. A stimulation protocol should be
      set up to start with single twitches combined with tetanic stimulation patterns according to
      the patients' improvements. The progression in stimulation training to elicit a tetanic
      contraction - 40 ms pulse duration with a pulse pause of 10 ms and bursts of 2 sec - could
      last some month in chronic stage after SCI. The stimulation of denervated muscles of the
      upper extremities gets more attention. It has been investigated that the cross sectional area
      of denervated muscle fibers could have been increased by early electrical stimulation.
      Furthermore, the changes in myosin heavy chain isoform, following denervation could be
      reversed. That indicates that early onset of stimulation could preserve the contractile
      muscle structure for possible reinnervation or further treatment options. Specially for
      tetraplegic patients who could benefit from nerve transfers, could win time for their
      decision.
    
  