
    
      The study design is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. The
      subjects and investigators will remain blinded for the duration of the study. Subjects will
      be randomized under the direction of investigational pharmacy and will be randomized in
      groups of 6 subjects with 3 being assigned to Group A and the other 3 being assigned to Group
      B. The randomization information will remain under the purview of Investigational Pharmacy
      until the conclusion of the study, who will be unblinded during the study for management of
      appropriate medication dispersal following randomization. As a crossover trial, all subjects
      will be exposed to both the investigational agent as well as placebo for 8 and 4 weeks,
      respectively. There will be no washout period in order to help maintain blinding.

      The investigational agent in this study is naltrexone. Naltrexone is currently FDA approved
      for treatment of alcohol and opioid dependence at doses of 50mg daily or higher. Two placebo
      controlled trials involving 93 patients taking REVIA (naltrexone) 50mg daily reported no
      serious adverse events during the course of the trials. In this study, the drug will be used
      in an off-label capacity at lower doses to treat pain associated with diabetic neuropathy.
      Placebo will be used for this study as a control. The maximum duration of time a patient will
      receive placebo is 4 weeks. No prior and/or concomitant medical therapies will be collected
      during the study. The following criteria outline which concomitant medicines/therapies
      (including rescue therapies) are permitted/not permitted during the study:

        -  Opioid based medicines (including rescue therapies) are not permitted during the study.

        -  New pharmacologic therapies for pain not previously taken by the subject are not
           permitted during the study period.

        -  Any baseline (stable use at initiation of the study) non-opioid medication (including
           rescued therapies) are permitted during the study.

        -  Pre-study concomitant medications will be recorded via chart review prior to enrollment.

      The drug and placebo will be administered orally via identical capsules and filler rendering
      them indistinguishable. Patients will take the investigational agent once daily for eight
      weeks. The agent will be administered following the titration regimen consisting of one week
      at 1.5mg daily, followed by one week of 3mg daily, then 4.5mg daily for the remaining six
      weeks. The dose titration for naltrexone was developed in clinical use and was the basis for
      our previous retrospective analysis (Retrospective Analysis for Safety and Tolerability of
      Low Dose Naltrexone with a Novel Dosing Regimen) that was accepted for a poster presentation
      at the American Society of Regional Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine in 2018. This regimen
      was developed in order to reduce the chance of a patient developing a particular side effect
      with their particular dose as well as with the intent to identify what dose worked best for
      any particular patient. Clinical trials have tested LDN at either 3mg/day or 4.5mg/day. No
      study, to our knowledge, has looked at having a patient be able to identify a dose response
      and titrate the medication to effect. This titration regimen allows patients to control their
      own dose of medication without needing to call their provider's office to change their
      regimen. Simply, the patient starts taking the smallest dose which is a 1.5mg capsule each
      evening for one week. If the patient experiences disruption of sleep or vivid dreams, they
      may switch from the evening to the morning. If no side effects develop, the patient may
      escalate their dose to two capsules (3.0mg) per evening during the second week of the trial
      and again switch to morning dosing if they develop any side effects. Lastly, the patient may
      increase their dose to the maximum of 3 capsules (4.5mg) per evening at the start of the
      third week of the trial and may transition to morning dosing if they develop side effects of
      the drug. The flexibility inherent in this dosing regimen is to optimize the potential effect
      of the medication and tolerance during this clinical trial as it has been found to be
      flexible and well-tolerated in clinical use at our institution where this regimen has been
      adapted by the majority of our providers.

      Placebo will be administered once daily for four weeks for a total of 12 weeks including the
      active drug. The order of placebo and drug will be determined by randomization of subjects
      into one of two crossover timelines, one starting with the drug, the other starting with the
      placebo and switching at 8 and 4 weeks, respectively. The drug/placebo will be dispensed by
      investigational pharmacy and mailed in a packet directly to the subjects every 4 weeks. The
      first packet will contain 4 pill bottles with 7 capsules each, bottles will be clearly
      labeled week 1, week 2, week 3, week 4, to be taken in that order. The second packet will
      contain bottles labeled weeks 5 through 8 and the third packet with bottles labeled weeks 9
      through 12.

      Subject response to both LDN and placebo, as well as compliance, will be tracked via
      assessment of weekly email surveys. The surveys will be conducted via REDCap through
      Dartmouth's institutional license to ensure HIPAA compliance and optimum patient privacy. The
      first survey will be administered in person on a laptop when the patient is enrolled.
      Subsequently the patient will be sent a reminder email through REDCap to complete their
      weekly survey. The weekly survey will consist of the following components:

        -  Pain Disability Index Questionnaire (PDI)

        -  Numeric Rating Scale (NRS)

        -  Free text option for reported and adverse side effects

        -  Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) -- baseline survey only

        -  Free text option for prompt asking the patient to describe their expectations or goals
           for the new treatment -- baseline survey only If the subject fails to respond to the
           survey they will be contacted the next day by phone to complete the survey. If they are
           unable to be reached during the next 24 hour period the survey will be considered missed
           for that week. In the event that a subject accrues at least three consecutive misses or
           five total misses they be considered significantly non-compliant and will be unenrolled
           from the study. There will be a holiday/vacation exception, the subject may contact the
           nurse if anticipating absence from the survey that week.The coordinator, investigator
           and pharmacy will be informed as soon as possible and the subject will no longer receive
           medication or email surveys. Subjects will have contact information for the study nurse
           to report any adverse side effects and will be contacted at the end of the study by
           phone to inquire about any adverse events.

      There is no drug conversion plan needed for this study. The only contraindication for this
      study if concomitant opioid therapy and those subjects will be excluded from the study.

      The most common side effect may be the development of vivid dreams, previous studies suggest
      that some patients may have the onset of headaches or abdominal cramps associated with their
      taking LDN as a medication. However, the incidence is similar to taking placebo. To lessen
      the probability and magnitude of risks subjects will report any adverse side effects in the
      weekly survey, which will be reviewed weekly by the investigator. Subjects will have access
      to contact the study coordinator at any time with concerns regarding adverse events. There
      are no parts of the study that involve the use of procedures that are inconsistent with the
      standard of care at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center.
    
  