
    
      When conservative care fails to alleviate the pain and neurological deficits caused by
      degenerative disc disease in a cervical spine, the most common recourse is surgical
      decompression of the affected nerves and/or spinal cord. Decompression is often accomplished
      via an anterior approach whereby essentially the entire disc as well as any bony osteophytes
      and ligaments that are compressing the spinal cord and/or nerves are removed. While usually
      successful at decompressing affected neural structures, the decompression often results in
      collapse of the disc space, instability and recurrent symptomatology.

      Most anterior cervical decompressions therefore are followed by insertion of a structural
      interbody spacer such as a bone graft from the patient's iliac crest (autograft) or a bone
      graft from a cadaver (allograft). The "gold standard" for aiding healing in spinal fusion
      surgeries is the harvesting of autograft from the patient's iliac crest and placing it in and
      around the segments of the spine that are intended to be fused. Autograft is considered the
      "gold standard" because it contains the essential elements required for successful bone
      grafting: osteogenesis, osteoconduction, and osteoinduction.

      However, the morbidity of harvesting autograft has been well documented and includes chronic
      donor-site pain, infection, neurologic injury, blood loss, deformity, bowel injury, hernia,
      and prolonged surgical and hospitalization time. There are now a number of products on the
      market to minimize or replace the use of autograft. However, few of these products contain
      all three essential bone-forming elements (osteogenesis, osteoconduction, and osteoinduction)
      in a single, stand alone product.

      Trinity Evolution is a novel, allogeneic cancellous bone matrix containing viable
      osteoprogenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells and demineralized cortical bone (DCB) component
      to provide the required osteoconduction, osteogenesis, and osteoinduction necessary for
      successful bone grafting. Preclinical studies with Trinity Evolution have demonstrated
      in-vitro and in-vivo safety and effectiveness. Trinity Evolution is considered an allograft
      and as such is a "minimally manipulated" tissue and is labeled for bone repair for spinal,
      orthopedic and podiatric indications where autograft is used. The dosage will be dependent
      upon the specific requirements of the case.
    
  