
    
      Background/Rationale:

      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, affecting over
      one million Americans. The cardinal clinical manifestations of PD are motoric, which limit
      functional mobility leading to difficulty working, caring for family members, managing a
      household, and overall decreased independence and quality of life (QOL). A wealth of growing
      data indicates tremendous benefits of exercise for patients with PD. Not only have exercise
      programs been shown to improve motor function and reduce the risk of falls, but also improve
      overall QOL and possibly the very course of disease pathology. However, programs that involve
      supervision in the home of people with PD are expensive to roll out widely, and programs that
      involve people with PD traveling to a central site not only result in non-compliance over
      time because of difficulty getting to the site, but also rule out the involvement of a large
      number of people with PD who simply live too far from larger centers where such programs are
      typically established.

      Objective:

      The investigators hypothesize that a one-year in-home exercise program, centered around
      remote, real-time instruction and supervision, will reduce the rate of falls and improve
      strength and QOL in patients with PD.

      Methods:

      The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial of a structured exercise program,
      evaluating effects on fall rate, physical functioning, and QOL. Community-dwelling people
      with PD will be randomized either to a group who receives structured and remote exercise
      instruction and supervision in real-time or a group who is taught a lifestyle exercise
      program. Subjects will be male and female Veterans with a physician diagnosis of idiopathic,
      typical PD, with at least 2 of 3 cardinal signs of PD, and response to dopaminergic
      medication. The interventions will last one year.
    
  