
    
      This proposal includes three different aspects of assessment for menthol smoking young
      adults. The laboratory phase includes three separate sessions of laboratory smoking through a
      machine designed to measure puff behavior; the EMA phase includes 21 days of monitoring
      smoking behavior and attitudes related to smoking when smoking one's usual brand cigarette,
      the assigned menthol low nicotine cigarette, and the assigned non-menthol low nicotine
      cigarette in the participant's natural environment. The order of administration of smoking
      menthol and non-menthol VLNC will be counterbalanced. There will be a 7-day wash-out period
      between each 7-day period of using low nicotine cigarettes. The final phase includes a
      virtual marketplace where participants can purchase and use the research cigarettes in the
      context of other available tobacco products on the market, or purchase no tobacco products at
      all. There will be a final assessment, over the phone or in-person, 30-days after the final
      study visit (at week 8), to assess tobacco use behavior and attitudes about tobacco use.
      Participants will be enrolled for approximately 9 weeks. Week 1 will consist of smoking one's
      usual brand of cigarette in the laboratory and then in their home environment for 7-days.
      Week 2 will consist of smoking the first very low nicotine cigarette in the home environment
      for 7 days and then in the laboratory. Week three will consist of a 7-day wash-out period
      where participants can smoke their usual brand again, as they normally would. Week 4 will
      consist of smoking the second very low nicotine cigarette at home for 7 days and then in the
      laboratory. Week 5 will consist of returning to the laboratory for a final study visit and
      complete a hypothetical experimental tobacco marketplace. One month (4 weeks) after the final
      study visit (week 9), participants will complete a 30-day follow-up of cigarette smoking and
      other tobacco use behavior.
    
  