
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the 18-month progression free survival (PFS) for each arm of therapy stratified
      by positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT)-2 response.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess safety, tolerability, and quality of life (QOL) for each arm of therapy.

      II. Measure PET/CT-2 negativity rate after 2 lead-in cycles of standard of care doxorubicin,
      bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine (ABVD).

      III. Evaluate the 3-year PFS and overall survival (OS) for each arm of treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate if a baseline antitumor immune response, as assessed by a Nanostring gene panel,
      correlates with PFS.

      II. Evaluate if minimal residual disease (MRD) status, as monitored by cancer personalized
      profiling by deep sequencing (CAPP-Seq) of circulating tumor (ct) deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA), can be correlated with PFS.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups based on their PET/CT-2 scans.

      GROUP I (PET/CT-2 NEGATIVE): Patients without bulky disease are randomized to either Arm A or
      B and patients with bulky disease are assigned to Arm B.

      ARM A: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and nivolumab
      IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive doxorubicin IV, bleomycin IV, vinblastine IV, dacarbazine IV on days
      1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment with nivolumab repeats every 14 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP II (PET/CT-2 POSITIVE): Patients receive doxorubicin IV, vinblastine IV, dacarbazine,
      IV and brentuximab vedotin IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients that are PET/CT negative receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      with nivolumab repeats every 14 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  