
    
      Bio2Watch: In this clinical project part biometric patient data of 24 SFN patients, 3 cancer
      patients and 21 subjects (control group) will be collected for a period of one year using a
      PainWatch. The term PainWatch includes an Apple Watch 5 with iPhone 8 and installed app for
      pain recording. With the aid of the PainWatch, the personal pain sensation in everyday life
      is documented and personal data such as the pulse rate and the daily number of steps, as well
      as environmental data, such as the prevailing air pressure, humidity and temperature are
      recorded. The aim is to use these data as a basis for initial indications of pain-inducing
      stimuli or combinations of stimuli.

      Bio2Patient: In this clinical project part clinically quantifiable tests are carried out,
      such as quantitative sensory testing (QST), which examines subjective thermal and mechanical
      sensory perception and pain thresholds. The goal is to determine a specific pain phenotype.
      In addition, pain evoked potentials (PREPs) are performed to draw conclusions about the
      function of thin nerve fibers (pain fibers), including projection to the brain. Supplementary
      SF-36 pain questionnaires are completed to assess the quality of life.

      Bio2Cell: In the cell-based project part induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) are
      produced from blood cells of SFN patients, cancer patients and volunteers. These cells will
      be differentiated into sensory neurons that are relevant in pain processing, so-called
      nociceptors. Since these nociceptors are derived from the individual patient, they carry the
      individual genetic characteristics of the patient. These neurons are then analyzed by
      multi-electrode arrays (MEA). With this method environmental influences such as temperature
      and air pressure or drugs on the pathophysiology of the patient's are investigated. The main
      goal is to simulate the conditions, which lead to pain sensation in the context of Bio2Watch
      and Bio2Patient.

      Bio2Integrate: The results from Bio2Watch, Bio2Patient and Bio2Cell will then flow into the
      software to be developed during the project. Thus, in addition to the identification of
      stimuli that stimulate pain as well as a genetic correlation to certain markers will be
      possible. In addition, the targeted modification of the cellular properties of the patient's
      own sensory neurons through the application of the chemotherapeutic agent can be
      investigated. To this end, measurements will be made on the cells before and after the
      application of the substance and compare them with each other. This is the basis for
      components of the "machine learning " of the Bio2Integrate software.The results of the
      clinical subprojects are thus an essential component of Bio2Integrate.
    
  