
    
      The physiological fracture healing is based on the proper facilitation of regeneration and
      proliferation process. The bone fracture is usually diagnosed using an X-ray examination.
      However, an ultrasound imaging could be used instead of the conventional imaging. It is
      important in the case of the youngest patients. In these cases, the Hubner protocol/algorithm
      is often used. The patients with suspected fracture are advised to perform an ultrasound
      examination. Only after the confirmation of a suspected fracture, an X-ray examination should
      be performed.

      Bone structure show typical characteristics, which make an ultrasonography an attractive
      medical diagnostic tool. Highly dense tissues such as bone reflect echoes and, therefore,
      appear bright white on an ultrasound (reflection from the cortical surface of the bone). This
      allows bone to be clearly distinguished from the surrounding soft tissues.

      It was shown that ultrasound is a good diagnostic tool to assess the fracture healing
      process. The advantage of usg is that it is non-invasive, does not use ionizing radiation and
      is performed in a real-time.

      The first study about the ultrasound in the diagnosis of fracture was carried out in 1988 in
      a group of 41 newborns with suspected clavicle fractures after complicated delivery. In all
      cases, the collarbone fracture was easily identifiable by an ultrasound in the first few days
      after the injury. Moreover, these data correlated with the conventional X-ray imaging.

      It was also shown that the ultrasound method in pediatric patients can be used to visualize
      fractures, e.g. of the ribs or the sternum. In the acute phase, disturbances in the cortical
      layer of the bone as well as recent hematoma are easily observed. In the later phase, the
      formation of a callus (callus hypertrophy) could be diagnosed.

      The aim of this study is (1) to validate the ultrasound imaging method using variables such
      as repeatability, interclass correlation coefficient (Qw), relative standard deviation (rSD)
      etc.; (2) to use an ultrasound imaging to assess the bone fracture and healing process during
      8 weeks post injury.

      This study consists of 50 patients aged 10-18 years old. The forearm fracture will be
      diagnosed using an X-ray imaging as well as an ultrasound imaging in the first 3 days post
      injury (initial study). It is planned to assess the proper healing process after 2, 4, 6
      and/or 8 weeks post injury (comparative study).

      Ultrasound examination:

        -  the measurement of the humerus in two different projections (a-p and lateral). The
           distance from the acromion localized on the shoulder blade will be measured in order to
           repeat the examination in the same area.

        -  radial bone examination in two different projections (a-p and lateral). The distance
           from the radiocarpal joint space will be measured in order to repeat the examination in
           the same area.

        -  additionally, POWER Doppler assessment of callus neovascularization will be performed
           (each recording of the Doppler frame parameters for a given patient in order to repeat
           the examination at subsequent controls)

      Experimental Design:

      The fracture diagnosis is planned to be performed on the day of the injury, or at an interval
      of no more than 2-3 days post the injury as an initial examination and approx. during 8 weeks
      after the injury as a comparative examination (during the first control in an orthopedic
      clinic after 14 days, 4 weeks, 6 weeks and/or 8 weeks).

      All the procedures performed in this study involving human participants will conform to the
      ethical guidelines of the 1975 Declaration of Helsinki (and its later amendments or
      comparable ethical standards, revised in 2013) and follow the Adapted Physical Activity (APA)
      Ethics Standard.

      The protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of Stanislaw Popowski Regional Specialized
      Children's Hospital in Olsztyn, Poland (number of approval: 6 ZE//2020/WSSD; date of
      approval: 22 May 2020).

      The experiment will be conducted with the understanding of each subject. All subjects as well
      as their parents will give written informed consent before children's participation in this
      study.
    
  