
    
      Atropine is an effective treatment of moderate amblyopia. Reduction of the plus sphere for
      the sound eye is an accepted method of enhancing and possibly accelerating the treatment
      effect. Demonstrating additional value of the plano lens in terms of speed of improvement
      will shorten the treatment period, possibly improving child and parental compliance, leading
      to improved overall outcomes for patients with amblyopia. If the plano lens leads to greater
      improvement, then there will be less permanent visual impairment in patients with a history
      of amblyopia. It also is important to determine if the use of a plano lens in conjunction
      with atropine has a deleterious effect on the sound eye, and if yes, how often this occurs.

      Little is known about the pharmacologic treatment of severe amblyopia. This study will
      provide important prospectively determined outcome data at little additional expense.

      In a study conducted by the Pediatric Eye Disease Investigator Group, A Randomized Trial
      Comparing Daily Atropine Versus Weekend Atropine for Moderate Amblyopia, the use of weekend
      atropine for moderate amblyopia was as effective as daily treatment. Intermittent atropine
      use (such as using it only on the weekends) has the theoretical potential benefit of the
      sound eye having some time each week during which cycloplegia is only partial. It is possible
      that allowing some loss of the cycloplegic effect over the course of each week may be safer
      for the sound eye.

      The study has been designed as a simple trial that, other than the type of amblyopia therapy
      being determined through the randomization process, approximates standard clinical practice.
      The two treatment regimes for the 18 week primary treatment period are: 1) Atropine 1% once
      each weekend day in the sound eye and 2) Atropine 1% once each weekend day in the sound eye
      plus a plano lens for the sound eye.
    
  