
    
      Primary Aim: To address whether, among pediatric patients with congenital heart defects (CHD)
      recovering from cardiovascular surgery and diagnosed with an asymptomatic venous TE, the use
      of enoxaparin results in a net therapeutic benefit. We hypothesize that enoxaparin dosed as
      per age-appropriate algorithms is associated with an increased rate of clot resolution and
      decreased rate of clot progression/long-term complications in children with CHD and
      asymptomatic venous TE. Benefits from clot resolution will outweigh the risks associated with
      the use of enoxaparin resulting in a net therapeutic benefit in favour of enoxaparin use in
      this context.

      Secondary aims of this study are to:

        1. To compare the rate of conversion from asymptomatic to symptomatic TE and/or
           thromboembolic events between treated and untreated patients. Hypothesis: the use of
           enoxaparin will significantly reduce the rate of conversion from asymptomatic to
           symptomatic TE.

        2. To compare the rate of objective clot progression (or regression) by serial imaging with
           ultrasound and echocardiography between treated and untreated patients. Hypothesis: the
           use of enoxaparin will significantly increase the rate of clot regression.

        3. To identify factors associated with: TE conversion from asymptomatic to symptomatic,
           clot resolution and post-thrombotic syndrome in both treated and untreated patients
           separately. Hypothesis: older children with a more mature coagulation system and those
           with TEs in superficial vessels (rather than deep/systemic vessels) will have a lower
           frequency of TE complications.

        4. To establish the rate of bleeding complications (both minor and major) for patients on
           enoxaparin. Hypothesis: we expect major bleeding complications to be present in 2-3% of
           treated patients and minor bleeding complications to be frequent.
    
  