
    
      The most widely used immunosuppressive regimen, in adult kidney transplant recipients,
      consists of an induction therapy accompanied by maintenance with tacrolimus, mycophenolate
      and steroids. In the long term, tacrolimus is the single most effective immunosuppressive
      agent. For adult kidney transplant recipients maintenance of therapeutic levels remains
      crucial regarding the prevention of allograft rejections. Greater blood levels variability is
      associated with inferior graft survival as well as non-adherence. Lower variability of
      tacrolimus blood levels after conversion to extended release tacrolimus formulations has been
      shown. In addition, once-daily administration promotes patient adherence. The latter is one
      of the major causes for allograft loss.

      In the first week after kidney transplantation stable tacrolimus blood levels are hardly
      achievable. Especially extended release tacrolimus formulations often yield high tacrolimus
      blood levels. High blood levels are a known risk factor for delayed graft function, which
      leads to a prolonged hospitalization and a reduced graft survival. Additionally high blood
      levels are associated with polyomavirus infections and may increase the incidence of
      new-onset diabetes after renal transplantation.

      Taking this into consideration, authors demand for calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-free
      immunosuppression or the delayed onset of CNI therapy after a stable graft function is
      reached. This would inevitably lead to a higher rate of acute allograft rejections in the
      early phase after kidney transplantation. Avoiding high tacrolimus levels, especially early
      after transplantation, to minimize delayed graft function as well as long term undesirable
      side effects, seems particularly necessary.

      For early dose adjustments of extended release tacrolimus formulations, more medical
      experience is needed compared to immediate release formulations. More stable tacrolimus blood
      levels can be seen after the first week of administration.

      To avoid high blood levels of tacrolimus, especially early after transplantation, the
      investigators aim to demonstrate in this study a non-inferiority of a low dose extended
      release tacrolimus regimen compared to a standard extended release tacrolimus-based
      immunosuppressive regimen in de novo renal transplantation. Given inclusion criteria and
      excluding the exclusion criteria, participants will be randomized into two groups, a standard
      tacrolimus administration group with daily dose adjustments within the first week after
      transplantation and a fixed dose tacrolimus administration group, without dose adjustments
      within the first week after transplantation. In the first 6 months after renal
      transplantation different blood levels of tacrolimus shall be reached. In the case of the
      standard tacrolimus administration group the investigators aim at tacrolimus blood levels of
      7-9 ng/ml in the first 2 months after transplantation and 6-8 ng/ml for days 61 to 180. In
      the fixed dose tacrolimus administration group, the low extended release tacrolimus dose of
      5mg per day well no be changed in the first week after transplantation. For safety reasons
      blinded measurements will take place in the first week and study officials will be alerted in
      case of repeated tacrolimus levels > 20 ng/ml. On days 7 to 60 the investigators aim at
      tacrolimus blood levels of 5-7 ng/ml and from days 61 to 180 4-6 ng/ml. Non inferiority will
      be assessed by a combined study endpoint consisting of the development of biopsy-proven
      rejection of BANFF class Ia or higher and/or graft loss and/or patient death within the first
      six months after renal transplantation.
    
  