
    
      During the initial visit, the investigator will collect several pieces of data from
      participants that are considered part of the routine care, if you are being seen in the
      clinic, this information will also be used for research purposes. Initially the investigator
      will ask participants to provide their age, gender, work status, disability status, type of
      work, whether a previous pain physician has evaluated or provided treatment in the past, if
      there is any ongoing litigation, a detailed description of the pain (burning, electrical,
      shooting…etc.) and its location. If the participants are being seen in the clinic for their
      normal care a detailed physical examination assessing the motor strength of the upper
      extremities, sensation to light touch and reflexes that is part of the standard of care will
      be provided for the participants. The participants will be asked to give a numerical value
      for their pain (a scale from 0-10 where 0 is no pain and 10 is the worst pain imagined). Two
      questionnaires will be provided for the participants to complete which are not standard of
      care. The first one is the EuroQol Group (EQ-5D) which provide an over assessment of the
      quality of life. The second is a medication log to document their analgesics use. If the
      participants are being evaluated via telephone call, the same questions will be conducted,
      but no physical exam will be provided.

      The participants will be assigned to either a white, or green light group. The participants
      have 50% chance of being in either group. Once the participants are assigned a light group,
      the participants will be given a strip of Light emitting diode, (LED) light that correspond
      to their color group. The participants will be asked to take and use the LED strip in a dark
      room in their house every day for two hours to be exposed to the light, the participants will
      do this for 10 weeks. The study start date and the outcome assessment timeline will begin
      from the date of your first exposure to the assigned light. The participants will be asked to
      complete their weekly questionnaires and daily log, these will be given to the participants
      on their first clinic visit or sent to the participants if they live out of town. There will
      be several follow up appointments as detailed below. There is a chance the participants may
      be asked to cross over into a different group from the one the participants were assigned,
      there will we a 2 week washout period, then return to clinic for light assignment then light
      exposure for 10 week, similar visits as described below.

      For the follow up clinic visit or phone call (Week 10), data similar to the information
      gathered at the initial visit will be collected. The description of the pain (burning,
      electrical, shooting…etc.) and its location will be reviewed. A physical examination
      assessing for pain and sensation to light touch that is part of the standard of care will be
      provided for the participants. At the end of the study, the participants will be asked to
      return the LED strip, their logs and questionnaires.

      There is an optional blood draw and saliva sample collection for patients that consent to
      this. Blood and saliva samples will be collected at baseline and end of study, blood draws
      will be done to look for inflammatory mediators, increased anti inflammatory mediators and
      endocannabinoids. Saliva samples will be collected to check for melatonin.
    
  