
    
      Catheter ablation (CA) has been established as a standard treatment especially in the setting
      of symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) by means of pulmonary vein isolation
      (PVI) as recommended in the current guidelines. However, limitations regarding the success
      rate but also the x-ray burden with regard to patient and operator remain. One of the
      fundamental disadvantages of CA as it is routinely performed today, based on sequential
      application of radiofrequency current (RFC), is the need to verify the catheter position
      throughout the procedure by using fluoroscopy. Catheter guidance in the left atrium has been
      facilitated by the introduction of three-dimensional mapping systems allowing catheter
      localization by either weak magnetic or electrical fields with a consecutive reduction of
      fluoroscopy burden. Nevertheless, despite these 3D mapping systems the fluoroscopy exposure
      to patient and particularly electrophysiologists is considerable over time. Potential
      complications associated with radiation exposure include acute and subacute skin injury as
      well as radiation-induced cancer and genetic abnormalities.

      Recently, a new image integration module (IIM, CartoUnivu™ Module) has been introduced
      allowing the combination and integration of fluoroscopic images within the 3D electroanatomic
      map. Thus, an accurate navigation without the use of fluoroscopy after acquisition of a left
      atrial (LA) angiography is possible throughout the procedure. This implies the generation of
      the 3D left atrial map and catheter navigation for mapping and ablation.

      The potential benefit of the new image integration module has been showing the recent pilot
      study.

      The procedural endpoint is the unexcitability of the ablation line after isolation of the
      pulmonary veins, as described in detail previously. Catheter manipulation should be guided by
      3D mapping if safe and feasible to minimize fluoroscopy time in both groups.
    
  