
    
      4 million children undergo surgery in the US each year and up to 65% of these children
      experience significant anxiety and distress before surgery. High anxiety can be traumatic,
      but it can also lead to postoperative adverse outcomes, such as increased pain and analgesics
      requirements, delayed hospital discharge, and maladaptive behavioral changes, in children
      after the surgery. Non-pharmacological intervention, complementary and alternative medicine
      (CAM) interventions, such as virtual reality, has been shown to decrease anxiety and distress
      in other medical procedures (e.g., burn care, phlebotomy). Yet to date, no clinical trial has
      been conducted to examine the effectiveness of virtual reality (VR) to reduce anxiety and
      distress prior to outpatient surgeries in the operating room setting.

      The current study aims to: 1) Determine if VR is more effective than standard care for
      preventing anxiety, distress, and pain before surgery among children undergoing anesthesia
      induction, 2) To evaluate healthcare provider's and caregiver's assessment of patient
      cooperation and caregiver's distress and satisfaction with VR compared to standard of care,
      and 3) to explore the influence of patient and caregiver characteristics on the effectiveness
      of VR in preventing pre-operative anxiety and distress and subsequent post-operative
      outcomes.

      Study Population: Children (age 10 - 21 years) and their parents who are scheduled to undergo
      outpatient surgery, whose health status is American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
      physical status I-III, and are in the normal range of development are eligible to be in the
      study.

      Study Methodology: The study is a randomized, controlled trial designed to examine the
      effects of VR on the level of preoperative pain, anxiety and distress of children undergoing
      surgery.

      Statistical Analyses: Univariate Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) will be used to compare
      differences in primary and secondary outcome variables in VR + standard of care to standard
      of care only conditions when pre and post-operative measures are available. Univariate ANOVA
      will be used to compare conditions on post-operative variables. Multiple regression analyses
      will be used to examine the influence of patient and caregiver variables on patient outcomes
      in the VR group only.
    
  