
    
      This study is being conducted in accordance with the Good Clinical Practice guidelines as
      enunciated in the international Conference on Harmonization (ICP/GCP) of 2016 and the
      Declaration of Helsinki, 2013.

      Sample Size:

      The sample size calculated based on a study done by Shahraki et al who studied the efficacy
      of intravenous Dexamethasone in prolonging the duration of Spinal Anesthesia in elective
      Caesarean Section in an Indian population (36).

      The following values were used for the calculation of the sample size: the required value of
      α was 5%, β was 10%, a clinically significant difference in Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score
      at 1-hour post-surgery was considered 2 and the expected standard deviation was 2.5 (36). The
      equation used was:

      n = (Zα/2+Zβ)2 *2*σ2 / d2,

      where Zα/2 is the critical value of the normal distribution at α/2 (α is 0.05), Zβ is the
      critical value of the normal distribution at β of 0.10. σ2 is the population variance (2.52),
      and d is the difference to be detected (2). The calculated sample size is 14 patients in each
      group. In order allow for a potential loss of data up to 10% the target sample size required
      would be 16 in each group.

      Assumptions:

        1. The population size is limited by:

             1. patient's age,

             2. gestational age,

             3. the type of birth - only Caesarian births,

             4. use of a single hospital - VJH

             5. the duration of the research of approximately 2 to 3 months.

        2. As a result of item 1, when the Finite Population model is used to determine the sample
           size -

      S = Z2 * p(p-1) / E2

      1 + (Z2 * p(p-1) / E2N)

      Other parameters include:

        1. 95% Confidence level

        2. Margin of error 5%

        3. Number of live births at VJH in 2016 estimated at 8140 live births

        4. Number of Caesarian births same period = 1652

        5. Percent of Caesarian births (with access to in 2 to 3 months) = 3.6 to 5%

      The computed sample size ranges from 53 (2 months) to 72 (3 months) The decision was made to
      include 30 patients in each group totaling 60 persons for the sample size for this study.

      Research assistants received training in the study protocol. Presentations were made to the
      registration clerks, obstetricians, midwives and other nursing staff to introduce them to the
      study.

      Recruitment The registration clerk informs the patients of the study being carried out from
      admission to hospital. The ward nurse, upon admitting the patient, determine if they meet the
      criteria and indicates same to a member of the research team. Written informed consent is
      obtained by an independent research assistant, once it is confirmed that the patient meets
      the criteria, to avoid any perception of coercion on the night before or the morning of their
      procedure. The patient's autonomy is respected and quality medical care will is provided for
      those who participate in the study as well as those who decline.

      Conceptual Definition of Variables Duration of analgesia: the time from intrathecal injection
      to the time of the first request for analgesia or Visual Analogue Pain Scale score > 4.

      Duration of motor blockade: the time from intrathecal injection to the time when the patient
      is able to flex their knees with free movement of their feet in any plane.

      Data Collection/ Storage The data collected for research is stored in a secured area in the
      Anesthetic Office at the Kingston Public Hospital with access limited to the research team
      only. Back-up of the data is stored off-site in a locked room in the Anesthetic Office of the
      University Hospital of the West Indies. Each patient is assigned a study number, and strict
      security measures are employed to ensure maximum protection of data and the privacy of the
      research subjects such as password protection and anonymity of data.

      If a participant decides to withdraw from the study, the data collected prior to withdrawal
      may be used in data analysis and the same anonymity applies. Withdrawal from the study will
      not affect the participant's access to quality health care.

      Source Data Verification This is done by cross-referencing the data entered on the data
      collection forms with the patients' dockets.

      Statistical Analysis The data will be managed and analyzed using Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences [SPSS] version 26.0 (2019). Uni-variate, bi-variate and multi-variate
      analysis of the data will be done. Uni-variate analysis will include means ± standard
      deviation. Bi-variate analysis will include will include independent/ paired t-tests for
      quantitative data; Chi square test and Mann-Whitney's U test where applicable. Multi-variate
      analysis will include regression and other measurements where necessary. A p value of less
      than 0.05 will be deemed statistically significant.
    
  