
    
      Currently most percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) are planned and performed on the
      basis of invasive coronary angiography which provides the information that is confined to the
      vessel lumen. This limitation may be partially responsible for the unfavorable long term
      outcome and complications that occur in some patients. Additional information on the disease
      burden in angiographically normal coronary segments adjacent to the lesion site could impact
      the treatment strategy and clinical results. Imaging modalities that allow not only lumen but
      also vessel wall assessment include both invasive (e.g. intravascular ultrasounds - IVUS) and
      non-invasive (e.g. multislice computed tomography - MSCT) methods. IVUS guidance of the
      coronary interventions is expensive and given its invasiveness is related to the additional
      risk. The number of patients who are referred for coronary angiography with significant
      stenosis diagnosed with MSCT is rapidly increasing. Most interventional cardiologists are not
      familiar with coronary vessel images produced by MSCT. The aim of our study is to assess if
      the analyses of MSCT images before the PCI may impact the treatment strategy and immediate
      results. The study will enroll subjects with significant coronary stenosis diagnosed with
      MSCT who are referred to the catheterisation laboratory for invasive angiography and PCI. The
      study participants will be randomized into two groups:

      Group 1 - the results of MSCT are analysed by the interventional cardiologist that is to
      perform angiography and PCI. Based on this analysis preliminary procedural strategy is
      planned (stent diameters, decision on direct stenting vs. predilatation, decision on
      postdilation) Group 2 - interventional cardiologist is blinded to the images obtained by
      MSCT. The PCI procedure is performed solely on the basis of invasive coronary angiography In
      both study groups IVUS will be performed before and after stent implantation. The operator
      will be blinded to the results of pre-PCI IVUS. The second IVUS will be performed when
      angiographic results are optimal in the opinion of the operator. The results of the second
      IVUS examination will be the efficacy measure of the two compared treatment strategies.
    
  