
    
      Study Design

      This is a 4-week randomized controlled trial consisting of two groups: 1) participants who
      receive an educational brochure regarding physical activity after stroke, combined with
      motivational telephone support (intervention group), and 2) participants who receive the
      educational brochure alone (control group).

      Interventions

      Participants in the control group will be asked to devote approximately 30 minutes of their
      time to this study over the course of 4 weeks, and those in the intervention group will be
      involved for a total of 85 minutes.

        1. Educational Brochure (both intervention and control groups): The educational brochure,
           Aerobic Exercise After Stroke, will be provided to all participants in the study. The
           brochure was created by researchers from the Canadian Partnership for Stroke Recovery
           and written for a stroke audience. It was designed to educate individuals with stroke
           about the benefits of aerobic exercise, exercise intensity, and provide a sample
           program.

        2. Motivational Telephone Support (intervention group only): Motivational telephone support
           is an inexpensive way of supplementing the educational brochure for facilitating
           physical activity behaviors by establishing a personal connection and providing ongoing
           support and motivation. Participants in the intervention group will receive a total of 4
           phone calls that will take place at 1-week intervals. Each telephone session will last
           approximately 15 minutes, where issues regarding ongoing physical activity, such as
           relapses and road blocks, will be addressed. Also, ongoing motivation and support will
           be provided as needed to re-direct participants back onto the path of physical activity
           engagement.

      Statistical Analyses

      Baseline participant characteristics will be analyzed using descriptive statistics. A two-way
      analysis on variance will be used to compare mean differences in physical activity and
      self-efficacy between the intervention and control group considering a group X time
      interaction
    
  