
    
      Providing care for a family member with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD, aka,
      "dementia") is both rewarding and risky. Care Partners exposed to chronic stress, often over
      years, are susceptible to physical and psychological ailments. Effective interventions that
      reduce Care Partner burden and health risks are available, but various factors impede
      participation, including distance, cost, behavioral symptoms of dementia, stigma and social
      anxiety. Recognizing the need to reduce barriers to access, scientists have turned to
      Internet-based interventions. Recent research indicates that multi-component,
      technology-facilitated interventions which allow Care Partner engagement with health
      professionals are effective and favored by Care Partners. However, a minority of
      telehealth-based interventions allow for health professional engagement and, of these, only a
      handful provide real-time interaction. Further, Hopwood et al. concluded that, despite the
      fact that family needs vary across ADRD stages, the interventions reviewed were not targeted
      to specific stages of dementia.

      To address the needs of families living with dementia, the investigators have completed two
      pilot studies using Internet-based Care Partner interventions. These studies tested the
      feasibility and consumer acceptability of the evidence-based, STAR-C intervention, the
      precursor to Tele-STELLA, when delivered via telehealth. Qualitative data revealed the
      telehealth intervention was acceptable to Care Partners and preferred over a potential
      in-home intervention. The investigators found that burden was reduced, but depression was
      not. This may be because the interaction with the Guide formally ended after Session 8,
      leaving Care Partners with a sense of isolation, as this one commented: "I went through
      withdrawals… I wanted to call her (the Guide)-who can I turn to?" The prototype interventions
      did not include meaningful opportunities for Care Partners to interact with each other
      post-intervention. Care Partners felt their support vanished and did not like "the fact that
      it was over." Care Partners advised that future interventions should include both one-to-one
      sessions and one-to-multiple sessions.

      Based on the qualitative and quantitative data from the pilot work, Tele-STELLA was designed
      to address the specific needs of families living with moderate to severe dementia.
      Tele-STELLA is a multi-component, tailored intervention that begins with one-to-one sessions
      with each Care Partner and Guide, then links Care Partners to each other in a meaningful way
      to sustain support post intervention. Tele-STELLA is designed for families living in the
      later stages of dementia, where behavioral symptoms are more prominent and distressing.

      The ultimate goal of this study is to diminish the frequency of behavioral symptoms that
      persons with dementia experience, and Care Partner reactivity to these symptoms. Based on
      Kales et al. framework, behavioral symptoms arise from unmet needs, overburdened Care
      Partners and environmental factors, all within the context of cultural background and
      beliefs. Behavioral symptoms are bidirectional in that the person with dementia's behaviors
      affects the Care Partner's behaviors and vice versa. The investigators hypothesize that
      addressing these factors will reduce behavioral symptom frequency, and, in turn, Care Partner
      reactivity to them, resulting in reduced Care Partner burden, depression and grief.

      Tele-STELLA allows all study activities to be done in Care Partners' homes, using
      videoconferencing, email and phones. This includes assessments of burden and depression using
      electronic versions of classic measures. No visits to university sites are needed.

      The purpose of this study is to test a revised psychoeducational intervention to help Care
      Partners for family members with dementia understand and reduce the distressing behaviors
      that come with progressive dementia. Tele-STELLA (Support via TEchnology: Living and Learning
      with Advancing Alzheimer's disease and related dementias) is a multicomponent
      videoconference-based intervention designed to facilitate effective management of behavioral
      and psychological symptoms common to the later stages of dementia. In the Tele-STELLA
      intervention, professionals ("Guides") meet with family members ("Care Partners") who care
      for persons with dementia. Working together, the Care Partners and Guides identify strategies
      to address upsetting behaviors. The goal of this intervention is to reduce upsetting
      behaviors and, thus, Care Partner burden.

      The specific aims of this study are:

      Aim 1. Establish the feasibility and acceptability of Tele-STELLA

        1. Assess the feasibility of implementing Tele-STELLA across three sites.

        2. Assess feasibility and acceptability of the Constellation component of Tele-STELLA.

        3. Assess user acceptability of Tele-STELLA and fidelity to the intervention protocol.
           Refine and optimize Tele-STELLA, as needed, based on above findings.

      Aim 2. Establish the efficacy of Tele-STELLA in reducing the frequency of behavioral and
      psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) and Care Partner reactivity to the symptoms.

      H1: Participants who completed the Tele-STELLA intervention will report a significant
      reduction in the frequency of BPSD and Care Partner reactivity to the BPSD.
    
  