
    
      Stage 1:

      Bone marrow will be collected from otherwise healthy patients undergoing orthopedic surgery -
      arthroplasty for the treatment of degenerative joint disease or traumatised patients. The
      bone marrow will be collected from disposable tissue that is removed during the normal
      sequence of the surgery. These cells will be used for:

      Establishment of the role of RING ubiquitin ligases in osteogenic progenitors proliferation
      and differentiation in culture.

      I. To determine the levels of RING ubiquitin ligases mRNA and protein in differentiating
      human mesenchymal precursor cells: To test the correlation between levels of RING ubiquitin
      ligases and degree of osteogenic differentiation, we will extract mesenchymal precursor cells
      from the collected tissue and test the mRNA protein level of RING ubiquitin ligases upon
      induction of differentiation. Specifically, we will compare the levels of RING ubiquitin
      ligases RING ubiquitin ligases before and after the initiation of differentiational stimulus
      in time dependent manner by western blot and real time PCR analysis.

      II. To test the impact of RING ubiquitin ligases on differentiation of human mesenchymal
      precursor cells: to test the impact of RING ubiquitin ligases on the differentiation of
      mesenchymal precursor cell from the collected tissue by testing the expression of classical
      differentiational bone markers by flow cytometry (fibronectin, CD105) and by Alkaline
      phosphatase (ALP) activity assay. For this aim we developed both a constitutive and
      Dox-regulated conditional RING ubiquitin ligases overexpression and shRNA lenti-viral systems
      that enables efficient modulation of RING ubiquitin ligases level.

      III. Determine the role of RING ubiquitin ligases in proliferation and survival of human
      mesenchymal precursor cells: We will test the role of their in proliferation and survival of
      mesenchymal precursors by using MTT assay, Propidion-Iodid (PI) and tunnel assays in flow
      cytometry analysis.

      Stage 2:

      Collection of connective tissue from patients with malignancies of musculoskeletal origin.
      The tissue that will be used is part of the resected tumor specimens. The tissue will be used
      for:

      The establishment of the role/s of RING ubiquitin ligases in musculoskeletal cancers using
      cell culture and in vivo.

      I. Test the role of our in proliferation and survival in musculoskeletal cancers: Using our
      lentiviral systems we will test the biological impact of inhibition and overexpression in
      musculoskeletal neoplastic cells.

      II. Test whether inhibition or overexpression of these ligases impacts the biology of
      musculoskeletal cancers.We will check if inhibition of these ligases in malignant cells of
      musculoskeletal origin by lenti-viral infections induces differentiation. Infected cells will
      be analyzed for expression of differentiational markers in flow cytometry and
      immunohistochemistry.

      III. Test if expression of RING ubiquitin ligases correlates with cancer development and
      progression in human-derived samples Independently of our mechanistic experiment we aim to
      determine the relevance of RING ubiquitin ligases to human musculoskeletal cancers.

      Patients consent will be signed after properly informed at time of pre-surgical preparation
      visit. In cases when pre-surgical visit is not held consent will be signed prior to the day
      of surgery.
    
  