
    
      Intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH) and abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS) have been shown
      to cause organ dysfunction and mortality in different populations of critically ill patients.
      According to consensus definitions published by the World Society for the Abdominal
      Compartment Syndrome (WSACS), secondary IAH is due to a disease process outside the abdominal
      cavity. It is mainly caused by massive fluid resuscitation leading to bowel and abdominal
      wall edema or increased intra-abdominal volume and decreased abdominal wall compliance. Large
      observational studies have shown that positive fluid balance is an independent risk factor
      for mortality. The development of secondary IAH may be one of the mechanisms involved in this
      phenomenon. This has lead to the hypothesis that prognosis may be improved by managing fluid
      overload and aiming for a negative fluid balance as soon as possible after the resuscitation
      phase of the disease.

      Several authors have shown in case reports and small series that renal replacement therapy
      with ultrafiltration can be used successfully to remove excess fluid and lower
      intra-abdominal pressure (IAP), but renal replacement therapy is invasive and clinicians may
      be reluctant in considering this therapy in patients with preserved diuresis and kidney
      function. In an effort to achieve the same goal using a less invasive technique, the new
      medical management algorithm for IAH published by the WSACS recommends the use of judicious
      diuresis in order to achieve a negative fluid balance and a decrease in IAP.

      However, the kidney is especially sensitive to the deleterious effects of IAH and may be
      unresponsive to diuretics in the presence of IAH. Also, ongoing inflammation and capillary
      leak may lead to relative hypovolemia and impaired response to diuretics.

      We plan a multicenter study to evaluate the influence of furosemide on fluid balance and IAP
      in critically ill patients with secondary intra-abdominal hypertension and to document the
      effect on the function of other organ systems. The aim of this study is to evaluate the
      feasibility and the safety of the furosemide administration protocol and to provide
      preliminary data to allow for an adequate power calculation.
    
  