
    
      The investigators will use the United States Renal Data System (USRDS), a registry of all
      patients on dialysis in the US irrespective of payer. The dataset includes patient
      characteristics (biologic and sociodemographic) within 45 days of initiating dialysis for all
      patients with ESKD irrespective of insurance coverage, death data for all patients with ESKD
      irrespective of insurance, dialysis facility characteristics, which are updated annually,
      longitudinal treatment data submitted by the end-stage renal disease (ESRD) networks for all
      patients irrespective of insurance, and CROWNWeb clinical data: monthly treatment data (e.g.,
      Kt/V, treatment time, serum hemoglobin, vascular access) submitted by dialysis facilities for
      all patients irrespective of insurance. The registry is linked to Fee-for-service Medicare
      claims for all patients with this payer. All data have already been collected (i.e., this is
      a retrospective study) and deidentified by a data distributor.

      The investigators have also obtained a cross-sectional dataset of dialysis facilities and
      physician owners in 2017 from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) through a
      Freedom of Information Act request.

      In this study, the investigators will link the USRDS to this cross-sectional dataset. The
      investigators will also link the data to publicly available data from Dialysis Facility
      Compare (which contains quality performance of each dialysis facility, published by the
      government on a quarterly basis) and Census data (which contains geographic sociodemographic
      characteristics).

      From this data linkage, the investigators will study differences between facilities that are
      physician owned and those that are not physician owned. The investigators will study outcomes
      both at the facility level and the patient level.

      All models will have an alpha of 5% and will have 2-sided statistical tests.

      For facility level outcomes:

      The investigators will construct a facility level dataset and compare physician-owned
      facilities to non-physician owned facilities adjusting for facility characteristics and
      regional (zipcode level) sociodemographic characteristics. The investigators will also test
      the effect of incorporating patient characteristics into the model. For patient
      characteristics, the investigators will take the average for each facility's population
      (e.g., average age, % of patients male, etc.). The investigators will use ordinary least
      squares for continuous outcomes and logistic regression for binary outcomes. The
      investigators will use robust standard errors.

      For patient level outcomes:

      The investigators will construct a patient-month panel dataset and compare patients dialyzing
      at physician-owned facilities to those dialyzing at non-physician owned facilities. The
      investigators will adjust for patient, facility, and zipcode level sociodemographic
      characteristics. Since all outcomes are binary, the investigators will use logistic
      regression for all models. The investigators' primary analysis will be logistic regression,
      adjusting for patient, facility, zipcode characteristics, with patient-level fixed effects
      and non-parametric bootstrap standard errors. In order, The investigators will explore the
      sensitivity of results to the following:

        -  logistic regression with all adjusters, patient-level fixed effects, and robust standard
           errors

        -  ordinary least squares with all adjusters, patient-level fixed effects, cluster-robust
           standard errors at the facility level

        -  ordinary least squares with all adjusters, patient-level fixed effects, robust standard
           errors

      The investigators also pre-specify the adjusters below:

      Patient characteristics (comorbidities will be obtained using the Chronic Conditions
      Warehouse software on a 12 month lookback of Medicare fee-for-service claims)

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Race

        -  Ethnicity

        -  Prior transplant

        -  Incident patient (first 120 days of dialysis)

        -  Years with ESRD

        -  Dual Eligibility

        -  Hypertension

        -  Alzheimers

        -  Atrial fibrilation

        -  Prior myocardial infarction

        -  Asthma

        -  Breast Cancer

        -  Cataract

        -  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease

        -  Colorectal Cancer

        -  Depression

        -  Diabetes

        -  Endometrial Cancer

        -  Glaucoma

        -  Congestive Heart Failure

        -  Hip Fracture

        -  Hyperlipidemia

        -  Hypertension

        -  Ischemic heart disease

        -  Lung cancer

        -  Osteoporosis

        -  Prostate Cancer

        -  Rheumatoid Arthritis / Osteoarthritis

        -  Prior stroke / transient ischemic attack

        -  Benign prostatic hyperplasia

      Facility characteristics

        -  For-profit status

        -  Chain owned

        -  Number of patients at facility

        -  Patient:staff ratio

        -  ESRD Network

      Regional (zipcode level) sociodemographic characteristics

        -  Median Income

        -  % of zipcode with high school degree

        -  % of zipcode below poverty line

      We pre-specify a subgroup analysis by whether the dialysis facility is owned by a large
      dialysis organization (i.e., Davita, Fresenius).
    
  