
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of morbidity and disability worldwide with
      abnormalities in the stress response circuitry and central autonomic network. Many of these
      regions are sexually dimorphic and related with sex differences in mood and
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis modulation, the dysregulation of which is
      associated with alterations of hormone and immune responses to stress, autonomic dysfunction
      and increased cardiovascular risk. The primary goal of this study is to use non-invasive
      neuromodulatory stimulation of the vagus to target the circuitry associated with
      stress-immune function and map its neuroanatomic and physiological effects in MDD by sex.
      Vagal nerve stimulation (VNS), FDA-approved for MDD, modulates brain circuitry implicated in
      mood/anxiety and autonomic regulation, however, it is implanted and thus invasive. We propose
      the use of a physiologically-enhanced transcutaneous VNS (tVNS) as a low risk, non-invasive,
      and inexpensive alternative. While tVNS has had beneficial effects on depressive
      symptomatology and autonomic regulation, current stimulation parameters are based on
      historical iVNS data that included mostly male populations. We propose that tVNS effects on
      the regulation of specific brainstem-cortical pathways is modulated by sex. Moreover, as the
      dorsal medullary vagal system operates in tune with respiration, we recently demonstrated
      that tVNS can be optimized by gating stimulation to respiration. Thus, this study proposes to
      identify the sex-dependent impact of expiratory-gated tVNS on the modulation of stress
      response circuitry alterations and physiological dysregulation of recurrent MDD. We will
      evaluate a sample of 80 adults with recurrent MDD randomized to receive active tVNS or sham
      stimulation during a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) session. The fMRI session
      will include a stress challenge designed to elicit a sympatho-excitatory state, with
      simultaneous mood and physiological assessments, including hormonal and dynamic cardiovagal
      heart rate variability (HRV) evaluations. We hypothesize that expiratory-gated tVNS will
      effectively modulate specific brainstem-cortical pathways of the stress response circuitry
      and will attenuate physiological deficits of recurrent MDD patients. We further hypothesize
      that tVNS will impact brain activity and physiology in sex-dependent ways.
    
  