
    
      A total of 30 healthy men and women ages 18-79 years who are obese defined as body mass index
      (BMI) of 30 kg/m2 or greater and with prediabetes (defined as fasting blood glucose between
      100-126 mg/dl, a fasting blood glucose of 140-199 mg/dl at 120 min during an oral glucose
      tolerance test; or HbA1C of 6-6.5%) will be enrolled and randomized to 4-5 weeks of salsalate
      or placebo in the study. CONTROL GROUP: Another n=10 healthy obese men and women age 18-49
      WITHOUT prediabetes will be enrolled for baseline testing but will not undergo randomization
      to the salsalate/placebo intervention. Therefore, total enrollment will be n=40.

      All subjects will have no history of cardiovascular, metabolic or pulmonary disease as
      determined from medical history and physical exam, and a resting 12-lead ECG. Subjects may be
      on anti-hypertensive medications but will be asked to hold the medication on the morning of
      testing. Subjects on medications for Type I or II diabetes mellitus or for hyperlipidemia
      will be excluded (see complete list below). Subjects will be non-smokers or quit smoking at
      least one year ago. Women will have regular menses and will be tested during the early
      follicular phase of their menstrual cycle (within 8 days of onset of menses) to control for
      differences in circulating estradiol concentrations. Aim 1 will measure microvascular
      function and aortic wall stiffness in obese prediabetic adults before and after 1 month of
      salsalate or placebo. Hypothesis 1 is that chronic inflammation inhibition will improve
      microvascular and large elastic artery function in obese adults with prediabetes. Aim 2 will
      measure muscle sympathetic nervous system activity (MSNA) and baroreflex sensitivity in obese
      prediabetic adults before and after 1 month of salsalate or placebo. Hypothesis 2 is that
      chronic inflammation inhibition will decrease MSNA and improve baroreflex sensitivity in
      obese adults with prediabetes.
    
  