
    
      Discectomy for lumbar disc herniation is one of the most common operation performed worldwide
      for lumbar-related symptoms. The basic principle of the various techniques is to relieve the
      nerve root compression induced by the herniation. Over the past 30 years, many technical
      improvements have decreased operative trauma by reducing incision size, thereby reducing
      postoperative pain and hospital stay and time off work, while improving clinical outcome.
      Magnification and illumination systems by microscope and endoscope have been introduced to
      enable minimally invasive techniques. Lumbar interbody fusion using cages has gained momentum
      in the recent years after approval of the cages by the FDA (United States Federal Drug
      Administration) for lumbar interbody insertion. The indications for this procedure remain
      controversial and include mechanical low back pain, degenerative disc disease, recurrent disc
      herniation, spondylolisthesis (grade I). In degenerative disc disease or following surgical
      discectomy, segmental stenosis occurs due to a combination of disc herniation, posterior
      osteophyte formation, facet overriding and hypertrophy and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy. All
      these factors combine to compromise the nerve root as it exits through the intervertebral
      foramen resulting in recurrent radiculopathy. In such cases, Lumbar inter body fusion using
      cages can open up the intervertebral foramen by maintaining or restoring disc height. On the
      other hand, there is considerable controversy surrounding the effectiveness of lumbar fusion
      for the treatment of low back pain. Among the different surgical approaches available, with
      or without instrumentation, none can be considered the "gold standard". The technique and
      results of inter body fusion were first reported by Cloward. It did not, however, gain
      widespread acceptance due to technical difficulties. Insertion of a rectangular bone graft
      makes it difficult to avoid nerve root trauma resulting in radicular deficit or irritation
      and dural tears. Non-union or bone graft extrusion were reported as well as bone graft
      collapse with subsequent segmental stenosis.In the past few years, rigid cages housing
      autogenous bone have become increasingly popular for the purpose of interbody fusion. Their
      ease of insertion has decreased the technical difficulties of the earlier Cloward approach
      and makes the procedure more reproducible. The rigidity of the cages also allows for the
      preservation of the disc space. Cages are available in a wide variety of shapes and designs,
      the most common being the cylindrical and rectangular wedge shaped cages.
    
  