
    
      The Outcome Measures (tests) to be used in this study were identified from a survey of Health
      Professionals across the UK. The top 5 in use were:

      SIGAM Mobility Grades The Special Interest Group in Amputee Medicine (SIGAM) Mobility Grades
      describe a single-item scale of amputee mobility. A self-reported questionnaire has 21 yes/no
      items and when the answers are applied to an algorithm a final grade is assigned. There are 8
      grades that can be assigned.

      Timed up and go (TUAG) The TUAG test is a standardised quantitative measure of most of the
      manoeuvres required for 'basic mobility'. The subject is timed as they stand up from a chair,
      walk 3m, turn and return to the chair. The score is the time, in seconds, taken to complete
      the circuit.

      2 Minute Walk Test A timed walk test is often used to measure functional exercise capacity.
      Participants are instructed to walk from end to end of an enclosed quiet corridor, covering
      as much ground as possible in two minutes. The score will be the distance walked in metres.

      Locomotor Capability Index LCI-5) The Locomotor Capability Index (LCI-5) is a
      self-administered scale specifically designed for use with lower limb amputees. It has 14
      questions about locomotor activities. The answers required are either yes or no to questions
      phrased such as: "Would you say you are able to do the following activities with your
      prosthesis on?" The total scores from each activity are totalled for a possible maximum score
      of 56.

      Socket Comfort Score This score is a subjective measure of how comfortable the amputee feels
      the socket is at the time the score is taken. Amputees are asked a standard question: 'On a 0
      - 10 scale, if 0 represents the most uncomfortable socket fit you can imagine, and 10
      represents the most comfortable socket fit, how would you score the comfort of the socket fit
      of your artificial limb at the moment?" Their response on the 11 point scale is then
      recorded.

      Finally the EQ-5D™ will be administered. The EQ-5D™ is a self-administered, standardised
      instrument that measures health outcomes. It provides a simple descriptive profile and a
      single index for the participants health status at the time of the test.

      At the first Test Visit (TV1) written consent will be obtained from the amputee by the
      Researcher and the amputee will be enrolled as a study participant. Baseline measurements for
      all the tests will also be taken at this visit as well as basic demographic data recording
      age, cause of amputation, level of amputation and any relevant concomitant medical history.

      This study utilises a test-retest methodology and Test Visit 2 (TV2) will occur within 7 and
      10 days of TV1 when the tests will be repeated.

      Every effort will be made to complete the tests at the same time of day for each of the
      participant's study visits and the order of the measurements will be randomly assigned at
      each visit.
    
  