
    
      Coronavirus (COVID-19) has become a worldwide pandemic. The mortality rates are highest in
      the older age groups, particularly in those 70 years and older. In Sweden, the government
      urges people 70 years and older to limit close contact with other people and to stay at home
      as much as possible, a strategy called social distancing. From previous epidemics, such as
      the SARS-epidemic, we know that quarantine and isolation leads to psychological symptoms such
      as stress, irritability, depressed mood and sleep problems. About 30% of those subjected to
      isolation and quarantine become depressed, and in a study from Hong Kong during SARS there
      was a nearly 32% increase of suicide rates among individuals 65 years and older. In Sweden,
      depression among the elderly was a major public health concern before the covid-19-pandemic -
      Major depression occurred in 5-15 % of the older population in Sweden, and one third of the
      women and a fifth of the men 65 years and older reported subclinical depressive symptoms.
      Several mental health experts raise concerns that there will be an increase of psychiatric
      illness during and after covid-19, particularly among the elderly.

      Depression in older individuals can be treated with antidepressant medication, psychological
      interventions and physical activity. However, the majority of the older individuals state
      that they would prefer psychological treatments to medication, which poses a challenge during
      COVID-19 as such treatments are often delivered face-to-face. Psychological treatments
      delivered via the Internet are as efficacious as face-to-face, but only 3-4% of the
      individuals 65 years and above in Sweden use digital applications that replace physical
      healthcare visits.

      Psychological treatments have been shown to work when delivered via telephone, and since
      practically every household in Sweden has access to a telephone, the investigators believe
      this could be a feasible option. Preferably, the treatment should be brief yet effective, and
      easily accessible for healthcare professionals. One such treatment is brief behavioral
      activation (BA), which is aimed at increasing enjoyable and meaningful activities to improve
      mood. BA has been shown to be feasible in as few as four sessions. Depression is often
      accompanied by low motivation and lack of energy, which can pose a problem when trying to
      increase activities. One way of increasing motivation in BA and the likelihood of performing
      the planned activities is to add mental imagery (MI), where some of these activities are
      imagined in detail during the calls.

      However, there are to the investigators knowledge no studies of telephone-delivered brief BA
      for older individuals, no studies of the combination of BA and MI for depression in the
      elderly, and no studies of either of these during pandemics with isolation or quarantine.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate the feasibility, effect and experience of
      telephone-delivered Behavioral Activation with Mental Imagery for the treatment of depressive
      symptoms in individuals 65 years and older during the covid-19-pandemic.
    
  