
    
      Overweight and obesity among children are major problems, not only in The Netherlands, but
      globally. Childhood obesity is associated with an increased risk for the development of
      different disease, like cardiovascular disease and sleep disorders, but it can also affect
      quality of life.

      It's important to start promoting a healthy lifestyle among children and their parents in an
      early stage. The use of effective communication and respect to the language used is very
      important. However, international studies have shown that professionals experience barriers
      in starting a conversation about overweight and lifestyle. Examples of barriers may be fear
      of harm to the child, fear of parents' reactions and parents unmotivated to change. Knowledge
      regarding possible barriers and facilitators experienced specifically by Dutch healthcare
      professionals in talking about overweight is scarce.

      National guidelines and the development of different visual tools (such as posters with
      pictures of healthy portion sizes and sugar amounts in beverages) are provided as
      facilitators in (visually) addressing lifestyle improvement by healthcare providers. However,
      they mainly focus on giving advice about creating a healthy lifestyle, rather than engaging
      in a conversation with children and parents about the current weight and lifestyle and
      exploring their views. In other words: these tools are developed to directly address the
      measures to be taken to change lifestyle, rather than discussing the status quo and exploring
      the underlying motivation. Within Centre for Overweight Adolescent and Children's Healthcare
      (COACH) at the Maastricht University Medical Centre (MUMC+) a tool was developed, based on
      motivational interviewing, to help professionals engage in conversation with children with
      overweight or obesity about weight and lifestyle.

      The aim of this study is to identify barriers and facilitators perceived by healthcare
      professionals to start a conversation with a child about weight and lifestyle. In addition,
      this study researches the effects of the developed COACH Conversationstarter, a tool that can
      help healthcare professionals to start a conversation with children about overweight and
      lifestyle and to gain more insight in the views, thoughts and beliefs of the child and its
      family.
    
  