
    
      Sarcoidosis is an inflammatory condition rarely affecting the heart, exhibiting fluctuating
      disease activity and eventually leading to ventricular fibrosis. Clinical presentation ranges
      from no symptoms at all to life-threatening arrhythmias, heart failure and death in severe
      cases. The heart lesions show patchy distribution and can mimic virtually any other type of
      cardiomyopathy, which poses significant challenges for the accurate and eary diagnosis.

      At present, there are four diagnostic tools and recomendations for diagnosis of cardiac
      sarcoidosis (CS) that utilize clinical, ECG, laboratory, imaging and biopsy criteria.
      Recently, it was demonstrated that there is a significant diagreement between these four
      diagnostic tools. On the other hand, earlier identification of patients with active
      inflammatory process is necessary, as they are those who will most likely benefit from
      immunosuppressive therapy.

      The aim of this observational study is to evaluate the prognostic significance of the current
      clinical, ECG, laboratory, imaging and biopsy criteria for diagnosing cardiac sarcoidosis.
      Patients with suspected cardiac sarcoidosis based on clinical symptoms will recieve elaborate
      diagnostic work-up consisting of: evaluation of symptoms, family history, occupational
      hazards, ECG, chest X-ray, laboratory markers for sarcoidosis, positron emission tomography
      (PET), cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) as well as endomyocardial biopsy.

      In accordance to the recomendations of the current guidelines, the patients will be devided
      into 3 groups: 1) patients with proven CS; 2) patients with probable CS; and 3) unlikely CS
      that will serve as a reference group. The patients in first two groups will be treated with
      immunosuppressive therapy, mainly glucocorticoids (GC). The follow-up at 3, 6, 12 and 24
      months will consist of evaluation of the symptoms using dedicated King's Sarcoidosis
      Questionaire (KSQ), fatigue assessment scale (FAS), Holter-ECG, pacemaker interrogation,
      laboratory findings, imaging with PET and CMR.

      Clinical outcomes will be defined as: 1) improvement of symptoms (FAS score, heart failure
      class, AV block, ventricular arrhythmias, and KSQ score) and 2) improvement of imaging
      parameters ( left ventricular ejection fraction, PET activity, myocardial edema, scar in
      CMR). The outcomes between the groups will be compared using group 3 as reference.
      Furthermore, patients with improvement with GC (successful therapy) will be compared with
      those without improvement (unsuccessful therapy) and the predictive value of each diagnostic
      criterion will be evaluated. Finally, the odds ratios (OR) for each parameter will be used to
      calculate a diagnostic and predictive score which will be used prospectively to evaluate
      patients with suspected CS and to guide the therapy.
    
  