
    
      This is a multicenter, multinational, prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled Phase
      3 study.

      The subjects eligible for this trial have an early stage node-positive breast cancer. Their
      tumors express low or intermediate levels of the HER2 protein. NeuVax™ will be administered
      after completion of front-line, standard of care therapy (surgery, radiation therapy, and
      chemotherapy) and can be given concomitantly with physician prescribed endocrine treatment.

      NeuVax™ is the immmunodominant nonapeptide derived from the extracellular domain of the HER2
      protein, a well-established target for therapeutic intervention in breast carcinoma. The
      nelipepimut sequence stimulates specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) following binding
      to HLA-A2/A3 molecules on antigen presenting cells (APC). These activated specific CTLs
      recognize, neutralize and destroy through cell lysis HER2 expressing cancer cells, including
      occult cancer cells and micrometastatic foci. The nelipepimut immune response can also
      generate CTLs to other immunogenic peptides through inter- and intra-antigenic epitope
      spreading. Based on a successful Phase 2 trial, which achieved its primary endpoint of DFS,
      the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted NeuVax a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) for
      its Phase 3 PRESENT (Prevention of Recurrence in Early-Stage, Node-Positive Breast Cancer
      with Low to Intermediate HER2 Expression with NeuVax Treatment) study.

      The active portion of the study will last three years (36 months). The follow-up will last
      from 5 to 10 years.

      Endpoints:

        1. Primary efficacy endpoint:

             -  3-year DFS

        2. Secondary efficacy endpoints:

             -  5- and 10-year DFS

             -  3-year OS

             -  5- and 10-year OS

             -  Safety profile, and adverse events (AEs)

             -  Patterns of recurrence to include Time to recurrence (TTR), time to local
                recurrence (TTLR), time to distant recurrence (TTDR), time to bone metastases
                (TTBM)

      Safety Assessments:

      Subjects will be assessed at every study visit for the safety endpoints, AEs,vital signs,
      physical examinations and laboratory data; yearly follow-up of survival will include imaging
      studies, ECGs, MUGA or ECHO scans and concomitant medications.
    
  