
    
      Elective thoracotomies are usually performed for removal of pathological masses in the
      mediastinum, lung parenchyma and upper gastrointestinal system. They are considered to be
      painful operations, related to both acute and chronic pain (post- thoracotomy pain syndrome),
      the latter lasting for a minimum period of 2 months.

      Post-operative thoracic pain is associated often with diaphragmatic dysfunction, which can
      also lead to atelectasis and pneumonia and post-operative pulmonary complications in general.

      Several techniques have been tried in order to minimize such events. Thoracic epidural
      analgesia, intravenous analgesia, intercostal blocks, local infiltration of local anesthetics
      by the surgeon are some of them.

      Paravertebral thoracic blocks have become increasingly popular in recent years since they are
      less likely to cause neurologic complications than thoracic epidural analgesia. Moreover,
      bleeding disorders, and use of anti-coagulant and anti- thrombotic medications, which are
      considered as contraindications to an epidural procedure, are not strict contraindications in
      the performance of paravertebral blocks, especially when they are performed under
      ultrasonographic guidance.

      Ropivacaine and Levobupivacaine are the most popular local anesthetics that have been used.
      Moreover, several adjuvants have been added to them in order to enhance the effects of those
      blocks. Dexamethasone, Morphine, Dexmedetomidine, Clonidine, Ketamine, Magnesium Sulphate are
      some of them. Results are variable.

      The rationale behind adjuvants used to enhance effects of local anesthetics is the fact that
      some seem to act directly in the spinal cord receptors and the central nervous system. The
      effect of morphine on the dorsal horns of the spinal cord has been extensively studied in the
      past. Due to its limited lipophilicity, it is assumed that administering the specific drug to
      the paravertebral space could lead to its transfer and action on the dorsal horns.

      On the other hand, the action of ketamine seems to be by blocking N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA)
      receptors in the spinal cord. It is also considered to have an effect on voltage sensitive
      Ca2+ channels, opioid receptors, and monoaminergic receptors. Therefore, it is considered
      overall to affect nociception.

      Overall, it is assumed that morphine might have an effect on the dorsal horns of the spinal
      cord, and ketamine on NMDA receptors at "higher pain centers". It is also assumed that there
      will be some degree of systemic absorption due to the rich vascular supply of the specific
      area. The investigators aim to compare the effects of those two when they are used as
      adjuvants to the local anesthetic in paravertebral nerve blocks performed with the aid of
      ultrasound. Furthermore, a group of local anesthetic without an adjuvant, will also be
      compared.
    
  