
    
      Title "PREDICTUMAB: Predictive factors and magnitude of response to omalizumab and
      mepolizumab in allergic and eosinophilic severe asthma: a multicenter, open,
      active-controlled, randomized trial in adult patients in Belgium".

      Rationale and background New treatments are now available to treat severe refractory asthma,
      which affects about 3 to 5% of asthma patients. In particular, biological therapies using
      monoclonal antibodies targeted to immunoglobulin E (IgE) or interleukin (IL)-5 (and in the
      future other cytokines or growth factors) benefit to certain patients. Identifying those
      patients who will better benefit from a specific treatment requires the validation of
      features (clinical traits, biomarkers) that are predictive of the therapeutic outcome. Such
      predictive strategy is not available to decide whether anti-IgE (omalizumab) or anti-IL-5
      (mepolizumab) should be prioritized in patients who are eligible to both therapies. In
      addition, the comparison of the magnitude of the clinical benefits achieved by these
      therapies remains unexplored in this population.

      Study Design

      The study is designed to initially randomly allocate patients from two strata (with or
      without maintenance oral corticosteroids) to oma- vs mepolizumab. According to the evaluation
      of response (at 4 or 6 months, respectively), subjects will then be either prolonged (for 12
      months, for both therapies) on the same therapy, or switched to the other. For those who were
      switched, treatment will be prolonged (or not, in dual failers) after 4 or 6 months according
      to their evaluation of response. Time-points for analysis will be at 4 or 6 months, 10 months
      (interim analysis) and 18 or 22 months (final, posttreatment analysis).

      State-of-the-art

      Asthma is one of the most frequent chronic diseases, affecting 5 to 10% of the population
      worldwide. Omalizumab and mepolizumab represent the approved antibodies that are indicated in
      allergic and eosinophilic phenotypes of severe asthma respectively. However, if some patients
      fall into only one phenotypic category based on these criteria, a substantial number of
      patients are potentially eligible to both therapies. In those patients, no information is
      available to orientate towards a preferable therapy as the predictive weight of additional
      phenotypic traits, such as associated nasal polyps or early- versus late onset of disease,
      remains unknown. In addition, no head-to-head comparison of these therapies is available in
      this population.

      Objectives of the study

      Primary objectives To determine clinical features and blood (or sputum) biomarkers able to
      predict a better response to omalizumab or mepolizumab in severe asthma patients eligible to
      both therapies.

      To determine the magnitude of response, in terms of improvement in symptoms, exacerbation
      rate and/or lung function, in responders to omalizumab vs mepolizumab.

      Secondary objectives To compare the global baseline characteristics (clinical and biological
      features) of patients responding to omalizumab vs mepolizumab.

      Management and reporting of adverse events.

      If during the study, an adverse event (AE) (serious or non-serious) is identified as
      attributed to omalizumab or mepolizumab, this will be documented as appropriate in routine
      good clinical practice, to the Federal Agency of Medicines and Products of Health (AFMPS) as
      well as to the Central Ethic Committee.

      Confidentiality of data.

      The identity and participation of subjects will remain strictly confidential, according to
      Belgian laws dated 8 Dec 1992 related to the protection of private life and dated 22 Aug 2002
      related to patient rights.

      Specimens and associated data will be labeled with unique patient identification number.

      Data will be anonymized in all files, results and publications related to the study.

      The promoter confirms to authorize the regulatory surveillance, examination and controls by
      competent authorities, by allowing direct access to database/files, and this in full respect
      of confidentiality.
    
  