
    
      Each year, about 15 million of the world's infants are born preterm (<37 weeks gestation),
      and this number is increasing. In Alberta, the preterm birth rate was 8.43% in 2015,
      representing 4,749 infants. Alberta has the highest rate of preterm birth among the Canadian
      provinces, which can be attributed, in part, to delayed child bearing and assisted
      reproduction. Approximately 20% of all preterm infants are born at <32 weeks GA and require
      care in a Level III NICU. The remaining 80% are moderate and late preterm infants, which
      comprises 6.6% of all live births. As gestational age (GA) decreases, the risk of chronic
      health problems and developmental delays increases. Compared to their full term counterparts,
      moderate and late preterm infants (born at 32 weeks and zero days [32 0/7] to 36 weeks and
      six days [36 6/7] GA) are at higher risk for poor health (e.g., increased hospitalizations,
      respiratory morbidities, and growth and feeding problems) and developmental outcomes (e.g.,
      neurodevelopmental disabilities and cognitive delays, communication and language impairments,
      and school-related problems). Results of recent studies also indicate that moderate and late
      preterm infants are at greater risk of experiencing social-emotional problems. In Alberta,
      preterm infants represent the largest proportion of expenditures of all pediatric health care
      utilization at 8.45%, with a cost of approximately $35 million per year. The costs associated
      with preterm infants are greater than for term infants because of longer hospital stays
      following birth, increased resource utilization, hospital readmissions, and the need for
      additional health, education, and social services. Financial consequences for families of
      preterm infants are associated with reduced work force participation and lost earnings,
      specialized nutritional requirements, and learning and development supports for the child. In
      addition, there are unquantifiable costs associated with psychological distress, marital and
      family distress, and social isolation.

      The aim of this novel health services research proposal is to assess the longer-term outcomes
      and costs, to 18 months corrected age, of Family Integrated Care (FICare) for moderate and
      late preterm infants admitted to a Level II neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). FICare is a
      psycho-educational intervention that empowers parents (mothers and fathers) to sequentially
      build their knowledge, skill, and confidence so the family is well-prepared to care for their
      preterm infant before discharge. FICare is dynamic, whereby parents and healthcare providers
      openly and mutually negotiate equitable caregiving roles during the infant's NICU stay.
      Parents are educated and coached to provide routine non-medical care. Healthcare providers
      continue to provide medical and technical care, such as intravenous medications and
      procedures, legal documentation, and professional support for families. Using a cluster
      randomized controlled trial (cRCT) (clinicaltrials.gov ID: NCT02879799), the investigators
      are evaluating FICare in all 10 Level II NICUs in Alberta (5 intervention, 5 control sites;
      stratified by hospital size) with follow-up of infant development and costs at age 2 months
      corrected age. Unless otherwise indicated, infant ages are corrected for prematurity. For the
      cRCT, investigators hypothesized that FICare would reduce length of NICU stay by 10%, reduce
      infant morbidities (e.g., nosocomial infections, respiratory support, feeding problems),
      increase breastmilk feeding, reduce maternal psychological distress, and reduce costs to the
      health care system and families. Maternal and infant data are currently being collected (1)
      shortly after admission to the NICU (baseline), (2) shortly before discharge from NICU
      (outcome), and (3) at 2 months (follow-up). With current funding, investigators can evaluate
      outcomes related to infant global development and maternal psychosocial distress at 2 months.
      At 2 months, it is difficult to predict longer term outcomes for moderate and late preterm
      infants. A follow-up study at 18 months will provide evidence of the sustainability of any
      effects, and longer-term cost savings upon which to inform policy decisions about full-scale
      implementation of FICare in Level II NICUs.

      The investigators hypothesize that compared to standard care in a Level II NICU, FICare will:
      (1) improve global development of moderate and late preterm infants at 18 months (primary
      outcome); (2) improve infant social and emotional development; (3) reduce the frequency of
      child emergency department visits, hospital readmission rates, and physician visits
      additional to recommended health surveillance visits; (4) improve child growth trajectories;
      (5) decrease use of antibiotic prescriptions; (6) increase maternal confidence in caring for
      their child; (7) decrease maternal psychosocial distress; (8) improve maternal-reported
      toddler sleep, and (9) decrease public healthcare payer costs.

      There is currently no standardized timeline for follow-up of infants born prematurely.
      Evidence suggests that 18 months is ideal for follow-up because there is decreased
      inter-individual variability in child development, and social-emotional outcomes can be more
      accurately assessed. After 18 months, environmental factors may exert a stronger influence on
      infant development, potentially diluting the ability to directly measure the effect of
      FICare. Eighteen months is the age at which Canadian Neonatal Follow-Up Network data are
      collected for infants admitted to a Level III NICU, which will enable comparisons of some
      outcomes with infants in the Level II NICU FICare Alberta cRCT. There are no plans for
      further follow-up past 18 months.
    
  