
    
      BACKGROUND/INTRODUCTION:

      Recently, multiple modalities of progesterone analogues have been investigated and
      successfully used to treat complex atypical hyperplasia (CAH) and stage 1A, grade 1
      endometrial adenocarcinoma. This body of research focuses on pre-menopausal women with the
      primary goal of preserving fertility by delaying or avoiding surgical therapy. Across
      multiple case series, the average time to complete response (CR: typically defined as the
      absence of hyperplasia, atypia or neoplasia on a follow-up biopsy specimen) is 5-9 months
      with 60-70% overall complete response rate and approximately 50% durable complete response
      rate (defined as complete histologic response with no relapse of disease over the period of
      time studied). There have been no published randomized controlled trials to evaluate which
      modality of progesterone therapy is the most efficacious, and there is no consistent
      retrospective data to suggest superiority of any given progesterone analogue or method of
      administration.

      Multiple pathologic predictors of complete response to progesterone therapy have been
      identified. In a recent study, Gunderson found that an interval decrease in glandular
      cellularity on endometrial biopsy after treatment with progesterone therapy was an
      independent predictor of future complete response. While both decreased mitotic index and
      decreased glandular cellularity were significant findings in this study, only decreased
      glandular cellularity was independently predictive of future complete response on
      multivariate analysis.

      Despite this growing body of evidence supporting the safety and feasibility of progesterone
      analogues as medical management for CAH and early-stage endometrial adenocarcinoma, little is
      known about its potential role as neoadjuvant chemotherapy. A recent multicenter
      collaborative trial coordinated by the Gynecologic Oncology Group evaluated the effect of
      400mg intramuscular medroxyprogesterone acetate administered 21-24 days prior to scheduled
      hysterectomy for endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterus. Upon comparing patients'
      post-hysterectomy slides to pre-treatment slides, this study found a partial histologic
      response rate of 63% among the 59 study subjects using pre-defined criteria modified from
      Wheeler 2007. A down-regulation of progesterone receptor, progesterone receptor beta, Bcl-2,
      and Ki-67 was also noted in post-hysterectomy specimens, with lower pre-treatment levels of
      Ki-67 being significantly associated with increased likelihood of histologic response. No
      clinical data such as patient characteristics, final tumor stage, or specific surgical
      procedure (ie lymphadenectomy) were collected.

      The question of progesterone analogues as neoadjuvant chemotherapy is especially important
      given recent data showing that delayed time to surgery for endometrial cancer (defined as
      greater 12 weeks) was significantly associated with decreased 5-year survival rates. The same
      group of authors also found, alarmingly, that wait times in their province of Ontario, Canada
      more than doubled between 2000 and 2009. In this study, more than half of hysterectomies
      performed for endometrial cancer were not within the recommended limit of six weeks from
      diagnosis to surgery.

      Considering the above data, treatment with a progesterone analogue prior to hysterectomy can
      be viewed as either a maintenance therapy or a temporizing measure, with the primary goal of
      preventing disease progression in those awaiting surgery rather than curative intent. This
      potential application of progesterone analogues may be particularly relevant in settings
      where women can expect a long wait time prior to definitive surgical management. There is
      empiric basis for this usage of DMPA, as one particularly intriguing study found that in vivo
      injection of MPA elevated the expression of a known metastasis suppressor gene in a murine
      breast cancer model.

      Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate is a safe, well-studied and well-tolerated method of
      contraception that has been used globally since the 1960s. It does not require refrigeration
      and can be safely administered in remote settings with poor infrastructure, as demonstrated
      by its widespread use as contraception in the developing world. A history of using DMPA for
      contraception is believed by the World Health Organization to reduce the prevalence of
      endometrial cancer by 80%, with a protective period of at least 8 years after cessation.
      Apart from GOG 211, depot medroxyprogesterone acetate's role as a potential neoadjuvant
      chemotherapeutic agent has not been studied in isolation; rather it has been grouped with
      other progesterone analogues in retrospective trials of fertility-sparing agents for CAH or
      endometrial cancer.

      Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate is used in the 150mg dose for contraception, however it has
      been used at higher doses of up to 1000mg weekly for several months in the setting of
      malignancy with no short-term side effects noted in these studies. More recently, a single
      dose of 400mg DMPA was compared to venlafaxine to treat women with bothersome hot flashes; at
      6 weeks DMPA was superior at reducing hot flashes and associated with less short-term
      toxicity. GOG 211 used a one-time 400mg dose for maximal progestin effect.

      DATA COLLECTION/INTERPRETATION: All data will be collected by the research assistant or study
      physician. The study drug will be administered during the patient's first visit at the
      Program in Women's Oncology after the decision is made to undergo hysterectomy for complex
      atypical hyperplasia or grade 1 or grade 2 endometrioid adenocarcinoma. Prior to injection
      with the study drug, a questionnaire will be completed by the patient to identify any factors
      that may influence histologic response to depot medroxyprogesterone acetate as well as
      baseline demographic information: age, race/ethnicity, education level, gravidity and parity,
      height/weight and body mass index, diabetes, hypertension, polycystic ovarian syndrome,
      history of irregular menses, history of oral contraceptive use, menopausal status, age at
      menarche, family history of uterine or ovarian malignancy, family history of colorectal
      cancer, smoking history, personal history of malignancy and type, history of abnormal uterine
      bleeding and duration, recent weight loss, recent symptoms of abdominal distension, and
      recent symptoms of nausea/vomiting.

      FACILITIES: All patient related aspects of the study will transpire in the Women and Infants
      Program in Women's Oncology outpatient clinic, Women and Infants Hospital inpatient
      facilities, and the Women and Infants Pathology Department. Data will initially be collected
      at the patient's first visit with the Women and Infants Program in Women's Oncology when the
      decision is made to proceed with hysterectomy. Data will be collected one more time while the
      patient is being prepared for surgery as an inpatient at Women and Infants Hospital. Biopsy
      specimens and hysterectomy specimens will be reviewed by two study pathologists at the Women
      and Infants Hospital Department of Pathology. Data processing and interpretation will take
      place at Women and Infants Hospital in conjunction with the Division of Research.

      CONFIDENTIALITY: The patients enrolled in the study will be asked permission for access to
      their medical records. To ensure patient confidentiality, all forms will be marked with only
      the participant ID number, with a key containing identifying information kept separately in a
      locked cabinet that only research personnel will have access to. Electronic data will be
      stored on the Care New England file server, a file server that is located in a physically
      secured data center. Access to Care New England data center is card-controlled and all access
      to the server room is recorded. Care New England computer account management policies and
      practices ensure that computer access to the study database will be limited to key study
      personnel.

      SAFETY: Study personnel will meet to review safety issues and logistics at 25%, 50% and 75%
      recruitment. Adverse events and complications will be recorded on the data collection sheet
      which will be reviewed by the PI on a rolling basis. Any adverse events associated with depot
      medroxyprogesterone acetate use will be reported to the IRB and the FDA by the PI or
      co-investigators. Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate is a routinely used medication for birth
      control and as medical treatment for uterine fibroids and early endometrial cancer.
    
  