
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study
      agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment
      with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple
      myeloma.

      II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. III. To identify potential
      predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or
      resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and
      imaging-based assessment platforms.

      IV. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes
      from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free
      survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and
      targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

      OUTLINE:

      STEP 0 (Screening): Patients undergo biopsy along with molecular characterization of the
      biopsy material for specific, pre-defined mutations, amplifications, or translocations of
      interest via tumor sequencing and immunohistochemistry. Consenting patients also undergo
      collection of blood samples for research purposes.

      STEPS 1, 3, 5, 7 (Treatment): Patients are assigned to 1 of 37 treatment subprotocols based
      on molecularly-defined subgroup. (See Arms Section)

      STEPS 2, 4, 6 (Screening): Patients experiencing disease progression on the prior Step
      treatment or who could not tolerate the assigned treatment undergo review of their previous
      biopsy results to determine if another treatment is available or undergo another biopsy.
      Patients may have a maximum of 2 screening biopsies and 2 treatments per biopsy.

      STEP 8 (Optional Research): Consenting patients undergo end-of-treatment biopsy and
      collection of blood samples for research purposes.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  