
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To develop and examine the feasibility and patient acceptability of administering a
           manualized cognitive-behavioral intervention that improves quality of life by treating
           anxiety in patients with advanced cancer.

        -  To estimate the effect size of a manualized cognitive-behavioral intervention to reduce
           anxiety in patients with advanced cancer.

        -  To estimate the effect size for the secondary outcomes (i.e., depression and quality of
           life) and to examine the extent to which specific variables (i.e., sex, age,
           chemotherapy side effects, pain levels) are consistent with the conceptual model as
           potential moderators of treatment effect.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study followed by a randomized study. Patients are stratified
      according to type of cancer.

        -  Pilot study: Patients complete qualitative interviews to explore ways that anxiety
           impacts patients, to identify components of a cognitive-behavioral therapy intervention
           that are most useful, and to determine the optimal method of delivery for the
           intervention (e.g., number and timing of interventions, administration during
           chemotherapy infusions when feasible). Based upon these results a full treatment manual
           is written for use in the randomized study.

      Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (cognitive-behavioral therapy): Patients undergo six-seven 90-minute treatment
           sessions (over 2 months) based on the results of the pilot study. Modules include
           psychoeducation and goal setting; relaxation training; cognitive restructuring; coping
           with cancer fears; activity planning and pacing; and review, termination, and plan for
           continued use of skills.

        -  Arm II (routine care): Patients receive routine medical care.

      At the completion of treatment, all participants meet with a blinded independent assessor to
      assess outcomes. Patients undergo psychiatric evaluation, including the Hamilton Anxiety
      Rating Scale (HAM-A), the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), the Mini
      International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI), and a psychosocial self-reported battery at
      baseline and after 2-3 months.

      After completing treatment, patients who underwent routine care (arm II) may undergo
      cognitive-behavioral therapy as in arm I, if desired.
    
  