
    
      Acute pancreatitis has an annual incidence of 13-45 cases per 100,000 persons and is one of
      the most common gastrointestinal disorders requiring hospitalization worldwide. It leads to
      over a quarter of a million hospital admissions annually in the United States, and inpatient
      costs exceeding 2.5 billion US dollars. Pancreatic necrosis occurs as a consequence of severe
      acute pancreatitis in approximately 20% of patients. It can mature into a contained necrotic
      collection, typically four weeks into the disease course. With intense conservative
      management, including nutritional and intensive care support when required, the collection
      may resolve without intervention. However, a persistent collection with pain, gastric outlet,
      intestinal or biliary obstruction, new-onset or persisting organ failure, persistent
      unwellness or infection is associated with a mortality of 15-20%, and requires necrosectomy
      and drainage. Without intervention, infected necrosis ultimately leads to death in nearly
      every patient.

      Recently, there has been a shift away from surgical debridement (necrosectomy) towards
      minimally-invasive endoscopic methods in the treatment of necrotizing pancreatitis.
      Endoscopic management involves creation of a fistula between the enteric wall and necrotic
      collection under the guidance of endoscopic ultrasound [EUS] with subsequent placement of a
      stent to allow drainage of the necrotic material. Endoscopic transenteral drainage of
      necrotic collection is associated with favorable outcomes, with treatment success rates
      reported in the range of 45-70%. Endoscopic necrosectomy, with the additional technique of
      extraction of necrotic material under direct endoscopic visualization has increased rates of
      treatment success to greater than 80%.

      However, there are currently scant data on the optimal timing of endoscopic necrosectomy. In
      a retrospective study, performing endoscopic necrosectomy at the time of the initial
      EUS-guided drainage of the necrotic collection was associated with a significantly lower
      number of necrosectomy sessions compared to performing endoscopic necrosectomy one week after
      drainage.

      The aim of this randomized trial is to compare clinical outcomes between patients undergoing
      immediate endoscopic necrosectomy (direct endoscopic necrosectomy) compared to step-up
      endoscopic interventions in patients undergoing endoscopic therapy for infected necrotizing
      pancreatitis.
    
  