
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine a safe dose of niraparib when combined with radium Ra 223 dichloride
      (radium-223) in patients with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) that have
      and have not received prior chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the proportion of subjects with 50% prostate-specific antigen (PSA) reduction
      from baseline in men treated with niraparib and radium 223.

      II. To determine the radiographic PFS (rPFS) at 6 months in men treated with niraparib and
      radium 223.

      III. To determine the proportion of subjects that have circulating tumor cell (CTC)
      conversion (>= 5 to < 5/7.5ml) confirmed in a second assessment > 4 weeks later in men
      treated with niraparib and radium 223.

      IV. To determine the overall progression-free survival in men treated with niraparib and
      radium 223.

      V. To determine the time to total-ALP (alkaline phosphatase) progression defined in subjects
      with no total-ALP decline from baseline as >= 25% increase from the baseline value, at least
      12 weeks from baseline.

      VI. To determine the time to total-ALP (alkaline phosphatase) progression defined in patient
      with an initial total-ALP decline from baselines as >= 25% increase from the nadir value,
      which is confirmed by a second value obtained three or more weeks later.

      VII. To determine the total-ALP normalization, defined as the return of total-ALP value to
      within normal range at 12 weeks in 2 consecutive measurements (at least 2 weeks apart) after
      that of treatment in subjects who have their ALP above upper limit of normal (ULN) at
      baseline.

      VIII. To determine the long term safety-tolerability of the combination of niraparib and
      radium 223 in men treated with niraparib and radium 223.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Study of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair aberrations; whole exome and transcriptome in
      pre-therapy tumor biopsy samples.

      II. Compare changes in bone marrow micro-environment (hematopoietic stem cell [HSC] niche\
      C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 [CXCL12]/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 [CXCR4] axis) pre
      and post therapy in up to 10 men treated with niraparib and radium 223.

      III. Evaluate the baseline plasma cell-free (cf)-DNA for aberrations in DNA repair genes such
      as breast cancer (BRCA)1, BRCA2, ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM), ataxia-telangiectasia
      and rad3-related (ATR), partner and localizer of brca2 gene (PALB2) as well as the androgen
      receptor (AR) gene via next generation sequencing.

      IV. Compare gene expression changes in baseline and serial (at end of cycle 1 and 3) whole
      blood ribonucleic acid (RNA) (collect blood in edetic acid [EDTA] tubes and RNA-later) using
      Nanostring PanCancer and immunology panel.

      V. Evaluate the baseline CTCs for nuclear androgen receptor (AR), phosphorylated (p) nuclear
      factor kappa-beta (NF-kB), and gamma-H2A histone family member X (H2AX) foci via
      immunostaining.
    
  