
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Establish the feasibility of delayed infusion of ex vivo anergized donor peripheral
           blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) after CD34 (cluster designation 34)-selected megadose
           haploidentical hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in patients with
           hematopoietic cancers or other diseases.

        -  Determine the feasibility of collecting parental allogeneic stimulator cells to induce
           anergy to the nonshared donor-recipient haplotype in these patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of collecting donor PBMC as a source of T cells for ex vivo
           anergization.

        -  Determine the number of transplanted individuals who meet the criteria for proceeding to
           delayed infusion of ex vivo anergized donor PBMC.

        -  Establish the safety of delayed infusion of ex vivo anergized donor PBMC by establishing
           the maximum number of donor T cells that can be infused without unacceptable
           graft-versus-host disease.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate, in vitro, the induction and specificity of alloantigen hyporesponsiveness in
           donor PBMC after ex vivo anergization.

        -  Assess, in vitro, the function of immune cells engrafted in these patients.

        -  Assess, in vitro, whether alloantigen hyporesponsive donor T cells are present in these
           patients.

        -  Develop, preliminarily, in vitro data on the extent of pathogen-specific immunity and
           its rate of recovery.

        -  Describe the patterns of opportunistic infections in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of ex vivo anergized allogeneic
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Patients who are treated on any dose level except
      dose level 1 are stratified according to age (under 17 [pediatric] vs 17 and over [adult]).

        -  Myeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients undergo total-body irradiation twice daily
           on days -11 to -9. Patients also receive thiotepa IV over 4 hours on days -8 and -7,
           fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -3, and anti-thymocyte globulin
           IV over 8 hours and methylprednisolone IV over 15-30 minutes on days -6 to -3.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT): Patients undergo
           CD34-selected PBSCT on day 0.

        -  Ex vivo anergized allogeneic PBMC infusion: If cells have engrafted and patients are
           free of active uncontrolled infection and graft-vs-host disease, patients undergo
           allogeneic or autologous PBMC infusion on day 35 or 42.

      Cohorts of 3-8 patients receive escalating doses of ex vivo anergized allogeneic PBMCs until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 2 of
      5 or 3 of 8 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      After completion of study, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  