
    
      Twenty consecutive patients candidated to PD regardless the diagnosis will be enrolled if
      presenting an high Fistula Risk Score. Enrollement will be done in O.R. after frozen section
      of the pancreas. The AM is provided by Fondazione Banca dei Tessuti di Treviso Onlus. The
      placenta is sourced from donors undergoing caesarean sections and processed shortly after
      retrieval, donors are evaluated according to Italian requirements. The AM is carefully
      detached from the chorion and rinsed with sterile saline solution, flattened on a
      nitrocellulose membrane filter (Merck Millipore), with its stromal side facing down, in
      contact with the filter. The AM is then immersed in a cocktail of antibiotics then cut into
      patches and immersed in cryopreservant solution. Cryopreservation was achieved using a
      programmable cryogenic freezer (Planer KryoSave Integra, 750-30), which triggers a controlled
      cooling rate. The AM patches were stored in vapor-phase liquid nitrogen. Thirty minutes
      before its use, the AM was defrozen and washed with saline. A 10x15cm MA patch was placed
      around the pancreatic anastomoses starting from the posterior surface. The caudal and the
      cranial flap were overlapped on the anterior surface to wrap the anastomosis. The membrane
      was than fixed with 4-0 Monocryl sutures at the jejunal surface and at the peri-pancreatic
      tissue. Then an end-to-side bilio-enteric anastomosis was carried out. The reconstruction was
      completed by an end-to-side antecolic duodenojejunostomy. At the end of the procedure, two
      drains were placed ventral and dorsal to the PJ, without friction with the AM.

      In the postoperative period will be evaluated: morbidity according to Clavien Dindo
      classification with attention to clinical relevant pancreatic fistula, bleeding, need of
      reintervention, surgical site infection, multi drug resistant infection and mortality. Costs
      and postoperative staying will be monitored as well.

      Student t test, Mann Whitney and Chi square will be used for statistical analysis.
    
  