
    
      Vaginal candidiasis is the second infection of the genital tract after bacterial vaginosis.
      Up to 75% of women will have at least one episode in their lives, but the clinical
      manifestations can be very variable. Around 10 to 20% will be asymptomatic and 5 to 10% will
      have the recurrent candidiasis that means 4 or more episodes in a year. The predominant
      symptoms are pruritus in 89% and burning during urination and sexual intercourse in 66%. The
      therapeutic regimen for acute fungal infections by C. albicans should consider the intensity
      of the clinical symptoms, recurrence, patient preference for the route of administration and
      consequent adherence to treatment, presence of pregnancy and the possibility of side effects.
      In general, the schemes include anti-fungal substances of the azoles type. Intravaginal
      administration of drugs requires the development of formulations suited to the area and
      adherence to the treatment can be increased if mucoadhesive formulations are obtained which
      avoid discomfort and provide adequate release of the active compounds. In this sense, the
      present project had the objective of developing a mucoadhesive gel containing Propolis
      Standardized (EPP-AF®) for the treatment of vaginal candidiasis, especially since preclinical
      efficacy and safety data demonstrated the clinical potential of the product. So the present
      proposal aims at the clinical study evaluate the efficacy of two formulations with 1 and 2%
      of propolis in comparison with clotrimazole cream treatment (patients affected by
      Candidiasis) and also evaluate the safety of both propolis gels in healthy volunteers. The
      efficacy protocol of the test product in patients with vaginal candidiasis will be performed
      in an open-label, randomized, three-arm, clinical trial with active clotrimazole-based
      control. Patients will be recruited (T0) and evaluated at 10 and 30 days after initiation of
      treatment, and the primary outcome will be the clinical cure rate.
    
  