
    
      The cohort of 6 male athletes (n=6) ages ranged from 18 to 54 years of age, with an average
      age of 33.5 years with musculoskeletal injuries, which showed little or no improvement with
      traditional therapies selected from one rehabilitation facility. The group included 3 amateur
      athletes and 3 professional athletes participated in baseball (2) and golf (1). No healthy
      athlete was selected, considering the study of nature.

      Demographic, injury history, treatment history, and clinical outcomes data of the patients
      were collected. The patients were asked about the effectiveness of traditional therapies such
      as physical therapy, manual therapy, a combination of rest, ice, compression, and elevation
      (RICE). The athletes with sports-related musculoskeletal related injuries, including arm,
      upper leg, back, quadriceps, knees, foot/ankles, were treated with low-intensity continuous
      ultrasound (SAM®, ZetrOZ Sysmtem LLC device) in conjunction with traditional therapies. At
      that point, data were recorded, and patients were advised to use LICUS in conjunction with
      conventional therapies. The athletes were asked about the effectiveness of LICUS treatment as
      an add-on to traditional therapies. Furthermore, .the effectiveness of the treatment was
      assessed by patient response to pain relief, range of motion, and ability to going back to
      the sport.

      The LICUS was delivered by easy to use wearable LICUS device (SAM®, ZetrOZ Systems, LLC,
      Trumbull, CT) consisting of two transducers powered by an external battery pack was used to
      deliver at 3MHz, 0.132W/cm2, 1.3W for 4 hours. The athletes were trained to use the device
      using ultrasound coupling gel on the injured area. It was ensured that all the athletes knew
      how to use the device properly. The device is easy to use with three buttons setup: an on/off
      button (middle), a time, and on/off lock buttons on the sides.
    
  