
    
      Gluten is the most important protein component of some grains, notably wheat, rye, and
      barley, which are the basis for a variety of flour and wheat derived alimentary products
      consumed throughout the world (bread, pasta, pizza etc). However the "engineering" of
      gluten-containing grains created the conditions for human diseases related to gluten
      exposure. These forms of gluten intolerance represent a heterogeneous set of conditions,
      including wheat allergy, Gluten Sensitivity and Celiac Disease, that, combined, affect about
      10% of the general population. The frequency of not-celiac gluten intolerance is however
      still unknown, even though it is possible that these conditions have been undiagnosed and
      under-diagnosed by the physicians for long time. The state of immune responsiveness to wheat
      antigens, represents a complex process, and its establishment and maintenance are not
      completely elucidated. The most frequent diseases caused by wheat ingestion are T
      cell-mediated disorders, IgE-mediated allergic reactions and celiac disease (CD).

      However, besides CD and wheat allergy, there are cases of gluten reactions in which neither
      allergic nor autoimmune mechanisms are involved. These are generally defined as gluten
      sensitivity (GS). Some individuals, who experience distress when eating gluten-containing
      products and show improvement when following a gluten-free diet, may have GS instead of CD.
      GS patients are unable to tolerate gluten and develop an adverse reaction when eating gluten
      that usually, and differently from CD, does not lead to small intestinal damage. While the
      gastrointestinal symptoms in GS may resemble those associated with CD, the overall clinical
      picture is generally less severe and is not accompanied by the concurrence of tTG
      autoantibodies or autoimmune disease. Typically the diagnosis is made by exclusion, and an
      elimination diet and "open challenge" (i.e., the monitored reintroduction of
      gluten-containing foods) are most often used to evaluate whether health improves with the
      elimination or reduction of gluten from the diet.

      This has two major aims:

        1. Evaluation of the effective dependence from the gluten of the clinical alterations
           presented by subjects with gluten sensitivity (GS). The study will be done after a
           period of gluten-free diet (washout of 15 days), comparing two groups of GS subjects:
           given gluten or placebo (15 days), followed by a further period (15 days) on gluten free
           diet .

        2. identification of possible markers (serological, gut barrier function, immunological and
           expression of tight junctions constitutive proteins) that may be of help to
           differentiate, in humans, the condition of gluten sensitivity (GS) from that of Celiac
           Disease (CD); these markers might be of help in the early diagnosis of GS versus CD
           especially in the case of discordant serology.
    
  