
    
      1.0 BACKGROUND AND HYPOTHESES

      The investigators aim to prophylactically clip all colonic diverticula in patients who have
      experienced at least 1 episode of diverticular bleeding requiring hospitalization, but
      without definitive procedure (i.e., total colectomy or localization with embolization or
      clipping). The investigators' objective is to prevent future episodes of colonic bleeding
      from the diverticula, so as to avoid morbidity and possible mortality.

      The investigators hypothesize that those patients undergoing secondary prophylaxis through
      diverticular clipping will experience no further episodes of diverticular bleeding.

      2.0 OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSE

      Diverticular bleeding is the most common cause of acute lower gastrointestinal bleeding
      (LGIB) in Western populations. Although self-limited in 85% of cases, some patients may
      require hospitalization with blood transfusion and emergent intervention, with significant
      associated morbidity and mortality. Up to 25% of patients with an initial bleeding episode
      will have subsequent episodes.

      Diverticula form at weak points along the colon wall, where the vasa recta enter the circular
      muscle layer of the colon. Diverticular bleeding is attributed to thinning of the blood
      vessels as they cross over the dome of a diverticulum. Endoscopic clipping of actively
      bleeding colonic diverticula has been recognized as a safe and effective treatment for acute
      LGIB since the mid-1990s. Patients selected would have had previous colonoscopy to exclude
      other causes of bleeding (e.g. angiodysplasia, colorectal cancer).

      The investigators propose prophylactic elective endoscopic diverticular clipping in patients
      who have had at least 1 episode of acute LGIB requiring hospitalization. This would involve
      applying endoscopic clips to the base of every diverticula in a patient's colon, such that
      any bleeding source would effectively be excluded. The investigators would later re-evaluate
      patients for colonoscopic appearance of diverticula, as there is some suggestion that
      diverticula may resolve after such management.

      3.0 STUDY DESIGN

      The investigators propose a prospective feasibility study of outpatients who have previously
      been hospitalized with at least one episode of diverticular bleeding. Diverticular disease
      will have been confirmed by previous colonoscopy to assess the extent of diverticular
      disease. Consecutive patients at follow-up outpatient appointments will be approached with a
      Patient Information Sheet. On follow-up appointment they will be recruited and enrolled for
      endoscopic clipping of colonic diverticula.

      The procedure itself will be similar to a screening colonoscopy. As outpatients, patients
      will take bowel preparation. Colonoscopy will occur with sedation only, including fentanyl
      and midazolam per protocol. Individual colonic diverticula will be clipped to exclude the
      bleeding source.

      Twenty-four (24) patients will be enrolled for diverticular clipping. These patients will be
      followed prospectively for 2 years for repeat bleeding episodes. Follow-up will consist of
      telephone calls every 6 months by the study team. In addition, patients will be scheduled for
      repeat colonoscopy to assess their diverticular disease 6 months after clipping of colonic
      diverticula.

      4.0 SELECTION AND WITHDRAWAL OF SUBJECTS Currently, patients admitted with complications of
      diverticular disease are seen in Diverticular Disease clinic for follow-up. Consecutive
      patients will be selected from this patient population.

      Patients may withdrawal from the study at any time, including during the colonoscopy with
      clipping of diverticula.

      5.0 DATA COLLECTION AND MONITORING

      Data collection will take place on a specially created case report form (See case report form
      version 1.2). Case report forms will be stored in a locked office in the Department of
      Colorectal Surgery accessible only to the study team. Data will be entered into an excel
      spreadsheet. The spreadsheet will be kept on a password protected NHS desktop in a locked
      office in the Department of Colorectal Surgery.

      6.0 STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      As this is a feasibility study, recruited patients will be study prospectively. Any analysis
      will include all patients enrolled. There will be no control group or randomization at this
      time.
    
  