
    
      Anxiety and depression is common to those post-stroke with about a third of stroke sufferers
      experiencing one or both. It is felt these are currently underdiagnosed and undertreated.
      There is a call for more accessible interventions. Mindfulness based interventions have shown
      considerable efficacy in treating anxiety and depression and there is growing body of
      evidence of the benefits of mindfulness for those post-stroke. This study will be the first
      to look at an instructor-led online mindfulness intervention for stroke sufferers. As a
      feasibility study it aims to investigate whether such an intervention is acceptable to
      patients and if so, can a larger scale study be done. The larger scale study will investigate
      whether the intervention is beneficial in reducing anxiety and depression. This study will
      assess the design and intervention format required to test this. Those who have had a stroke
      and are eligible to participate in the online mindfulness course will be invited to take part
      by their stroke specialist nurse. The 10 session course teaches participants mindfulness
      skills through audio and visual clips. Each week participants will be asked to complete one
      of each as well as do an informal exercise in their own time. It will take approximately 6-8
      weeks to complete the course. The study will collect information from participants via online
      questionnaires before starting, during and at the end of the course. The questionnaires will
      ask about anxiety, depression, thinking style, health, quality of life and perceived stress
      levels. The investigators will not evaluate the outcomes but instead look at response rates
      and calculate standard deviations of the measures used to help us calculate the sample size
      needed for the larger study. The investigators will also look at the willingness of
      clinicians to recruit participants. Additionally, the study will involve interviews with a
      subset of participants to assess their experience of the study design and to explore the
      acceptability of the online mindfulness intervention in this population.
    
  