
    
      This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled cross-over human laboratory study.
      Participants will be asked to come to the testing site for a total of four times: one initial
      screening session (~ 3 hours) and three test days (~ 6 hours each) where study medication
      will be administered, separated by at least 72 hours to limit carryover effects for
      dronabinol administration. Twenty male and female participants with OUD on MAT will be asked
      to arrive at approximately the same time each morning, coordinating with attendance at their
      opioid maintenance clinic. Subjects will be asked to refrain from using alcoholic beverages
      and drugs during study participation. Urine screens and breathlyzer measurements will be done
      before the test sessions to check abstinence from drugs (e.g., cocaine, illicit opioids,
      benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and amphetamines) and alcohol respectively. Those who are
      non-compliant will be discharged from the study. To minimize nicotine and withdrawal effects
      on cognitive performance, subjects who smoke will be advised to continue smoking as usual.
      Since we will provide a standard breakfast, participants will be asked not to eat for two
      hour before they arrive for the test sessions. A study nurse will confirm with their
      respective program that participants did not receive either methadone or buprenorphine that
      morning, and will call the program when testing is complete to permit dispersal of that day's
      methadone or buprenorphine dose. On the initial screening day and at the end of medication
      treatment, blood will be drawn to determine serum cytokine levels. Participants will undergo
      a variety of cognitive and self-report measures, as well as assessments to confirm restraint
      from illicit drug use and lack of adverse effects of medication. Prior to their daily
      methadone or buprenorphine dose and thus at trough plasma levels of opioid, participants will
      receive dronabinol (10 mg, 20 mg) or placebo. Subsequently, all participants will undergo
      laboratory testing of measures relevant to vulnerability to relapse, including physiological,
      subjective and cognitive outcomes. The order of study medication administration will be
      counterbalanced order to minimize the impact of potential carryover effects between the
      sessions.
    
  