
    
      Primary care providers (PCPs) make many of the most important care decisions, especially for
      patients with chronic conditions and multiple co-morbidities. Studies have confirmed that
      unwarranted variation is common among PCPs, with high level of variation in care documented
      between urban and rural practices, across regions, and even among providers within a single
      healthcare system.

      The investigators' previous work has shown that patient simulations can rapidly and reliably
      measure unwarranted practice variation among providers. In addition, published work shows
      that patient simulations, when administered serially and combined with customized feedback on
      improvement opportunities can reduce practice variation and improve performance on
      patient-level quality measures. Given the large scope of unwarranted variation in medical
      practice, there is a need for scalable approaches to measure care decisions, provide feedback
      on improvement opportunities and benchmark performance to peers.

      This study seeks to evaluate the impact of measurement, feedback and competition on
      evidence-based care decisions made by primary care providers across the country. It is a
      randomized, controlled trial with multiple measurements across key domains of clinical care.
      All participants are asked to care for simulated patients designed to look like typical
      patients seen in a primary care practice. In each case, providers will answer multiple-choice
      questions about their preferred course of action to work-up, diagnose and treat patients in
      the primary care setting. After each question, providers will receive evidence-based
      feedback, including references, on the appropriateness of each of their care decisions.
      Feedback will be supported with relevant reference to evidence-based guidelines, including
      national MIPS quality measures.

      All participants will receive the following interventions:

        -  Feedback on care decisions made in each Quality IQ case, which will identify correct
           care, unneeded care, or gaps in care. This feedback will recommend or reinforce
           evidence-based care decisions and includes references.

        -  All cases will be scored against evidence-based criteria. For each case, providers will
           start with 100 base points. Correct care decisions will add to that total, while
           unnecessary care decisions will subtract from that total. A weekly leaderboard will be
           posted online, allowing participants to see how they are performing relative to their
           peers across the country. Participants will have the opportunity to select a unique
           username or an anonymous user ID to be identified on the leaderboard, to maintain
           anonymity.

      Half of the recruits will be offered Category I CME credit approved by The University of
      California, San Francisco School of Medicine (UCSF) which has been accredited by the
      Accreditation Council of Continuing Medical Education to provide CME for physicians and MOC
      points in the ABIM's MOC program.
    
  