
    
      Study Design

      Twelve elementary schools were cluster randomized to the active math intervention or served
      as control. Randomization was performed by shuffling sealed envelopes with intervention
      allocation inside to determine group assignment. This happened in a meeting where the leaders
      of the schools, employees at the municipalities and the responsible researcher were present.
      The study lasted for a school year (43 weeks) and the subjects were tested before and after
      the nine-month long intervention.

      All tests were performed within one week except for the objective measurement of physical
      activity (PA) via accelerometer (ActiGraph, 7163, Pensacola, FL), which took place in a
      separate week, just before baseline and endline. In the intervention period (38 weeks) the
      participants received on average 6 mathematics lessons of 45 minutes per week with
      respectively physically active and traditional teaching.

      The intervention

      The intervention consisted of math teaching focusing on implementing PA in the classroom as a
      facilitating instrument. Teachers were told to include at least 15 minutes of physical
      activity in each 45 minutes math lesson. In addition sedentary activities were only allowed
      to last for maximum 20 minutes. Classroom-based PA had the aim of creating a meaningful
      binding between the mathematical concepts and a specific physical activity to improve mental
      representation of mathematics and thus contribute to understanding and memory of the
      mathematical concepts.

      Classroom teacher training for implementation of the intervention

      Training was provided to math teachers at each intervention school in a course given by the
      responsible group of researchers. The training was planned in collaboration between
      mathematics teachers in the intervention schools and the responsible group of researchers and
      was based on the curriculum for mathematics in Danish public schools. The planning of the
      teaching content took place on a 4-day mandatory course for all mathematics teachers with the
      purpose to enable the teachers to teach active mathematics and thereby to promote the math
      achievement.

      As part of the course the teachers received a folder with suggestions for PA in math made by
      the responsible group of researchers. In addition they developed activities with specific
      instructions and inspiration for how teachers could incorporate PA as an element of academic
      instruction. Since the teacher's motivation and involvement can influence the outcome of the
      study, emphasis was placed on creating high motivation in the course by increasing
      understanding of the numerous positive cognitive effects of PA.
    
  