
    
      Ischemic stroke is one of the top causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States.
      Despite a great deal of effort to improve outcomes of patients with ischemic cerebral
      strokes, the lack of a bona fide animal model representative of cerebral ischemia in man
      makes the study of the pathological processes involved difficult. Additionally, the subtle
      but significant differences between biology of animal models and the biology of humans make
      translatability of animal results to humans difficult.

      The purpose of this study is to use an iatrogenic model of stroke, meaning those strokes
      inadvertently caused by endovascular coiling of elective aneurysms, to study the biology of
      stroke in humans. Clinical evidence suggests that simple catheterization of cerebral
      vasculature causes small, usually clinically silent, embolic strokes. These strokes are
      evident on MRI scans. Additionally, since the practitioner knows the onset of an
      interventional procedure, he by default knows the timing of injury. This simple model allows
      one to study stroke in real-time with knowledge of the time of onset. Magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) evaluation allows the practitioner to identify the volume of stroke caused by
      the intervention. Alternatively, patients who present to the emergency room with large
      ischemic infarcts provide a natural control population for this study. These patients present
      with large, usually devastating strokes. In most cases the timing of the onset of deficit is
      known. The investigators propose to use the simple model of ischemia from endovascular
      interventions with the more obvious devastating cases of ischemic stroke who present to the
      emergency room to better understand the molecular pathways involved in stroke.

      Rationale: Global analysis of biological markers is an established mechanism to study complex
      disease processes. The introduction of microarray technology and systems wide analysis has
      improved the understanding of various biological and disease processes. This revolution has
      been ongoing since the early 1990's. The rationale for performing these studies is to augment
      the understanding of the basic mechanisms of stroke in humans. As previously mentioned, there
      is no bona fide model of stroke and the researchers' experimental design provides a rather
      simple in human model for cerebral ischemia.

      The study requires four blood draws, each 5 mL in volume; blood draws are timed with normal
      times of blood draw these patients would be experiencing and do not place the patient at any
      additional risk.

      The blood samples will be analyzed as follows: total ribonucleic acid (RNA), including the
      microRNA fraction, and protein will be isolated and quantified from the blood samples. The
      researchers will load the RNA samples onto Febit microRNA arrays. The Febit miRNA chip has
      all of the known human miRNAs and miRNA star sequences from Sanger's miRBase 14. With this
      platform total RNA is loaded directly onto the array. There are no RNA labeling or
      amplification steps. miRNA hybridization on the chip is followed by a microfluidic primer
      extension assay. In this case, only hybridization of the correct miRNA to the probe allows
      the primer extension step to proceed efficiently, giving the array high sensitivity and
      specificity. In addition, the researchers have created custom microarrays, adding several
      spike-in controls. Our spike-ins provide feedback on the variability in RNA isolation and are
      an additional signal for array normalization. The protein fraction will be analyzed using Ray
      Biotech's Quantibody Arrays. These are arrays of antibodies that are designed to capture
      specific protein species (the researchers will target approximately 120 unique proteins) in a
      fully quantitative fashion. These arrays essentially function as the traditional
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) but on a glass slide substrate. The assays offer
      several advantages over ELISA's, including the requirement for very low amounts of sample
      input but, perhaps more importantly, they facilitate the quantitative investigation of
      hundreds of proteins at once and therefore greatly accelerate the ability to search for and
      identify protein-based signatures and/or biomarkers. The data will be statistically analyzed
      using statistical tools that are deemed appropriate at the time of data analysis by
      investigators from TGen and Dr. Kalani. Drs. Kalani and Nakaji will then correlate the
      identity and quantity of identified molecular markers, their temporal appearance,
      concentration, and disappearance to the collected clinical data.

      A neuroradiologist will perform evaluation and interpretation of the computerized axial
      tomography (CT)/MRI scans collected during the subject's inpatient stay and outpatient
      visits. The neuroradiologist will be recording size and caliber of the blood vessels, looking
      for malformations, dissections, aneurysms, or other abnormalities.

      The researchers will also correlate the level of identified markers to how well the patient
      performs upon discharge from the hospital and at followup for up to two years from discharge,
      using Modified Rankin Scale scores and Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS). As a part of followup,
      researcher will assess time to return to work (if applicable), complaints, results of
      followup laboratory (complete blood counts, coagulation studies, response to anti-platelet
      medications including aspirin resistance assay and the p2yp12 assays, and basic metabolic
      panels) and imaging, and an updated complete history and physical to identify new conditions
      that may have resulted post-ischemia. This information will be collected at the time of
      followup with the neurosurgeons. Once this is done, if a candidate microRNA or protein is
      identified, the researchers will share the results (again in a manner that excludes any
      patient specific information) with our collaborators (Department of Health and Human Services
      associated organizations such as the NIH).
    
  