
    
      Pilonidal cyst was first described by Hodges in 1880. The disease of pilonidal cyst is also
      known as "Jeep disease", due to the fact that, during World War II (1941-1945), several
      American soldiers (about 80,000) suffered from this disease, because, either they were
      driving for long hours on uneven, destroyed by war, roads, or, they were spending time
      sitting at military vehicles like jeep, trucks and tankers, resulting in being submitted to
      surgical operation, in order to alleviate the arousing pilonidal cyst problem, at USA
      military hospitals.

      Pilonidal cyst, is considered as one of the most common diseases of the subcutaneous tissues
      of the sacrococcygeal region. This situation is the result of hair penetrating into the skin,
      a situation not uncommon in this anatomical area. In a study including 50,000 college
      students, pilonidal cyst occurrence, in males, was 1.1%, which was 10 times higher compared
      to females, although a considerable rate of them was asymptomatic. Evidence from studies in
      England, also, indicate that the disease is more frequent in men than women (1 to 3) . The
      disease is more common in Caucasians than in Asians or Africans due to the differences in
      their hair characteristics and the respective hair development pattern. Risk factors include
      the following: sedentary life (44%), positive family history (38%), obesity (50%) and
      regional irritation (34%). The disease usually presents during the age of 16 - 20 and
      prevalence is decreasing drastically after the 25th year of age. This disease rarely develops
      before the adolescence and after the 40th year of age.

      Treatment usually depends on the condition of the disease. An acute abscess is usually
      controlled with incision and drainage. A chronic pilonidal cyst is best treated with a
      surgical procedure that involves complete resection of the cyst along with the coexisting
      fistulas, in order to ensure the minimum reoccurrence rate. There are two choices after
      surgical resection, secondary intention wound healing or primary trauma closure, with or
      without a flap. The surgical procedure can be performed with the administration of local
      anaesthesia in the outpatient office or in a day-clinic, or with the use of general
      anaesthesia depending on the condition of the patient.

      Post operatively secondary intention wound healing is applied in many cases, especially when
      factors like infection, necrotic tissue or inflammatory tissue are introduced. There are many
      dressings that can be used for the care of a surgical trauma. The ideal dressing used should
      have some special characteristics such as absorption of exudates without leakage, provision
      of a dry environment that prevents bacteria from entering the wound and facilitation of easy
      appliance, as well as removal. Choosing the right dressing is not based on a certain
      protocol, but mostly on the surgeon preference.

      The current study aims at comparing two groups of patients that will be subjected to surgical
      resection of pilonidal cyst and secondary intention wound healing. In the first group,
      dressings like alginate cord with silver and high G cellulose will be used for filling of the
      wound cavity and a hydro-capillary dressing for sealing and waterproofing the wound. In the
      other group, simple gauze dressings for the coverage of the wound cavity will be used.
      Comparison of the two groups will involve all the endpoints that indicate whether such
      dressings can facilitate faster wound healing, enabling, thus, patients to faster return to
      their everyday activities. Furthermore, a parameter that has not been, previously, studied,
      the quality of life after the surgical excision of the pilonidal cyst, by using the SF - 36
      and the Quality of life with Chronic Wound questionnaire, will, also, be investigated.
    
  