
    
      Sedentary life invites various diseases. Especially cardiovascular diseases are the leading
      ones. Researches show that the rapid development of technology has pushed people to laziness
      and therefore to immobility. A sedentary lifestyle causes many serious health problems. Many
      diseases such as obesity and cardiovascular diseases, which are characterized as contemporary
      diseases, such as muscular weakness, postural disorder, and diabetes are more common in
      immobile and sedentary individuals.

      We know that still life has some drawbacks. These may cause tissue injuries between the
      vertebrae and kyphosis, lordosis, scoliosis problems, respectively. It may also cause
      calcification in the lumbar vertebrae, disc problems, risk of sciatica, and an increase in
      excess adipose tissue under the skin. Again high blood cholesterol and triglyceride findings
      and blood sugar abnormalities may occur in the blood table. Of course, the susceptibility to
      high blood pressure, the loss of elasticity of the rib cage, low respiratory capacity, and
      the risk of coronary vascular disease may be uncertain. Still life can create weak abdomen
      and back muscles, posture disorder, digestive and excretion difficulties, postpartum drooping
      abdomen, hip slope abnormality, loss of strength, flexibility and functionality in all muscle
      and muscle groups, weight problem and formlessness. Also in skeleton structure; osteoporosis,
      calcification, joint problems, easy injury, weak body, easy sickness and recovery can be
      observed. All these diseases are serious health problems that can be encountered in
      individuals who do not exercise regularly. In many developed countries of the world, people
      have included sports in many compulsory habits such as eating, drinking, lying, education,
      and worship. This compulsory exercise is a lifelong activity in humans. People who make it
      compulsory to exercise will feel discomfort as soon as they do not.

      At the moment, we know that the most valid method to protect against coronavirus is to stay
      at home. Many scientists are told that this virus protection is to strengthen the immune
      system through exercise, and that the weight problem can be eliminated with exercise due to
      staying at home all day long. Because, it is explained one by one that exercise will increase
      the body resistance of the people, children and adults will stay away due to movement from
      obesity, the skeletal-muscular system will be regular, and the social environment will make
      people healthier.

      In addition, constant home, restricted mobility and freedom, limited sociability, decreased
      communication, increased social-physical distance with our loved ones, and decreased physical
      contact can make us more depressed, angry and anxious.

      For all these reasons, the home quarantine process created due to the Corona virus
      necessitates exercise. We believe that this process can be managed in the most effective way
      with video exercise and information booklets in order to reduce inactivity in this process,
      which is left at home with the philosophy of life is movement, movement is life.

      Science and technology have been developing since the day human beings existed. Technology;
      It is used in many fields such as education, health, communication, defense, industry and
      transportation. Technology has brought many benefits and a new perspective to the health
      sector as well as other fields. In this study, it was aimed to investigate the effects of the
      exercise program that we applied remotely with video-based exercises during the quarantine
      days on the parameters such as physical activity level, balance, endurance, sleep quality,
      depression, anxiety and quality of life.
    
  