
    
      Singapore's population is growing older and increasingly burdened with systemic disease. It
      is estimated that over 320 million people underwent surgery worldwide in 2010, with Asia
      being the fastest growing region. Elderly patients aged >65 years are presenting for surgery
      at an ever-increasing rate. In the United States, studies have estimated that approximately
      53% of all surgical procedures are performed on patients over the age of 65. Projections
      estimate that approximately half of the population over the age of 65 will require surgery
      once in their lives.

      We often hear from our elderly patients that they value their quality of life more than
      prolonging it. Therefore it is essential that we optimize the care in the perioperative
      period to allow patients to fully benefit from surgery, as this period profoundly impacts
      survival and quality of life of patients after surgery. There is a current focus on enhanced
      recovery after surgery (ERAS) where surgeons implement protocols such as improved analgesia,
      less invasive procedures and early mobilisation to encourage earlier discharge of post op
      patients. In the best practice guidelines for care of elderly surgical patients put forward
      by the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP)
      and the American Geriatrics Society (AGS) published in 2012, anaesthesia plays a role in more
      than half of the 13 recommendations put forward.

      One of these recommendations is to reduce postoperative delirium (POD). The anaesthetic
      agents we use is toxic to the brain, and deep anaesthesia causes POD, which is linked to
      increased hospital length of stay, increased 30-day mortality, and dementia. POD is one of
      the leading causes of why patients fall at home after surgery. Up to 10% will develop
      long-term neurocognitive deficits, which in turn diminish the quality of life and levy a
      tremendous socio-economic burden on family and care-givers, and shortens life. The topic of
      POD has dominated the anaesthesia literature in the last year, with both the US and European
      societies issuing best practice guidelines such as the Brain Health Initiative and the Safe
      Brain Initiative, as well as harmonization of the definitions of postoperative neurological
      outcomes with that used by neurologists in compliance with DSM-5 definitions to allow for
      collaborative solutions.

      Awareness of POD remains poor amongst both doctors and the public. The reason for this is
      that POD requires specialized neurological testing and currently, there are no established
      biomarkers or monitors to detect it. Yet when patients are assessed for POD, it has been
      reported that it occurs in as many as 11-50% of patients undergoing major non-cardiac
      surgery. Studies have shown that up to 40% of POD is preventable. Anecdotally, POD is one of
      the leading reasons for in-hospital (blue letter) psychiatric referrals after surgery in
      NUHS, as delirious patients will refuse to comply with physiotherapy, medications and wound
      care, leading to delayed healing, infection and delayed discharge. Patients are not routinely
      assessed for POD, and can be discharged with it. Patients who are still delirious can end up
      with poor feeding and self-care, and even hurt themselves leading to rehospitalisation. In
      short, POD is a common yet under-diagnosed, and potentially preventable, complication of
      anaesthesia and surgery in the elderly that has significant long-term effects on the
      independence of patients after surgery and their quality of life.
    
  