
    
      Study design:

      Open-label, crossover, single center, randomized controlled trial of FreeStyle Libre with
      MiaoMiao Bluetooth transmitter adjunct with calibrations (FSL-M) compared to FreeStyle Libre
      alone (FSL-A) in people with T1DM.

      Protocol summary:

      Following informed written consent, subjects will be randomized to either FSL-M group using
      FSL with Miaomio and Tomato App premium version, or FSL-A with Libre Link app (stage 1).
      Subjects will spend 8 weeks in the assigned group followed by 2 weeks washout then subjects
      will switch over to the other group for further 8 weeks (stage 2).

      While in FSL-M, subjects will be asked to calibrate FSL with daily capillary glucose values
      using Contour Plus, or on days 1, 2, 4, 8, 13 of sensor life. Alarms for low glucose
      (<3.9mmol/L, <70mg/dL) and high glucose (>13.9mmol/L, 250mg/dL) will be set in Tomato App.

      7-point capillary glucose profiles will be carried out by subjects in both groups on days
      2/3, 5/6, 9/10, 13/14 of each sensor life to enable paired comparison with sensor values.

      Subjects will have routine labs at randomization, end of stage 1, and end of stage 2. All
      subjects will be asked to complete the following questionnaires: GOLD, Problem Areas in
      Diabetes (PAID) and Diabetes Quality of Life (DQOL) at randomization, at end of stage1 and
      end of stage 2. The group randomized to FSL-M at stage 1 will have qualitative interview at
      randomization, end of stage 1 and end of stage 2.

      All adverse events will be collected including, but not limited to, all hypoglycaemia,
      diabetic ketoacidosis, hospital admissions for any reason, and device related skin reaction
      for the duration of the study in all subjects in both groups.

      Data analysis will be carried out on glucose data retrieved from Libre view web-platform and
      Tomato App downloads in addition to Contour Plus meter downloads.
    
  