
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic is spreading rapidly worldwide. Latin America, the region with the
      highest income inequality, remains as one of the worst-hit areas worldwide. Despite
      accounting for 8.4% of the global population, Latin America has witnessed 20.3% of the total
      SARS-COV-2 cases and 30.2% of the COVID-19 deaths to date. Several countries in the region
      are among the worst-hit worldwide. Brazil has had more than 11 million SARS-COV-2 cases and
      Mexico, Argentina and Colombia have exceeded the 2 million cases each. Similarly, the five
      most populated countries in the region (Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Colombia and Peru) exceed
      600,000 SARS-COV-2-related deaths. The pandemic reached Latin America later than other
      continents, and the first case of COVID-19 in the region was reported in Brazil on February
      26, followed by a case in Mexico on February 28, 2020 and subsequently spreading throughout
      the region during March 2020.

      Policy responses to COVID-19 in Latin America have sought to reduce viral spread, increase
      the capacity of the health system response, mitigate negative consequences, and strengthen
      governance. Effectiveness studies of social distancing policies in China, India, European
      countries, the United States and worldwide have shown that these appear to be effective to
      reduce viral transmission.

      Despite the heavy burden of the COVID-19 in Latin American countries, there have been few
      studies examining the effectiveness of COVID-19 policies. Likewise, few studies have explored
      variation at the local level in the effectiveness of COVID-19 policies. Inequalities in
      policy effectiveness can arise due to within-country differences at the local level due to
      their geographical, sociodemographic, mobility patterns, and governance differences. In Latin
      America, high levels of poverty, urban density, household crowding, lack of safety nets,
      unemployment and precarious work cluster geographically and coexist with structural
      inequities in governance and built environments, thus creating barriers for effective
      compliance with preventive recommendations and for the implementation of well-functioning
      contact tracing and isolation mechanisms. Understanding the effectiveness of policies at the
      local level and exploring potential explanations for effect heterogeneity is essential to
      reduce the burden of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and inform the preparedness for future
      pandemics.

      In this study, the investigators aim, first, to estimate the effectiveness of
      nonpharmaceutical interventions on SARS-COV2 transmission and COVID-19 mortality in Latin
      America; second, to examine the effect heterogeneity of transmission and mortality at the
      local level. Third, assuming there is evidence of moderate to substantial heterogeneity at
      the local level, the investigators aim to explore potential explanations for this
      heterogeneity. The study will use an interrupted time series method to estimate their effects
      in each local government, and random effects meta-analysis and meta-regression to obtain
      pooled effects, heterogeneity estimates and potential explanations.

      Methods Design and setting: Natural experiment exploiting the variation in the temporal and
      spatial implementation of policy interventions, aimed to reduce the spread and mortality of
      COVID-19 in Latin America. The unit of analysis are local governments, i.e. third-tier
      administrative levels such as municipalities, districts or cantons.

      Eligibility criteria: See below. To date, eligible countries are Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
      Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru. These countries represent 80.9%
      of the population in Latin America, and the vast majority of SARS-CoV-2 cases and COVID-19
      deaths.

      Interventions: Interventions include (i) policies aimed at reducing viral transmission, (ii)
      policies aimed at increasing the capacity of the health system's response, and (iii) policies
      aimed at mitigating the negative consequences of the epidemic and potential adverse effects
      of interventions. We will use the PoliMap taxonomy to categorise the examined policies.

      Comparator: Counterfactual outcome defined as the projection of the pre-intervention trend to
      simulate what would have happened if the policy had not occurred.

      Data sources: COVID-19 cases and deaths data, as well as the covariates, from official
      government sources, such as the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Science and Technology.
      The intervention information will come from legal documents, official statements, and
      quantitative accounts from trustable sources.

      Covariates: First model at the local level does not include covariates (see below). Second
      model (i.e. the meta-analysis), we will examine the change in heterogeneity after adjusting
      for several covariates at the local level. Local level covariates include projected
      population size in 2020, demographic density, age-structure of the population, household
      density and socioeconomic status. We will use data from official sources of information,
      primarily the latest national population census in each included country.

      Statistical analysis: See the Statistical Analysis Plan for details on the modelling
      assumptions. The study will use an interrupted time series design, where each local
      government acts as its own control. The main strength of this design is its capacity to
      distinguish the effect of the intervention from secular change. The study will use a Poisson
      regression to model the count data (for both outcomes) and accounting for overdispersion and
      secular trends. A full discussion on potential biases and violations of assumptions can be
      found in the Statistical Analysis Plan.

      In a second stage, the investigators will use random effects meta analysis to pool the effect
      estimates for each intervention or combination of interventions. This analysis informs
      whether any implemented intervention was effective to reduce COVID-19 cases and deaths and
      the degree of heterogeneity between the effects at the local level. If there is evidence of
      moderate to high levels of heterogeneity (defined as higher than 50%), the investigators will
      also use standard meta-regression techniques to assess whether local level determinants (see
      Covariates) can explain the observed heterogeneity. The investigators will build the models
      and test the analytical strategy using publicly available data on COVID-19 cases and deaths
      from Finland and Sweden from January 1 to March 31.
    
  