
    
      Children living in poverty often are at risk to leave their family to work at the landfill.
      The main reasons for this are torn family systems, family violence, exclusion, poverty and a
      lack of intra-familial communication. Psychological stress due to past political crises
      diminishes parents' ability to provide a safe environment for their children and often leads
      to maltreatment in the families. Children in the district of Buterere who spend their days on
      the streets or on the landfills of Bujumbura, Burundi to earn a living are particularly
      vulnerable. The project aims to create a safe environment for these young people and to
      strengthen their family structures in the long term to prevent them from losing family
      cohesion due to poverty and lack of support. For this purpose, we plan to treat traumatized
      parents psychotherapeutically and to improve their parenting skills within the families in
      group and family sessions. The individual trauma treatment aims also at reducing aggression
      problems frequently associated with trauma in order to reduce negative consequences for the
      children. The group sessions for parents aim to address subjects such as parenting skills,
      alcohol abuse, family planning, and conflicts amongst couples. The family visits aim at
      reinforcing communication between children and their parents. The financial situation is to
      be improved in the medium term through agricultural group projects. In addition,
      participating children and youths will be granted access to school and education, and
      participate in a skill training group. In the long term, parents are to set up savings and
      micro credit groups in order to ensure the education of the children. This multifactorial
      design should help to reduce the above-mentioned main risk factors for living on the street.
      The project involves 40 families, which are particularly affected by poverty and traumatic
      experiences. The legal guardians within the families are identified at the beginning of the
      project and directly involved to strengthen upbringing skills, to improve the economic
      situation of the family and to enable the adults affected by the violent political crises in
      Burundi to deal with their own psychological problems. In addition, one child between the
      ages of 5 and 20 per family is identified as the main beneficiary. This serves to gain a
      deeper insight into the family's communication and, in particular, to take sufficient account
      of the children's perspective. Through the integral approach of the project, which guarantees
      psychological, medical, social, legal and economic support, the children are to be protected
      from increasing violence on the streets and from family violence in the long term. The
      project is based on scientific findings of the implementing organizations, which carried out
      similar projects in Burundi in the last years.
    
  