
    
      Our project is based on implementation of a telemonitoring and case management BP program for
      remote dwellers with diabetes and CKD in remote regions of Alberta. Our aim is to determine
      the impact of the intervention on BP control and other CKD risk factors, achievement of
      guideline-concordant therapeutic targets, evaluate barriers and enablers of implementation of
      the proposed model of care, patient-centred evaluation and economic modelling.

      Objectives:

      Objective 1: To determine the effectiveness of telemonitoring and protocol-based case
      management versus usual care Objective 2: To analyze the usability and acceptability of the
      intervention Objective 3: To determine the cost-effectiveness and cost utility of the
      intervention versus usual care

      Anticipated outcomes:

      (a) improved process of care (control of BP and other CKD risk factors); (b) evidence on user
      acceptability and safety of the intervention; and (c) better understanding of factors
      affecting implementation, scale-up and sustainability.

      Methods:

      Design, Randomization, and Allocation:

      The study is a two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing the clinical care of
      remote dwelling hypertensive CKD patients. Independently of the study team, the EPICORE
      Centre (www.epicore.ualberta.ca) will randomly assign 200 patients to each study arm (1:1):
      home-based BP telemonitoring plus protocol-based case management versus usual care.

      Setting:

      This study will be conducted in select remote communities in the Peace Region of Northern
      Alberta over a period of 2 years.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  age ≥ 18 years with a documented diagnosis of established CKD (eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73m2
           and/or proteinuria > 1 g/day), and uncontrolled hypertension (not concordant with the
           guideline target for CKD)

        -  English literacy, both verbal and written

        -  ability and willingness to provide informed consent for participation

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  systolic BP level > 220 mmHg or diastolic BP level > 110 mmHg on screening BP
           measurement; immediate consultation with a hypertension specialist will be expedited

        -  BP within the recommended range

        -  terminal illness (life expectancy < 1 y)

        -  participation in a concurrent nephrology or cardiovascular trial

        -  pregnancy

        -  patient resides in an area without mobile phone coverage

      Intervention:

      The patients will be provided with a home BP telemonitoring system whereby a patient pushes a
      single button on a home BP monitor to initiate measurement, and data are auto-transmitted via
      Bluetooth to an Android smartphone and relayed to a secured web portal for review. Patients
      will receive a validated electronic upper arm oscillometric BP device (A&D Ltd. UA-651BLE;
      San Jose, CA) and an Android smartphone with a prepaid SIM card (enabling wireless data
      transmission). Patients will take four measurements daily for 1 week using recommended
      techniques. If BP is uncontrolled (high or low), this 1-week protocol will be followed each
      month until BP is in the therapeutic range. Once controlled, the 1-week protocol will be
      repeated every 3 months. Teletransmitted BP readings will be summarized within the health
      portal using telemonitoring software, which will calculate an overall weekly mean by
      discarding first-day measurements and averaging the subsequent 24 measurements over the next
      6 days. Temporal trends will be plotted. The BP data will be teletransmitted to the study
      case manager, who will review lifestyle modifications, BP self-monitoring and medication
      adherence. The case manager will also review telemonitored health portal BP summaries, make
      protocol-based therapeutic adjustments and send summaries to participants' PCPs to inform
      them of treatment changes. Medications will be adjusted based on existing treatment
      protocols.

      Control:

      For the control arm (usual standard care), participants' home BP series mean, trends, and
      individual readings will be sent via secure electronic medical records (EMR) to their PCP
      along with a 1-page summary of Canadian guidelines for BP thresholds, targets, and treatments
      relevant for CKD.

      Baseline data:

        -  demographics and health behaviours: age, sex, race, smoking, alcohol intake;

        -  past medical history, particularly significant CVD (coronary artery disease, stroke,
           peripheral arterial disease, heart failure);

        -  medication history (BP-lowering drugs): name, type, dosage, frequency, duration;

        -  anthropometric indices: height, weight, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference;

        -  upper mid-arm circumference (to determine proper cuff size) using standard measures;

        -  24-hr ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM), home BP series, and pulse rate; BP will be
           measured according to recommended techniques using validated devices;

        -  laboratory investigations: serum electrolytes, glycated hemoglobin (A1c), lipids panel,
           urinary albumin/creatinine ratio;

        -  health care use in past year: physician and/or emergency room visits, and
           hospitalizations ascertained through patient self-reports and/or provincial
           administrative data sources;

        -  quality of life and utility measurements (Kidney Disease Quality of Life-36 [KDQOL-36]
           Euro-QOL 5D [EQ-5D] as a preference-based utility measure); and Patient Assessment of
           Chronic Illness Care [PACIC].

      Follow-up data will be collected at 6 months and 1 year, measured as follows:

        -  clinical endpoints and patient-centred outcomes: 24-hr ABPM, telemonitored home BP,
           heart rate, medications, anthropometrics, cardiovascular risk factors and markers (A1c,
           lipids, smoking, urinary albumin), health care use, quality of life and utility, and
           satisfaction with medical care

        -  safety endpoints: frequency of syncope and hypotension requiring assistance or medical
           attention and/or electrolyte disturbances;

        -  user acceptability: two 10-point Likert scales used to evaluate usability and
           acceptability

        -  costing data: trial-based costing using the three-step micro-costing technique of
           identification, measurement and valuation of relevant health care and non-health care
           resources using standard methods, with focus on cost of telemonitoring and case
           management, health care costs (through linkage with Alberta Health data), and
           patient-borne costs (patient survey).

      Data Analysis:

      Objective 1: Effectiveness of telemonitoring and protocol-based case management versus usual
      care:

      The primary outcome will be the 1-year difference in the proportion of patients meeting the
      guideline-concordant BP target between intervention and control groups. We will use 24-hour
      ABPM because it is the gold standard measurement and the best validated clinical trial BP
      endpoint. Major secondary outcomes will include the change in mean 24-hour systolic and
      diastolic BP (overall, daytime and nighttime). First, we will use descriptive statistics to
      summarize key variables as appropriate, including assessments of temporal trends and tests of
      normality. Second, we will calculate the 6-month and 1-year mean changes from baseline in
      each outcome and compare them between study arms using chi-square tests for dichotomous
      outcomes and unpaired t-tests for continuous outcomes. Third, we will identify multivariable
      predictors of the 1-year change in a given outcome using appropriately constructed and
      calibrated logistic regression models for dichotomous outcomes (including the primary
      outcome) or linear regression models for continuous outcomes. Initial models will be
      appropriately adjusted for key confounding demographic, clinical and laboratory variables.
      Missing data will be handled using last observation carried forward.

      Objective 2: Usability and acceptability of the intervention:

      Assessment of usability and acceptability is critical for all technology-enhanced care
      interventions to minimize risk of undesired consequences commonly seen post-implementation.
      End-user input into system design and operation, and rigorous system evaluation is important
      to reduce the risk that interventions will be ineffective, unusable or unsafe. We will take a
      qualitative approach to this process by using focus groups. A target sample size of 5 to 8
      participants will be recruited from patients in the telemonitoring arm and care providers.
      The first 5 users typically identify 70% of severe usability problems and the first 8 users
      typically identify 85%; a higher sample size has low incremental yield because of data
      saturation.Focus groups will be conducted for each of the group (patients and care providers)
      at baseline and follow-up. Sessions will be audiotaped, transcribed verbatim and analyzed
      using the methodology of interpretive description (ID). NVIVO, a qualitative software system,
      will be used to create a filing system and coding database. The first focus group in each
      group will be read and re-read to generate an initial codebook. The codebook will be
      iteratively refined throughout the analysis. Codes will be categorized and analyzed
      thematically. Patient and clinician data will first be analyzed separately, and then across
      groups.

      Objective 3: Cost-effectiveness and cost utility of the intervention versus usual care:

      Cost-effectiveness (Model A) and cost utility (Model B) of the intervention compared with the
      control arm will be analyzed using a modified version of a validated economic model. Best
      practices for economic evaluation will be followed. The intervention includes intermittent or
      one-time costs (e.g., devices, treatment algorithm development, patient and health care
      professional training) and ongoing costs (e.g., network and data, case manager time, BP
      medications). Data captured during the RCT will accurately determine the costs of
      telemonitoring, case management, and health care system use by patients. The change in BP at
      1 year, a validated surrogate, is a key variable in both analyses. Model A will calculate the
      cost per decrement in mean BP using a 1-year time horizon and a public health care payer
      perspective. Model B will estimate incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY)
      gained over a lifetime. It will consider longer-term health outcomes, including the
      probability of developing ESRD (requiring dialysis or transplant) or major cardiovascular
      events (i.e., coronary artery disease, heart failure, stroke), all-cause mortality, impacts
      on quality of life (EQ-5D), and health care costs associated with these outcomes. In each
      model we will explore distributions using bootstrapping, create acceptability curves, and
      perform one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses to explore the impact of uncertainty
      in key model parameters. In Model B, the potential impact of reducing complications of
      treating hypertension in patients with CKD (hypotension, syncope) by a plausible range will
      be explored in sensitivity analysis using baseline risk determined from a population-based
      cohort of patients and ambulatory care sensitive conditions for emergency room visits and
      hospitalizations.
    
  