
    
      The ventilation protocol consisted in volume-controlled mechanical ventilation through
      Ventilator, inspiratory to expiratory ratio of 1:2, and a respiratory rate adjusted to
      normocapnia (end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure between 30 and 40 mmHg). The were
      randomly assigned to Standard (SV) or Protective (PV) group.

      participants in the SV group received a Tidal Volume (Vt) of 10 ml/kg of Ideal Body Weight
      (IBW) and a PEEP of 5 cmH2O, the participants in the PV group a Vt of 6 ml/kg of IBW and a
      PEEP of 8-10 cmH2O, associated to recruitment maneuvers (RMs).

      RMs were performed only in hemodynamic stable conditions and at pre-set moments: after the
      induction of anesthesia, after any disconnection from the mechanical ventilator, each hour
      during the surgical procedures and immediately before extubation. RMs were performed in
      Pressure Control mode as follows: the limit of peak inspiratory pressure was set at 45 cmH2O
      and the pressure control was set at 30 cmH2O, therefore three consecutive thirty seconds
      lasting inspiratory pauses were performed. At the end of RMs, respiratory rate, inspiratory
      to expiratory ratio, inspiratory pause, and Vt were set back at values preceding the RMs.

      Air Flow (V') was measured with a heated pneumotachograph, inserted between the Y-piece of
      the ventilator circuit and the endotracheal tube. The pneumotachograph was linear over the
      experimental range of flow. Volume was obtained by numerical integration of the flow signal.
      Airway pressure (Paw) was measured proximal to the endotracheal tube with a pressure
      transducer with a differential pressure of ± 100 cm H2O. The end-inspiratory and
      end-expiratory occlusions were performed through specific maneuver of ventilator.

      Following end-inspiratory occlusion there is an immediate drop of the airway pressure from a
      maximal value (Pmax) to airway pressure at zero flow (P1), followed by a further decrease to
      plateau pressure (P2). The plateau pressure usually arrived within 3 seconds. Therefore,
      airway pressure 3 seconds after occlusion was taken as the static end-inspiratory elastic
      recoil pressure (P2) of the respiratory system. The use of the interrupter method for the
      measurement of respiratory mechanics allows possible quantification of the airway and
      viscoelastic properties of the respiratory system. The difference between Pmax and P1 divided
      by flow provides major information about minimal airway resistance (Rmin), while the
      difference between P1 and P2 (ΔP) divided by flow stands for viscoelastic resistance or
      Pendelluft effect of the respiratory system (ΔR). Maximal respiratory resistance (Rmax) is
      the sum of Rmin and ΔR. The inspiratory volume divided by P2- Total PEEP yields respiratory
      system compliance. Mechanical respiratory measurements and arterial blood gases were
      performed immediately after intubation, after pneumoperitoneum (AP), every hour during the
      procedure and before extubation (Ext). A further arterial blood gas sample was analyzed 1
      hour after extubation.

      The day after the surgical procedure, clinical patient examination and chest x ray were
      performed, in order to detect eventual pulmonary adverse events.
    
  