
    
      Docetaxel is a chemotherapy drug designed to kill some cancers and is believed to be slightly
      effective at killing blood vessels in cancers.

      Perifosine is a new drug that may help docetaxel be more effective in causing cancer cells to
      die. Perifosine alone may slow cancer cell growth by targeting an abnormal pathway in your
      ovarian cancer cells.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive your dose of
      perifosine by mouth every 6 hours on Day 1 of therapy. The actual number of pills in your
      dose depends upon which dose level you are assigned to. You will then continue receiving
      perifosine by mouth once a day for 20 more days. Each cycle of treatment is about 28 days.

      On Day 5 of therapy, of the first cycle only, you will have blood drawn (about 2.5
      tablespoons) performed, and 5 hair follicles and ascites collected, if available. If you do
      not have ascites, you will have a FNA performed on your tumor.

      On Day 8 of therapy, you will have a DCE-MRI. On Day 10 of therapy, you will have a PET scan.
      Your treatment schedule for each cycle will usually be the same. There may be a one-day
      difference in the treatment schedules.

      After the first cycle is completed, you will begin receiving docetaxel, on Day 2 of therapy
      of each cycle of treatment, as an injection in a vein over 60 minutes at the M. D. Anderson
      infusion center. The second cycle of treatment will start on Day 29.

      Within 72 hours of the start of each cycle, you will have blood (about 1 tablespoon) and
      urine collected for routine tests . After you receive the drugs, you will have weekly blood
      tests (about 1 tablespoon) to evaluate your well being. Before the start of each cycle of
      therapy, you will have a physical exam, and your medical history will be recorded. You will
      also be called by the study doctor or staff to ask questions about any side effects you may
      be experiencing during therapy. After the end of every 2 cycles (about every 8 weeks), you
      will have an x-ray and either a CT scan or an MRI to re-evaluate your cancer.

      You may be given treatment on this study as long as your disease does not get worse. Your
      physician will discuss with you the maximum number of treatment cycles you will receive. You
      will be taken off this study if your disease gets worse or if you experience any intolerable
      side effects.

      After your participation in this study has ended, you will come back for a follow-up visit.
      At this visit, you will have your medical history recorded and a physical exam. You will have
      blood (about 1 tablespoon) and urine collected for routine tests. You may also have a CT scan
      or an MRI to re-measure and re-evaluate your cancer.

      You will have follow-up for as long as needed after you have completed treatment with
      perifosine plus docetaxel. You will either be contacted by phone or asked to come to the
      clinic for a routine visit. You will be contacted every 8 weeks. You will have radiographic
      evaluations, by either a CT or an MRI, done every 12 weeks to evaluate your cancer growth or
      until you start on another anticancer therapy.

      This is an investigational study. Perifosine has been authorized by the FDA for use in
      research only. Up to 20 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  