
    
      Shoulder pain is is one of the most common musculoskeletal disorders, presenting a high
      prevalence in primary care centers. Many factors have been proposed as the cause of pain,
      however it is still controversial and the same regarding the best treatment option.

      Treatments throw different techniques have been investigated, showing a variety of results in
      terms of pain and sensitivity. However, the use of 448kilohertz capacitive resistive
      monopolar radiofrequency as the focus of the treatment is to be explored.

      The hypothesis of the present project is that focus treatments on 448kilohertz capacitive
      resistive monopolar radiofrequency on the shoulder will produce better outcomes in terms of
      ultrasound assessment, strength, pain, sensitivity and range of movement, when compared to
      traditional methods used like manual therapy and/or exercise.

      The stimulus will be carried out on the shoulder region (suprascapular, axillar, subscapular,
      long thoracic or pectoralis nerves) and the thoracic region. All interventions will be
      developed by the same examiner, who is a physiotherapist with 6 years of clinical experience.

      The outcome measures will be electromyography and dynamometry to measure strength and
      muscular activity. The movements required to the patient will be shoulder flexion, abduction,
      adduction, and extension.

      To quantify sensitivity, pain pressure thresholds will be measured throw an algometer placed
      on the coracoid process, on the lateral area of the shoulder (two centimeters below the
      acromion and on the acromioclavicular joint).

      To measure the range of movement, a goniometer will be used for both glenohumeral and
      scapular rotations.

      To measure quality of life and psychological factors several questionnaires will be asked
      (Pain catastrophizing scale, Pain vigilance and awareness questionnaire, Self-efficacy,
      SPADI, Tampa Scale-11, McGill)
    
  