
    
      Method:

      At the end of an observational period of a week, centers will be randomized in two groups:
      intervention or current practice. In the intervention group, centers will be provided with
      poster and pocket cards and, if possible, with a computer decision support system remembering
      venous thromboembolism prophylactic treatment. We will propose no change in current practice
      in the other group.

      Primary outcome: the rate of symptomatic venous thromboembolic events and severe haemorrhage
      during a formal 3-months follow-up after hospital admission in patients hospitalized at least
      48 hours.

      All possible thromboembolic events, severe haemorrhages and deaths will be analysed by an
      adjudication committee blinded of group assignation. Sudden death without obvious cause
      according to the adjudication committee will be considered as possible fatal pulmonary
      embolism.

      Sample size: We calculated sample size on the basis of primary outcome. Assuming the
      participation of 30 centers (15 in each group), an intracluster correlation of 0.01, a rate
      of symptomatic thromboembolic events or severe haemorrhage of 5% in the current practice
      group, we need a sample of 16170 patients (8085 in each group) to detect a 1.5 percentage
      absolute difference between the 2 groups (3.5% in the intervention group) with a power of 80%
      and a significance level of 5%.

      Considering a rate of patients hospitalized less than 48 hours around 5% and of lost of
      follow-up around 3%, we anticipated to include 16500 patients for the main analysis and 18000
      patients for the overall study.

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  The appropriateness of thromboprophylaxis in the overall population and according to
           group assignation:

             -  Number of patients needing prevention treatment according to international
                recommendations and who have an appropriate treatment.

             -  Number of patients without indication of thromboprophylaxis and who do not receive
                a treatment

        -  The rate of symptomatic venous thromboembolic events during a formal 3-months follow-up
           after hospital admission

             -  in all included patients

             -  in patients hospitalized at least 48 hours.

             -  inpatients hospitalized less than 48 hours

        -  The rate of thromboembolic events

             -  in patients who had an appropriate thromboprophylactic treatment

             -  in patients who had an inappropriate thromboprophylactic treatment

             -  in patients who had no thromboprophylactic treatment

        -  The rate of severe haemorrhage

             -  in patients who had an appropriate thromboprophylactic treatment

             -  in patients who had an inappropriate thromboprophylactic treatment

             -  in patients who had no thromboprophylactic treatment
    
  