
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and tolerability of intravenous (IV) and intraperitoneal (IP)
      administration of wild-type reovirus (REOLYSIN®).

      II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of IP REOLYSIN® when used with a fixed dose of IV
      REOLYSIN®.

      III. Determine the objective response rate (complete response and partial response per
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] criteria) of treatment with IV and IP
      REOLYSIN® in patients with recurrent, platinum-refractory ovarian epithelial, peritoneal, or
      fallopian tube carcinoma. (Phase II) (phase II closed as of 1/7/2011).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify viral replication in tumor following IV reovirus. II. To identify
      anti-reovirus antibodies in patients being treated with IV and IP REOLYSIN® therapy.

      III. To identify viral replication in the abdominal washings of patients undergoing IV and IP
      REOLYSIN® therapy.

      IV. To correlate response to therapy with Ras oncogene status. V. To evaluate double-stranded
      RNA-activated protein kinase activity in tumors. VI. To correlate molecular predictors of
      response to REOLYSIN® therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of intraperitoneal (IP) wild-type reovirus
      when administered with fixed dose IV wild-type reovirus.

      PHASE I: Patients receive wild-type reovirus IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 in course 1,
      followed by insertion of an IP access port. Beginning in course 2, patients receive wild-type
      reovirus IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 and wild-type reovirus IP over 10 minutes on days 1
      and 2*. Treatment with IV and IP wild-type reovirus repeats every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients undergo IP access port insertion before beginning treatment. Patients
      receive wild-type reovirus IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 and IP (at the maximum tolerated
      dose determined in phase I) over 10 minutes on days 1 and 2*. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (phase II closed as of
      1/7/2011). NOTE: *Patients receive IP wild-type reovirus on days 2 and 3 in course 3.

      Prior to each IP wild-type reovirus administration, normal saline is administered through the
      IP catheter and withdrawn for correlative studies in courses 2 and 3 (phase I) or courses 1
      and 2 (phase II). Patients also undergo a CT-guided percutaneous tumor biopsy on day 2 of
      course 3 (phase I or II). Samples are analyzed by immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR, and electron
      microscopy for the relevant molecular effects of wild-type reovirus on tumor and normal
      tissue.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 12 weeks.
    
  