
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial of an internet-based intervention to increase physical
      activity in persons with multiple sclerosis. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common
      non-traumatic neurological cause of disability in young adults. Sedentary behavior, now
      recognized as a major contributor to increased morbidity is seen at higher rates and related
      to adverse health outcomes for persons with MS (PwMS). Prominent symptoms of MS (motor
      impairment, fatigue, depressed mood, pain), place this population at unique risk for
      increased sedentary behavior. And importantly, with increased age comes increased risk:
      patients over 60 are significantly more sedentary than middle-aged patients. On a positive
      note, current disease modifying therapies prolong time to disease progression, widening the
      window of opportunity for implementing behavioral interventions that support health and
      successful aging. Behaviors adopted early in life are more likely to be maintained into later
      adulthood. Physical activity is beneficial for PwMS on multiple levels: improved gait and
      balance, improved cognition, reduced depression and fatigue. Finding ways to increase
      physical activity is a key research priority for MS. Behavioral change is difficult to adopt
      and even more difficult to maintain. Here, we introduce a novel behavioral intervention to
      increase physical activity, eFIT, a technology-enabled (i.e., internet-delivered) support
      group-based treatment that leverages accountability to motivate and sustain behavioral
      change. Accountability constitutes the bedrock underlying the single most pervasive,
      successful, and widely embraced behavioral intervention known: Alcoholics Anonymous (AA).
      Through sponsors and support groups, AA utilizes accountability partners to deliver,
      reinforce, and sustain life-saving behavioral change. Here, we leverage accountability
      partners to motivate enduring behavioral change in physical activity participation, one of
      the single most difficult health behaviors to implement and maintain.
    
  