
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:I. Determine the increase in activity level per participant where the
      baseline average number of steps is recorded during week 0-2 will be compared to average step
      count recorded during week 20-28.SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:I. Determining the rate of patients who
      have achieved a 50% increase in activity level in each communication group (telephone versus
      [vs.] electronic).II. Demonstrate that the rate of patients who have achieved an increased
      activity level of 50% as compared to the patient's baseline in the electronic/email group is
      not inferior to the rate in the telephone group.III. Evaluate changes in body mass index
      (BMI), waist circumference, blood pressure and pulse for the whole group, by communication
      group (electronic vs. telephone), and by activity level.IV. Evaluate the changes in quality
      of life, as assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G), during the
      course of the study for the whole group, between the two groups (electronic vs. telephone),
      and based on activity level.V. Evaluate maintenance of activity level at 9 month (m) (week
      32-40) (comparison activity level 9 m vs. 6 m) for the whole group, by group (electronic vs.
      telephone), and by activity level.OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.ARM I:
      Participants undergo an exercise counseling session at baseline and wear Fitbit tracker daily
      for 9 months. Participants receive a short phone call at 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks, and at 4 and 5
      months to discuss the average number of daily steps over the past 2 weeks and to encourage a
      goal of a 10% increase over the next 2-4 week time period.ARM II: Participants undergo an
      exercise counseling session at baseline and wear Fitbit tracker daily for 9 months.
      Participants receive an electronic communication (email/text) of their choice at 2, 4, 6, and
      8 weeks, and at 4 and 5 months stating the average number of daily steps over the past 2
      weeks and encouraging a goal of a 10% increase over the next 2-4 week time period.
    
  