
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Estimate the probability of grades II-IV acute graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) in patients
           with acute leukemia or advanced myelodysplastic syndromes treated with CD45RA+
           T-cell-depleted allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation and compare this
           to relevant historical experience.

        -  Estimate the probability of graft failure in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate immune reconstitution and pathogen-specific T-cell reconstitution in these
           patients.

        -  Estimate the probability of transplant-related mortality by day 100 in these patients.

        -  Estimate the probability of relapse in these patients.

        -  Estimate the probability and severity of chronic GVHD in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Myeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients undergo total body irradiation twice daily
           for 4 days (Days -10 to -7) Patients also receive thiotepa IV over 4 hours for 2 days
           (Days -6 and -5) and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes for 5 days (Days -6 to
           -2.)

        -  Transplantation: Patients receive a CD34+ enriched allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
           (PBSC) product followed by a CD45RA+ T-cell-depleted allogeneic PBSC product on day 0.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients will receive Tacrolimus as per cohort
           1. If the rate of grade II-IV acute GVHD in the first 35 patients is significantly
           reduced (compared to historical controls), subsequent patients are enrolled in cohort 2.

             -  Cohort 1: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously or orally twice daily
                beginning on day -1 and continuing until day 50, followed by a standard taper in
                the absence of grade II-IV acute GVHD.

             -  Cohort 2: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously or orally twice daily
                beginning on day -1 and continuing until day 30, followed by a rapid taper in the
                absence of grade II-IV acute GVHD.

      Patients are followed actively for at least 1 year post transplant.
    
  