
    
      Large full-thickness skin defects, such as those resulting from trauma, large and giant
      congenital nevi, disfiguring scars, or tumor resection remain major clinical problems to
      patients and physicians. Skin flaps and grafts represent the current standard of care (SOC),
      but often present limitations associated with surgical morbidity and donor site availability.
      To overcome these limitations, cultured epidermal autografts consisting of keratinocytes were
      developed to provide enough autologous skin. However, the routine use of these cultured
      epidermal autografts was hampered by its high risk of recurrent wound opening, long-term
      fragility, and increased rates of scar contractures.

      Tissue-engineered dermal skin substitutes containing complex dermal layers have also been
      developed to produce large, near-natural skin substitutes. They promote healing and avoid
      scar contracture; however, the healing times are long as they lack the active cellular and
      paracrine components of healing, and they often need a second delayed surgical procedure, a
      split-thickness skin graft, to obtain complete epithelization.

      The term "nanofat grafting" was first used by Tonnard et al. and constitutes a rich reservoir
      of regenerative precursor cells (including stromal vascular fraction cells, among which
      adipose-derived stem cells) with pro-angiogenic capabilities. The many proprieties of nanofat
      and the stromal vascular fraction in regenerative and aesthetic surgery are just being
      discovered. In particular, numerous in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated the
      ability of these cells to differentiate into various skin cell lineages. Moreover, they are
      recognized as a powerful source for tissue regeneration because of their capability to
      secrete paracrine factors, initiating tissue repair and accelerating wound closure by skin
      regeneration instead of fibrotic scar formation.

      Few anecdotal reports have documented the efficacy of the stromal vascular fraction in acute
      as well as chronic wounds. However, no observation has explored the efficacy of nanofat in
      healing surgical defects. Of note, nanofat is substantially easier, faster, and remarkably
      less expensive to obtain when compared to the mechanically- or enzymatically-isolated stromal
      vascular fraction. At present, there is a noticeable lack of randomized-controlled evidence
      in the international literature. Thus, this would represent the most comprehensive and the
      first randomized, controlled experience documenting the use of nanofat for wound healing.
    
  