
    
      Setting; The study will be conducted in Copenhagen Emergency Medical Services (EMS), which
      covers a population of approximately 1.84 million people and an area of 2559 km2. In case of
      an emergency, there is a single emergency phone number (1-1-2) to a call center that
      identifies the need for police, fire or medical assistance. If the problem is medical, the
      caller is re-directed to the EMS where medical dispatchers answer, process and respond to the
      call by activating the appropriate EMS response and delivering medical advice.

      In every emergency call, the medical dispatcher starts by asking the caller about the nature
      of the problem and whether the patient is awake and breathing normally. In case of suspected
      cardiac arrest, the dispatcher follows a guideline for dispatcher assisted cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation based on the European Resuscitation Council Guidelines for Resuscitation. The
      medical dispatchers are specially trained registered nurses or paramedics with experience
      within emergency care. They all have a basic life support course and advanced course in
      Dispatcher-assisted cardiopulmonary resuscitation (DA-CPR). Their decision-making process is
      supported by a criteria-based, nationwide Emergency Medical Dispatch System, which is a
      validated tool for managing emergency calls for the most urgent cases of emergencies. The
      instructions in DA-CPR is divided into two depending on whether the bystander have received a
      basic CPR course (BLS course). If the bystanders have a BLS course they are also instructed
      in ventilation. Instructions to lay people consist of short commands. E.g., "place the victim
      in the supine position". All medical dispatcher has a metronome available to support they
      guidance. The medical dispatcher guide bystander until ambulance arrival.

      Methods; When the medical dispatcher receives an emergency call they decide emergency
      priority level, dispatch vehicle type and competence allocation and guide in CPR as before
      the study. Afterwards then can add livestreaming to the emergency call. Each medical
      dispatcher can choose in which emergency call they want to add live video footage, but they
      are recommended to do it with all unconscious patients including cardiac arrest after
      bystander CPR is started.

      Technical solution; For livestreaming of video footage the dispatcher sends an text message,
      asking the caller to give their consent to share stream video from their camera on their
      smartphone. When the caller confirms consent, the smartphone automatically starts securely
      transmitting a video live stream from the scene back to the medical dispatcher. When the
      emergency call is finished the link will be inactivated.

      Data collection and outcome; All medical dispatchers will participate. After each emergency
      call with stream of video footage the medical dispatcher fills out a questionnaire about
      their evaluations of the patient before and after video footage, if the live video resulted
      in changed treatment of the patient, or different emergency priority level and response. Data
      will be collected data for approx. 500 emergency calls including around 200 cases with
      unconscious patients and 53 cases with cardiac arrest patients. The investigators will
      analyse the change in CPR quality before the medical dispatcher assist in CPR using the video
      footage and after the medical dispatcher has assisted. The first evaluation of CPR quality
      will be as soon as possible from the streamed video and the after score will be registered
      when the CPR is optimized as much as possible.
    
  