
    
      Hemodynamic instability during the first 24-hours of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admission is
      associated with increased risk of subsequent morbidity and mortality. Goal-directed
      hemodynamic support has been successfully used in a variety of patients to improve outcome.
      In contrast, a similar therapeutic approach applied later, or in patients with established
      multi-organ failure, has no beneficial effect and may even worsen the outcome.

      It is conceivable that there is a window of opportunity during the phases of hemodynamic
      instability where therapeutic interventions have the greatest potential to influence the
      subsequent course of critical illness. Large scale uses of therapeutic protocols for early
      intervention have been hampered by logistic problems. The burden of installing invasive
      hemodynamic monitoring and protocols is labor intensive and requires a continuous presence of
      personnel with a thorough understanding of complex physiology. Various techniques have been
      introduced for monitoring cardiac output, stroke volume, or their surrogates. The
      disadvantage of these technologies so far have included user dependence of measurements
      results, need for calibration, and limitations in applicability. Edwards Lifesciences has
      developed a new algorithm for the determination of cardiac output using arterial pressure
      data. The FloTrac™ system, which includes the FloTrac™ sensor and Vigileo™ monitor, is
      utilized to capture the arterial pressure-based cardiac output measurement, which will be
      hereinafter referred to as APCO (Arterial Pressure Cardiac Output). This system uses an
      existing arterial catheter (placed in the femoral or radial artery) and does not require
      calibration by an external reference method. We hypothesize that using the FloTrac™ system to
      continuously monitor cardiac output, in addition to traditional vital signs, cardiovascular
      instability will be identified earlier and result in earlier intervention. In addition,
      following earlier diagnosis, more precise intervention will be available. If this can be
      achieved, patients will likely show better outcomes by reduced length of hospital stay, ICU
      time, Mechanical Ventilation time, incidence of renal compromise, and other related
      morbidity/mortality and need less ICUresources.
    
  