
    
      The temperature of a malignant tumour is a universal indicator of the growth rate of the
      tumor.

      Tumor temperature can be used as a prediction of the benefit of individual therapies and in
      monitoring the efficacy of breast cancer treatment.

      The temperature of tissue around a malignant tumour is correlated with micro vessel density
      (MVD) - the main indicator of angiogenesis.

      A traditional infrared camera allows measurement of the temperature of the skin and the
      breast tumor at a depth of several centimetres.

      It is well known that it is possible to detect thermal abnormality of internal tissues with
      the help of measuring the natural electromagnetic radiation in microwave frequency range.
      Microwave radiometer (RTM-01-RES) allows one to measure noninvasively any temperature changes
      of internal tissue at the depth of several centimetres and visualize the internal temperature
      on the thermogram and temperature field.

      It was shown that the device can be used for detection of carotid temperature abnormalities
      and the temperature of the carotid is a good correlation to the risk of stroke in the
      patient.

      Today it is technically possible to obtain non-invasively the information concerning thermal
      activity of the tumor and use this information for the prediction of individual therapies and
      monitoring the efficacy of breast cancer treatment.

      The clinical trials in Russia show that tumors with a low degree of malignancy have low
      temperature changes and the tumor with high degree of malignancy have high temperature
      changes.

      Seven clinical trials of (RTM-01-RES) with 1000 patients have shown that 90% of breast
      malignant tumours have substantial temperature changes (the sensitivity is 85%-95%,
      specificity 56%-75%).

      The standard of care for patients with malignant tumors of the breast is to use microwave
      radiometry and this is recommended by leading Russian mammalogists in the National guidelines
      of breast care.

      Given that the temperature of a malignant tumor is higher than a benign lesion and that the
      temperature of more proliferative and thus poorer outlook cancers is greater than less
      proliferative cancers, the aim is whether with the most up to date technology these
      temperatures can be measured accurately on the skin.

      The benefits of such a device would be

        1. Diagnostic - to help differentiate benign from malignant lesions.

        2. Prognostic - to provide insight into the proliferation rate using a non-invasive test.

        3. Predictive of benefit - to show that changes in temperature predate changes in tumors
           volume in patients treated with drug therapy initially.

      The investigation is non-invasive. If it were possible to demonstrate benefit, then this
      simple non-invasive test could have a useful role in assessing patients with breast lumps and
      in particularly breast cancer.
    
  