
    
      Circumcision, which is performed on an outpatient basis is commonly a short durational
      operation in boys. Postoperative pain and agitation are the most common complaints in
      children with circumcision. The most important factor affecting the length of hospital stay
      is to provide an effective analgesia. Various methods are being used to manage postoperative
      pain such as caudal block, penile block, topical analgesia or intra-venous (iv) analgesics.
      Caudal block is applicable widely in pediatric day case surgery, providing excellent
      postoperative analgesia and attenuation of the stress response in children. Opioids can cause
      several side effects such as respiratory depression, suppression of bowel movements, nausea,
      vomiting, itching, addiction. Opioid drugs are not recommended in children as well. Lower
      abdominal surgeries affect dermatomes T10-L1 and blocking these nerve roots provides
      effective postoperative analgesia. Neuraxial blocks such as epidural and caudal blocks is
      considered the gold standard regional technique for pain management after lower abdominal
      surgery, blocking both somatic and visceral pain. Recent studies suggest that lidocaine and
      bupivacaine can be used in combination or a sole agent when performing regional anesthesia in
      children. But it remains unknown whether these combinations are useful or simply reflect
      underlying status. There is no report comparing the effects of bupivacaine alone and in
      combination with lidocaine at performing caudal epidural block in children. The investigators
      thus tested the primary hypothesis that combining the two different local anesthetics has a
      synergistic analgesic effect and can accelerate the onset time and decrease the need for
      additional analgesic doses. Secondarily, the investigators tested the hypothesis that
      providing intra-operative and postoperative analgesia reduces the risk of hemodynamic
      deteriorations, length of hospital stay, first micturition and mobilization times, surgical
      and anesthetic complications.
    
  