
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) is defined by The Standardization Subcommittee of the International
      Continence Society (ICS) as a symptom syndrome consisting of urgency, with or without urge
      incontinence, usually with frequency and nocturia, in the absence of proven infection or
      other obvious pathology. OAB is a clinical diagnosis and its assessment is very important,
      especially for evaluation of treatment effectiveness. OAB is diagnosed by symptoms only, and
      symptoms are subjective definitions that vary from person to person. Therefore, various
      scoring systems and urodynamic tests are used to make an objective diagnosis and to determine
      the severity of symptoms. In recent studies, there are several substances that have been
      proposed as biomarkers of OAB, such as especially urinary proteins but studies that have
      compared these markers are lacking, also these proteins present low sensitivity and
      specificity. In the future, physicians may consider the use of biomarkers to identify
      distinct OAB phenotypes, with distinct causal mechanisms, selecting patients for specific
      target therapies with expected better outcomes. Biomarkers can be useful to phenotype
      patients and for selecting more effective target therapies. So, there is a need for stable
      and non-invasive biomarkers that can be used reliably for assessment of OAB.

      Even though the exact cause or causes of OAB have not yet been identified, the most powerful
      theory accepted in pathogenesis is detrusor muscle hyperactivity by relaxation decrease or
      contractions increase in detrusor smooth muscle. The molecular mechanisms underlying the OAB
      clinic are still not fully understood.

      Bladder contractions are primarily controlled by parasympathetic cholinergic pathways.
      Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEF) and Rho-related kinase (ROCK) are important in this
      way. ROCKs are also important regulators of cellular apoptosis, growth, metabolism, and
      migration through control of the cell contraction. GEFs activate small GTPases and they are
      regulatory factors that facilitate the separation of GDP from Rho and the binding of GTP. GEF
      protein regulates Rho activity. Overexpression of GEF leads to an increase in GTP-dependent
      Rho. GTP-dependent Rho enables ROCK2 activation. ROCK2 especially has an important role in
      regulating smooth muscle contraction. So, functional disorder or alteration in levels of GEF
      and ROCK2 can cause an excessive contraction in smooth muscle and may be effective in the
      basis of pathophysiology in OAB.

      The relaxation of the bladder smooth muscle is controlled by a sympathetic cholinergic
      pathway in which adrenergic receptor β3 (ADRB3) plays a major role. They have an important
      role in regulating smooth muscle tone, especially in the bladder, and show their effect in
      many tissues, such as adipose tissue, through relaxation or thermogenesis. The hypofunction
      of this receptor causes disruption of the bladder detrusor muscle and dysfunction of the
      urinary tract. So a decrease in ADRB3 levels may be responsible for reduced relaxation in the
      pathophysiology of overactive bladder.

      The aim of this study was to understand whether ADRB3, ROCK2, and GEF levels could be
      auxiliary parameters for the evaluation of the molecular mechanisms of OAB and to diagnose.
      If changes in levels of these parameters affect the amounts and functions of proteins in
      these pathways, the pathogenesis of OAB can be better understood and new treatment goals can
      be recommended.
    
  