
    
      Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) is a hormonal disorder contributing to infertility in
      women. PCOS is also associated with Insulin resistance (IR) occurring at a high incidence
      rate of 50-70%. IR is a condition in which your body loses sensitivity to insulin requiring
      higher levels of it to maintain normal glucose levels in blood which hormones production from
      ovaries. Studies have demonstrated that the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome which is a
      cluster of condition such as increased blood pressure, high blood sugar, excess body fat
      around the waist, and abnormal cholesterol in women with PCOS is significantly higher than
      that of the general population. Medications that improve insulin sensitivity, such as
      thiazolidinediones (TZDs) and Metformin, an insulin sensitizer have been used in treating
      women with PCOS. Metformin major side effects consist of nausea, vomiting and
      gastrointestinal distress. TZDs are withdrawn from the market due to their adverse effect
      profile, which includes liver toxicity, weight gain, swelling due to water retention and
      cardiovascular diseases. As current treatment options are inadequate, there is a clinical
      need to identify new treatment regimens with a reduced adverse effect profile to improve the
      management of PCOS and its related metabolic syndrome.

      Glyceryl Tridecanoate (GT) is a medium chain triglyceride (MCT); a form of dietary fat, which
      has a long history of safe use in in foods, drugs, cosmetics, can even be provided via the
      veins in individuals requiring supplemental nutrition. Decanoic acid, also known as capric
      acid, occurs naturally in coconut oil (8 - 10%) and palm kernel oil (4%). Importantly, the
      published findings show that oral administration of GT, the triglyceride form of decanoic
      acid, can improve insulin sensitivity and storage and breakdown of fat in animal models of
      diabetes. Notably, in the investigators' recent findings, DA could reduce androgen production
      and alleviate PCOS like symptoms in a test-induced PCOS rat model. Hence, there is a high
      likelihood that GT can improve the management of PCOS without the undesirable side effects
      that are observed with the thiazolidinediones.

      The primary aim of the study is to test safety and tolerance of oral intake of GT oil in the
      form of a non-diary based emulsion (10g of GT per emulsion) in healthy men. This will be a
      single center study, and the recruitment is expected to happen over a 1-2- month's period.
    
  