
    
      This is a randomized controled study. Patients enroled in the study will be divided into two
      groups (calculated n=30 per group). One group will be treated with acetaminophen (500 mg/8 h)
      for 6 weeks, the experimental group will receive a total of 3 intra-articular injections of
      PRP, one injection every 2 weeks. The intake of any other analgesic or anti-inflammatory drug
      will be prohibited in patients from two groups.

      For those who received the infiltrations, the procedure consist of a 27-mL venous blood
      sample in 6 vacutainer tubes with sodium citrate 0.109 M for each injection. Samples are
      gently agitated to ensure mixing the anticoagulant with the blood. An extra tube with
      anticoagulated EDTA blood is obtained for initial platelet count. Blood samples are
      centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1800 rpm to separate the erythrocyte layer. The upper plasma
      layer is carefully collected in a new sterile propylene tube trying not to remove the
      leukocyte layer. Plasma from all tubes is centrifuged again for 12 minutes at 3400 rpm to
      obtain a two-part plasma: the upper part consisting on platelet-poor plasma and lower part
      consisting of platelet-rich plasma (PRP). The platelet-poor plasma is discarded to obtain a
      final volume of 3 mL. This volume, consisting of PRP, is mixed carefully through pipetting to
      resuspend platelets and it was then transferred to a new sterile glass tube. An aliquot of
      the final PRP is sent to the laboratory for platelet count. All open handling sample
      procedures are performed within a high-efficiency particulate air-filtered laminar flow hood.

      Application of injections is carry out after disinfection of skin in the knee joint area.
      After local anesthesia with lidocaine chlorohydrate, platelets are activated using 10%
      calcium gluconate solution and the liquid PRP is injected in a sterile condition using a 22 G
      needle. The needle is inserted using the superolateral approach in an angle of approximately
      45°.

      Patients from PRP group will be asked to flex and extend their knees immediately after
      injection so that PRP could distribute adequately across the joint space. After 5-10 minutes
      of observation the patients are sent home with written indications including to have relative
      rest 24 to 48 hours after the injection, the use of cold therapy for 15 minutes three times a
      day and 500 mg of acetaminophen in case of pain and inflammation.

      The use of NSAIDs or any steroids is prohibited. All the patients will be evaluated before
      the beginning of their respective treatment and at 6, 12 and 24 weeks after. Three different
      scales are used to evaluate clinical outcome, the VAS (Visual Analog Scale) that scores pain
      level, the WOMAC (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index) which assesses
      pain, articular stiffness and functional limitation, and the Spanish (México) version of the
      SF-12 (Short Form-12) for assessment of quality of life.
    
  