
    
      Background:

      Emerging epidemiological evidence suggests that early-life exposures in conjunction with
      genetic makeup and variability may be important in the etiology of many common adult cancers.
      Prospectively collected information on adolescent and early adulthood exposures is lacking
      and current evidence often relies on adult recall of the past with a limited array of
      exposure variables.

      Long Term Objective:

        1. To investigate the feasibility of assessing exposures that may be linked to early life
           exposures and to later diseases. Exposures include diet, physical activity, UV-exposure,
           DNAmethylation status, body size and reproductive factors. This feasibility work will
           inform additional research in an existing large Chinese-U.S. CDC collaborative project
           conducted in 1993 - 1995, the Community Intervention Program (CIP) (n = 247,000).

           Short Term Objectives:

        2. To determine the feasibility of collecting and assessing the quality of data on current
           diet, nutritional status, physical activity, physical strength, UV exposure, DNA
           methylation status and other environmental exposures as early life determinants of adult
           cancer in adolescents 15 - 17 years of age and early adulthood in their mothers.

        3. To assess differences in methylation status of DNA between those exposed to
           periconceptional folic acid supplementation and those unexposed.

        4. To compare dietary and physical activity self-reporting instruments against objective
           measures of dietary intake and physical activity, respectively.

      Eligibility:

      Pairs of mothers and their children aged 15-17 years from the CIP, who completed an
      associated pilot study in Laoting (Task 1), Hebei provincein the North, and Taicang, Jiangsu
      provincein the South, and who agree to participate in the study. An additional subsample of
      100 children who completed an accompanying study (Task 1), who agree to participate in a
      sub-study will be eligible.

      Design:

      This pilot study will include 100 pairs of children and their mothers recruited from 2
      provinces. A total of 50 children (aged 16-17years) from a high school (grades 9-10) will be
      identified in each province. To the extent possible, approximately equal numbers of children
      aged 16 and 17 years of age will be recruited, stratified by gender and in utero exposure to
      folic acid. An additional sub-sample of 100 children that completed an accompanying study
      (Task 1) will be enrolled for only saliva collection and completion of a food frequency
      questionnaire.
    
  