
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (aHSCT) can cure patients with a variety
      of bone marrow failure syndromes (BMFS) including severe aplastic anemia (SAA), paroxysmal
      nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) or myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) associated with cytopenias.
      Patients with BMFS have traditionally been transplanted with bone marrow (BM) as a stem cell
      source. Although chronic graft versus host disease (cGVHD) occurs less commonly with BM
      compared to filgrastim (G-CSF) mobilized peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplants, BM
      allografts have lower CD34+ progenitor cell numbers, which increases the risk of graft
      rejection in heavily transfused BMFS patients to 15-20%. To overcome this risk, our group
      developed a novel transplant approach for patients at high risk for graft rejection that
      utilized cyclophosphamide, fludarabine and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) conditioning
      followed by infusion of a CD34+ cell rich, T-cell replete G-CSF mobilized PBSC allograft.
      Remarkably, in 56 consecutive BMFS patients who had multiple risk factors for graft rejection
      who underwent this transplant approach, graft rejection did not occur, with all patients
      achieving complete donor lymphohematopoietic chimerism. Unfortunately, recipients of G-CSF
      mobilized PBSC had a higher incidence of cGVHD than has historically been observed with BM
      transplantation (72% vs. 50% cumulative incidence of cGVHD at 1 year respectively). G-CSF
      mobilized PBSC transplants contained approximately a 20 fold higher dose of T-cells that had
      undergone a TH-2 type cytokine polarization, a factor which likely contributed to this high
      incidence of cGVHD. In this protocol, we attempt to prevent graft failure and to reduce the
      incidence of cGVHD by transplanting high numbers of CD34+ selected PBSC co-infused with a
      reduced dose of non-mobilized donor T-cells that have not undergone a TH-2 cytokine
      polarization.

      Subjects with BMFS at high risk for graft rejection will undergo allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation from an HLA identical sibling or match unrelated donor using the identical
      conditioning regimen utilized in protocol 99- H-0050. Using the Miltenyi CliniMACs system,
      recipients will receive an allograft on day 0 containing donor CD34+ cells that have been
      positively selected and T-cell depleted following G-CSF mobilization (goal CD34+ cell dose of
      5 x 106 CD34+ cells /kg recipient) combined with 2 x 107 cells/kg of non-mobilized CD3+
      T-cells previously collected and cryopreserved from the same donor by apheresis prior to
      G-CSF mobilization.

      Primary objective: To evaluate whether administering a CD34+ selected, T-cell depleted
      peripheral blood stem cell graft with a concomitant infusion of non-mobilized donor T-cells
      at a dose that matches the T-cell dose that is infused in historical bone marrow transplant
      cohorts will reduce the incidence of cGVHD at 1 year to that observed with a conventional
      bone marrow transplant (50%) without increasing the risk of graft failure. This trial design
      will allow the trial to stop early if it is unlikely that we have reduced the proportion of
      one year cGVHD to 50% or if the combined event rate for failed donor engraftment or treatment
      related mortality (TRM) at day 100 exceeds 20%.

      The primary endpoint of this study will be cGVHD at day 365.

      Secondary end points include transplant related mortality, engraftment, degree of donor-host
      chimerism, incidence of acute and chronic graft versus host disease (cGVHD), transplant
      related morbidity and overall survival. Health related quality of life will also be assessed
      as a secondary outcome measure pre-transplant, 30 and 100 days post transplant, and every 6
      months until 5 years post transplant.

      Subjects with BMFS at high risk for graft rejection will undergo allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation from an HLA identical sibling or match unrelated donor using the identical
      conditioning regimen utilized in protocol 99-H-0050. Using the Miltenyi CliniMACs system,
      recipients will receive an allograft on day 0 containing donor CD34+ cells that have been
      positively selected and T-cell depleted following G-CSF mobilization (goal CD34+ cell dose of
      5 times 10(6) CD34+ cells /kg recipient) combined with 2 times 10(7) cells/kg of
      non-mobilized CD3+ T-cells previously collected and cryopreserved from the same donor by
      apheresis prior to G-CSF mobilization.

      Primary objective: To evaluate whether administering a CD34+ selected, T-cell depleted
      peripheral blood stem cell graft with a concomitant infusion of non-mobilized donor T-cells
      at a dose that matches the T-cell dose that is infused in historical bone marrow transplant
      cohorts will reduce the incidence of cGVHD at 1 year to that observed with a conventional
      bone marrow transplant (50 percent) without increasing the risk of graft failure. This trial
      design will allow the trial to stop early if it is unlikely that we have reduced the
      proportion of one year cGVHD to 50 percent or if the combined event rate for failed donor
      engraftment or treatment related mortality (TRM) at day 100 exceeds 20 percent.

      The primary endpoint of this study will be cGVHD at day 365.

      Secondary end points include transplant related mortality, engraftment, degree of donor-host
      chimerism, incidence of acute and chronic graft versus host disease (GVHD), transplant
      related morbidity and overall survival. Health related quality of life will also be assessed
      as a secondary outcome measure pre-transplant, 30 and 100 days post transplant and every 6
      months until 5 years post transplant.
    
  