
    
      The primary aim of the study is to identify whether compliance with specific processes is
      associated with better outcomes.

      The study is a longitudinal cohort study to examine outcomes after total hip and knee
      replacement surgeries. We hypothesise the site and patient level compliance is related to the
      prevalence of a subsequent complication (composite outcome comprising 30 day mortality,
      readmission, reoperation or surgical complication).

      METHODS This study will select high volume (>275 cases annually) public and private hospitals
      across Australia. By involving public and private sites across Australia, the
      generalisability of the findings is enhanced. Each site will identify a site coordinator to
      oversee and manage the project at that site. Site coordinators are identified by each site.
      After hospital discharge, patients are followed up by the investigators.

      This is a prospective observational study with projected sample of c.2200 consenting patients
      from up to 20 high volume hospitals. The site coordinator will screen, approach and consent
      eligible patients during routine preadmission processes. At the time of consent, the patient
      will be required to: provide socio-demographic details about themselves, past medical
      history, complete 2 standard patient reported outcome measures. Contact with patients about
      the study will be made by the site coordinator and routine hospital staff involved in their
      acute care. Acute data collection will involve prospective audit of medical records to
      collect peri- and post- operative acute care process data, client characteristics and
      outcomes by staff at each site. Random and convenience sampling will be used to identify
      eligible hospital sites which will remain anonymous.

      Patient follow up regarding longer term outcomes will be completed via telephone by study
      investigators at three additional time points (approximately 35 and 90 days and 1 year post
      surgery) to collect repeat data as provided by each patient at the time of consent.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to profile site level and patient level compliance with
      key processes of care. Multivariable logistic regression (MLoR) will be used to identify the
      association between the binary composite outcome measure and patient level compliance. Site
      and individual patient compliance with evidence based guidelines (where available) or best
      practice recommendations on key processes and relevant outcomes will be examined (e.g. Venous
      thromboembolism (VTE) prevention). Sample size calculations have been completed to ensure the
      analyses have sufficient power. If a useful association between processes and outcomes is
      identified, cost analyses with specific foci will be undertaken to consider costs for
      different factors and stages (e.g. acute / post discharge). Secondary analysis will determine
      the predictors of patient -reported outcomes. Depending on the results of initial data
      analyses, additional secondary analyses will potentially include analyses at additional time
      points (beyond initial 35 days) for association between key processes and outcomes, and
      analysis looking at the association between specific complications and compliance with
      specific processes.

      Interim analysis will be undertaken to assess the level of observed compliance with key
      processes.

      Re-abstraction of acute care data will be undertaken to ensure accuracy and completeness of
      submitted date from the sites.

      Site survey Prior to study commencement at each site, the site coordinators will complete a
      survey detailing each surgeons protocols for key processes including their VTE and
      antimicrobial prophylaxes. The extent surgeon protocols align with Australian practice
      guidelines will be ascertained.

      Additional secondary analyses will include, but may not be limited to:

        1. a comparison of outcomes between patients who go to inpatient rehabilitation and those
           who go directly home after surgery. Propensity based scoring and matching will be used
           to determine if outcomes are better in one of the two groups

        2. determination of the predictors of the 'unhappy knee' 12 months post surgery. A case
           controlled matched design will be used.

        3. comparison in satisfaction with the acute care experience between private and public
           patients in a subset

        4. a comparison of outcomes between THR patients with an anterior surgical approach and a
           posterior approach

        5. description of ambulation profiles immediately post surgery and variables associated
           with early ambulation

        6. snapshot of rehabilitation received after TKA or THA
    
  