
    
      This prospective observational study will compare the physiologic responses between exercise
      stress echocardiography and dobutamine stress echocardiography on left ventricular volume and
      wall stress. Exercise and dobutamine stress testing are two widely employed diagnostic
      modalities that are often used, interchangeably, to detect inducible ischemia. We hypothesize
      that dobutamine leads to significantly lower ventricular volumes and wall stress than
      exercise.

      Some previous studies have shown that dobutamine and exercise echocardiography have
      comparable sensitivities and specificities, differences exist between the hemodynamic effects
      produced by each modality on the cardiovascular system. These variable effects may lead to
      differences in left ventricular size, volume and wall stress. If divergent left ventricular
      effects exist(between exercise and dobutamine induced stress), then the degree of myocardial
      oxygen consumption, ischemic burden, and ischemic threshold observed during exercise and
      dobutamine stress testing may be different between these commonly used modalities of stress
      testing.

      The potentially variable effects on the left ventricle in response to the modality used to
      induce stress would highlight a physiological difference between exercise and dobutamine
      stress testing. Differences in volumes and stress could also help explain the greater of
      ischemia and higher frequency of angina and ST-segment deviation which has been previously
      observed in some studies during exercise as compared to dobutamine echocardiography. The
      presence or lack of these expected hemodynamic responses may also have additional diagnostic
      and prognostic implications.

      The study involves the collection of data among patients undergoing stress echocardiograms
      that are clinically indicated. This data will be retrieved from the echocardiogram and report
      and medical chart, including baseline clinical characteristics, exercise parameters achieved
      during the test.
    
  