
    
      Patients will be prescreened for inclusion criteria one week before the start of screening at
      Visit 0 (Prescreening Visit). Patients must be on stable doses of
      azathioprine/mercaptopurine. Patients will be given a diary to record their CD symptoms for
      the seven days prior to Visit 1. At Visit 1 (Screening Visit 1), patients will have their
      CDAI score assessed based upon their diary information. Patients with CDAI ≤ 220 will then
      have both calprotectin and hsCRP testing done. Patients with calprotectin > or = 250µg/g
      and/or hsCRP > or = 5mg/L will be notified and told to schedule Visit 2 within three weeks.
      At Visit 2 (Screening Visit 2), patients will undergo a colonoscopy. A Crohn's Disease
      Endoscopic Index of Severity (CDEIS) will be used to determine the endoscopic activity.
      Patients with significant endoscopic lesions will be notified and asked to enroll in the
      study.

      Patients will be randomized into the study at Visit 3 (Randomization Visit, same day of Visit
      2 in results available). Due to the cost and invasiveness of the colonoscopy, the Screening
      Visit 2 colonoscopy will serve as the baseline for the study, should the patient be enrolled.
      Drug will also be dispensed at this visit. Eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1
      ratio to receive either adalimumab or placebo during the treatment period, along with
      continuing their current immunosuppressive maintenance treatment at a stable dose. Treatment
      in both arms will be induction at 160/80mg and maintenance on 40 mg every other week.

      Patients will return for follow up visits every 12 weeks until the final follow-up visit at
      48 weeks (Visit 7), where another colonoscopy will be performed. Patients who terminate early
      from the study for any reason will be asked to return for a follow-up visit, where Visit 7
      procedures will be performed.

      Before week 48, if a patient has an increase of more than 50% in either calprotectin and/or
      hsCRP over baseline and above the thresholds at any regular visit, a follow-up visit will be
      performed two weeks later. If the 50% increase is still observed another colonoscopy will be
      performed, within two weeks of the follow-up visit. If patients still have significant
      endoscopic lesions, study product will be intensified to 40 mg weekly. This will include
      patients on placebo in order to preserve the double-blind aspect of the study.
    
  