
    
      The vulnerability of the transition period has been attributed to three main factors. First,
      changes to patients'medication regimens during hospitalization are numerous, yet failure to
      reconcile discrepancies between admission and discharge is frequent. Second, the
      patient/family is required to take over care responsibilities at discharge and must often
      relay important information to the primary care physician. This can be particularly
      challenging if discharge information is poorly communicated, presented too rapidly, if
      instructions are verbal only, or if the patient has low literacy or low health
      literacy.Finally, crucial information is often not transferred between acute care physicians
      and community physicians.

      Information about the hospitalization (such as medication changes, patient diagnoses,
      interventions,diagnostic findings, and necessary follow-up) is commonly transferred to the
      primary care physician via a discharge summary that is typically faxed or mailed.
      Unfortunately, deficits with respect to timeliness and/or complete failure to transmit are
      widespread. At the first post-discharge appointment, the discharge summary is unavailable to
      the primary care physician up to 75% of the time. This negatively impacts the continuity of
      care provided to many patients. When summaries are received, inconsistent content and
      inaccuracies are common. Acute care physicians, whether medical or surgical, often neglect to
      include diagnostic findings, treatment/hospital course, discharge medications, pending tests
      results, and whether the patient and family received counselling.

      Computer-enabled discharge communications have potential to avert such problems. Such
      communication platforms can provide an immediate link between acute care and primary care
      physicians, and interfaces can be designed to ensure consistent information transfer. In
      addition, physicians in both settings have expressed preference for electronic discharge
      documents over hand written/dictated summaries with respect to clarity, comprehensiveness,
      and positive impacts on continuity of care.
    
  