
    
      This is a prospective, interventional, randomized, two arms, phase IV study evaluating both
      the depth of the molecular response and the rate of treatment free remission rate in newly
      diagnosed CP-CML patients treated with NIL or IM followed by switch to NIL in absence of
      optimal response (defined according the ELN 2013 criteria) as per clinical practice.

      The enrolled patients will be randomized 1:1 between NIL and IM. Patients will be stratified
      according to the Sokal risk score to high versus intermediate/low risk groups. Newly
      diagnosed patients will be treated according to the registered dose of NIL and IM for
      frontline chronic phase CML (300 mg BID and 400 mg OAD, respectively). The patients
      intolerant to IM and the patients without optimal response to IM at 3 months, at 6 months, at
      12 months (except the patients with progression to accelerated or blastic phase) will be
      switched to NIL second line.

      The absence of optimal response is defined by at least one of the following ELN criteria: a)
      Absence of Complete Hematologic Response at 3 months or thereafter; b) Absence of Partial
      Cytogenetic Response (> 35% Ph+ metaphases) at 3 months; c) BCR-ABL transcript level > 10%
      according to the IS at 3 months; d) Absence of Complete Cytogenetic Response (> 1% Ph+
      metaphases) at 6 months; e) BCR-ABL transcript level > 1% according to the IS at 6 months; f)
      Absence of Major Molecular Response (MR3.0, transcript level > 0.1% according to the IS) at
      12 months.

      Treatment choice for the patients with progression to advanced disease phase while on IM and
      for the patients intolerant to or resistant (including progressions to advanced phases) to
      NIL will be up to the principal investigator of the participating Center. However,
      information concerning the course and outcome of these patients will be collected and
      recorded for at least 5 years, and they could be enrolled in investigational studies promoted
      by GIMEMA or other sponsors.

      After the induction of deep molecular remission phase of therapy, i.e. the first two years of
      the study, residual disease will be closely monitored (quarterly) by Q-PCR assays. All the
      patients who obtain a reduction greater than 4.0 logs of residual disease (MR4.0) within the
      first three years of treatment, and maintain this level of response in all the subsequent
      tests up to the end of the fourth years of therapy qualify for the discontinuation phase of
      the study. Therefore, all patients who are in MR4.0 after a four-year period of TKI
      treatment, that must include in its final part at least one years of maintained MR4.0,
      defined as 12-month period during which the MR4.0 never is lost in 4 consecutive MRD analyses
      at three-monthly intervals, will enter the treatment free remission (TFR) phase of the study.
      In case of loss of MR3.0, the last assumed TKI will be resumed at the same dose.

      All patients, including those who do not match the criteria for discontinuation of TKI
      treatment, will continue the assigned treatment and will be followed for 5 years, starting
      from the date of enrolment.
    
  