
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a disabling condition which adversely affects a person's
      family, work or school life, sleeping and eating habits, and general health.

      Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is a well established effective recommended treatment for
      MDD. However, only 40-58 % of patients receiving CBT may be classified as recovered using
      clinical significant change assessed by the Beck Depression Inventory and only between
      one-third and one quarter of patients receiving CBT remain recovered 18 months after
      treatment.

      A new treatment approach to MDD is Metacognitive Therapy (MCT). In this treatment approach,
      MDD is conceptualized as being maintained by rumination and meta-cognitions. Treatment seeks
      to challenge and change specific meta-cognitions and rumination, through behavioural
      experiments and verbal reattribution. There is accumulating evidence that MCT is effective in
      the treatment of depression, both individualized and in Groups. A recent pilot study
      indicated effectiveness above that of CBT. However, the results need to be tested in a
      randomized controlled trial with a larger sample of patients and a comparison group of active
      treatment.

      The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of Group MCT treatment compared to
      clinical management included guided self-help and to explore which factors that are
      associated with depressive symptom outcome in terms of psychological factors, biomarker in
      terms of heart rate variabilities and polygenic risk score.

      The study will be a randomized controlled, trial comprising 64 patients with a primary
      diagnosis of major depressive disorder (DSM-IV; American Psychiatric Association (APA),
      1994). Experienced diagnosticians will assess all patients by using structural interviews
      such as Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, axis I(SCID I), and axis II disorders (SCID
      II) and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HDRS).

      All patients will be randomized in blocks to two groups in order to compare the following
      conditions: Group MCT of 10 weekly sessions lasting 90 minutes and a clinical management
      condition With 10 weekly individualized sessions up to 60 minutes duration.

      Both between-subjects and within-subjects comparisons will be conducted. The research trial
      will be conducted at an outpatient specialist practice in Drammen, Norway.

      The treatment will be administered according to the originators published treatment protocols
      for MCT for depression. Independent assessors will assess adherence and quality of treatment.

      Independent experts will assess the quality of treatment by inspection of a sampling of
      video-recorded treatments. Using checklists session-by-session will ensure adherence of the
      therapy. Responsible investigator and supervisors will be using video of all treatment
      sessions to assess adherence to the treatment condition.

      All patients referred for the study will be consecutively assessed at intake (SCID-I + II,
      HDRS-17). Based on diagnosis and criteria for inclusion and exclusion, the patients will be
      asked to volunteer to participate in the study and confirm by signing a form of consent.

      Patients will be randomized to one of two conditions. Patients will be asked to self-rate
      symptoms on a battery of self-report questionnaires.

      The patients will be assessed prior to treatment, by 10 weeks in treatment, and at six months
      and at one and two years of follow-up.

      Reassessment of the diagnosis and symptom severity is made by post-treatment.

      Criteria for recovery will be: Jacobsen criteria of a minimum change and patients crossing
      the cut-off point on two measures: The HDRS-17 and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Other
      outcome measures will include:

      Reduction of depressive symptoms as measured by self-report questionnaires Number of patients
      with no MDD diagnosis based on SCID-I after treatment Relapse rate during six months and at
      one and two years follow-up The proportion of responders as measured by the HDRS-17 and BDI
      and those who no longer fulfil the conditions for a MDD diagnosis after 10 weeks
      (post-treatment) and by 6 months and one and two years follow-up.

      The secondary efficacy variables will be the proportion of responders at 10 weeks
      (post-treatment) and six months and by one and two years follow-up as measured by the other
      symptom measures.

      A comparison between the two groups of patients will be conducted at 10 weeks
      (post-treatment) and there will be 6 month and at one- and two years.

      A within group analyses will be conducted in order to estimate effect sizes and significant
      clinical change estimates.

      A computer provided by University of Oslo (UiO) will generate the randomization list.
    
  