
    
      Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the most common cause of disability in the
      United States. According to the American Stroke Association, the prevalence of stroke in the
      U.S. is approximately 4.8 million with approximately 700,000 additional strokes occurring
      annually. Approximately 150,000 to 250,000 stroke survivors becoming severely and permanently
      disabled each year.

      A common neurological deficit among stroke survivors, and thus a substantial contributor to
      post-stroke disability, is aphasia. The loss of, or difficulty with language is extremely
      debilitating and has enormous social and economic impact on quality of life. Presently, the
      only treatment available for persons with aphasia is speech-language rehabilitation.

      With rehabilitation only, however, many patients achieve a less than satisfactory improvement
      in speech-language function, and thus are left with significant disability.

      Enhancing stroke recovery by facilitating brain plasticity with the direct application of
      stimulation to the cerebral cortex is a new area of investigation and shows promise for
      improving language recovery in stroke-induced aphasia, most probably when it is combined with
      intense learning. There are several methods of delivering cortical brain stimulation to
      modulate cortical excitability, each of which have been studied in animal models with
      promising results, and subsequently applied to the rehabilitation of motor deficits after
      stroke. Applications to language problems after stroke are only emerging. Nevertheless,
      results suggest a potential role for cortical stimulation as an adjuvant strategy in aphasia
      rehabilitation.

      Of the cortical stimulation methods available, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
      has the greatest potential for clinical use in view of its non-invasive application, ease of
      administration and relatively low cost. tDCS is a method of delivering weak polarizing
      electrical currents to the cortex via two electrodes placed on the scalp. The nature of the
      effect depends on the polarity of the current. Anodal tDCS has an excitatory effect; cathodal
      tDCS induces inhibition.

      This study proposes to evaluate the safety, feasibility, and effectiveness of anodal and
      cathodal tDCS in study subjects with Broca's aphasia after stroke, delivered concurrent with
      speech-language rehabilitation.

      Subjects will receive speech and language therapy combined with either anodal, cathodal, or
      sham stimulation applied to the lesioned left hemisphere. The polarity conditions will be
      compared with each other and with sham stimulation, to determine safety, the degree to which
      improvements in language performance occur, and the degree to which they are maintained over
      time.

      The protocol is single-blind. Neither the subjects nor the outcomes assessor will know what
      stimulation the subject received until the study's conclusion; the investigator applying the
      stimulation will know.
    
  