
    
      Hernia repair is one of the most common surgery performed all over the world. The same is
      true about India. With more than a billion population, the number of hernia patients in India
      perhaps run in millions. The laparoscopic repair is increasingly becoming popular in India.

      Decreased post operative pain and lesser morbidity are the main advantages of Total Extra
      Peritoneal Repair (TEP) over open hernia repair. Laparoscopic hernia repair is now
      recommended as the method of choice for bilateral and recurrent inguinal hernias. The
      disadvantages of TEP are requirement of general anesthesia (GA), need to fix the mesh, seroma
      formation and difficult learning curve. Fixation of mesh with metal staples, apart from
      increasing the cost, may lead to new post operative groin pain which even becomes chronic in
      small percentage of patients. This had led to various studies showing that the non-fixation
      of mesh is safe, cost effective and lead to no increased risk of hernia recurrence compared
      to the conventional open hernia repair. Requirement of GA for TEP repair also had several
      disadvantages compared to regional anesthesia such as significant hemodynamic changes,
      delayed recovery, post operative nausea and vomiting, increased cost and inability to give
      anesthesia in high cardio-pulmonary risk patients. Several studies in recent past have
      demonstrated TEP is feasible and safe in regional anesthesia (epidural or spinal) as well. We
      earlier reported that TEP repair could be done without fixation of the mesh under regional
      anesthesia.

      This study is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) comparing the outcome of non-fixation of
      mesh during laparoscopic inguinal hernia repair with fixation of mesh under spinal
      anesthesia. The end points measured would be the recurrence of the hernia and pain in the
      post operative period.
    
  