
    
      A total of 120 patients will be included in the study. Sixty patients are critically ill with
      evidence of sepsis during ICU stay (sepsis group) and sixty patients are critically ill
      without evidence of infectious organism (SIRS group). At admission, Patients data include
      clinical status; SOFA score; central venous pressure; laboratory analysis and arterial blood
      gas analysis are measured. Routine cultures will be obtained. The attending physician will
      evaluate the patients for sepsis, severe sepsis, or septic shock as long as their stay in
      ICU. A serum level of sTREM-1 and MNDA will be monitored.

      At admission, patient's age, sex, weight and height were Patients data that include the
      clinical status; sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score; temperature; heart rate;
      respiratory rate; blood pressure; central venous pressure; laboratory analysis (complete
      blood count, blood urea nitrogen, blood sugar, serum sodium, potassium, calcium, aspartate
      aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, prothrombin time, albumin and CRP) and arterial
      blood gas analysis were measured. Routine cultures of suspected sites, blood and urine were
      obtained to determine the presence of infection. We attempted to maintain the patient
      hemoglobin level at 10-12g/dl and central venous pressure at 8-12 cmH2o. When needed,
      intravascular fluid replacement, blood products and inotropic or vasopressor agents were
      administered. Each day the attending physician evaluated all the study patients for sepsis,
      severe sepsis, or septic shock as long as their stay in ICU.

      The signs of sepsis were body temperature <36C° or > 38C°, tachycardia (>90 beats/min),
      ventilatory frequency>20 breath/min or Pco2<32mmHg (unless the patient was mechanically
      ventilated), a white cell count ≥12×109 litre-1 or < 4x 109 litre-1, or >10% immature
      neutrophils, in addition to the presence of infection. Severe sepsis is a sepsis associated
      with evidence of organ dysfunction , hypoperfusion, acute alteration of mental status,
      elevated plasma lactate, unexplained metabolic acidosis (arterial ph<7.3), hypoxaemia,
      prolonged prothrombin time or decrease in platelet count >50% or ≤100×109litre1, oliguria and
      hypotension defined as systolic arterial pressure <90mmHg or a decrease of >40mmHg. Septic
      shock was defined as hypotension (<90/60mmHg) in addition to sepsis syndrome persisting
      despite adequate fluid resuscitation and requiring intropic support
    
  