
    
      Study design This is a phase II, open-label, single-arm tissue and plasma acquisition study
      assessing the efficacy, safety and underlying resistance mechanisms of osimertinib (80 mg
      orally, once daily) as first-line treatment in patients with locally advanced or metastatic
      EGFR mutation positive non-small cell lung cancer who are EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      treatment-naïve and eligible for first-line treatment. Participants with EGFR
      mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer will be required to consent to 2 mandatory
      tumour biopsies to be considered for enrolment in this study. The first biopsy will be done
      prior to initiating treatment with osimertinib and the second biopsy will be obtained any
      time between Investigator assessed, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours version 1.1
      (RECIST 1.1)-defined progression and up to 7 days after the discontinuation of osimertinib. A
      third optional biopsy may be taken during the course of treatment at the Investigator's
      discretion if the patient consents and if clinically feasible. Tumour tissue and plasma
      samples will be collected and examined for genetic and non genetic aberrations that may be
      important in determining response and resistance to the treatment that participants will
      receive as a part of their cancer care. Patients should continue on osimertinib until
      progression or until other treatment discontinuation criteria are met. However, if patients
      continue to show clinical benefit to treatment as judged by the Investigator, patients may
      continue to receive osimertinib beyond RECIST 1.1-defined progression. Therefore, there is no
      maximum duration of treatment. Tumour assessments are to be performed at baseline and then
      every 8 weeks until progression. Patients will be followed up for a period of 28 days
      following discontinuation of osimertinib. Target patient population Male and female patients
      aged 18 years and over with locally advanced or metastatic pathologically confirmed
      adenocarcinoma of the lung, not amenable to curative surgery or radiotherapy. Patients will
      have a tumour that harbours one of the EGFR mutations known to be associated with EGFR
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor sensitivity, either alone or in combination with other EGFR
      mutations (EGFR mutation status determined by a local laboratory). Patients must be EGFR
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatment-naïve and eligible to receive first line treatment with
      osimertinib. Osimertinib is an oral, potent, selective, irreversible inhibitor of both EGFR
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor sensitizing and resistance mutations in non-small cell lung cancer
      with a significant selectivity margin over wild type EGFR. Osimertinib (80 mg orally, once
      daily) will be administered. Doses may be reduced to 40 mg if needed.
    
  