
    
      Twenty (20) patients with history of trabeculectomy who have been scheduled for cataract
      extraction with posterior chamber intraocular lens implant, will be recruited from Wills Eye
      Hospital Glaucoma Service.

      Subjects will undergo a comprehensive ophthalmic evaluation prior to scheduling cataract
      surgery. The following data will be recorded: Demographic information including age, race,
      and gender, Best corrected visual acuity, IOP measured by Goldmann applanation tonometry,
      Bleb morphology evaluation using the Indiana Bleb Appearance Grading Scale (IBAGS), Filtering
      bleb photographs and anterior segment OCT of the bleb will be taken at the baseline
      examination.

      The patient will be taken to the operating room and will be prepped.Non-preserved Lidocaine
      (1%) will be injected into the anterior chamber for anesthesia, followed by injection of one
      complete vial of VisionBlue (0.5 mL). An injection of BSS will be administered through the
      paracentesis port until the IOP is approximately 20mHg (estimated by the surgeon by
      palpation), with a waiting period of 20 seconds. Another injection of BSS will then be
      administered to wash out the VisionBlue. A set of microscopic photographs will be taken
      through the intraoperative microscope following washout of VisionBlue, with bleb grading
      performed by the physician: 1+ to 4+ stain (based on standard set of photos).

      Cataract extraction will then take place following typical phacoemulsification procedure. At
      the end of the case, after insertion of the intraocular lens implant into the capsular bag
      and removal of viscoelastic material from the eye, an additional set of microscope
      photographs will be taken and graded on same scale.

      The time (in minutes) between the initial and the final bleb grading will be measured and
      recorded. Intraoperative complications will be recorded as well.

      Follow-up of subjects will take place post-operatively at 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, 3 month,
      and 6 month follow-up visits. Color photos of bleb will be performed post-operatively at 1
      day, 1 month, and 6 months. At each visit, we will also record the number of glaucoma
      medications, post-operative complications and need for re-operations.
    
  