
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the effectiveness of pain control comprising intrathecal opioid delivery
           versus the standard analgesia-delivery method in patients with locally advanced,
           unresectable, or metastatic pancreatic cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the difference of a total amount of opioid consumption (parenteral morphine
           equivalent) between two different opioids-delivery groups at one month of treatment.

        -  To assess the average of percent change in Karnofsky performance status with respect to
           the baseline status between two different analgesic-delivery groups at one month of
           treatment.

        -  To assess the difference in quality of life between two different opioids-delivery
           groups at one month of treatment using the EORTC QLQ-C30.

        -  To assess overall survival of these patients.

        -  To assess the safety profile of two different analgesic-delivery methods (i.e., adverse
           event and serious adverse event).

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to Karnofsky performance status (60-80% vs > 80%).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (standard pain management): Patients are evaluated by the JHH Pain Medicine
           Integrated Team for pain, for the potential of diagnostic/neurolytic celiac plexus
           block, and undergo the institution of or modification of or continuation and titration
           of oral or parenteral analgesics. Patients undergo a limited, problem-oriented physical
           exam including weight, vital signs, Karnofsky performance status (KPS), assessment of
           previously abnormal findings or new complaints, pain scores, analgesia consumption, side
           effects (i.e., sleepiness, nausea, pruritus, and constipation), and quality-of-life
           score (EORTC QLQ-C30) once every 2 weeks for 3 months and then once a month thereafter.
           Patients also keep a diary of pain scores and side effects during the trial. Patients
           may have their treatment titrated as needed to control their pain. Patients who are not
           adequately pain controlled or develop debilitating side effects from their therapy may
           be managed by adjuvant analgesics or be allowed to crossover into the treatment arm of
           the study to provide compassionate care.

        -  Arm II (intrathecal therapy): Patients undergo implantation of a Medtronic intrathecal
           pump and catheter system for delivery of morphine sulfate directly into the spinal
           fluid. Following implantation, patients undergo a limited, problem-oriented physical
           exam including vital signs, KPS, assessment of previously abnormal findings or new
           complaints, pain scores, analgesia consumption, and quality-of life-score (EORTC
           QLQ-C30) once every 2 weeks for 3 months and then once a month thereafter. Patients are
           also evaluated by the Interventional Pain Treatment Team for wound status, presence of
           symptoms of post-dural puncture headache, signs of infection, or meningitis. Patients
           are followed by the JHH Pain Medicine Integrated Team for evaluation of pain and for
           institution of or modification of or continuation and titration of oral or parenteral
           analgesics.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 1 year.
    
  