
    
      Snake-bite envenoming (SBE) was re-categorized as a priority neglected tropical disease by
      the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2017. Antivenom is considered to be one of the most
      cost effective health interventions. Despite this, due to challenges in manufacture, reliance
      on cold chain for transport and storage, and geographically remote location of most envenomed
      patients, many patients do not receive the antivenom they require in a timely manner. The WHO
      strategy for a globally coordinated response to SBE highlighted the need to prioritize
      clinical research into the safety and effectiveness of antivenoms.

      Myanmar is a country with a high incidence of snake-bite with an estimated 25,000 snake-bites
      and 1250 deaths per year. Daboia siamensis (Eastern Russell's viper) is responsible for 85%
      of snake-bites presenting to hospitals in Myanmar. Given their natural habitat and abundance
      of prey within the paddy fields, envenoming predominantly occurs in rural areas affecting
      agricultural workers.

      Following a recent 4-year collaborative initiative between institutions in Myanmar and
      Australia entitled the Myanmar Snakebite project, antivenom production facilities have
      improved resulting in the production of a new monospecific lyophilized F(ab)'2 antivenom
      (Viper antivenom BPI). The new lyophilized antivenom has replaced the former liquid antivenom
      and has been distributed countrywide. The current dosing strategy is based on unpublished
      results of pre-clinical testing and stratified into two doses according to absence or
      presence of clinical features of severity at presentation (80 mL and 160 mL, respectively).
      No clinical trial data or post marketing data has been published to support the efficacy or
      toxicity of these recommended doses. This lack of robust clinical evidence to support dosing
      of antivenom is mirrored across the world with few well conducted trials to determine the
      safety and efficacy of antivenoms.

      This paper presents a novel phase 2, model based, Bayesian adaptive design to determine
      optimal antivenom dosing for Russell's viper envenoming. In this context there are two
      concurrent considerations for dose optimality. Firstly, the efficacy of the dose, defined in
      this context as restoration of blood coagulation within 6 hours; secondly, the dose-related
      toxicity, defined as the occurrence of an anaphylactic reaction within 180 minutes post
      antivenom administration. The model based design estimates dose-response curves for both the
      efficacy outcome and the toxicity outcome, and thus derives a user-defined 'optimal dose'.
      Patients will be randomized at a ratio of 4:1 to either adaptive dose or standard of care
      respectively.

      The study team will perform a number of nested studies within the dose finding trial:

        -  An assessment of the pharmacokinetic properties of Daboia siamensis venom pre and post
           antivenom administration.

        -  A parallel observation study of severely envenomed patients who will be administered
           160mL (current standard of care).

        -  Sensitivity and specificity analysis of the 20WBCT and point of care International
           Normalized Ratio at detecting coagulopathy.

        -  A prospective follow up of envenomed patients to define the envenoming sequelae of
           Daboia siamensis envenoming.

        -  An assessment of ferryl-haem derivatives in urine of envenomed patients.
    
  