
    
      This study aimed to correlate peak torque with work task performance (WTP) after application
      of resistance training program (RTP), consisting of 40 sessions, twice a week lasting 90
      minutes each session. The sample was constituted by 40 individuals, which were selected from
      a survey of the records filed at Parents and Friends of Exceptional Children of Federal
      District/Brazil Association (APAE/DF), taking into consideration the following criteria: be
      inserted in the Professional Education and Labor Program (PELP) of APAE/DF, age between 14
      and 36 years for being the most active labor, show no physical disabilities, do not have
      cardiac problems, who wish to inform the study and voluntarily sign the Free and Informed
      Term of Consent with their tutors. Although the participants are residents of various cities
      in the Federal District, it was not possible to avoid selection bias, since the sample was
      selected from a single institution, limiting, thus, generalization of results.

      After performing the pre-testing peak torque, by Biodex System3Pro Dynamometer, and WTP
      through 800m, climbing stairs and labor skill (to decorate two tables for 4 people, separated
      by one meter, for lunch with 2 tablecloths, 8 plates, 8 forks, 8 knives and 8 glasses),
      participants were randomly assigned to experimental groups - G1 (20 participants) and control
      - G2 (20 participants), and matched according to age, sex and per capita income, in order to
      form groups with similar characteristics. The G1 group participated in the RTP in number of
      eight, four for the upper limbs and four for the lower limbs. In order to avoid confounding
      bias, participants in the G2 group, along with their tutors, were instructed to continue with
      their daily activities normally and did not participate in RTP, as well as the G1 also
      instructed not to participate in other physical activities.

      The first Monthly cycle (two weeks) was developed in order to familiarize participants with
      the equipment and learn how to perform the exercises, avoiding, thus, evaluation bias.
      Subsequently, we applied the test of one maximum repetition - 1MR, to elaborate a spreadsheet
      on individual training with the participants. The second, third and fourth Monthly cycles
      were developed according to the spreadsheet elaborated timeline and orientation of the
      instructors, which were duly informed. After four months of intervention, all 40 participants
      were reassessed.

      This study was approved by the Ethics and Research Committee at the University of Brasilia
      under the resolution 196/96 of the National Health Ministry of Health with the record 21/09
      and is registered in the National Information System on Ethics in Research Involving Human
      Subjects - SISNEP with the number of Certificate of Presentation for Ethics Appreciation -
      CAAE: 0018.0.012.000-09.

      The Institutions Association of Parents and Friends of Exceptional Children of Federal
      District, Resistance Exercise Laboratory of the Faculty of Physical Education at the
      University of Brasilia, Physics Resistance Gym and Nutriment - Center of Medicine Nutrition
      were contacted and informed about the research procedures by requesting formal practice of
      testing due to the participants in this study by signing the Declaration of Institutional
      Science.
    
  