
    
      This is a prospective, two-arm randomized study. The control cohort (PTX PTA group, Admiral
      Inpact or Pacific Inpact, Medtronic-Invatec) will be treated with a PTX-coated PTA balloon.
      The experimental cohort (Laser+PTX PTA group) will be treated with photoablative atherectomy
      followed by a PTX-coated PTA balloon. Subjects meeting the definitions of Rutherford Clinical
      Categories 1 to 5 with instent lesions located in superficial femoral artery and the
      popliteal artery above the knee joint are eligible for enrollment.

      The purpose of this feasibility study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of
      preparing an instent lesion with photoablative atherectomy prior to local Paclitaxel delivery
      compared to local Paclitaxel delivery without initial photoablative atherectomy.

      Primary Outcome:

      Target Lesion Percent Diameter Stenosis (%DS) at 1 Year defined as the narrowest point of the
      target lesion divided by the estimated native vessel diameter at that location as determined
      by the ACL.

      Secondary Outcomes:

      The following secondary outcomes will be summarized in this study.

        1. Procedural Success: Defined as ≤ 30% residual stenosis following the procedure at the
           target lesion, without periprocedural complications, as determined by the ACL.

        2. Major Adverse Event Rate at 30 Days and 1 Year: Defined as major unplanned amputation of
           the treated limb, all-cause mortality within 1 year of the index procedure or
           clinically-driven target vessel revascularization within 30 days of the index procedure.

        3. Improvement in WIQ Score at 6 Months and 1 Year: Defined as an increase in Walking
           Impairment Questionnaire (WIQ) score at 6 months and 1 year compared to baseline.

        4. Improvement in EQ-5D Score at 6 Months and 1 Year: Defined as an increase in the EQ-5D
           questionnaire score at 6 months and 1 year compared to baseline.

        5. Improvement in Rutherford Clinical Category at 6 Months and 1 Year: Defined as an
           improvement in clinical status indicated by a decrease of one or more in Rutherford
           Clinical Category at 6 months and 1 year compared to baseline, that is attributable to
           the target limb (in cases of bilateral disease).

        6. Improvement in Ankle-Brachial Index at 6 Months and 1 Year: Defined as an increase in
           the ankle-brachial index (ABI) at 6 months and 1 year compared to baseline in subjects
           with compressible arteries and baseline ABI < 0.9.

        7. Clinically-Driven Target Lesion Revascularization (TLR) at 6 Months and 1 Year. Defined
           as any reintervention or artery bypass graft surgery involving the target lesion in
           which the subject has ≥ 50% diameter stenosis in the presence of recurrent symptoms
           (i.e. claudication) or ≥ 70% stenosis without any symptoms (i.e. decreased ABI).

        8. Patency Rate (Peak Systolic Velocity ≤ 3.5) at 6 & 12 Months: Defined by duplex
           ultrasound core lab measurement of peak systolic velocity (PSV) ratio ≤ 3.5 at the
           target lesion with no clinically-driven reintervention within the target lesion.

        9. Alternative Patency Rate (Peak Systolic Velocity ≤ 2.4) at 6 & 12 Months: Defined by
           duplex ultrasound core lab measurement of peak systolic velocity (PSV) ratio ≤ 2.4 at
           the target lesion with no clinically-driven reintervention within the target lesion.

       10. Minimum Lumen Diameter at 1 Year: Determined by angiographic assessment of the target
           lesion at 1 year by the ACL.

       11. Net Lumen Gain at 1 Year: Defined as the difference between the target lesion MLD at
           baseline and 1 year following the index procedure per angiographic assessment determined
           by the ACL.

       12. Patency Rate at 1 Year: Defined as ≤ 70% stenosis per angiography as determined by the
           ACL.

       13. Secondary Patency Rate at 1 Year: Defined as ≤ 70% stenosis per angiography as
           determined by the ACL, maintained by repeat percutaneous intervention.
    
  