
    
      The goal of this application is to develop and test the feasibility and impact of a
      multi-layered, culturally-appropriate social marketing intervention targeting COVID-19 VH
      African Americans to increase uptake and completion of vaccine series in Nashville/Davidson
      County, Tennessee (TN). Investigators will partner with members of National Association for
      the Advancement of Colored People, Nashville Health Disparities Coalition, and Congregational
      Health Education Network to serve as an advisory committee. Investigators will also partner
      with Meharry Medical College (MMC) clinics and Tennessee Department of Health's (TDH)
      Immunization Program.

      Aim 1. Engage with key stakeholders to develop a multi-layered, culturally-appropriate social
      marketing intervention targeting African Americans who are COVID-19 VH. Investigators will
      adapt an existing message library using the Health Belief Model,Theory of Reasoned Action,
      previous VH research, preliminary data of investigators, and feedback from community
      partners. Next, investigators will conduct semi-structured interviews with 25-30 VH
      individuals and 5-10 COVID-19 experts to elicit feedback on draft content. Qualitative data
      will be collected and analyzed iteratively, informing successive intervention modifications
      to cover a range of concerns for VH individuals, enhance message relevance, and determine
      media outlets for dissemination. Next, investigators will pre-test intervention prototypes
      with 16 COVID-19 VH individuals to make final modifications.

      Aim 2a. Conduct a pilot study of the intervention and study protocol to demonstrate
      feasibility and assess impact. Investigators will conduct a pilot study using an experimental
      field trial design in three TN counties: Davidson County (1 intervention site) and Shelby and
      Hamilton Counties (2 control sites). COVID-19 vaccine uptake, primary outcome, assessed
      using: 1) aggregate data from partner clinics and TN immunization registry (TennIIS) and 2)
      individual, pre-post data from a marketing firm using random digit dialing (RDD). H1:
      COVID-19 vaccination rates will be higher for VH African Americans at intervention site
      compared to control sites. Implementation outcomes are feasibility, fidelity, acceptability,
      appropriateness, and penetration.

      Aim 2b. To retrospectively explore knowledge, attitudes, intentions, and implementation
      outcomes post-intervention. Investigators will use qualitative methods to identify perceived
      acceptance of different types of media and webpage along with perceived change in knowledge,
      attitudes, and intentions from African Americans by degree of VH. Investigators will also
      explore appropriateness, feasibility, penetration, and fidelity as it relates to the social
      marketing intervention from 3 providers, 3 community-based organization (CBO) staff, and 2
      TDH staff. Participants will be identified using RDD and community partner networks.
    
  