
    
      Introduction and rationale:

      Despite the recent advances in treatment, acute myocardial infarction (AMI) frequently
      results in permanent myocardial injury imposing an increased risk for adverse cardiac
      remodelling, diminished cardiac function and the development of heart failure. Decreased
      cardiac function after PPCI is associated with impaired prognosis. In addition to PPCI,
      cornerstones pharmacological treatment of myocardial infarction (MI) includes; (1) treatment
      direct against blood coagulation with platelet aggregation inhibitors, (2) cholesterol
      lowering treatment with statins; (3) sympathicus inhibition by beta-blocker treatment; and
      (4) inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. These therapies were successfully
      implemented over the last decades and resulted in substantial improvements of prognosis after
      AMI.

      Although timely PPCI has a tremendous benefit in AMI, not only ischemia but also reperfusion
      itself is considered to cause myocardial injury and cardiomyocyte death. This phenomena is
      referred to as "ischemia reperfusion injury" in literature and is caused by the sudden
      restoration of blood flow and its accompanying intracellular acidity (pH) change and calcium
      overload, cardiomyocyte hypercontracture, myocardial inflammation, oxidative stress
      generation and mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening. Reducing ischemia
      reperfusion injury is expected to further decrease infarct size, decreasing adverse cardiac
      remodelling and improving cardiac function as well as clinical outcome.

      The investigators expect a substantial beneficial effect of H2S in the prevention of ischemia
      reperfusion injury. H2S is the third endogenous gaseous transmitter next to carbon monoxide
      (CO) and nitric oxide (NO) and is involved as a physiological mediator in several body organ
      and tissue processes. H2S is synthesized endogenously by enzymatic and non-enzymatic
      pathways. A non-enzymatic pathway is by the reductive reaction with thiosulfate, with
      pyruvate acting as a hydrogen donor. Thiosulfate itself acts as an intermediate in the sulfur
      metabolism of cysteine and is known as a metabolite of H2S and in that way also able to
      produce H2S, especially under hypoxic conditions.

      H2S has been shown to protect from myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury in various
      experimental animal models; e.g. it reduces infarct size and apoptosis and attenuates cardiac
      function. Inhibition of leukocyte endothelial cell interactions, neutralization of reactive
      oxygen species (ROS) and the reduction of apoptotic signalling are the suggested as
      additional mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effect of H2S. H2S has been shown to
      attenuate myocardial ischemia reperfusion in cellular, rodents and porcine animal models. H2S
      can be safely administered intravenously as STS to humans. STS has been demonstrated to
      detoxify cyanide poisoning in 1895 in dogs, is used in humans since 1933 for the treatment of
      cyanide intoxication, is used since the eighties for treatment of vascular calcifications in
      end-stage renal disease, and is used to prevent toxicity of cisplatin treatment. More
      recently, studies have shown STS can delay the progression of coronary artery calcification
      in haemodialysis patients. The aim of the GIPS-IV trial is to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of STS compared to placebo treatment on myocardial infarct size in patients presenting
      with STEMI undergoing PPCI in a double blind randomized controlled clinical trial.

      Study design:

      The GIPS-IV trial is a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind trial. A
      total of 380 patients presenting with a first STEMI will be included. All patients will be
      randomly assigned, in a 1:1 ratio, to receive STS (12.5 mg iv) or matching placebo. Study
      medication will be administered twice. The first dose of study medication will be
      administered immediately after checking inclusion and exclusion criteria and obtaining verbal
      informed consent at the cath-lab. The second dose of study medication will be administered 6
      hours later, at the Coronary Care Unit (CCU). The study will take place at the University
      Medical Centre of Groningen (UMCG), University Medical Center Utrecht (UMCU) and Treant
      Scheper hospital in Emmen, all high-volume centers with experience in care and research of
      patients with STEMI. The primary endpoint will be based on infarct size as measured by late
      gadolinium enhancement cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (LGE CMR)-imaging 4 months after
      STEMI, a period in which the remodelling of the heart is expected to be completed. LGE
      CMR-imaging is a well-recognized, validated, and highly reproducible technique. Total
      follow-up duration of the GIPS-IV trial is 2 years.
    
  