
    
      The reduction of suicide is a priority for the Department of Health and Social Care which
      recommends focusing research and interventions on high-risk groups, such as men. 75% of
      suicides in the UK are completed by men, it is the biggest killer of men under 45, and 12 men
      die by suicide each day.

      Previous research shows that men may be more likely to mask their symptoms and avoid seeking
      help from friends, family and professionals. Literature suggests this could be due to the
      social stigma attached to mental ill health and society's traditional expectations of how men
      should behave. Evidence also suggests that men may be less likely to present with typical
      symptoms of depression, such as sadness or hopelessness, and be more likely to engage in
      activities like overworking, substance misuse, promiscuity and gambling. Studies exploring
      suicidality in adults have found that increased rumination is linked with higher suicidal
      intent, and that men in particular may experience accepting antidepressant medication as
      proof that they have 'lost control'.

      Rumination, avoidance, maladaptive coping strategies, and beliefs about uncontrollability are
      known as 'metacognitions' and are targeted in Metacognitive Therapy (MCT). MCT has a growing
      evidence base for a range of psychological disorders, including anxiety and depression, and
      aims to reduce rumination, avoidance, worry, and maladaptive coping strategies, whilst
      supporting the individual to discover control.

      There is a lack of research into how the thinking processes described above present in men
      who are at risk of suicide. This project aims to contribute to this knowledge base in order
      to discover whether Metacognitive Therapy (or brief metacognitive interventions) may be a
      viable treatment option for this population, and worthy of further research. This aim will be
      achieve by determining which, if any, metacognitions are present in a population of men who
      are suicidal.

      Additionally, the project seeks to explore men's beliefs about masculinity and suicide; and
      how these beliefs along with the thinking styles previously described, may impact on
      help-seeking. This could inform future planning of engagement and interventions for this
      population.

      Justification for this research can be found in national reports such as 'The Five Year
      Forward View' and the 'NHS Long Term Plan', both of which highlight suicide prevention,
      particularly in high-risk groups such as men, as a priority for clinicians and researchers;
      more locally, Greater Manchester Mental Health's NHS Foundation Trust's 'Research &
      Innovation Strategy' commits to conducting research into suicide prevention and improving
      patient safety.
    
  