
    
      Tumors of the head and neck is one of the most common cancer types, and the incidence is
      increasing. Management of these tumors is complex, and treatment can include surgery with
      extensive resection of the mandible or maxilla, which requires reconstruction using a
      microvascular free flap, oftentimes a part of the fibula. The injury to the operated leg can
      cause significant postoperative pain, which in these patients traditionally has been treated
      with intravenous opioids. These drugs have good analgesic properties, but also several side
      effects, such as fatigue, nausea and respiratory depression. The experience at Skåne
      University hospital in Lund has also been that the analgesic effect in the leg has been
      insufficient. The investigators would therefore like to evaluate the effect of adding a
      continuous popliteal block on postoperative pain and opioid consumption, as well as
      postoperative recovery. This type of block is regularly used for orthopedic surgery of the
      fibula, but its effects and significance have not been evaluated for the patient group in
      question.

      Patients will receive information about the study and, if they opt to participate, be
      included during the routine preoperative visit. All patients included in the study will
      preoperatively receive a popliteal nerve block catheter in technical accordance with local
      procedure guidelines, and be randomized to either active substance (local anesthetic) or
      placebo (saline solution). They will receive a bolus injection of the allotted substance
      (blinded to both patient, care provider and investigator) at the start of surgery, followed
      by continuous infusion during the first, maximally, seven days. During this period pain,
      nausea and vomiting, as well as sensory and motor function in the operated leg will be
      recorded regularly. Opioid consumption, need for other analgesics and ability to mobilize
      will also be noted. Follow up of above mentioned parameters will be made at the first routine
      office visit at three months postoperatively.
    
  