
    
      The participants may or may not have taken a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)
      (such as paroxetine (Paxil), sertraline (Zoloft) or fluoxetine (Prozac)) to treat their
      depression.

      The participants and their parents are interviewed both individually and together with
      questions about the child's general mood, degree of nervousness, and behavior and how family
      members are doing. Children and adolescents will have a physical examination, blood tests,
      and intelligence and memory evaluations. Tests include standardized questions and tasks that
      involve looking at pictures, remembering things, testing reaction times, and making simple
      choices. Participants spend time in a, mock MRI scanner, to become comfortable with the
      procedure. Participants and their parents meet weekly for 2 weeks with a psychologist or
      psychiatrist for sessions. Those who remain depressed after these two sessions will begin
      study medication.

      Those who are not currently taking an SSRI will be offered paroxetine. Those already taking
      an SSRI will be randomly assigned to receive either lithium or a placebo (non-active pill) in
      addition to the SSRI. Treatment continues for 8 weeks. During this time, the participant and
      parent meet with the doctor once a week and complete written and oral evaluations. Blood will
      be drawn before medication begins and at the end of the 8-week treatment. Participants will
      have additional blood taken after 1 week on medication to help in deciding whether dose
      adjustment is needed. Additional blood tests might be needed later on to ensure that the dose
      is correct. Those who improve after 8 weeks will continue treatment at NIH until
      responsibility for their care can be assume by an outside physician. Program staff will help
      in facilitating referrals to physicians who will monitor the medication after the child
      leaves the study.
    
  