
    
      The sample size was calculated to detect a between-group difference of 0.15 m/s in gait
      speed, with 80% power, at a two-tailed significance level of 0.05. In an RCT with a similar
      population and intervention (Yang et al. 2006) gait speed for the control and experimental
      groups at baseline was 0.78±0.14 m/s and 0.84±0.13 m/s and after were 0.78±0.15 m/s (p=0.8)
      and 0.93±0.14 m/s (p<.001), respectively. Based on these values, 15 participants per group
      will be required (a total of 30 participants). Assuming a dropout rate of 15%,66 a total of
      36 participants will be recruited (18 per group).

      Data analyses will be performed by the SPSS for Windows® (release 17.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago,
      IL, USA). Descriptive statistics will be carried-out for all outcome variables. Differences
      between the groups at baseline will be investigated with the independent Student's t-tests
      for all variables related to the demographic and clinical characteristics. If differences
      between the groups at baseline exist, analysis of covariance will be used to eliminate the
      influence of extraneous factors.

      The effects of the interventions will be analysed in two ways, namely from the data collected
      and by intention-to-treat analyses, where the last available value in the dropouts will be
      carried forward to represent the missing data. Analyses of variance with repeated measures
      (2×4) will be employed to investigate the mean and interaction effects between the groups
      (intervention×control) and the time (preintervention, postintervention, and follow-up) for
      the primary and secondary outcomes. Group descriptions will be presented as mean (SD) and
      effect sizes with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be reported.

      The effect sizes will be calculated to determine the magnitude of the differences between the
      groups. The differences between the two mean values will be expressed in units of their SD,
      expressed as Cohen's d, or mean results for the experimental group minus the mean results for
      the control group, divided by the SD of the control group. Effect sizes between 0.2 and 0.5
      will be considered small; between 0.5 and 0.8, medium; and above 0.8, large.
    
  