
    
      Data from public health surveillance systems are used for multiple purposes, including
      measuring the burden and monitoring the trends of a disease; guiding the planning,
      implementation, and evaluation of prevention and control programs; and prioritizing the
      allocation of health resources. In addition to routine health surveillance activities, public
      health programs often collect additional data on health indicators, as well as intervention
      coverage and program utilization, via nationally representative household surveys, such as
      the Demographic and Health Survey and the Malaria Indicator Survey (MIS).

      These household surveys provide data to help measure the burden of and monitor trends in
      malaria, including data on the prevalence of symptomatic and asymptomatic infections in the
      population. Additionally, because the surveys provide data on monitoring and coverage impact
      indicators, they help guide the planning, implementation, and evaluation of prevention and
      control programs, and prioritization of the allocation of national malaria control program
      (NMCP) resources. Indeed, these representative surveys have become key tools for benchmarking
      progress towards malaria control and elimination.

      Nevertheless, the surveys are expensive to conduct and are limited by long periodic intervals
      (e.g., every two to five years) and broad sampling strategies (i.e. generating national or
      regional estimates of disease burden and intervention coverage) that fail to capture seasonal
      trends or sub-regional heterogeneity, limiting their use for real-time or locally targeted
      planning and response.

      Routine health information systems, on the other hand, may provide a continuous, granular
      data source representative of all age groups, primarily to help measure the burden and
      monitor the trends of symptomatic malaria and other diseases. Many countries have implemented
      standardized, electronic-based health management information system (HMIS), on platforms such
      as District Health Information System 2 (DHIS2), which provide monthly health facility data
      in real time. Despite being a potential source of valuable public health information, several
      factors limit the utility of HMIS data and should be considered carefully. One key limitation
      is the quality and representativity of the data being reported into HMIS, which is affected
      not only by general data issues, but also by factors such as case management practices and
      stockouts. These limitations require monitoring and health systems strengthening to overcome.
      HMIS data on case numbers may also be biased because some symptomatic patients may not
      present to a facility for care or may not seek care at all, and it can be difficult to
      interpret the incidence because of uncertainties surrounding regional and local population
      estimates. Further, not all health facilities report into HMIS; in many countries, the data
      derive predominantly from public health facilities. If the population using alternative
      sources of care for diagnosis and treatment of malaria (e.g., private facilities or
      traditional healers) varies over time, or differs from those using public facilities, the
      data trends observed in the HMIS may not be representative. Finally, as HMIS data are limited
      to patients presenting with symptomatic illness, it is not possible to assess the burden and
      epidemiology of asymptomatic infections, which are believed to represent the majority of
      malaria infections in many populations. Representativeness and validity of routine data may
      also be affected by diagnostic testing practices, which in turn may vary by health care
      provider performance, seasonality, and availability of diagnostic commodities. Finally, data
      on monitoring and coverage of malaria control interventions, such as insecticide treated bed
      nets (ITNs), are not typically collected during routine health visits or reported in HMIS.

      To build on the strengths and address the limitations of these two complementary surveillance
      approaches, collecting data on parasite prevalence and coverage of malaria control
      interventions during antenatal care (ANC) clinic visits may provide an easily accessible,
      reliable, and representative source for monitoring population trends in malaria control with
      a higher degree of granularity than is possible in nationally representative household
      surveys. ANC coverage is high across sub-Saharan Africa; about 90% of women make at least one
      ANC visit in each pregnancy. Only six countries reported that fewer than 80% of women
      attended ANC at least once during their most recent pregnancy. Thus, pregnant women attending
      their first ANC visit are likely to be representative of the overall population of pregnant
      women. Pregnant women attending their first ANC visit are an ideal population for monitoring
      trends in malaria prevalence over time, as monthly ANC attendance remains relatively constant
      over time (minimal effects of seasonality) and is independent of malaria symptoms, thus
      giving a general infection prevalence estimate similar to that of a community survey. It has
      been demonstrated that malaria parasite prevalence among pregnant women correlates with the
      prevalence among children under five years of age. This highlights the possibility that
      pregnant women could be a good sentinel population for representative measures of trends in
      malaria prevalence and raises the question of whether pregnant women would be a good source
      of data on coverage of malaria control interventions that could be readily tracked over time.
      Once scaled up, these systems may also provide these data more frequently, at a finer spatial
      scale, and at a lower cost than household surveys.

      In Mozambique, the NMCP is distributing new ITNs in mass campaigns. The New Nets Project is
      funding community surveys in six provinces, including rapid diagnostic test (RDT) testing in
      these provinces, to look at the impact of ITNs. This presents an important opportunity to
      validate whether the coverage of malaria control interventions and measures of parasite
      prevalence among pregnant women at first ANC visits is representative of the population at
      large in Mozambique.

      In three districts, pregnant women presenting for their first ANC visit will be consented and
      tested for malaria using an RDT and asked to complete a study questionnaire. A comparison of
      results obtained at first ANC visits will be made to results from concurrent household
      surveys conducted by the New Nets Project. If validated and found to be a sustainable change
      to ANC visit procedures, data from the ANC sentinel population could be used to augment or
      even replace much of the data collected through the use of Malaria Indicator Surveys, which
      are expensive and infrequently conducted and generally only powered to the regional level.
      This data could then be triangulated with malaria burden data from the outpatient department
      to understand variation in community prevalence (as measured through ANC) and malaria
      clinical incidence, thereby guiding programmatic decision-making and response.
    
  