
    
      INTRODUCTION The existence, diagnosis and treatment of short esophagus is one of the
      controversies of the past within esophageal surgery which has recently re-emerged. This
      entity was described in detail by radiologists in the 60's. Many surgeons confirmed its
      existence in the operating room, describing the clinical, anatomical and surgical patterns
      along with the modalities of surgical treatment of shortened esophagus following progressive
      fibrosis and retraction of the esophageal wall consequent to severe long standing
      gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD). Contrarily other surgeons denied its existence
      claiming that the gastro-oesophageal junction can be reduced into the abdomen without tension
      in virtually all patients and that the esophagus is, in fact, not shortened. In the case
      series of open antireflux surgery, the percentage of dedicated procedures aimed to treat the
      condition of non-reducibility of the gastro-esophageal junction (GEJ) below the diaphragm is
      highly variable.

      In the present era of minimally invasive antireflux surgery, short esophagus again seems to
      originate controversy and open debate. Many thousands of laparoscopic standard antireflux
      operations have been performed in the world and numerous articles report satisfactory short
      and medium-term functional results in over 90% of cases, although in these experiences the
      need for a tailored approach has not emerged. However, in the last two or three years, many
      reports on the diagnosis and laparoscopic management of shortened esophagus in GERD surgery
      have been published.

      The controversy is based on four facts.

        1. If the indications for surgical therapy of GERD are restricted to severe, long standing
           cardial incontinence and to the complications associated with a hiatus hernia, then the
           number of patients with panmural esophagitis and esophageal shortening will be higher in
           percentage than if the indications are open also to refluxers otherwise treatable with
           intermittent low dosage medical therapy

        2. The clinical-instrumental predictors of esophageal elastic or fibrotic shortening are
           not defined and current studies adopt different evaluation criteria

        3. The perception of "excessive tension" of the fundoplication at the operating table is
           highly subjective.

        4. During the process of progressive shortening of the esophagus, the portion of the fundus
           attracted above the diaphragm may take the appearance of a funnel hardly distinguishable
           from a thickened oesophagus. Therefore the gastric fundus may be erroneously wrapped
           around the herniated stomach.

      Preoperative assessment of the length of the esophagus in order to decide which surgical
      technique to adopt is controversial. Yau et all. demonstrated that there is an association
      between esophageal shortening measured by standard manometry and postoperative
      para-esophageal herniation, but this increased risk is small. Predictors of the need for
      esophageal lengthening procedure are para-esophageal hernia, Barrett's esophagus and failed
      antireflux surgery. However no preoperative assessment can give information on the degree of
      elasticity or fibrosis of the esophagus.

      Through laparoscopic surgery, by cranially distending the diaphragmatic hiatus the
      pneumoperitoneum may by artefact increase the length of the intra-abdominal esophagus, and
      the impossibility to manually palpate and feel the tension applied to the esophagus to bring
      the GEJ below the diaphragm may make it difficult to recognize a condition of shortened
      esophagus, more so if the experience of the surgeon is not adequate.

      On the basis of a radiological classification used since the sixties, later validated with a
      radiological-manometric study it was demonstrated that the progressive orad migration of the
      GEJ is associated with an increasing severity of cardial incontinence and gastro-esophageal
      reflux.

      Recent studies have shown that the permanent orad displacement of the GEJ across or above the
      diaphragm is not infrequent in patients affected by various grades of GERD and that it is
      present in 50% of patients undergoing antireflux surgery for severe, not otherwise manageable
      GERD. Up to 25% of patients may require a procedure of lengthening of the esophagus in order
      to place the fundoplication below the diaphragm without tension.

      The missed diagnosis of short esophagus and the consequent inadequacy of treatment is one of
      the major causes of failure of antireflux surgery.

      As the number of antireflux operations, mainly laparoscopic, performed per year has
      remarkably increased, the issue of the so-called short esophagus is today one of the major
      points in the management of antireflux surgery, which deserves reappraisal and definitive
      clarification.

      The daily clinical practice of surgeons dedicated to therapy of esophageal diseases could
      take advantage of the definition of frequency, preoperative predictors, intraoperative
      management and post operative outcomes of cases of foreshortened esophagus in order to offer
      the patient affected by GERD, the elements necessary for a conscious choice of therapy,
      whether medical or surgical and to plan the best performance of the surgical procedure.

      AIMS OF THE STUDY Principal aim

        1. To define the percentage of cases among the total of antireflux procedures performed, in
           which, after standard isolation of the ge junction and eventual dissection of the
           mediastinal esophagus at least two centimetres of esophagus can not be replaced without
           any applied tension below the apex of the diaphragmatic hiatus.

           Secondary aims

        2. To define the percentage of surgical procedures aimed to treat electively a condition of
           non reducible, foreshortened esophagus, among a multicentric formed case series of
           patients submitted to antireflux surgery;

        3. To define the preoperative clinical and instrumental predictors for a surgical procedure
           aimed to treat foreshortened esophagus;

        4. To record the intra-operative, postoperative, 6 month and 12 month outcome of procedures
           adopted for the surgical treatment of GERD;
    
  