
    
      BACKGROUND Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multi-system neurodegenerative disease affecting a
      subset of vulnerable cells in various brain structures, including brain stem nuclei.
      Selective degeneration of dopamine (DA) producing neurons in the pars compacta of the
      substantia nigra (SNc) is a key neuropathological feature in PD and gives rise to the
      classical motor symptoms which can be symptomatically treated by dopamine replacement
      therapy. Yet the link between DA and PD extends far beyond the motor system, pertaining to
      core aspects of cognition that are supported by dopamine signalling: For instance, there is
      converging evidence that reward computations and motivational drive are significantly
      affected by PD and its dopaminergic treatment. Noradrenaline (NA) producing cells of the
      pontine nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) are also affected in PD with early and severe
      degeneration. Although the LC is the main source of NA in the brain, and NA has been shown to
      be an important neuromodulator, it is unclear how neurodegeneration of the LC contributes to
      motor and non-motor symptoms in PD.

      PD and the dopaminergic system Several midbrain nuclei contain cell groups that synthesize
      the neurotransmitter DA and project from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and SNc to cortical
      areas and the striatum. It has recently been suggested that VTA and SNc have distinct roles
      in reinforcement learning: dopamine bursts from VTA are thought to reinforce stimulus values,
      while the SNc is specifically important for action values. Since PD preferentially affects
      the ventral tier of the SNc leading to the motor symptoms, it has been hypothesized that
      dopaminergic treatment leads to an "overdosing" of the less impaired pathways from VTA to
      striatum.

      PD and the noradrenergic system Parallel to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in SNc,
      noradrenergic neurons in the pontine locus coeruleus (LC) exhibit Lewy pathology and undergo
      a marked degeneration early on in PD which exceeds that of dopaminergic SNc neurons. The LC
      is the largest source of noradrenaline (NA) to the brain, and exerts neuromodulatory effects
      through extensive ascending projections to the entire cerebral cortex. The loss of NA
      neuromodulation associated with PD might contribute to both motor and non-motor symptoms and
      could potentially be a therapeutic target, however the effect and significance of NA
      deficiency in PD pathogenesis is to date not fully understood. The LC is thought to be
      involved in the modulation of attention and arousal and also in the processing of emotion.
      The role of LC neurodegeneration and the resulting decrease in noradrenaline levels to the
      pathophysiology of PD is not fully understood. However, a large number of studies in humans
      and animals support a double role of noradrenergic cell loss in PD; a contribution to motor-
      and non-motor symptoms as well as a facilitation of DA neurodegeneration.

      AIMS The overall purpose of the study is to map structural and functional changes in the
      subcortical dopaminergic and noradrenergic networks that mediate cognition, attention and
      emotion in PD.

      The study aims to:

        -  Measure PD related neurodegeneration on 7T sMRI in ROIs corresponding to neuromodulatory
           brainstem nuclei: Substantia nigra pars compacta, nigrosome-1, ventral tegmental area &
           locus coeruleus

        -  Predict disease severity by multivariate pattern of neurodegeneration measures in these
           areas.

        -  Map the relationship between the autonomic arousal response to arousing stimuli, neural
           activity in the noradrenergic arousal network and the degree of neurodegeneration in
           noradrenergic brain regions.

        -  Investigate the effects of neurodegeneration in the core dopaminergic nuclei (SNc and
           VTA) and dopaminergic medication on the midbrain striatal network mediating action-value
           and stimulus-value learning.

      HYPOTHESES

      Structural changes of SN and LC integrity:

        1. Participants with PD will have significantly decreased signal on MTw-imaging in the SN
           and LC quantified as reduced contrast ratios in SN/cerebral peduncle and LC/pontine
           tegmentum.

        2. SN and LC volumes, calculated as the sum of supra-threshold voxels in the regions of SN
           and LC, will be significantly decreased in participants with PD.

        3. Accelerated iron accumulation in SN and nigrosome-1 will lead to an increased
           hypointensity of the SN and a loss of a distinct nigrosome-1 region on SWI, R2* and QSM.

        4. R2* and QSM values in SN on Quantitative Susceptibility Mapping will be significantly
           higher in participants with PD.

        5. Motor impairment (UPDRS-3 subscore) can be predicted by multivariate pattern analysis of
           MTw- and SWI-images of the SN.

        6. Measures of LC structural integrity will correlate with non-motor symptoms, specifically
           apathy and depression.

           Functional changes:

        7. Participants with PD will have significantly decreased functional activation in a region
           corresponding to the LC when exposed to arousing stimuli.

        8. Functional activation in the LC will correlate with LC structural integrity.

        9. Autonomic arousal responses (pupil response and skin conductance response) will
           correlate with LC structural integrity and functional activation.

       10. In healthy controls, there will be increased SN-dorsal striatal connectivity for action
           value learning, increased VTA-ventral striatal connectivity for stimulus value learning.

       11. In PD patients off their medication, there will be reduced SN-dorsal striatal
           connectivity. This will impair action value learning while stimulus value learning will
           only be mildly affected.

       12. Dopaminergic medication restores dopamine levels in the dorsal striatum and "overdoses"
           ventral striatum. Medication will restore (at least partially) SN-dorsal striatal
           connectivity and dorsal striatal activity which will lead to largely unimpaired action
           value learning. "Overdosing" will result in exaggerated VTA-ventral striatal
           connectivity and exaggerated ventral striatal activity. In subjects with strong ventral
           striatal "overdosing" inappropriate stimulus value learning might occur.

      RESEARCH PLAN Part 1: 7T and 3T structural MRI to map structural changes in SN and LC and
      their clinical correlates in PD.

      Participants: 60 patients with idiopathic PD (aged 18 or more), 20 age-matched healthy
      control subjects.

      Ultra-high field MRI. All participants will be scanned using a research-only 7T Achieva MR
      System (Philips, Best, The Netherlands) located at Hvidovre Hospital. MR-scanning will be
      performed with a dual transmit, 32-channel receive head coil (Nova Medical Products),
      including a neuromelanin sensitive, magnetization transfer weighted (MTw) sequence at
      0.4x0.4x1.0mm resolution, a susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI) sequence at 0.4mm isotropic
      resolution and a multi-echo quantitative R2* sequence at 1.0mm isotropic resolution.
      Additionally, all participants will be scanned using a 3T Siemens Prisma MR system.

      Additional examinations: Outside the scanner, motor and non-motor symptoms (UPDRS, Unified
      Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale & NMSS, Non-Motor Symptom Scale), cognition (MoCA, Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment), apathy (LARS, Lille Apathy Rating Scale), depression (BDI-II, Beck's
      Depression Inventory), impulse control disorders (QUIP, Parkinson's Disease
      Impulsive-Compulsive Disorders Questionnaire), impulsivity (BIS-11, Barratt Impulsiveness
      Scale), and handedness (EHI, Edinburgh Handedness Inventory) will be assessed.

      Part 2: 7T fMRI to assess DA and NA dysfunction in PD Participants: A sub-group of
      individuals who participated in part 1 will be asked to participate in Part 2: It is expected
      that 20 patients and all the healthy participants are able to lie sufficiently still to
      cooperate in a fMRI experiment.

      Participants will be scanned again with the 7T Achieva MR system using a reduced transverse
      field-of-view covering the SN and LC. Structural imaging will include a 1.0 mm isotropic T1w
      sequence for co-registration. High-spatial resolution functional Blood Oxygen Level Dependent
      (BOLD) (fMRI) will be used to map the functional activations of SN and LC in two task-fMRI
      paradigms. For the assessment of NA activation, a paradigm utilizing auditory stimuli and
      visual stimuli with arousing content (IAPS, International Affective Picture System) will be
      administered in two separate sessions; first inside the scanner, and secondly outside the
      scanner, during which autonomic responses to the stimuli (pupil responses and skin
      conductance responses) are recorded. In the second paradigm, participants will be gambling on
      a virtual slot machine with two handle bars in two different colours where one of the handles
      can be pushed, the other pulled. Participants have MRI-compatible joysticks to pull or push
      the handles of the virtual slot machine. Depending on the block, the action performed
      (pulling or pushing the handles, irrespective of their colour) or the stimulus colour (yellow
      or blue, irrespective of whether they can be pushed or pulled) are predictive of reward and
      punishment (one option has a higher reward probability than the other, these have to be
      learnt via feedback). Reward probabilities are changing repeatedly and unannounced.

      Patients will undergo the experiments twice on two separate days, on and off PD medication,
      in a randomized, balanced order. Healthy participants will also undergo the experiments on
      two separate days.
    
  