
    
      Patients who will undergo cardiac surgery between 01 September 2020 and 01 April 2021 and
      meet the inclusion criteria will be able to participate in the study with their verbal and
      written consents. The assignment of the patients to the control or experimental group will be
      done with the random numbers table created using the generate number function in the Excel
      program. This study will be conducted in 64 patients (32 patients in each group) who will be
      operated in cardiac surgery at Istanbul Yeni Yüzyıl University GOP hospital. In order to
      determine the postoperative anxiety and pain management effects of the patient visit of the
      operating room nurse, the pre-test-post-test control group design will be made
      quasi-experimental in non-randomized groups. The variables of the study were anxiety, pain,
      and analgesic use. As data collection tools, 'Sampling Criteria Form' will be used for
      sampling and 'State Trait Anxiety Scale I-II ' will be used for anxiety assessment. "VAS
      (Visual Analogue Scale)" will be used for pain assessment, and "Analgesic Follow-up Form"
      developed by the researcher will be used for the recording of analgesics. The "Data Recording
      Form" created by the researcher will be used to record the demographic and medical data of
      the patients.

      The researcher will apply the "State-Trait Anxiety Scale" to determine the level of anxiety
      after visiting the patient's room and obtaining verbal and written permission from the
      patient. If the patient is in the control group, it will be ensured that the institutional
      procedures are implemented and followed without any intervention (without visiting and verbal
      training printed booklet). In the experimental group,the operating room nurse, who is given
      intervention training , will be provided to visit the patient before surgery. After the
      verbal training of the operating room nurse, a printed booklet will be left for the patient
      to read. It will be ensured that the nurse visiting the patient in her room will be welcomed
      in the operating room. After the operation, the pain level of the patient will be monitored
      by the Visual Assessment Scale (VAS) in the intensive care and inpatient floor. Pain level
      and use of analgesics will be monitored at the first 72 hours and thereafter until the
      thoracic tubes are removed. The analgesics ordered for the patient will be recorded according
      to time, name, dose and route of administration. For these records, "Analgesic Registration
      Form" developed by the researcher will be used.Patients with prolonged intensive care stay
      (over 96 hours) and returning to intensive care will be excluded from the evaluation. If
      these patients are excluded from the study, an "intention to treat" (ITT) analysis will be
      performed to assess the realistic effect of the intervention. "State-Trait Anxiety Scale"
      will be applied again by the researcher on the 24th hour to determine the postoperative
      anxiety level of all patients.
    
  