
    
      Traditional risk factors are estimated to account for only part of cardiovascular disease
      (CVD) risk. Non-traditional risk factors such as increased homocysteine concentration are
      believed to be causally related to CVD. The interactive effect between hypertension and
      hyperhomocysteinemia on the risk of CVD has received great attention.
      Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) was the main regulatory enzymes for homocysteine
      metabolism. MTHFR converts 5, 10-methylene-THF into 5-methyl-THF. Polymorphism of MTHFR C677T
      leads to a reduction in enzyme activity, which may lead to an increased concentration of
      plasma homocysteine and lower levels of serum folate, particularly in those with low folate
      intake. In the present study, we sought to assess: (1) the efficacy and safety of
      Amlodipine-folic Acid Tablets in lowering blood pressure and homocystein in patients with
      mild to moderate hypertension and hyperhomocysteinemia (hcy≥10μmol/L);(2) if the blood
      pressure and homocysteine-lowering efficacy of Amlodipine-folic Acid Tablets can be modified
      by individual methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T polymorphisms.

      In all, about 756 patients with mild or moderate hypertension and hyperhomocysteinemia will
      be recruited from about 18 hospitals in different Chinese regions. All hospitals are
      certified as clinical pharmacology centers by the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA)
      in China. Eligible subjects are randomly and double-blindly assigned to one of the three
      treatment groups: 1) amlodipine tablet (5 mg, control group); 2) amlodipine-folic acid tablet
      (5mg amlodipine combined with 0.4 mg of folic acid, low FA group); or 3) amlodipine-folic
      acid tablet (5 mg amlodipine combined with 0.8 mg of folic acid, high FA group), once daily
      for 8 weeks.

      The allocation of participants was programmed by an independent statistical coordinating
      center, encrypted, and sent to each study center. Tablet containers were labeled only with
      the name of the trial and the allocated concealment number. The participants, care partners,
      and all staff directly involved in the trial were blinded to interventions during the period
      of the trial.

      Demographic and clinical information were obtained at baseline. Blood pressure was examined
      at baseline and every two weeks for a total period of 8 weeks. Blood homocysteine and folate
      concentrations were examined at baseline and at 4 and 8 weeks of the trial. MTHFR C677T
      genotypes were determined for each study subject.

      All analyses will be performed according to the principle of intention to treat.
    
  