
    
      200 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee necessitating total knee arthroplasty are
      entered into the study. All patients are given a standard protocol of analgesics pre- and
      postoperatively. All patients get periarticular LIA-injection (150 ml) with a total of 300 mg
      Ropivacaine, 30 mg Toradol and 0.5 mg Adrenalin. In the end of the operation all patients get
      an epidural type of catheter intraarticular with a coupled continuous infusion pump that
      delivers 2 ml per hour and are disconnected after 48 hours. The University hospital pharmacy
      has prepared 200 pumps; 100 Active substance pumps with 100 ml Ropivacaine (10mg/ml) and 100
      placebo pumps with 100 ml sodium chloride (NaCl). All patients are by computer software
      randomized to receive either active or placebo pump. Only one nurse, not involved in neither
      the operation nor the after treatment, has the key to what substance it is in the numbered
      pumps. Thus, it is a double blinded trial during the whole follow up period. Before the
      operation the patients are asked to fill out a knee specific outcome questionnaire, the Knee
      injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), and a general outcome questionnaire, the
      Euroqol (EQ-5D), and the knee range of motion is measured by a physiotherapist. After the
      operation the patients are monitored at the ward by the nurses and physiotherapists. The
      level of pain is measured twice daily (noon and 8 PM) according to the Visual-Analog-Scale
      (VAS). The range of motion and is measured on day 4 and at the day 14 and day 30 follow up.
      The number of days the patients need to stay in hospital after operation are registered. The
      amount of extra doses of analgesics the patient requires are registered as well as the
      complications (illness, wound problems, infections etc). The patients are to be followed
      clinically for 2 years as well as with outcome questionnaires.
    
  