
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized, double blind controlled study including patients
      admitted to the emergency department (ED) with AECOPD. Patients were randomly assigned (1:1)
      to receive treatment either according to guidance based on serum CRP level (CRP-guided group)
      or the standard of care (control group). The randomisation sequence was generated using the
      sealed envelope sequence generator stratified according to investigator site. Online
      inclusion of patients according to the concealed sequence was done with an independent,
      centralised web-based system (DACIMA Tunisia; https://www.dacimasoftware.com).

      Patients were assigned to one of the two treatment arms:

        1. the intervention (CRP-guided) group: 500 mg (one tablet) of oral levofloxacin daily of
           levofloxacin for 7 days unless the serum CRP decrease by at least 50% from baseline
           value. Measurements of serum CRP were done at ED admission, at day-2, day-4 and day-6
           and made available to the attending physicians.

        2. the standard care (control) group: 500 mg of levofloxacin per day for the first two
           days. Thereafter, oral tablet of placebo was prescribed according to CRP values as in
           CRP guided group to keep the blindness of the study. Also, in order to ensure blinding,
           active drug as well as placebo tablets were encapsulated for identical appearance and
           placed in sealed envelopes.

      The study is approved by ethics committees of all participating centers prior to
      implementation, and all included patients provided their written informed consent. The study
      was. The study protocol has been prepared in accordance with the revised Helsinki Declaration
      for Biomedical Research Involving Human Subjects and Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice.

      After verification of inclusion and exclusion criteria as well the informed consent,
      demographic, clinical and biological data were collected at baseline. These included patient
      comorbidities, number of exacerbations in the past year, physical examination findings, blood
      gas analysis, and standard laboratory tests results. Expectorated sputum samples were
      collected for pathogen culture. All data were recorded in standardized electronic case report
      forms. All statistical analyses were performed using SPSS software, version 20.0.
    
  