
    
      Background:

        -  Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) is a severe immunological complication that
           occurs after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Although oral
           cGVHD occurs in >25% of cGVHD patients and leads to decreased quality of life, its
           etiology is poorly understood.

        -  The primary objective of the present protocol is to enroll normal volunteers who will
           contribute a saliva and/or blood sample in order to compare its characteristics with
           those of patients with and without chronic GVHD after allogeneic HSCT. The normal
           control saliva and blood samples will provide a standard of comparison for patient
           saliva and blood samples from ongoing NCI cGVHD related protocols.

      Objective:

      -To collect approximately 5 ml of saliva and/or 18 cc peripheral blood from healthy
      volunteers as needed to support research activities.

      Eligibility:

        -  Healthy individuals (including employees) all racial/ethnic groups, aged 18 years or
           older.

        -  Volunteers must be willing to undergo saliva and peripheral blood collection.

        -  No active illnesses, immunodeficiency, history of opportunistic infection, autoimmune
           disease, immunosuppressive medications or prior organ, bone marrow or peripheral blood
           stem cell transplant.

        -  Ability of subject to understand and provide written informed consent.

        -  Phase I of the study will be restricted to males, age 30-70 years

      Design:

        -  Healthy volunteers will be offered the opportunity to participate in this protocol.

        -  A basic clinical dental assessment will be done.

        -  Saliva samples will be collected from the consenting subject.

        -  Peripheral blood samples may be collected from the consenting subject at the same visit.

        -  Protein assays will be performed on the collected saliva and blood samples.
    
  