
    
      Maintaining the patency of the upper airway in sedated and anesthetized patients is
      challenging especially when patients are ready to be weaned from mechanical ventilation.
      Spontaneous breathing trial (SBT) is used to expedite the weaning process, which oftentimes
      requires the reduction and/or discontinuation of sedatives and analgesics. In some surgical
      patients, reducing these medications can lead to pain associated agitation and inability to
      conduct SBTs, which may prolong the need for mechanical ventilation. Using medications with
      narcotic sparing effects and that do not cause respiratory depression may allow for the
      reduction or discontinuation of agents that depress respiratory drive and subsequently
      facilitate extubation.

      Ketamine has been used for many years in critically ill patients for sedation and analgesia.
      This noncompetitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) is used as an anesthetic and
      analgesic and has been shown to reduce opioid consumption and to prevent the development of
      opioid tolerance. Unlike other anesthetics, ketamine activates respiratory effort and
      promotes bronchodilation. At subanesthetic plasma concentration, ketamine reduces both opioid
      and propofol requirements.

      The goal of this pharmaco-physiological interaction trial is to evaluate the effects of
      ketamine at a subanesthetic dose on breathing and electroencephalography. The investigators
      hypothesize that ketamine drip at a subanesthetic infusion rate (low dose ketamine 5 - 10
      mcg/kg/min) is associated with respiratory stimulating effects and does not markedly increase
      transpulmonary pressure in mechanically ventilated patients.

      The primary outcome is respiratory function, assessed through peak inspiratory flow, tidal
      volume,respiratory rate, duty cycle, and minute ventilation measured 15 minutes prior to
      initiation of ketamine infusion (to serve as baseline), at 60 minutes of ketamine infusion at
      5mcg/kg/min, at another 60 minutes of infusion at 10mcg/kg/min, at which point the infusion
      is stopped for 3 hours for a final set of measurements.
    
  