
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare survival in patients with non-small cell lung cancer and brain metastases treated
      with whole brain radiotherapy and stereotactic radiosurgery with vs without temozolomide or
      erlotinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare time to CNS progression in patients treated with these regimens. II. Compare
      quality-adjusted survival in patients treated with these regimens. III. Compare 3-month
      quality of life in patients treated with these regimens. IV. Compare the 6-month performance
      status of patients treated with these regimens.

      V. Compare 6-month steroid dependence in patients treated with these regimens. VI. Compare
      cause of death (neurologic vs other) in patients treated with these regimens.

      VII. Determine the effects of non-protocol chemotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age
      and the presence of extracranial metastases (< 65 years old AND no extracranial metastases vs
      ≥ 65 years old OR extracranial metastases), number of metastases (1 vs 2 or 3), and extent of
      extracranial disease (none vs present). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) once daily on days 1-5, 8-12, and
      15-19. Within 14 days after completion of WBRT, patients undergo stereotactic radiosurgery.

      ARM II: Patients undergo WBRT and stereotactic radiosurgery as in arm I. Beginning on the
      first day of WBRT, patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-21. Beginning 4
      weeks after completion of WBRT, patients may receive oral temozolomide alone once daily on
      days 1-5. Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients undergo WBRT and stereotactic radiosurgery as in arm I. Beginning on the
      first day of WBRT, patients receive oral erlotinib once daily for up to 6 months.

      In all arms, patients with recurrent brain metastases may undergo additional stereotactic
      radiosurgery.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  