
    
      Design:

      * Randomized open multicentre trial.

      Patients:

        -  Number 400.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Stable or unstable AP.

        -  Bifurcation lesion of "LAD/diagonal", "Cx/obtuse marginal", "RCA-PDA/posterolateral
           branch or LM/Cx/LAD in a right dominant system.

        -  Diameter of main vessel by visual estimate > 2.5 mm.

        -  Diameter of side branch by visual estimate > 2.0 mm.

        -  Signed informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  ST-elevation Acute Myocardial infarction (AMI) within 24 hours.

        -  Expected survival > 1 year.

        -  S-creatinine > 200 Umol/l.

        -  Allergy to Aspirin, Clopidogrel or Ticlopidine.

        -  Allergy to sirolimus/paclitaxel.

        -  Left main bifurcation in a non-right dominant system.

      Randomization:

      * Treatment strategy routine stenting of both main vessel and side branch versus routine main
      vessel stenting and optional treatment of side branch.

      Primary end-point:

      * Combined end-point of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis or TVR after 6
      months.

      Secondary end-point:

        -  Clinical

           1 MACE (cardiac death, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis or TVR) during hospital
           period, after 1 and 8 months.

           2 Cardiac death during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months. 3 Myocardial infarction
           during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months. 4 Stent thrombosis during hospital
           period, after 1, 6 and 8 months. 5 TVR during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months.
           6 Total death during hospital period, after 1, 6 and 8 months. 7 TLR during hospital
           period, after 1, 6 and 8 months. 8 Myocardial infarction related to index procedure. 9
           CCS angina score after 6 and 8 months.

        -  Angiographic

             1. Angiographic restenosis (>50% diameter stenosis)of main vessel and occlusion of
                side branch

             2. Late loss of main vessel and side branch after 8 months.

             3. Percentual diameter stenosis of main vessel and side branch after 8 months.

             4. Angiographic restenosis (>50% diameter stenosis) rate of main vessel and side
                branch after 8 months.

      End-point evaluation:

      Primary and secondary end-points will be assessed by an independent end-point committee. The
      end-point committee will consist of experienced interventional cardiologists. Detailed
      end-point definitions:

        -  Q-wave myocardial infarction: Appearance of a new Q-wave in two or more contiguous leads
           on ECG.

        -  Non-Q-wave myocardial infarction: Infarction, which is considered present in a patient
           having clinical, angiographic, electrocardiographic and/or laboratory evidence of
           myocardial necrosis with an ECG showing no new Q-waves.

        -  Procedure related myocardial infarction: A threefold increase or CK-MB or Troponin-T/I.

        -  Target lesion revascularization: Coronary bypass operation with grafting or PCI of index
           lesion.

        -  Target vessel revascularization: Coronary bypass operation with grafting or PCI of index
           vessel.

        -  Stent thrombosis: Thrombotic occlusion of index stent/stents.

        -  Vessel measurement:

           1 Proximal reference diameter: Vessel diameter proximal to lesion. 2 Distal reference
           diameter: Vessel diameter distal to lesion. 3 Reference diameter: Mean of proximal and
           distal vessel diameter. 4 Percentual diameter stenosis: (Reference diameter - minimal
           luminal diameter)/reference diameter in percent.

        -  Angiographic restenosis: > 50% diameter stenosis.

      Angiographic core lab:

      The index and the follow-up angiograms will be assessed blindly at the QCA core lab. at
      Department of Cardiology, Skejby Hospital, DK-8200 Aarhus N, Denmark.

      * Definition of index angiography: The angiography obtained during the PCI procedure will be
      used as index angiography.

      * Definition of follow-up angiography: After 8 months a conventional diagnostic angiography
      will be performed and the projections used at the index angiography will be repeated.

      Steering committee:

      The steering committee will consist of one or two investigators from each center. All
      steering committee members will have full access to the database and will participate in the
      interpretation of data.

      Progress of the study:

      The progress of the study will be checked on a weekly basis by the steering committee. They
      will receive and evaluate data on inclusion rate and the primary end-point event rate.
      Further, the steering committee will receive and evaluate the weekly safety data on the rate
      of stent thrombosis in the two groups.

      Statistics and data management:

        -  The statistical analyses will be performed by UNI-C, University of Aarhus.

        -  Primary end-point: The composite of the primary end-point at 6 months follow-up will be
           analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. Differences between the event-free survival curves
           will be compared with the use of the Wilcoxon and log-rank tests. Two-sided test is used
           and the p-value considered to indicate significance will be 0.05.

        -  Secondary end-points and other parameters: For continuous variables, differences between
           the treatment groups will be evaluated by analysis of variance or Wilcoxon's rank-sum
           test. For discrete variables, differences will be expressed as counts and percentages
           will be analyzed with Fisher's exact test. Secondary end-points will be assessed after 8
           months. Two-sided test is used and the p-value considered to indicate significance will
           be 0.05.

      Safety:

      * For safety reasons, stent thrombosis after one month will be monitored continuously. A
      stent thrombosis rate of >5% in any of the treatment groups will necessitate premature
      termination of the trial.

      Analysis population:

      * Results are analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle, i.e. patients
      randomized to a certain group will be followed and assessed irrespectively of the actual
      treatment. Protocol violations will be noted and the responsible centers notified.

      Sample size calculation:

      * With an expected primary end-point event rate of 30% in the "stenting main vessel and side
      branch group", an alpha of 5% and a power of 80%, a reduction of primary end-point event rate
      to 15% in the "optional side branch treatment group" can be detected with 200 patients in
      each group.

      Randomization procedure:

        -  The patient will be randomized at the beginning of the PCI procedure and before any
           insertion of wire or balloons.

        -  There will be a block randomization according to centre and a stratification according
           to sex, age>70 years, diabetes, use of GPIIb/IIIa blocker and +/- angiographic
           follow-up.

        -  The patients will be computer randomized by a 24 hour telephone service. The PARAVOX
           system will be used.

      Monitoring of the study:

      Data will be monitored according to the GCP rules by independent professionals. During the
      trial, the monitor will have regular contacts with the trial site(s), including visits to
      ensure that the trial is conducted and documented properly in compliance with the protocol,
      GCP and applicable regulatory requirements.

      Publication:

      * Results will be published in an international cardiovascular journal. Publication and
      author issues will be decided by the steering committee on basis of general involvement in
      the study (core lab. function, end-point committee membership ect.) and of number of included
      patients.
    
  