
    
      Linkages between alcohol use and HIV/sexual risk behaviors have been observed in multiple
      groups and each behavior has been successfully treated individually. Indeed, some studies
      suggest these behaviors can be successfully treated together. The Emergency Department (ED)
      provides a venue through which many patients with multiple risks are treated. Yet, to date no
      study has addressed these behaviors together in an ED, where admission may represent an
      opportunistic moment when patients are particularly willing to discuss these risky behaviors.
      Motivational Interviewing (MI) has demonstrated promise with alcohol risk in the ED in
      several of our previous studies, and has shown promise with sexual risk populations as well.
      Accordingly, this study (N=302) will address whether a one session multiple risk MI can more
      effectively decrease and maintain reduction in alcohol use, alcohol related problems, and
      sexual risk taking following discharge from the ED than Brief Advice (BA). Baseline, MI
      Session 1 and BA will be administered in the ED. Follow-ups will be conducted at 3, 6 and 9
      months. This project will allow us to address the next phase of our program of research that
      has been designed to develop easily disseminable treatments for high-risk populations in
      medical settings. This study will also address potential mediators (motivation to change risk
      taking, self-efficacy) of MI effects. We will also examine whether reductions in sexual risk
      associated with MI compared to BA are accounted for by reduced drinking. A tertiary aim will
      examine the moderating effect of co-occurring substance use on outcomes. The
      cost-effectiveness of the interventions will also be addressed. Thus, this study will address
      two significant Public Health problems and provide significant information about MI
      mechanisms that may be relevant to the treatment community.
    
  