
    
      Design

      Registry based study

      Setting and data

      Data from the Swedish trauma registry SweTrau will be used. This is a quality registry, which
      means that patients are registered continuously as part of their care. They receive written
      information about the registration and may opt to withdraw their data from the registry. The
      registry was implemented in 2011 and had as of early 2016 more than 30,000 entries.

      SweTrau includes data from Swedish university hospitals and non-university county hospitals.
      The country has approximately 50 university and non-university county hospitals that receive
      trauma patients and out of those all seven university hospitals and more than 60% of
      non-university county hospitals contribute data to SweTrau.

      There are currently no national classification of hospitals that receive trauma patients in
      Sweden. Previous research has described the university hospitals as level I-II trauma
      centres, using the classification in the American College of Surgeons Committee on Trauma
      guidelines. Prehospital care and transport is provided by ground and air ambulances.

      The registry include any patient that prompts trauma team activation and any transferred
      trauma patient. Trauma team activation criteria vary across hospitals but there are generally
      two levels of trauma team activation, for suspected major and minor trauma respectively. The
      criteria are based on prehospital vital signs and a priori specified mechanisms.

      Variables Predictors

      Systolic blood pressure (mmHg), respiratory rate (breaths per minute) and Glasgow coma scale
      will be included as predictors in the clinical prediction mode. All are recorded on arrival
      to hospital.

      Other covariates

      The following variables will be used to characterize the patient cohort: age in years, sex
      registered as male or female, pre-injury comorbidity status according to the American Society
      of Anesthesiology (ASA) Physical Status classification, anatomical injury severity according
      to the injury severity score (ISS) and new injury severity score (NISS), and transfer from
      other hospital.

      Study size

      All participants in SweTrau matching the eligibility criteria. Details on sample size for
      specific analysis steps are provided below.

      Quantitative variables

      In the modelling exercises quantitative variables, i.e. all predictors, will be handled as
      continuous. Both systolic blood pressure and respiratory rate are assumed to be non-linearly
      associated with mortality and will therefore be modelled using restricted cubic splines with
      four knots placed at equally spaced percentiles, as implemented in the R rms package. Glasgow
      coma scale will be modelled as a linear term.

      Missing data strategy

      Multiple imputation using chained equations will be employed to handle missing data, assuming
      a missing at random (MAR) missing data mechanism. The R package mice will be used. Predictive
      mean matching to impute quantitative variables and logistic regression for qualitative
      variables will be used as appropriate. The number of imputed datasets will be equal to the
      percentage of missing data, rounded up.

      Analysis plan

      The transfer of models will be studied using four different sets of data. Each set of data
      will simulate a specific, plausible, situation in which models are transferred between
      different but related contexts. In each set of data there will be at least two samples of
      data drawn from the complete SweTrau database.

      High and low volume centres

      To study the transfer of models between high and low volume centres the data will be split in
      two, using centre volume. High volume centres will be those belonging to the quartile of
      centres with the largest number of patients registered.

      Metropolitan and non-metropolitan centres

      This set of data will also consist of two samples, one with patients from Sweden's
      metropolitan areas Greater Stockholm, Greater Gothenburg and Greater Malmö as defined by
      Statistics Sweden, and one with patients from non-metropolitan areas. The underlying
      assumption is that trauma mechanisms differ between metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas.

      Multi and single centre data

      The data from each centre with large enough effective sample size to allow for model
      development and validation as outlined below will constitute its own sample. The multicentre
      data sample will be the combined data from all those centres.

      Individual centres

      To study the transfer of models between individual centres this set of data will consist of
      samples from centres with large enough effective sample size to allow for model development
      and validation as outlined below.

      Statistical methods

      R will be used for all statistical analyses, which will be conducted in the following
      sequence: model development, model validation, model comparison. A temporal split of each
      sample will be made based on the date of trauma. The earlier part of the data will is
      henceforth referred to as the development sample. The later part is henceforth referred to as
      the validation sample.

      The temporal split will be made so that the development sample includes 70 events, i.e.
      patients who died within 30 days, and all non-events registered during the same time period.
      These 70 events correspond to 10 events per free parameter in the prediction models, since
      systolic blood pressure and respiratory rate will be modeled using three spline bases each
      and Glasgow coma scale as a single term.

      The validation sample needs to include at least 100 events and non-events. Therefore, in the
      studies of transfer of models between multi and single centre data and between individual
      centres, only centres with at least 170 events can be included.

      95% confidence intervals will be estimated for predictive performance measures by repeating
      the analysis in 1000 bootstrap samples drawn with replacement. Each imputed dataset will be
      bootstrapped separately and analysed using standard techniques for multiple imputed data.

      Development

      One model per development sample will be developed using logistic regression to select main
      effects. To avoid overfitting and model optimism a shrinkage factor will be estimated using a
      bootstrap approach. Model performance in the development sample will be evaluated using
      measures of overall performance, discrimination, calibration, and clinical usefulness as
      outlined in section.

      Validation

      The models will be validated by using the linear predictor generated in the model development
      phase to estimate the probability of 30 day mortality in the corresponding validation sample.
      Validation will be performed by estimating the same predictive performance measures as in the
      model development phase.

      Comparison

      Models will be compared in the validation part of each sample. The performance of models will
      be compared in terms of overall performance, discrimination, calibration, clinical
      usefulness, and reclassification, see below.

      Predictive performance measures

      Overall performance will be assessed using the Brier score and net benefit will be used as a
      measure of clinical usefulness. Discrimination will be assessed by calculating the area under
      the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUROCC) and by estimating specificity at 95%
      sensitivity . The 95% sensitivity was chosen as this is the cutoff often quoted as indicative
      of an "acceptable" level of undertriage, i.e. false negative ratio.

      To assess calibration the sample will first be grouped using ten quantiles of the mortality
      probabilities estimated by the model of interest. The mean mortality probability (x) and the
      proportion of patients who died in each group (Y) will be calculated. Finally, the general
      linear model Y=A+B*x+e, and use the calibration intercept A and slope B to quantify
      calibration.

      To estimate reclassification the models being compared will first be used to categorise
      patients as belonging to one of four risk groups. The difference between "original" groupings
      compared to those obtained by using "external" model, i.e. reclassification, will be measured
      as the net reclassification improvement (NRI).
    
  