
    
      The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial of a diaper incentive
      intervention whereby diapers will be used to achieve two separate but related aims.

      First, diapers will be used as an incentive to increase utilization of, and adherence to,
      well-child visits, during the first year of a newborn's life. More specifically, postpartum
      women who receive care in the Yale New Haven Health System will be randomly assigned to
      receive a diaper incentive in conjunction with their attendance at regularly scheduled
      well-child visits, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommended schedule
      during the first year of a child's life. Diapers will be provided at the completion of the 2-
      week, 2-month, 4- month and 6-month visits. A follow-up phone call assessment will also occur
      approximately 3 months after the family receives their final distribution of diapers or
      conditional cash transfer. Postpartum women randomly assigned to the control condition will
      receive the cash equivalent value of the diaper incentive for their participation at these
      same time points.

      Second, diapers will be used to reduce the level of diaper need. This will be evaluated using
      a self-report diaper need survey that will be administered along with other surveys to women
      in the intervention and control conditions in accordance with the AAP well-child visit
      schedule. In addition to diaper need, the following domains will be assessed:

      Depressive symptoms, perceived stress, maternal-child attachment, ability to meet basic
      needs, and demographic information including but not limited to race-ethnicity, mother's age,
      parity, marital status, education level, income, employment status, child(ren)'s sex,
      child(ren)'s age, health status, healthcare access, and use.

      The investigators anticipate that this study will result in greater use of, and adherence to,
      the recommended schedule of pediatric well-child visits, as well as a greater reduction of
      diaper need among families in the intervention group. The investigators also anticipate that
      the reduction of diaper need will be associated with decreased parenting stress and improved
      diaper-related health among women and children, respectively, in the intervention group.
    
  