
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the antitumor activity of letrozole +/- goserelin (the latter for
           pre-menopausal women only) in combination with IGF-1R inhibitor OSI-906 with or without
           erlotinib hydrochloride, measured by time to progression, in patients with
           hormone-sensitive metastatic breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  To determine the response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To measure circulating C-peptide, IGF-1, and IGFBP-3 levels in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  To correlate the expression of IGF-IR, EGFR, HER2, Y1316 and Y1131 pIGF-1R, PTEN, S473
           pAkt, pMAPK, S118 (MAPK site), and S167 (Akt and S6 site) pER in formalin-fixed paraffin
           blocks (FFPB) with clinical outcome and luminal A vs. luminal B subtypes of breast
           cancer.

        -  To correlate the mutational status of PI3K (E542K, E545K, H1047R) in DNA extracted from
           FFPB or fresh biopsy with clinical outcome and luminal A vs. luminal B subtypes of
           breast cancer

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Stratification will be based on previous exposure to
      endocrine therapy: (Arm I) no previous endocrine therapy or have completed adjuvant therapy >
      6 months prior to study enrollment; (Arm II) patients that had previous endocrine therapy in
      the metastatic setting or had metastatic recurrence within 6 months of adjuvant endocrine
      therapy.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral letrozole once daily on days 1-28 +/- subcutaneous
           goserelin* on day 1 and oral IGF-1R inhibitor OSI-906 twice daily on days 1-28.
           Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral letrozole +/- subcutaneous goserelin* and IGF-1R inhibitor
           OSI-906 as in arm I. Patients also receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on
           days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Goserelin will only be given to premenopausal patients.

      Tumor tissue samples from original diagnosis or from fresh biopsy tissue are collected for
      biomarker analysis and other studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  