
    
      Rupture of brain aneurysms is a common cause of death and disability, accounting for as many
      as 10% of stroke cases in the United States. While much of the resulting injury to the
      nervous system is caused by the initial bleeding from the aneurysm, many of these patients
      develop cerebral vasospasm, pathological constriction of the blood vessels supplying the
      brain, several days following hemorrhage. As many as a third of patients can suffer a
      resulting neurological deficit and stroke, presumably caused by the decreased blood flow to
      the brain (ischemia). This delayed brain injury accounts for a significant percentage of poor
      outcomes following aneurysm rupture. Remote ischemic preconditioning by transient limb
      ischemia (produced by inflation of a blood pressure cuff on the arm or leg) has been shown to
      minimize ischemic injury to other organs, most notably the heart. This "remote ischemic
      preconditioning" has the promise of protecting the brain from ischemic injury. Whereas in
      other forms of stroke the onset of ischemia cannot be predicted in the general population,
      following aneurysm rupture the investigators know patient's risk of developing vasospasm.
      Therefore, ischemic preconditioning following aneurysm rupture may help prevent some of the
      ischemic injury caused by vasospasm. One small study has shown decrease in vasospasm and
      metabolic products of ischemia in patients treated with remote ischemic preconditioning after
      subarachnoid hemorrhage. Decreased vasospasm due to remote ischemic preconditioning of the
      brain following aneurysm rupture still needs to be validated and question remains if that
      shows a mortality and morbidity benefit.

      Remote Ischemic Preconditioning (RIPC) Procedure: Following enrollment, computer generated
      randomization will be done to see if the patient gets RIPC or sham-RIPC procedure. Patients
      will receive four cycles of lower limb remote ischemic preconditioning, starting at the
      earliest post-hemorrhage day. The remote ischemic preconditioning will typically take place
      on post-hemorrhage day 2 - 12. Each cycle of RIPC will consist of four 5-minute cycles of
      lower limb ischemia followed by 5-minute periods of reperfusion. A large manual bedside blood
      pressure cuff will be wrapped around the upper thigh of one leg. The cuff will be inflated to
      a pressure 20 mm Hg greater than the systolic arterial blood pressure measured by the
      patient's arterial line or upper limb blood pressure cuff. The adequate level of inflation
      will be confirmed by the absence of pulse in the ipsilateral pedal artery as detected by
      Doppler. The cuff will remain inflated for 5 minutes. The cuff will then be deflated and the
      limb will be allowed to re-perfuse for at least 5 minutes. After the cuff is deflated, the
      same procedure will then be repeated three times for a total of four cycles. Patients
      receiving the sham-RIPC procedure will have the cuff inflated to a pressure of 20 mmHg lower
      than systolic, hence to not occlude blood flow or cause ischemia. The rest of the study will
      be conducted similarly in both groups. Research staff will be aware if the patient is in the
      sham or treatment group. Patient, their nurse, treating physicians, lab technicians and
      Transcranial Doppler (TCD) technicians will not be made aware if the patient is receiving
      sham or treatment procedure.

      Evaluation of Tolerance to the RIPC Maneuvers: The patient will be continuously monitored for
      pain and discomfort during the RIPC session. If the patient pain is more than 6 in the
      traditional 1-10 scale or if the patient expresses their desire to stop the maneuver, the
      procedure will be stopped, and the data regarding number and duration of the maneuvers will
      be recorded. A down-escalation of the treatment will be proposed, by reducing the number of
      cuff inflations to 3 or 2, as tolerated.

      Hemodynamic evaluation of the effect of RIPC Maneuvers: Intracranial pressure (if bolt or
      external ventricular vein (EVD) present), blood pressure, oxygen saturation and heart rate
      will be monitored through the pre-conditioning process. If heart rate or BP changes greater
      than 20% of baseline and cannot be attributed to anything else the preconditioning will be
      stopped and allowed to normalize before retrying or be aborted based on bedside nurse,
      physicians, or research staff discretion. Oxygen saturation will also need to be above 92% at
      all times and ICP<20 when starting or at discretion of the bedside nurse or physician.
      Glascow Coma Score (GSC) will be monitored by nursing staff and recorded per ICU protocol.
      (TCD) measurements will be performed per ICU protocol.

      Clinical assessments of the patients will be performed daily and at discharge from the ICU as
      per protocol. Modified Rankin Scale will be performed by research staff on arrival, Day 14,
      discharge, and by telephone at 1 and 6 months.

      Data gathered from patients' chart will include location of aneurysm, interventions
      performed, Hunt & Hess score, Fisher grade determined by CT-head, PT/PTT/INR, chemistries and
      CBC (standard of care labs). Also information regarding ICU length of stay, hospital length
      of stay, Transcranial Doppler measurements, GCS during stay, mortality and demographics data
      will be gathered (includes age, sex, race, prior to admission Rankin score).
    
  