
    
      The aim this study is characterize glycemic variability using linear and nonlinear
      mathematical tools, under basal conditions and in response to specific protocols acute
      exercise that evoke oxidative stress and inflammation in healthy subjects and type 2 diabetes
      patients. For this purpose, the sample size will consist of 37 individuals healthy and 32
      without type 2 diabetes mellitus, which will undertake the two types of exercise, randomly
      distributed. The maximal incremental exercise test will be performed in electrically braked
      cycle ergometer (ER-900, Jaeger, Wu¨ rzburg, Germany) in order to assess possible
      contraindications to the proposed protocol as well functional capacity, which will be used in
      prescription of the aerobic exercise session and a testing strength maximal will be conducted
      and used in the prescription of the eccentric exercise session.

      The glucose variability will be assessed by continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS)
      during 72h. Glucose variability will be evaluated by glucose standard deviation, glucose
      variance, mean amplitude of glycemic excursions (MAGE), and glucose coefficient of variation
      (conventional methods) as well as by spectral and symbolic analysis (non-conventional
      methods). Physiological mechanisms altered by exercise protocols will be measured in blood
      samples., Human Soluble Interleukin-6 ( HU IL 6 ELISA KIT - BIOSOURCE) and Glutathione (GSH)
      indicator of oxidative stress (GSH assay in: Rahman I, Kode A, Biswas SK. Nat Protoc.
      2006;1(6):3159-65). The aerobic session will consist of 40 min of lower limb bicycle at 70%
      of the peak heart rate, as determined in the incremental exercise test and eccentric session
      will consist of 40 min of one lower -limb exercises (leg press) with 6 sets of 10 repetitions
      at 120% of 1-RM. The protocol was approved by the Ethics in Research Committee at Hospital de
      Clínicas de Porto Alegre and all patients will provide their written informed consent before
      the participation.The research will be performed at the Exercise Pathophysiology Research
      laboratory of the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre. We believe that signs of glycemic
      variability has characteristics detectable by alternative, related to hysiological processes
      such as oxidative stress and inflammation, evoked by aerobic and eccentric exercise protocols
      mathematical methods, may help explain the acute response of healthy individuals and patients
      with type 2 diabetes.
    
  