
    
      Background and rationale

      Residual physical disability is common following discharge from stroke rehabilitation
      services. A third of first-time stroke survivors remain physically disabled five years after
      their stroke, equivalent to more than 300,000 people in the UK. Stroke services are
      traditionally "front loaded" with provision tailing off a few months after stroke. However,
      people with stroke report a variety of unmet long-term needs and a sense of being abandoned
      by NHS services. The UK National Stroke Strategy recommends that stroke be regarded as a Long
      Term Condition and that continuing support is provided for those who need it. This includes
      community-based rehabilitation, with an emphasis on personalisation, re-ablement and
      self-management of the consequences of stroke. There is good evidence that exercise can
      promote functional recovery, enhance adjustment and coping, improve psychological wellbeing,
      and reduce the risk of recurrence. Hence stroke guidelines recommend that people with stroke
      should regularly engage in specific forms of exercise, however many do not meet these
      recommendations. Various personal and environmental factors may account for this:
      stroke-related impairments, lack of confidence or knowledge regarding exercise and its
      benefits, and inadequate provision of support programmes and facilities. In response,
      community-based programmes are being offered. However, these programmes often focus on
      fitness rather than function, giving little attention to self-management or to sustaining
      behaviour (to ensure benefits are maintained after structured programmes have ended).
      National stroke guidelines recommend interventions address functional improvement and
      self-management strategies even though a recently updated Cochrane review notes the gap in
      evidence regarding these interventions.

      An approach called ARNI (Action for Rehabilitation from Neurological Injury) attempts to
      address these concerns; it was created specifically for people with stroke and acquired brain
      injury who wish to continue their functional recovery.ARNI is not a rigidly-defined programme
      but a set of principles and strategies tailored to individual circumstances and contexts. It
      is led by registered exercise professionals who have been additionally trained and accredited
      by the ARNI institute (http://www.arni.uk.com). In the UK, the NHS, Local Authorities and
      other organisations are using ARNI trainers to provide community-based training for stroke
      survivors. Our survey of this training included Northeast England, Lancashire, Luton and
      Bedfordshire, Milton Keynes, Hillingdon and Cornwall. The survey found that training has been
      very positively received by stroke survivors, their families and clinicians but it varied in
      content and delivery. Reports of benefits by the broadcaster Andrew Marr have also increased
      public awareness of ARNI. However the evidence for ARNI remains largely anecdotal, it may
      only work for a selected few and the approach is difficult to replicate. There is a need for
      a more detailed cohesive specification of ARNI that could be rigorously evaluated and
      replicated. Furthermore a stroke survivor participating in our Institution's research
      question generation process asked if ARNI worked but as yet there have been no randomised
      controlled trials (RCTs) of this intervention. Thus we have followed the Medical Research
      Council's framework for the development and evaluation of complex interventions and
      undertaken five linked preliminary studies: 1) a survey of current ARNI provision in the UK;
      2) a comparison of the ARNI approach with relevant stroke practice guidelines, 3)
      before-and-after studies of both group-based and 4) one-to-one training and 5) focus groups
      conducted with our participants. From this work we have designed a programme called ReTrain
      (Rehabilitation Training) which is based on core ARNI principles and informed by best
      practice guidelines for stroke. Before undertaking a large definitive RCT of ReTrain a pilot
      study is needed to address issues of feasibility and acceptability.

      Purpose of the study

      ReTrain aims to improve (i) functional mobility, (ii) adherence to national guidelines on
      post-stroke exercise levels, and (iii) health-related quality of life, for people after
      stroke who have been discharged from clinical rehabilitation. A definitive RCT is required to
      assess the clinical and cost effectiveness of the ReTrain intervention. The purpose of this
      pilot study is to assess to feasibility of such a trial and to evaluate trial procedures to
      inform the design of a definitive trial.
    
  