
    
      Fresenius Medical Care has developed an algorithm that uses a data-driven computational
      intelligence model based on an artificial neural network architecture (ACM) to generate
      individualised ESA dose recommendations from a history of dose and response information and
      specific patient demographic characteristics.

      The ACM has been validated and complies with the European requirements for medical devices.
      The ACM was classified as a Class I medical device in accordance with Directive 93/42/EEC. A
      proof of concept trial was conducted in 3 NephroCare dialysis clinics (managed by Fresenius)
      in the Czech Republic, Portugal, and Spain. It could be shown that the introduction of
      ACM-guided therapy led to a significant decrease in median darbepoetin doses and to a
      significant increase in on-target haemoglobin (Hb) values along with a decrease in Hb
      fluctuation. Moreover, a retrospective trial conducted in NephroCare clinics in Portugal,
      suggested that ACM is able to reliably predict the long-term response to ESA and iron therapy
      in patients undergoing haemodialysis.

      The current trial will test the applicability of the ACM outside of Fresenius clinics in a
      public hospital setting in the UK. Both intravenous (IV) iron and ESA doses will be
      recommended by the algorithm. The effectiveness of ACM-guided therapy on several anaemia
      outcomes will be assessed in adult patients with End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD).This trial
      will be conducted at 1 main unit and 5 satellite units at King's College Hospital, London,
      UK, in patients with ESRD who are routinely undergoing haemodialysis.

      This trial is designed to assess the effectiveness of the ACM software on anaemia management
      in routine clinical practice. However, all ultimate decisions on therapeutic or diagnostic
      procedures, treatments, management of the disease, or resource utilisation will be at the
      discretion of the Investigator.

      The trial will consist of a retrospective control period and a prospective period. During the
      prospective period, the ACM will be used to facilitate the Investigators' decision making and
      will help the Investigators to administer a personalised IV iron and ESA therapy, whereas
      treatment according to standard of care will be documented retrospectively for the same
      patients during the retrospective period of the trial. Thus, patients can serve as their own
      control.

      The planned overall duration of the trial is 18 months (12 months recruitment period + 6
      months until last patient last visit). The planned duration of prospective treatment for an
      individual patient will be 6 months. The collection of retrospective data from medical
      records covering a period of 6 months will take place as soon as the Informed Consent Form
      (ICF) is signed but at the latest at baseline.

      Data will be collected at designated time Points (monthly) throughout the Trial once the ICF
      is signed: at the latest at baseline (collection of retrospective data), at baseline (start
      of prospective documentation), and for the observation time points (Month 1 to Month 6).
      However, examinations will follow routine clinical practice at the site according to the
      Investigator's decision.
    
  