
    
      The goal of this project is to assess the feasibility of a low-cost, integrative intervention
      for chronic pain that can be replicated and implemented in underserved medical settings
      across the U.S. Over the course of 18 months, the study team will recruit at least 150
      outpatients with chronic pain from the Institute for Family Health (IFH) Family Medicine
      sites and Montefiore Medical Group sites, both Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs).
      Treatment will consist of ten consecutive weekly group acupuncture therapy treatments. Yoga
      therapy treatments will start at week three and will consist of eight consecutive yoga
      therapy sessions that occur immediately following in a room adjacent to acupuncture therapy.
      Sessions are bundled to facilitate attendance that might be affected by two separate trips a
      week for participation. The primary outcome will be pain interference and pain intensity.
      Secondary outcomes will be pain free days, depression, functional status, patient activation,
      and pain medication utilization. These will be used during the pre-intervention phase, during
      which patients are receiving usual care only, and compared to the period after patients
      receive the combined acupuncture and yoga sessions. Data will be collected for 10 days before
      acupuncture and yoga therapy, and up to 24 weeks following the end of treatment.

      The study will use a 'multiple settings across baseline' quasi-experimental design. This is a
      repeated measures design, and each study participant will have multiple pre- and
      post-measures. The multiple pre-measurement points allows the study team to document and
      monitor what may be variable patterns of pain pre-intervention. This design optimizes
      feasibility and acceptability to patients and participating health centers while still
      generating meaningful outcome data. Specifically, the study team has not proposed
      randomization within the practices, rather allowing sites to offer the intervention to all
      patients with target diagnoses who meet eligibility criteria. To collect pre-acupuncture
      assessments of pain, the study team will include a 10 day intake run-in period prior to the
      initial acupuncture session that ensures treatment within a time frame that is consistent
      with typical time to appointments for many consultations.
    
  