
    
      This is a randomized, double blind, controlled, crossover study evaluating the
      electrocardiographic, blood pressure, and hematological effects of an energy drink.

        -  Subjects who have contacted the PI/AI/SC for consideration of participation in this
           study will be scheduled a time to come to the Clinical Investigation Facility (CIF)
           Interview Room, which is a private room located on the David Grant Medical Center
           campus, for an initial evaluation for inclusion eligibility determination.

        -  At the initial evaluation subjects will be informed about the details of the study, be
           presented with the Informed Consent Document (ICD) and HIPAA documents and be asked to
           sign the appropriate forms voluntarily if they want to be a part of this study. Once
           consented, subjects will then be asked a series of questions to see if they qualify for
           inclusion in the study. A baseline ECG, Chem 7, and a peripheral blood pressure will be
           obtained to rule out everything but normal sinus rhythm, normal potassium level, and
           blood pressure less than 140/90. A cardiologist will approve every baseline ECG to allow
           the participant to enroll in the study.

        -  If the subject meets inclusion criteria and are approved by the cardiologist, they will
           be enrolled, and allocated a randomized participant ID number. They will also be given
           the "Participant Instruction Sheet".

        -  Participants will be asked to document their normal baseline caffeine consumption on the
           initial questionnaire.

        -  Participants will randomly be assigned to consume either two-16 oz. containers of
           Monster Energy速 drink, original flavor, two-16 oz. containers of an active control
           drink, or two 16 oz. containers of a placebo drink during their first day of treatment.

        -  The blinding and randomization will be performed by a member of the pharmacy staff who
           will have the randomization code in a sealed envelope in the pharmacy. The PI, AIs and
           SC will be blinded. In the event of a medical emergency, unblinding a particular subject
           may occur upon request to the pharmacy staff from an investigator or study coordinator.
           Only the requested subject will be unblinded.

        -  The control drinks will comprise an equivalent volume. The active control drink 16 oz.
           bottle will contain: 200 mg moxifloxacin (dissolved tablet), carbonated water,
           reconstituted lime juice (readily available from supermarkets), and cherry flavoring
           (regularly used flavoring in compounding). The placebo drink will be the same except it
           will not contain moxifloxacin.

        -  The energy drink and control drinks will be repackaged by a member of the pharmacy staff
           in identical 16 oz. bottles and checked by another staff member. The active and control
           drinks will be made at least 24 hours but no more than 7 days in advance and will be
           stored in a refrigerator in a designated area within the inpatient pharmacy. Study
           drinks will be available for the investigator/coordinator for distribution to the
           participants.

        -  Participants will be informed on the "Participant Instruction Sheet" to refrain from
           caffeine or energy drink consumption for 48 hours prior to study days 1, 8, and 15. They
           will need to have similar work shifts 48 hours before each study day (i.e. day or night
           shift). In addition, participants will be instructed to be in the fasting state (no food
           or drink other than water) for 12 hours prior to study days 1, 8, and 15.

        -  On day 1, a baseline ECG, HR, peripheral and central blood pressures, and lab draw will
           be obtained prior to consumption of the assigned study drink. The lab draw will be used
           to determine baseline clotting time using ROTEM速 analysis. After completion of baseline
           readings, subjects will have 45 minutes to consume two-16 oz. containers of Monster
           Energy速 or either control drink as assigned. The time clock for study duration will
           start when the participant is issued their study drink. Repeat measurements of ECG, HR,
           peripheral and central blood pressures will be performed at 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours. In
           addition, a second lab draw will be taken at 2 hours and submitted for ROTEM速 analysis
           to determine clotting time. At 2 hours the subject will also be provided a
           study-controlled breakfast. During each measurement session, participants will also be
           asked to "describe any adverse effects you may be experiencing". All measurements taken
           and responses from participants will be annotated on the participant treatment form.

        -  Participants may eat after lunch between hours four and five after the energy drink was
           consumed. They will be asked to eat approximately the same meals for lunch on the 3
           study days. They may not consume additional caffeine or energy drinks not provided by
           the study group until after the measurements are taken 6 hours later.

        -  A minimum 6-day wash-out period must elapse prior to initiation of the second phase of
           the study, at which time the same treatment/monitoring process will occur (i.e. Day 8 or
           after). It will again be repeated on day 15 or after.

        -  Measurements will include: ECG, BP, lab draw, and questions about side effects each
           participant may be experiencing.
    
  