
    
      Following previous research, our hypothesis is that infants in the experimental group will
      display significantly more positive scores on a collection of physiological and behavioural
      measurements. The stimuli used at each age will be targeted to the infants' developmental
      level. Bayley Scales of Infant Development will also be administered at 18 - 24 months as
      part of high risk infant follow up. These data will be included in the analysis for outcome
      measurement. While seated in a high-chair or their parent's lap, infants will be habituated
      to a series of images of a particular shape (e.g., a triangle), while their looking time to
      each stimulus is measured. Each image during habituation will be a unique token of the
      category (i.e., all different triangles). Habituation will be individually determined, and
      defined as cumulative looking across three successive trials that is 50% than cumulative
      looking across the first three trials. Following habituation, infants will be shown a novel
      token of the habituation shape (e.g., a new triangle) and a novel shape (e.g., a square), in
      counterbalanced order. If infants recognize the category change, they should look longer at
      novel category compared to the novel token. For each test, two dependent measures will be
      sampled: rate of habituation and amount of dishabituation to the novel category. Mixed ANOVA
      and paired t-tests will be used to analyze the data. As preterm infants have been shown to be
      delayed on these kinds of tasks, we hypothesize that the experimental group will habituate to
      each category faster, and/or display stronger dishabituation scores compared to the preterm.
      We will also use multiple regression analyses to examine relations between the NICU
      physiological and behavioural measures and the cognitive measures. We hypothesize that
      infants who most strongly benefited from their therapies in the NICU will display the most
      advanced cognitive abilities. An intention-to-treat- analysis will be performed for cognitive
      measures as well. The cognitive assessment at 2 and 4 months that were to be carried out at
      the Developmental Lab at University of Regina is now canceled due to feasibility concerns.
    
  