
    
      The aesthetic surgical & cosmetic discipline of hair restoration is rooted in numerous
      landmark studies and progressive medical science in the medical literature. With the advent
      of advanced theories and science using cellular and platelet-derived growth factors within
      the scope of regenerative medicine, have been well established in a number of peer-reviewed
      publications, The use of biological modalities, e.g., HD-PRP concentrates (defined as > 4-6
      times patient circulating baselines), have become recognized in a number of disciplines,
      including value of stimulation of scalp tissues and hair follicles in androgenetic alopecia
      (AGA). (See Clinical Trial Study STRAAND). A "retrograde" filling technique creating a
      potential space and subsequently injecting into this space will insure uniformity of
      placement and spread of the delivered treatment modality.

      This study design is intended to be a prospective, randomized, multi-center trial with
      blinding of outcomes for independent observers, clinical provider, and patient
      observation/satisfaction study comparatives. The study proposes adipose-derived cellular and
      stromal components when mixed with platelet high density concentrates (HD-PRP) offers an
      advantage to produce a markedly more effective therapeutic profile in in treating patients
      with scaring alopecia's (SA) and alopecia areata (AA), tissue age related senescence, and
      encourage vascular capabilities by stimulation of vasculoneogenesis. The benefits of using
      autologous adipose-derived stem & stromal cell (ADSC) populations are cell proliferation and
      vasculogenesis that is intrinsically linked with native inflammatory modulation and
      immunomodulatory capacities. Reports describing the safety and efficacy of this biocellular
      combination have been reported in peer reviewed literature.

      In the second and third arms of this study, use of regenerative protocols currently being
      extensively been utilized in the treatment of degenerative musculoskeletal conditions and
      plastic surgical procedures have been safely and effectively employed. These protocols
      feature the use of an emulsified AD-tSVF + HD PRP (ARM 2) compared to use of emulsified
      AD-tSVF + AD-cSVF (cell enrichment) + HD PRP (ARM 3) containing the full heterogeneous
      stem/stromal cell population and its native bioactive matrix. Addressing regions of scalp
      dermis containing the microenvironment (niche) of the hair follicle, progenitor tissues
      ("bulge").

      In ARM 3, addition of cellular enrichment of the emulsified AD-tSVF is accomplished via a
      semi-automated, closed sterile system (Healeon CentriCyte 1000 system) which effectively
      isolates and concentrate the cellular elements. The AD-cSVF is then mixed with high-density
      platelet rich plasma (HD-PRP) concentrates with emulsified AD-tSVF tissues prior to targeted
      scalp injections. This injected cell-enriched product contains the bioactive native adipose
      tissue scaffolding, autologous HD-PRP, and cell-enriched adipose stem/stromal cellular
      concentrations of stromal/stem cells.

      In ARM 4 of this study, the addition of intravenous cellular deployment of isolated cSVF is
      performed following without direct injection to scalp sites. Observations in other trials
      have suggested that increased hair growth in shaft size, coloration and speed is noted in the
      majority of parenterally treated patients as an observed effect of infusions. In the future,
      clinical trial extension of this study will combine both the components shown in ARM 3 and
      add a concomitant ARM 4 to evaluate potential of stimulation of proliferative and
      regenerative potentials in the form of combined therapy.

      It has been noted by several investigators that parenteral us of AD-cSVF has had an
      unexpected outcome of improve hair growth and color change. All of the study ARMs (with
      exception of comparative control ARM 1) are tested by flow cytometry for viabilities and
      numbers, which will be statistically compared to outcomes following the study completion to
      examine whether a statistically significant difference in results follows with each ARM can
      be shown.

      The goal of this study is to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of each ARM. Biocellular
      injections into the scalp of men and women with a diagnosis of scaring alopecias and alopecia
      areata, with full reporting of AE and SAE (adverse events). In the intradermal injection
      portions of the study, the biocellular material is injected 3-5 mm in depth within the
      mid-reticular dermis to upper subcutaneous fat layer of the scalp. Placement of the
      biocellular and cell-enriched biocelluar is intended to examine changes associated with
      changes of the miniaturized hair follicle. It is hypothesized that delivery a milieu of
      stroma and stem/stromal cells will facilitate regenerative changes of the treatment sites. In
      addition to providing native bioactive tissue scaffolding, and a greater number of
      stromal/stem cells to the tissues surrounding the follicular niche will result in a positive
      effect.

      Use of small needles for delivery is made possible with incorporating the novel use of
      emulsification of adipose tissue complex (lipoaspirates) This emulsified AD-tSVF and HD PRP
      methodology reduces surgeon injection pressure requirements resulting with use of smaller
      gauge needles. When clinically compared to the use of much larger needles required to inject
      non-emulsified AD-tSVF, it is an improvement on current techniques. A "retrograde" filling
      technique creating a potential space and subsequently injecting into this space the
      biocellular material as the needle is withdrawn is advanced in this study.

      Successful stem/stromal cell-enrichment of AD-tSVF and HD PRP biocellular mixture has been
      reported in numerous peer-reviewed and published clinical experiences of injections for
      structural tissue augmentation in plastic surgery, chronic wound therapies, and ultrasound
      guided musculoskeletal treatments in orthopedic & sports medicine.

      Standard venipuncture for obtaining circulating whole blood is concentrating platelet
      components to create a low hematocrit HD-PRP using FDA approved E USA) Emcyte II following
      manufacturer's guidelines. Small volume closed syringe microcannula lipoaspiration is used to
      acquire AD-tSVF tissues(Tulip Medical GEMS, San Diego, CA,, followed by emulsification via
      the Healeon ACM System (Newbury Beach, CA, USA. Cellular testing of samples in Arm 2-4 will
      be performed by flow cytometry (ORFLO, MoxiFlow, Ketchum, ID, USA) for viability and cell
      concentrations.

      A detailed patient medical history, study informed consent, and screening evaluations will
      determine eligibility and candidacy for the study and complying with the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria.

      Recording of the platelet pre-operative measured baselines and achieved HD PRP concentrates,
      flow cytometric examination of cell viability, and cell counts of AD-cSVF should be completed
      on each patient. Biocellular injections and treatment will be given on two (2) separate
      procedures three (3) months apart. Follow up clinical examinations are to be performed at 6
      months and 1 year period with completion of outcomes analyses including independent observer,
      clinician, and subject satisfaction. The volume of the therapueutic mix will be the
      standardized in volume for all trial ARMs.

      Immediate reporting to the study group for all AR and SAR will be documented and recorded for
      the safety records directly to Ken Williams, DO, as Co-Principal Investigator. This Clinical
      Trial will have a sample size of 60 patients at up to six (6) centers utilizing this
      protocol.
    
  