
    
      Near-infrared-fluorescence by indocyanine green (ICG-NIRF) utilises the fluorescent property
      of intravenously injected indocyanine green (ICG) as an intravascular indicator of tissue and
      bowel perfusion.

      The investigators hypothesise that ICG-NIRF is a suitable, reliable and precise method of
      visualisation of the blood supply and bowel perfusion in the area of gastrointestinal and
      hepatobiliary anastomosis formation.

      In this prospective, non-randomized cohort study, the respective upper GI, lower GI or
      hepatobiliary procedure with anastomosis is performed according to standard of care and
      indication for the corresponding disease including non-malignant, malignant and inflammatory
      conditions. The following procedures are included in the study, in open or laparoscopic
      surgery, according to the surgeon's choice:

      Upper GI surgery:

        -  Esophageal resection

        -  Subtotal or total gastrectomy with or without jejunal pouch reconstruction

        -  Y-Roux-reconstruction

        -  Right or left colonic interposition (iso- or antiperistaltic)

      Lower GI surgery:

        -  Jejunal or ileal segmental resection

        -  Ileal / Ileocoecal resection

        -  Colectomy with restorative ileal pouch formation and ileal-pouch-anal anastomosis

        -  Left or right-sided hemicolectomy

        -  Sigmoid resection

        -  Rectal resections (lower anterior resection (LAR), proctectomy with colo-anal
           anastomosis, abdominoperineal resection)

        -  Stoma closure

      Hepatobiliary surgery:

      - Pancreaticoduodenectomy

      Written informed consent for participation and ICG-administration is obtained one day before
      surgery.

      Intraoperatively, Indocyanine Green (ICG, VerDye, Diagnostic Green GmbH, Aschheim Germany, 25
      mg vials) is dissolved in 5 mL sterile water to yield a 5 mg/mL concentration. It will then
      be administered intravenously at three consecutive time points as a bolus of 2 ml per time
      point at the most. The overall dose of ICG will amount to no more than 30mg of ICG per
      patient.

      Real-time intraoperative visualization is performed with the SpectrumTM Fluorescence Imaging
      Platform (Quest Innovations, Middenmeer, The Netherlands) directly after each ICG injection
      assessing bowel perfusion at two different time points per anastomosis respectively: before
      and after anastomosis formation.

      Postoperative NIRF-perfusion rate assessment Using the Quest Research SoftwareTM, the
      recordings before and after anastomosis formation will be analysed for their perfusion rate.
      This analysis will provide objective, quantitative data on the perfusion for a certain time
      frame which is determined by the length of the video recording. This data will be collected
      for statistical analysis and correlation with anastomotic leak as well as postoperative
      outcome.

      Clinical data and follow-up Clinical data will be collected from all patients regarding
      anastomotic leak, bowel ischemia and necrosis as well as 30 day postoperative morbidity,
      mortality and length and cost of hospital stay.

      Further data analysis will be performed using Microsoft Excel® and IBM SPSS®.
    
  