
    
      In the past decades, the scientific focus regarding calcaneus fractures was the choice of
      operative or non-operative treatment modality. Although the evidence is ambiguous, recent
      meta-analyses suggest that operative therapy is associated with a higher likelihood to resume
      pre-injury work, to reach a higher level of physical function and fewer problems when wearing
      shoes. However, non-operative therapy has significant less complications and infections.
      Typically, aftercare includes non- or partial weight bearing, but protocols are different and
      often not very specific. In fact, there are no studies published comparing different
      procedures or special supporting devices. Recently, a heel-unloading orthosis ('Settner
      shoe') was introduced in aftercare for calcaneus fractures, allowing walking by shifting the
      load to the middle- and forefoot. This orthosis does not only enable early mobilization of
      patients suffering one-sided fractures, but also permits going following two-sided fractures,
      avoiding the otherwise necessary wheel-chair mobilization. The 'Settner shoe' can be applied
      in non-operative therapy and following operations. Specifically in calcaneus fractures, early
      regain of physical activity has been highlighted as one of the key factors for quality of
      life and the ability to return to work. Thus, the investigators hypothesize that mobilization
      with the 'Settner shoe' results in higher physical activity within the first 3 months and
      secondly improves ability to return to work in calcaneus fracture patients aged 18-60 years.
      Further outcome criteria are the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society's (AOFAS)
      ankle-hindfoot assessment, a 3-dimensional gait analysis, and the EQ-5D-3L questionnaire. It
      is the first trail applying a standardized aftercare in patients suffering from calcaneus
      fractures aiming to improve the non-operative part of treatment. Furthermore, the trial
      clarifies, whether the economical effort for the equipment acquisition is scientifically
      justified.

      The investigators hypothesize that mobilization with the 'Settner shoe' results in higher
      physical activity within the first 3 months after calcaneus fractures.

      Research questions

      Does the application of a heel-unloading orthosis ('Settner shoe') independent of operative
      or non-operative therapy of a calcaneus fracture improve:

        1. the physical activity (active minutes per day)?

        2. the quality of life (EQ-5D-3L)?

        3. the foot function (AOFAS)?

        4. the time necessary for return to work in patients between 18 and 60 years?
    
  