
    
      -  Study is to be conducted in the Oral Medicine and Periodontology department, Faculty of
           Oral and Dental Medicine - Cairo University, Egypt.

        -  Patients are to be selected from the outpatient clinic of the department of Oral
           Medicine and Periodontology-Cairo University.

      Intervention:

      Clinical examination:

        1. Evaluation of the patient's general condition of the oral cavity, to make sure it
           complies with the criteria required to be enrolled in the study in terms of oral
           hygiene, pathological conditions, occlusion and inter-arch space.

        2. Evaluation of the periapical condition and crestal bone level using a periapical
           radiograph.

        3. Evaluation of the soft tissue biotype by trans-gingival piercing using a periodontal
           probe.

        4. Width of keratinized gingiva (measured by a periodontal probe from the gingival margin
           to the mucogingival junction). It is measured at three areas (mesial, midbuccal and
           distal).

      SURGICAL PROTOCOL (T0):

        -  Patients meeting the inclusion criteria, CBCT analysis and extensive diagnosis is done
           to plan for treatment.

        -  After randomization patients are assigned to one of the two groups

        -  After profound anesthesia administration, a full thickness crestal flap is reflected,
           sequential osteotomy of the implant sites to the desired depth is performed with great
           care of interimplant distance maintenance to a 3-4mm.

        -  Implant insertion and confirmatory x-rays are performed.

        -  Gingival formers will be placed.

        -  Flap closure is performed with interrupted 4-0 polyproplene sutures.

      Postoperative Care:

      Postoperative medication -Administration of:

        1. Anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS; Ibuprofen 600mg three times daily for 5 days)
           (Francesco Pieri et al, 2012).

        2. Antiseptic mouth rinse (0.12% Chlorhexidine oral rinse) will be prescribed starting from
           the second day for 60 seconds two times a day for 14 days (Jun Yu et al, 2015).

           -Patient self-care instructions:

        3. Application of an ice bag to the treated area for the first 24 hours (Francesco Pieri et
           al, 2012).

        4. The patients were instructed to gently brush the operated area starting from the second
           day with a soft brush using roll technique.

      Scheduled time of re-entry for patients:

      3 months for prosthesis fabrication.

      Clinical Examinations:

      At the 3-month (T1), 6-month (T2) and 12-month (T3), the following clinical parameters will
      be recorded at the implant sites: Interimplant vertical papilla height, pink esthestic score
      (PES), probing depth (PD), peri-implant mucosal height (PMH), bleeding on probing at six
      sites of each implant (mesiobuccal, buccal, distobuccal, distolingual, lingual, and
      mesiolingual), and width of buccal keratinized mucosa (KM) at the midbuccal surface of each
      implant.

      KM will be recorded as the linear distance from the mucosal margin to the mucogingival line.

      Radiographic Examination Radiographic examination will be performed immediately after the
      surgical procedure (T0), and at T1 and T3. Standard periapical radiographs will be taken
      using a digital imaging software system.
    
  