
    
      Founding of the group. In June 2016 with the support of the Chinese Medical Doctor's
      Association and Chinese OBGYN Association, the not-for-profit GLESS (including Notes) Working
      Group was founded. The national Working Group is tasked with creating and maintaining the
      Prospective GLESS data registry, standardizing LESS surgeon training, creating best practices
      and guidelines. The Working Group aims to extend to all 35 provinces in Mainland China
      covering over 200 hospitals nationwide.

      The GLESS Working Group published an expert consensus in 2017 on the indications and
      contraindications of the surgery. The GLESS registry is a prospective observational case-only
      database. Literature has cases, outcomes are positive and promising, but there lacks a
      systematic and large scale multi-center registry to provide data driven evidence for best
      practices.

      The goal for the group (evidence level- can we achieve level 1, Canada task force). Research,
      share experiences to identify indications, standard surgical practices, understand
      outcomes/observations. Provide empirical evidence for GLESS and Notes surgical indications
      and complications. Provide empirical evidence for advancing procedures, expanding surgical
      indications (e.g. can GLESS be performed on cervical cancer?), what is the reliability,
      standard procedures for training Create best practices for 1)Identifying suitable clinical
      indications- expanding 2)surgical techniques (entry, port placement, trochar, retraction,
      suture, ligation) & selecting surgical instrumentation3)Identifying, minimizing, and handling
      complications.

      4)Carrying out optimal perioperative and postoperative care 5)Creating a safe and comfortable
      experience in terms of cosmesis, pain, and overall experience 6)Understand how various
      techniques can impact short/mid/long term for patients Outcomes will include a National
      effort to coordinate followup to create the largest/most reliable data set for understanding
      prognostic outcomes related to GLESS. With accumulated data/big data techniques develop
      comprehensive short term and long term scoring systems for colleagues and patients around the
      world. Create standard nomenclature for easier collaboration and communication between
      gynecologists Note on NOTES? Why we include it here. Yes, notes is a natural progression from
      LESS. With the orifice being the vagina. We believe understanding the risks/rewards of such a
      procedure can make the transition from an umbilical to vaginal entry point easy.
    
  