
    
      The aim of this study is to develop an algorithm capable of identifying patients with poor
      prognosis criteria at the time of hospitalization for STEMI, despite successful
      revascularization by analyzing coronary angiography images using supervised Deep Learning
      type artificial intelligence methods.

      The protocol will be subdivided into 4 steps:

      - Step 1: Patient selection

      Data mining to identify and select patients via PMSI data. Patients will be contacted by
      telephone follow-up to check the participation agreement and collect the primary outcome.
      Other data from the patient's medical file will be collected through PREDIMED.

      - Step 2: Data annotation

      To identify for each patient with successful revascularization according to the usual
      criteria (TIMI Flow = 3, MBG = 2 or 3 and ST segment resolution > 70%) whether or not he or
      she presents, at the time of hospitalization for STEMI, pejorative evolution criteria defined
      by the occurrence of death or rehospitalization for heart Failure at the time of follow-up .
      This step requires the expertise of an angioplastician and will result in the generation of a
      database of 600 cases. To train the algorithm to recognize images in the context of STEMI
      revascularization, 1000 normal coronary angiographies performed in a stable disease context
      will also be identified.

      - Step 3: Development of a new method for analyzing coronary angiography images to identify
      patients with non-optimal revascularization.

      Develop using Tensorflow/Keras libraries a supervised Deep Learning AI algorithm trained to
      identify patients with non-optimal revascularization (patient with poor prognosis). The
      algorithm will be based on convolutional neural network methodology and the model will be
      trained using data from the two previous steps. All or part of the sequence of interest will
      be used at the input of the model which will propose at the output a probability of good or
      bad prognosis of the patient.The 1000 complementary coronary angiographies will be used to
      artificially increase the learning base by increasing the number of cases or will be
      exploited for a transfer learning method.

      - Step 4: Evaluation of the pathophysiological hypothesis.

      The main weakness of AI is the "Black Box". That is, the algorithm can predict correctly
      without knowing how. It is then difficult to link the result to a physiopathological
      phenomenon and to develop therapeutics. Here we will evaluate the correlation of the
      algorithm's result with the reference method for measuring CD used in the patients of the
      Guardiancory study (NCT03087175).
    
  