
    
      Originality of the project: The originality of the PAPRICA project will be to provide
      high-quality clinical evidence for optimal treatment of deep caries lesions which is urgently
      needed. The project is very relevant within an area that has been known for suggestions of
      many treatments with the most invasive ones being the most popular ones. Only few previous
      studies define the depth of the carious lesion, data on well-defined lesions will clarify
      guidelines. Also, our design of this trial will attempt to reduce the risk of bias which is
      always critical when the investigator can't be blinded. In this respect the randomization
      will first be initiated after the 1 step of carious removal is completed. Results from a
      systematic review and a recent meta-analysis support stepwise excavation compared to complete
      excavation. However, firm evidence for one visit selective caries removal to soft dentine
      (previously defined as partial excavation) is still lacking. The project will for the first
      time investigate the caries treatment dilemma within a broader clinical context and thus
      aiming to reduce number of dental visits and to reduce acute pain. In the PAPRICA project a
      well-defined selective caries removal to soft dentine will be used as the lack of definitions
      are frequent in previously published clinical trials.

      With this study we are aiming to 1) improve the treatment of deep caries by markedly reducing
      tooth-related pain, and consequently reduce the number of sick days due to toot-related pain;
      2) reduce the number, complexity and duration of dental visits needed to treat deep caries;
      3) provide data for an updated evidence-based treatment guideline for an improved health-care
      system.

      Selection of participants: All patients at a participating clinical trial site are considered
      for participation. Patients will be eligible, if they comply with well-defined inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.

      Statistical plan and data analysis: Sample size is 668 patients, based on the primary outcome
      'pulp complications' among controls being 25%, and 15% in the experimental group, and
      combined with a type-I error of 5%; and a type-II error of 10%. Blinded interim analyses will
      be carried out. Statistical analysis of data from outcome measures - the gained frequencies
      of treatments leading to preservation of vital tooth without pain, apical pathology and no
      root filling will be examined using logistic regression analysis to assess the treatment
      effect adjusted for stratification variables. Odds ratio estimates will be used with 95% CI.
      Missing data will be handled using multiple imputations.

      Randomization: Only one deep caries lesion per patient will be randomized. The trial will use
      block randomization with the following to stratifications variables: 1) Center; 2) Age (9-20
      years/over 20 years). The randomization in the PAPRICA trial will be performed using an
      online system.

      Blinding: The investigator performing the follow-up examination is not the same who performed
      the treatment. The analysis of the radiographs of the tooth at follow-up is carried out by an
      observer-committee being blinded for the intervention. The statistical analyses are carried
      out blinded. Patient blinding is not possible as the two intervention groups are performed as
      either a one-treatment procedure or a two-treatment procedure.

      The patients who will be randomly allocated to 1-step partial caries removal will receive a
      treatment that normally is not practiced in relation to deep caries. However, there is a lack
      of randomised clinical trials investigating, whether partial caries removal has a positive
      prolonged effect with respect to maintained vital pulp and absence of apical pathology. The
      possible gain with the proposed treatment concept could be that the treatment of deep caries
      could be rationally performed without an extra treatment session and it may to a larger
      extent lead to an avoidance of exposure to the pulp. Patients who will be randomly allocated
      to 2-step partial caries removal receive a well-known treatment of deep caries. The intention
      is that we will gain data to reduce the risk of pulp exposures and thus the number of root
      canal treatments and possible reduce the number of days 'out-of' work due to tooth pain
      following an unnecessary invasive treatment of deep caries

      Discontinuation and withdrawal: If a patient does not show-up for an appointment, attempts to
      make a re-appointment are carried out up to 3 times. It is important to stress that great
      effort should be carried out in order to find reasons for not attending an established
      appointment or if a patient wishes to withdraw from the trial. he investigators shall
      discontinue a participant from the trial intervention at any time, if: 1) There are signs of
      caries progression or failure of the restoration; 2) The participant is diagnosed with any of
      the exclusion criteria during the intervention period (except 'deep carious tooth has
      restoration in close contact with pulp'); 3) The participant experiences intolerable adverse
      reactions.
    
  