
    
      RATIONALE - Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer with an annual incidence
      of 14.000 patients in the Netherlands. Of all patients with metastases, 32% have isolated
      colorectal liver metastases (CRLM). Local treatment of CRLM, i.e. resection, ablation and/or
      stereotactic radiotherapy, is the only potentially curative option. Unfortunately over 75% of
      these patients have CRLM which are (initially) not suitable for such local treatment.

      Current treatment of unresectable CRLM includes subsequent lines of systemic (chemo)therapy
      aiming to convert the CRLM from an unresectable to a resectable or local treatable state in
      order to prolong survival. Conversion rates of modern first line systemic chemotherapeutic
      regimens, as described in multiple retrospective studies with highly selected patients, are
      observed in 10-76% of patients, resulting in a 5-year survival of 33-43% after conversion.
      Patients with progressive disease on first line therapy are offered second line systemic
      therapy. Conversion during second line systemic therapy is rare and described in only 7-13.5%
      of patients. These patients have a poor prognosis with a median OS of approximately 10-15
      months. However, overall survival (OS) of patients undergoing local treatment after
      conversion on second line systemic therapy is comparable to what is observed after conversion
      on first line systemic therapy.

      Hepatic arterial infusion pump (HAIP) can deliver high-dose regional chemotherapy to the CRLM
      using their unique arterial blood supply. Floxuridine is used for HAIP chemotherapy because
      of the advantages of having a half-life of ten minutes, a 95% first-pass effect and allowing
      high intrahepatic dosing resulting in increased hepatic exposure by a factor 400, with
      minimal systemic exposure (e.g. complications). These specific properties of HAIP
      chemotherapy make it possible to combine high-dose local HAIP therapy with standard of care
      systemic therapy.

      Several single center studies from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) (New York,
      USA) have shown high response rates with HAIP chemotherapy in combination with systemic
      therapy for unresectable CRLM. Conversion to resection of the initially unresectable CRLM
      have been observed in up to 57% of chemo-naïve patients and in 20%-38% of patients with prior
      systemic therapy treated with the combination of HAIP and systemic therapy. Irrespective of
      conversion, the combined therapy resulted in a median OS of 50.8-76.6 months and a 5-year OS
      of 51.9% for chemo-naïve patients. The median and 5-year OS was 27.7-35 months and 27.9%,
      respectively, for patients who have been treated with systemic therapy before.

      Although these results are impressive, they come from a single center and have not yet been
      confirmed elsewhere. Most important reasons were the technically challenging surgical
      procedure of HAIP implantation and the need for stringent monitoring and specific management
      of HAIP chemotherapy requiring a highly skilled multidisciplinary treatment team.

      A study investigating combined treatment is required to prove feasibility in a multicenter
      setting outside MSKCC before a multicenter randomized phase III trial can be initiated in the
      Netherlands.

      STUDY DESIGN - All eligible patients who signed informed consent (registration) and meet all
      inclusion criteria (inclusion) will undergo surgical HAIP implantation. HAIP function is
      evaluated with a perfusion test during surgery and postoperatively before starting drug
      treatment. Start of combined HAIP chemotherapy and systemic chemotherapy is aimed within 6
      weeks postoperatively. Clinical and laboratory evaluations and chemotherapy administration
      are scheduled every two weeks. Response evaluations will be conducted with CT thorax/abdomen
      and CEA measurement every 2 HAIP cycles (every 4 systemic chemotherapy cycles) during
      combined therapy.

      The combined therapy cycles are continued until disease progression, severe toxicity, CRLM
      conversion to surgical local treatment or patients withdrawal. After HAIP chemotherapy
      discontinuation, treatment and/or follow-up are according to standard clinical practice.
    
  