
    
      All patients in the study will undergo a period of prior randomization of a week, where data
      will be registered such as pre and post blood pressure, average weight gain (delta weight)
      between sessions and transdialysis complications.

      In the first phase, BIA and clinical evaluation to assess blood volume pre-hemodialysis
      session state in a single assessment will evaluate all patients in the study. The clinical
      assessment method of dry weight determination includes: patient history in search of signs
      and symptoms of volume overload, analysis of pre treatment blood pressure, adventitious
      sounds in pulmonary auscultation among others.

      Patients will be randomized in a systematic manner into two groups:

      Group A - Clinic Assessment (AC): patients will have dry weight determine by clinical
      examination, as unit routine, for four weeks. Clinical criteria for dry weight adjustments
      are: edema, dyspnea, reported shortness of breath, post dialysis blood pressure greater than
      or equal 140/90 mmHg.

      Group B - bioimpedance (BIA): BIA was used to estimate dry weight for four weeks, pre first
      HD session of the week.

      At the end of the first four weeks both groups will be assessed for hydration state, data
      registered in specific instrument to assess weight gain between sessions, frequency of
      complications and time to reach dry weight.

      After two weeks' interval, wash out, groups would change the method used to assess their dry
      weight. ( A - BIA and B -CA) After the second phase, all patients had a further evaluation
      with BIA to assess for hydration state, weight gain between sessions, frequency of
      complications and time to reach dry weight, all data registered in a specific instrument. Dry
      weight was achieved by adjustments made in all HD sessions, based on clinical evaluation or
      BIA. The maximum decrement to achieved dry weight was 500 grams of weight per dialysis
      session. Nurses did clinical evaluation in both groups.

      The unit heath team, nurses and doctors, trained in the methodology used in the research
      helped determine dry weight.
    
  