
    
      Referral Process When a patient at the participating free community health clinic sees their
      health care provider, they will be given a referral card with information on how to enroll in
      the text messaging program. The referral will also be recorded in the patient's electronic
      health record. Health care providers will be encouraged to recommend the program to all their
      patients who they feel will benefit from improving their activity levels or dietary habits.
      Patients who receive referral cards (i.e., clearance) for either text messaging program will
      have the choice of programs to enroll in. If a healthcare provider feels that a patient is
      not capable of participating in one of the text messaging interventions (i.e., due to a
      dietary restriction or physical limitation) they will be given only the referral card to
      which they are cleared to participate. Patients will be asked to text the number on the
      referral card if they are interested in participating in the text messaging program (passive
      recruitment process). Patients who text the number on the referral card will receive an
      automated reply indicating that they will be contacted within 1-2 days. A research team
      member will call the patient back to explain the text messaging program and initiate the
      enrollment process.

      Patients who do not initially enroll by texting the number on the card will receive a follow
      up call by a clinic employee or volunteer approximately one to two weeks after the health
      care provider provides that patient with a referral (active recruitment process). The call
      will re-introduce the patient to the text messaging program and encourage their
      participation. If the patient agrees to enroll, they will be referred to the research team to
      initiate the enrollment process.

      Data on the referral process (number of patients referred, referring physicians, etc.) may be
      shared with the research team at the discretion of the health clinic leadership. Shared
      information will be de-identified so that the research team will not be able to identify
      patients of the clinic.

      Enrollment Process Patients that agree to participate in the program will be contacted by the
      research team. The patients will then be provided with an introduction to the study, the
      risks and benefits of participating, and asked to provide their verbal consent (see the
      "Verbal Consent" document in the Consent section of the protocol) agreeing to participate in
      the study. Following their verbal consent, eligible participants will be asked a number of
      questions about their demographic information, physical activity levels, and dietary habits
      (see the "Participant Questionnaire" document upload in the Supporting Document section).

      At this point, the research team member will enroll the patient in the text messaging
      intervention. Participants will have the option of enrolling in the Physical Activity program
      (which focuses primarily on physical activity, but does include some dietary information) or
      the Nutrition program (which focuses primarily on nutrition, but does include some physical
      activity information) depending on the referral that they received as described above.
      Patients will be enrolled to the text messaging program on a rolling process throughout the
      study period.

      If, during the enrollment process a patient declines to participate, they will be asked for
      their feedback on participating in the study (see the "Non-Participation Questions" document
      uploaded in the Supporting Document section) to seek information to improve the program and
      recruitment of participants in the future.

      Text Messaging Program The text messaging programs to be used in this study were developed by
      Care Message, a non-profit organization based in San Francisco, CA. Care Message offers a
      cloud-based platform with options for several text messaging programs in English or Spanish
      on various topics such as health behavior change, chronic disease management, women's care,
      and preventive care. Programs last from 1 to 12 months, and consist of three weekly
      automated, culturally adapted, and interactive text messages designed to increase knowledge,
      self-efficacy, and improve health behaviors.

      Study Assessments Evaluation of the effectiveness of the text messaging program will be
      conducted at baseline and at the completion of the 4-month intervention. An identical
      assessment protocol will be conducted at both time points to assess changes in eating habits
      and activity levels. Additionally, a participant satisfaction questionnaire will be conducted
      with study completers at the end of the intervention
    
  