
    
      We will enroll a cohort of 94 healthy pregnant women from the Lucille Packard Children's
      Hospital Obstetrics Clinic from 2012-2017.

      Women will be enrolled during their 2nd and 3rd trimesters, a time of high risk of
      complications from influenza infection. All subjects will provide blood samples at day 0,
      then be immunized with TIV as part of their regular medical care, and will return for
      additional blood samples on approximately days 7 and 28.

      In accordance with minimal risk guidelines in pregnant women, a total of 50 cc of blood will
      be drawn across all three visits (20 cc, 20 cc, and 10 cc respectively).

      An additional blood draw of 20 cc will be performed approximately 6 weeks postpartum to
      coincide with the standard postpartum obstetrical follow up.

      This is a purely observational study. There is no treatment or randomization. Influenza
      vaccination is the standard of care during pregnancy and will not be influenced by our study
      design. All subjects will receive standard prenatal care, and will have access to maternal
      fetal medicine experts.

      Volunteers for the flu like illness arm will be those who present to the Stanford Hospital
      and Clinics with active flu-like symptoms. If the volunteer is interested in participating in
      the study, Dr. Blish's staff will complete the consent process and continue with study
      procedures. For hospitalized inpatients, the initial visit will be conducted onsite in the
      hospital room. For patients seen at the outpatient clinics, the initial visit will be
      conducted at the outpatient clinic or at the Clinical Translational Research Unit (CTRU)
      using respiratory infection precaution procedures.

      Volunteers are encouraged to complete a second study visit. However, if returning for the
      Visit 2 is a reason why a volunteer is unwilling to participate in the study, the volunteer
      may complete only the first study visit and the follow-up phone call in order to enroll.
      Volunteers will be encouraged to receive influenza vaccination (if they have not already done
      so) through their primary care physician after the acute illness has subsided.

      Study Visit 1 (Day 0) Enrollment/Baseline

        -  Potential participants will be provided with a verbal description of the study (purpose
           and study schedule and procedures). They then will be asked if they have any questions
           and allowed to read/sign the consent form. The consent form will be signed prior to the
           performance of any study procedures.

        -  Review study eligibility criteria and collect an abbreviated medical history and current
           concomitant medication use.

        -  Obtain vital signs (oral temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiratory rate),
           height and weight. Whenever possible, information will be obtained from existing clinic
           or hospital records.

        -  Record information about history of present illness.

        -  Collect blood volume sample in 3 10 ml green top tubes (maximum volume not to exceed 30
           mL).

        -  Collect two nasopharyngeal flocked swab specimens(one specimen for the research
           laboratory and one specimen for the clinical virology laboratory diagnosis if not
           already collected by the hospital or the clinic staff).

        -  Provide Memory Aid for volunteer to record course of illness, ILI resolution date and
           serious adverse events occurring during the study period.

      Visit 1A (phone call follow-up 7-10 days after Visit 1)

        -  Study personnel will contact the volunteer to remind participant to record any changes
           and course of their flu-like illness on the Memory Aid provided.

        -  Subsequent study visit will be scheduled.

      Visit 2 (Day 28 ± 7 after Visit 1), PREFERRED, BUT OPTIONAL

        -  Review of medications and Memory Aid or new-onset medical conditions, influenza-like
           illness and SAEs.

        -  Obtain vital signs (oral temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiratory rate), and
           weight

        -  Collect blood sample (maximum volume not to exceed 20 mL): in two 10 ml green top tubes

        -  Collect two nasopharyngeal flocked swab specimens (both swabs to be sent to research
           laboratory).

      Early Termination Visit:

      If a volunteer is terminated from the study early, every effort should be made to perform the
      following procedures:

        -  Review current health status and note any changes since the last visit. Solicit
           information regarding SAEs and record all concomitant medications. Any ongoing related
           SAEs will be followed to resolution or until a stable chronic condition has been
           established. Volunteers will be encouraged to permit continued follow-up of SAEs if
           necessary

        -  Obtain remaining blood samples, if possible.
    
  