
    
      This is a controlled, randomized, and single blind trial. The first researcher (P1) will be
      responsible for the randomization process; the second researcher (P2) will be responsible for
      the evaluations and reevaluations. This evaluator (P2) will be "blind", meaning that for him
      it is totally unknown in which group each patient will be insert; and the third researcher
      (P3), will be responsible for statistical analysis.

      Individuals will be recruited at the Child and Adolescent Health Care Unit of the Onofre
      Lopes University Hospital (HUOL) and in the Department of Physical Therapy of the State
      University of Paraíba (UEPB), Campina Grande - PB, Brazil. They will be evaluated at the
      Physical Therapy Department of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN), Natal -
      RN, Brazil and in the Department of Physical Therapy of the State University of Paraíba
      (UEPB), in the city of Campina Grande - PB. A pilot study will be carried out and the sample
      calculation will be done with the data collected to reach a statistical power of 80% and a
      level of significance of 0.05%. Allocation in the groups will be performed by P1, randomly in
      blocks by the volunteer being prepubertal or pubertal. The R Core Team software (2015) will
      be used for this process.

      In this study two groups will be considered: control group (CG) and aerobic exercise group
      (AEG). The CG will be submitted to educational intervention. The AEG will be submitted to the
      same educational intervention and to the High Intensity Interval Training.

      After the pilot study, the patients will be evaluated to obtain information on severity and
      exacerbation of the disease, quality of life, metabolic evaluation, anthropometric measures,
      and lung function. All evaluations will be carried out at the same day period (morning).
      Researcher two (P2) will be responsible for the evaluation and reassessment procedure of the
      individuals, hence he will be "blind" meaning that for him it is totally unknown in which
      group each patient will be or was inserted. Individuals will be instructed to do not perform
      physical activity in the day before the evaluations. After this step, individuals will be
      randomly distributed in CG or EAG.

      Volunteers from both groups will be instructed to maintain nutritional, drug and secretion
      care. In addition, they will be instructed to do not get engaged in any other kind of
      physical activity. The intervention will last 2 months and will occur 3 times a week until a
      total of 24 sessions. After the intervention ends and after the 8-week follow-up, all
      volunteers will be reevaluated.
    
  