
    
      To prepare the T cells (GD2-C7R T cells), research staff will take some blood from the
      patient. We will grow the GD2.C7R T cells by infecting the T cells with a retroviral vector
      (a special virus that can carry a new gene into cells) containing one gene that can recognize
      and kill cancer cells (GD2.CAR) and the new gene called C7R that will help these cells
      survive longer. After the new genes have been put into the T cells, the cells will be tested
      to make sure that they kill GD2-positive cancer cells.

      Because we are growing the cells in the laboratory, we will also need to take blood to test
      for infectious viruses such as hepatitis and HIV (the virus that causes AIDS), and we will
      also ask patients to complete a questionnaire that is given to blood donors.

      The cells generated will be frozen and stored to give back to the patient. Because patients
      will have received cells with a new gene in them patients will be followed for a total of 15
      years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer.

      Patients will be assigned a dose of GD2-C7R T cells. The assigned dose of cells is based on
      body weight and height.

      In this study, patients will receive the GD2-C7R cells and may also receive cyclophosphamide
      and fludarabine. These two drugs are standard chemotherapy medicines and may be given before
      the T cells to make space in the blood for the T cells to grow after receiving them.

      If the patient receives cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, these drugs will be given
      intravenously (through an i.v. needle inserted in a vein or a central line) for 2 days and
      then fludarabine alone on the third day.

      The patient will be given an injection of GD2-C7R T cells into the vein through an IV line at
      the assigned dose. Before receiving the T cell infusion, the patient may be given a dose of
      Benadryl (diphenhydramine) and Tylenol (acetaminophen). The infusion will take between 1 and
      10 minutes. We will then monitor the patient in the clinic for about 3 hours. The treatment
      will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital or Houston
      Methodist Hospital. The patient may need to stay in Houston for up to 4 weeks after the
      infusion so we can monitor for side effects.

      The patient will have follow-up visits after the T cell infusion at weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8,
      then at months 3, 6, 9, and 12, and then twice a year for the next 4 years and annually for
      the next 10 years for a total of 15 years. The patient will also have scheduled disease
      evaluations after the T-cell injection at week 6 and then as clinically needed.

      After disease re-evaluation, if the patient's disease has not gotten worse, or if in the
      future it seems the patient might benefit AND the patient has not had a severe side effect
      caused by the infusion of the GD2-C7R T cells, the patient may be eligible to receive one
      additional dose of their T cells. The dose will be at the same dose level as the first
      infusion and separated by at least 6 weeks such that we can make sure the patient has no
      severe side effects between infusions. If the patient receives an additional dose of GD2-C7R
      T-cells, then they will need to stay in Houston for up to 4 weeks after the infusion as well
      so we can monitor for side effects.

      Medical tests before treatment--

      Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of the tumor by routine imaging studies and/or bone marrow evaluation. We
           will use the imaging studies that have been used in the past to best assess the tumor
           (Computer Tomogram (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), and Positron Emission
           Tomography (PET/CT), Bone Scan, and/or MIBG scan)

        -  Pulmonary Function Tests (PFT) to see how well your lungs are working

      Medical tests during and after treatment--

      The patient will receive standard medical tests when they are getting the infusions and
      afterwards:

        -  Physical exams

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function

        -  Measurements of the tumor by routine imaging studies and/or bone marrow evaluation 6
           weeks after the infusion (if the bone marrow showed tumor before the infusion).

      To learn more about the way the GD2-C7R T cells are working and how long they last in the
      body, an extra amount of blood will be obtained on the day that chemotherapy starts, the day
      of the T-cell infusion(s) and at the end of the T-cell infusion(s), 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks
      after the T-cell infusion(s) and every 3 months for the 1st year, every 6 months for the next
      4 years and annually for the next 10 years. The amount of blood taken will be based on weight
      with up to a maximum of 60 ml (12 teaspoons) of blood to be obtained at any one time. For
      children, the total amount of blood drawn will not be more than 3 ml (less than 1 teaspoon)
      per 1 kg of body weight on any one day. This volume is considered safe, but may be decreased
      if the patient is anemic (has a low red blood cell count).

      During the time points listed above, if the GD2-C7R T cells are found in the patient's blood
      at a certain amount, an extra 5 ml (about 1 teaspoon) of blood may need to be collected for
      additional testing.

      If the patient has a procedure where tumor samples are obtained, like a repeat bone marrow
      evaluation or tumor biopsy, we will request a sample to be used for research purposes.

      The patient will receive supportive care for any acute or chronic toxicities, including blood
      components or antibiotics, and other intervention as appropriate.
    
  