
    
      HD-FIT is a randomized controlled clinical trial that will analyze the impact of high volume
      online HDF in comparison to high-flux HD on measured physical activity (number of steps
      measured in the dialysis day) as a primary endpoint. The analysis of additional accelerometer
      data, HRQOL and time to recover from a dialysis session will be used as other outcomes. The
      study will also capture safety data, based on intradialytic events, hospitalization and
      mortality. Biochemical (according to the local requirements) and drug prescription data will
      be monitored for pharma-economic analysis. Serum samples will be collected for future
      analysis of additional biomarkers.

      In summary, patients will go through a 4 week run in period on high flux HD. After this,
      patients will be randomized to the intervention of high volume online HDF for 6 months, or
      will continue on high flux HD; both groups will be observed for a 12 month follow up period.
      Patients will be evaluated for physical activity, HRQOL, laboratories and other measures at
      the baseline, 3 month, and 6 month time points. Evaluation will be repeated in 3 and
      6-months. HRQOL, laboratories, and other outcomes will be tracked over the
      post-interventional follow up period that lasts 12 months after randomization.

      Data will be analyzed according to an intention-to-treat principle (i.e., according to
      assigned instead of received treatment). With an enrollment target of 110 participants in
      each arm (considering a drop out of 20%) we estimate the 86 patients will complete the follow
      up in each arm, what will provide the trial a 90% power to detect a 20% effect with respect
      to the primary outcome (predefined as a 20% increase in average total steps at the dialysis
      day in the HDF group compared to the HD group). Because of the nature of the intervention, it
      will not possible to blind the patients, the local study nurses, or the investigators for the
      treatment assignment.

      Fourteen dialysis centers will be invited to participate. Each participating center will
      receive two 5008S machines and Cordiax dialyzers to be used in the study of 10 patients in
      each center. Additional patients can be randomized per center with approval of the steering
      committee. Centralized randomization will based on a 1:1 protocol, stratified by
      participating center.
    
  