
    
      EVs are characterized by their high genetic variability, with more than 120 types described
      to date. They are involved in mild infections, such as febrile syndromes that may be
      associated with respiratory and cutaneous manifestations. However, these viruses are also
      involved in more severe infections of the nervous system. In children infected with EV-A71,
      which causes mild epidemics of foot-and-mouth disease, inappropriate cytokine secretion
      (cytokine storm) leads to severe neurological and cardiopulmonary complications that can
      progress to death in children (<5 years of age) in Asia. Many studies have focused on the
      inflammatory response to EV-A71 infections: some cytokines (Tumor Necrose Factor (TNF),
      INterFeron (INF), InterLeukine (IL)1, IL6, IL10, eotaxin,...) dosed in CSF have been
      associated with severe EV-A71 infections (2,5,6). Recently, a Japanese study showed an
      overexpression of IL-6 in the blood of children with EV-A71 foot-hand-mouth syndrome. The
      authors defined that a level of IL-6 ≥ 66 pg/mL could be a prognostic marker of progression
      to aseptic meningitis (6). In EV (other than EV-A71) meningitis, pro-inflammatory cytokines
      such as IL6, IL8, and INF are produced in the acute phase in CSF to control the infection,
      and then they decline and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL10 are synthesized (7). In
      addition, studies have shown that the production of some cytokines is greater in severe EV
      infections: for example, the production of IL4 and IL5 is greater in EV encephalitis than in
      EV skin infections (8).

      However, there are very few comparative studies of cytokine expression in blood and CSF. In
      addition, little work has been done to study cytokine expression in meningitis due to EV
      other than EV-A71. In young children, these meningitis may also be complicated by
      encephalitis, myelitis, and even flaccid paralysis (including poliomyelitis) (2-4). The
      pathophysiology of these severe EV infections is currently unknown. In addition, no
      preventive vaccine is available against these infections (other than polio vaccine), nor are
      there effective curative antivirals for severe EV infections.
    
  