
    
      Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is part of Lewy body dementia, the 2nd-most-common
      degenerative dementia in the U.S. It is also one of the Alzheimer's disease-related dementias
      (ADRDs). Evidence-based models of end-of-life care for ADRDs are insufficient; families face
      difficult medical decisions with little information for guidance. This is particularly
      relevant for DLB, where >70% of individuals die of the dementia itself or failure to thrive.
      Caregivers describe lack of knowledge of what to expect at the end of life as an important
      driver of negative end-of-life experiences. The proposed study addresses this unmet need. It
      also addresses the National Institute on Aging's priority to improve quality of care and
      quality of life for persons with ADRDs at the end of life and their caregivers.

      Based on published clinical series, over half of enrolled individuals with DLB are expected
      to die over the course of the study. To achieve diverse recruitment, the study includes an
      in-person cohort where dyads are recruited from Lewy Body Dementia Association Research
      Centers of Excellence and a novel virtual cohort where dyads are recruited through the Lewy
      Body Dementia Association and study visits are conducted by telephone. Having a virtual
      cohort will capture the experiences of individuals with DLB and caregivers not receiving care
      at specialty centers.

      Because the majority of study measures are caregiver-reported, the in-person and virtual
      groups have identical study measures, except for the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale,
      completed only in person. Collected measures will include demographics, DLB characteristics
      (e.g. cognitive, motor, behavioral, sleep, and autonomic symptoms), health care providers and
      settings, caregiver considerations (e.g. resilience, support, grief, burden), quality of life
      (for the patient and caregiver), and satisfaction with end of life experiences.

      The caregiver will complete a final study visit 3 months after the death of the person with
      DLB to assess grief, recovery, and quality of the end of life experience. By following dyads
      through the end of life and death of the person with DLB and the initial bereavement period
      for the caregiver, the study will identify DLB-specific predictors of the last 6 months of
      life, changes in caregiver measures that identify the last 6 months of life, and factors
      which influence quality end of life experiences. These results will inform the content and
      timing of end-of-life counseling in DLB, help establish quality metrics for end of life care,
      and identify areas where interventions could potentially improve end of life experiences for
      individuals with DLB and their caregivers.
    
  