
    
      Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) with a biventricular pacemaker has been
      well-validated to improve symptoms and reduce death in select patients with heart failure. In
      healthy adults, the two chambers of the heart which pump blood throughout the body (the left
      and right ventricles) activate and contract together in synchronous fashion. In certain
      patients with heart failure (specifically, those with a reduced ejection fraction), the left
      and right ventricles no longer activate and contract synchronously. CRT restores ventricular
      synchrony by simultaneously activating the left (LV) and right ventricles (RV) with
      electrical pacing.

      Left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) are used to provide mechanical support to patients
      with more advanced, often end-stage, heart failure. In these cases, the heart's ventricles
      function so poorly that even despite all standard therapies (including CRT), patients
      experience symptoms of congestive heart failure even at rest. The LVAD suctions blood from
      the ventricle and propels it into the aorta, offloading the ventricle and assisting its
      function.

      Due to the similar reasons for using each therapy, a number of patients already possess a
      biventricular pacemaker at the time of LVAD implantation. Individually, each intervention is
      known to improve both patient survival and functional status. However, there is sparse data
      to evaluate the effectiveness of using both devices simultaneously. Specifically, no data is
      yet available assessing the effect of CRT on the functional parameters of the LVAD.

      This protocol will operate the biventricular pacemaker at various settings and assess for
      changes in the LVAD's function in response to those settings. "Fine-tuning" and identifying
      the ideal the pacemaker settings will maximize clinical benefit in patients with both
      devices.
    
  