
    
      Study Subjects:

      Patients >18 years of age who presented to North Eastern Ohio Gastroenterology and Associates
      and meet the indications for anterograde or retrograde balloon endoscopy. Indications include
      small intestinal bleeding, evaluation of small bowel mass, or evaluation and treatment of
      small bowel strictures. Patients excluded from the study are those who wish not to
      participate, pregnant patients, mentally disabled individuals, prisoners, patients who have
      long-term analgesic use (greater than 3 months) in the past 6 months from procedure date, or
      those patients deemed too high risk to undergo balloon endoscopy. High risk patients will be
      defined as have 3 or more of the following risk factors: chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease, renal failure, morbid obesity (BMI > 40), immunosuppression, acquired/concurrent
      infection, diabetes, and chronic steroid use. Pre-operative risk will also be assessed by Dr.
      Dodig and GI fellow. ASA classifications will be evaluated on every patient by St. Joseph's
      staff anesthesiologist. Given that the patient is receiving general anesthesia, it is
      hospital policy that they are evaluated at the hospital by anesthesia team prior to the
      procedure for assessment of risk. Should a patient elect not to participate in the study they
      will receive the standard of care.

      Subject Recruitment/Screening/Consent:

      Patients will be recruited/consented/randomized by the GI fellow and advanced anterograde
      balloon endoscopist during the patient's routine office visit to discuss their pending
      procedure. This will take place in a private consultation room to ensure privacy and should
      take approximately 10-15 minutes. In order to minimize coercion, it will be made very clear
      to patients that their participation is voluntary and that participation will in no way
      affect their future care. Randomization will be performed using a sealed envelope system. All
      patients are to receive a copy of the informed consent.

      Study Procedures:

      The single balloon enteroscopy is performed with Olympus (SIF-Q180) and operated by a single
      experienced endoscopist, Dr. Milan Dodig, with over 1,000 single balloon endoscopies have
      been performed. Additional assistance provided via 3 gastroenterology fellows (Ryan Carbaugh
      D.O., Thomas Geisler D.O., and Justin Cochran D.O.). All anterograde enteroscopy procedures
      are to be performed in the surgical suite with general anesthesia. Patient CO2 levels will be
      non-invasively monitored by anesthesia with End-Tidal Carbon Dioxide (ETCO2). Anesthesia will
      be administered at the discretion of the consulting anesthesiologist via fentanyl, versed,
      and propofol. Insufflation utilized during procedure determined via randomization to air or
      carbon dioxide prior to procedure. The rate of air or carbon dioxide (level) is left to
      discretion of acting endoscopists for proper insufflation of bowel to achieve adequate
      luminal views. CO2 insufflator to be used is a Stratus CO2 insufflator made by Medivators.

      After completion of procedure determination of patient pain level will be assessed at 15
      minutes, 30 minutes, and 1-hour and 24-hour intervals using a patient survey. Pain is
      assessed based on the horizontal assessment scale (HAS). This scale based on a horizontal
      line measuring 100mm in length. Patient will be asked at the afore mentioned time intervals
      to mark with pen their level of pain on the HAS. The mark will then be measured in
      millimeters to determine score of pain. Score will be in a range from 0 to 100mm. Zero being
      no pain at all and 100mm the maximum pain level. The HAS is then documented with type of
      insufflation utilized and time interval. Patient will also be asked about nausea, abdominal
      fullness, and bloating after procedure to be ranked on a 0 to 10 scale, with zero being
      nothing to 10 as severe. This will also be ascertained at 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hours and
      24 hours. The 24 hours assessment for pain as well as dyspepsia symptoms is achieved through
      patients receiving HAS scale along with a questionnaire asking to rank dyspeptic symptoms.
      The HAS scale and dyspeptic questionnaire will be marked with patient identification number.
      A self-address envelope with postage will be given to patient with instruction return once
      completed within 24 hours of original procedure. Instruction sheets along with how to take
      dyspeptic survey will also be given.

      Statistical Methods:

      Data will be entered into Microsoft Excel 2017 and SPSS version 22 statistical programs.
      Analysis will include descriptive statistics, t-test, standard error, Pearson and fisher
      exact test. Statistical significance will be established with an alpha of 0.05 for all
      comparisons.

      Adverse Events:

      Risks consist of those entailed with general anesthesia and single balloon endoscopy.

      The risk of CO2 insufflation consists of respiratory depression and CO2 embolism.16

      Recording of Adverse Events:

      At each contact with the subject, the investigator will seek information on adverse events by
      specific questioning and, as appropriate, by examination. Information on all adverse events
      will be recorded immediately (e.g., signs, symptoms, abnormal diagnostic procedures). The
      clinical course of each event will be followed until resolution, stabilization, or until it
      has been determined that the study treatment or participation is not the cause.

      Reporting of Serious Adverse Events Reports of all serious adverse events (including
      follow-up information) will be submitted to the St. Elizabeth's Mercy Health IRB within five
      business days.

      Data Management and Confidentiality Patient data will be entered into electronic
      spreadsheets. The spreadsheet will be stored as separate file, protected by unique passwords.
      Only the investigators will have access to the files and their passwords. Paper records will
      be stored in hard copy in a locked filing cabinet in the investigator's office or at the
      hospital's endoscopy suit. Should any new significant findings be made during the study, the
      patient will be made privy to these findings in a timely manner.

      Provisions to Protect the Privacy Interests of Subjects Patient consent and all other
      research related activities will take place in a private exam room. Patient will also be
      receiving a copy of their informed consent.

      Funding Source:

      No funding is being sought for this study or being received.
    
  