
    
      Objective:

      To compare umbilical cord gases in subjects receiving oxygen at 10L/min via simple facemask
      to subjects receiving room air in those presenting for scheduled cesarean sections. The
      investigators hypothesize that umbilical artery pH levels will not be significantly lowered
      in the oxygenated group.

      Primary outcome: umbilical artery pH levels in the oxygenated versus room air group

      Secondary outcomes: Apgars, respiratory distress syndrome, necrotizing enterocolitis,
      interventricular hemorrhage, intubation, number of NICU days and neonatal mortality.

      Methods:

      Only term elective c-sections will be approached for study consent. Once enrolled subjects
      will be randomized either receive 10L/min via simple facemask or to room air. Once regional
      anesthesia is completed, then the facemask with oxygen will be placed. The time from oxygen
      administration to uterine incision will be at least 10 min. At the time of delivery umbilical
      cord gases will be collected by and will be processed within one hour of delivery.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  18 years or older

        -  Scheduled cesarean section

        -  Singleton

        -  Term gestation; at 37 0/7 weeks gestation or greater

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Maternal lung disease including asthma

        -  Evidence of hypoxemia prior to enrollment

        -  Intrauterine growth restriction

        -  Chronic hypertension

        -  Preeclampsia

        -  Fetal anomalies

        -  Breech position

        -  Multiple Gestation

      Statistical analysis:

      Subjects will be randomized via block randomization. The estimated umbilical arterial pH in
      the scheduled cesarean section room air group is 7.31. To identify a 0.05 or greater
      difference between the control and treatment group, a power of 0.8, alpha of 0.05 the
      investigators would need 64 subjects total. To account for drop out the investigators intend
      to enroll a total of 70 subjects.
    
  