
    
      Despite considerable advances in medicine, cardiovascular diseases remain the number one
      cause of death globally. In industrialized countries, coronary artery disease (CAD) is the
      leading cause of death, consequence of myocardial infarction (MI).

      In patients with acute coronary syndrome, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been
      shown to improve outcomes. For chronic stable CAD, a recent meta-analysis including more than
      93'000 patients has concluded that there may be "evidence for improved survival with new
      generation drug eluting stents but no other percutaneous revascularization technology
      compared with medical treatment" . Conversely, a current review of recently published
      meta-analyses and the detailed analyses of 3 widely quoted individual studies indicate no
      difference exists among stable CAD patients between PCI and medical therapy regarding
      nonfatal myocardial infarct or all-cause or cardiovascular mortality. A very recently
      published randomized controlled trial among patients with stable, single-vessel CAD, the so
      called ORBITA trial, has found that PCI of the stenotic lesion did not prolong exercise time
      by more than the effect of a sham procedure during the short observation period of 6 weeks.

      In contrast, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was superior to PCI in patients with
      diabetes and multivessel CAD. CABG significantly reduced rates of death and myocardial
      infarction compared to PCI, but at a higher rate of stroke. Furthermore, in patients with
      advanced CAD, rates of myocardial infarction were more than 60% lower with CABG compared to
      PCI.

      Conceptually, the benefit of CABG over PCI is not surprising as PCI targets significant
      coronary lesions thought to be responsible for causing ischemia. However, the deleterious
      effects of atherosclerosis are not typically preceded by significant luminal vascular
      narrowing. The vulnerable plaque eventually becoming the culprit plaque (causing myocardial
      infarction or sudden cardiac death) has typically a relatively mild stenosis. Furthermore,
      due to being multifocal and widespread, plaque vulnerability is not a target for, nor
      amenable to PCI.

      Conversely, artificial - or natural - bypasses exert a protective effect by providing an
      alternative source of blood flow to a myocardial territory potentially affected by an acute
      coronary occlusion. Coronary collaterals represent pre-existing inter-arterial anastomoses
      and as such are the natural counter-part of surgically created bypasses. Sufficient coronary
      collaterals have been shown to confer a significant benefit in terms of overall mortality and
      cardiovascular events.

      In this regard, the concept of augmenting coronary collateral function (i.e. coronary
      arteriogenesis) as an alternative treatment strategy of revascularization to alter the course
      of CAD is attractive. In particular, promotion of natural coronary bypasses is an appealing
      concept for patients with CAD not or not entirely treatable by the conventional coronary
      revascularization methods of PCI and CABG. According to an analysis by Williams et al, 142 of
      493 patients with chronic stable CAD (29%) belonged to the group with incomplete coronary
      revascularization (partial and no revascularization plus the so called no-option group), and
      this group showed reduced survival during the 3-year follow-up period. Coronary collateral
      function promotion from any source could, thus, contribute to the completeness of myocardial
      revascularization. Incomplete coronary revascularization in chronic CAD has been shown in a
      very large (n=35'993 patients), recently published registry-based study to reduce overall
      survival according to the number of vessels not treated by PCI and according to the severity
      of stenoses left untreated. Coronary arteriogenesis, i.e., the growth of pre-existing
      collateral vessels has to occur well in advance of acute atherothrombotic coronary artery
      occlusion in order to limit infarct size. The source of blood supply via natural coronary
      bypasses (collateral arteries) to a circulatory area at risk for infarction can be within the
      coronary circulation, but also via extracardiac paths, e.g., via internal mammary arteries
      (IMA; also termed internal thoracic arteries). Extracardiac coronary artery supply is
      conceptually related to the term coronary collateral circulation because of its known
      anatomical structure as arterial anastomoses between, e.g., IMA, the pericardium and coronary
      arterial branches. In an editorial, Kern and Seto recently commented the concept of
      "Stimulating extracardiac collaterals" as follows: "To be clinically relevant, coronary
      collaterals should be a sustainable and sufficiently large source of myocardial perfusion and
      reduce ischemia in daily life. It is conceivable that improved extracardiac collateral flow
      has the potential to be exactly that."

      This study is relevant due to its primary clinical in addition to surrogate marker efficacy
      testing, which has not been performed so far for this new technique of coronary
      arteriogenesis. If proven useful to extend physical exercise time in the context of mitigated
      angina pectoris, a further option of myocardial revascularization for patients with CAD not
      treatable by PCI or surgical bypass or not rendered asymptomatic by medical therapy would be
      available. The catheter-based technique of IMA device occlusion is simple and safe, and if
      shown efficacious, its action would be potentially sustainable due to the durability of
      occlusion.

      Preclinical Evidence:

      The efficacy to augment blood flow via the IMA as naturally existing extracardiac bypasses
      has been shown in experimental studies in dogs. Bilateral IMA ligation has led to an acute
      average increase in total coronary flow of about 6-10 ml/min.

      The prevalent in vivo function of natural IMA-to-coronary artery bypasses and their
      anti-ischemic effect has been recently demonstrated during temporary IMA balloon occlusion by
      the investigators' research group. 180 pairs of measurements were performed in 120 patients
      electively referred for coronary angiography. Levels of collateral function and myocardial
      ischemia were determined during two coronary balloon occlusions, the first with, the second
      without distal IMA balloon occlusion.

      Coronary collateral function, as determined by collateral flow index (CFI) has been
      consistently increased in the presence vs the absence of distal ipsilateral IMA balloon
      occlusion. These findings have been corroborated by the observed reduction in ischemia as
      assessed by intracoronary ECG (icECG). Conversely, with distal contralateral IMA occlusion,
      collateral function and ECG signs of ischemia have remained unchanged.

      Clinical Evidence to Date:

      Surgical trials in humans on the effect of bilateral IMA ligation on angina pectoris were
      carried out in the late 1950ies among a total of close to 500 symptomatic CAD patients.
      Transthoracic access to the IMAs was performed under local anesthesia by a small incision
      between the 2nd and 3rd rib. The primary endpoint of the clinical trials was angina pectoris,
      and inconsistently, ECG signs of myocardial ischemia. While the uncontrolled trials reported
      favourable results in terms of symptomatic relief of angina pectoris, the subsequently
      performed sham-controlled, but very small trials of bilateral ligation showed similar
      improvement in the sham as in the verum group. A major limitation of these studies lies in
      the rather insensitive endpoints used, which preclude conclusions about the efficacy of IMA
      ligation on extracardiac coronary collateral function.

      In a prospective, open-label proof-of-concept trial, the investigators' laboratory occluded
      the right IMA (RIMA) permanently using a 4-5mm vascular plug in 50 CAD patients. As primary
      study endpoint, CFI was obtained during ostial, 1-minute balloon occlusion of the untreated
      right coronary artery (RCA) at baseline before RIMA device occlusion and 6 weeks later. CFI
      changed from 0.071±0.082 at baseline to 0.132±0.117 (p<0.0001) at follow-up examination. The
      increase in RCA CFI was accompanied by a decrease in signs of myocardial ischemia during the
      brief coronary occlusion.

      The acute functional changes observed by the investigators' study group in response to
      temporary distal IMA balloon occlusion as well as the improvement of collateral function in
      the right coronary artery with permanent distal IMA occlusion support the hypothesis that
      extracardiac coronary collateral supply can be augmented by this intervention.

      However, the effect of permanent IMA occlusion was never investigated with a randomized
      clinical trial. Consequently, our study group conducts a study, whereby 100 patients with
      chronic stable CAD (single-blinded for the procedure) are randomly allocated (1:1) to the
      occlusion or to a sham control group. The study endpoints (CFI and icECG and clinical signs
      of myocardial ischemia during RCA occlusion) as well as the follow-up duration of 6 weeks are
      identical in the current and the previous proof-of-concept trial
    
  