
    
      This project involves investigation of oral N-acetylcysteine (NAC) as a potential
      pharmacologic agent for treatment of cannabis dependence in adolescents. Cannabis dependence
      continues to be a major problem among adolescents in the United States. To date, psychosocial
      interventions have produced only small to modest effect sizes in controlled trials, and
      minimal work has been done to investigate the potential role for pharmacotherapy for cannabis
      dependence. Translating preclinical research suggesting a role for NAC in cocaine dependent
      individuals, our research group has developed preliminary evidence of decreased cocaine use
      and cue reactivity in humans taking NAC. Preclinical research has additionally demonstrated
      significant parallels in glutamatergic dysfunction in the nucleus accumbens (the proposed
      target of NAC treatment) between habitual cocaine and marijuana users. NAC is an inexpensive,
      long-available agent with a favorable tolerability profile in adults and children. However,
      it has not yet been studied in cannabis dependent adolescents. Hence, we are undertaking an
      open-label pilot trial of NAC in adolescents with cannabis dependence.

      The primary specific aims of the proposed project are:

        1. To assess the feasibility of conducting a trial of NAC in cannabis dependent
           adolescents.

        2. To assess the safety and tolerability of NAC in cannabis dependent adolescents

           The secondary specific aim of the proposed project is:

        3. To gather variability information to assist in design of a larger-scale, adequately
           powered clinical trial of NAC in cannabis dependent adolescents.

      Primary hypotheses

        1. It will be feasible to recruit and retain cannabis dependent adolescents in a trial of
           NAC.

        2. NAC will be well tolerated among cannabis dependent adolescents.

           Secondary hypothesis

        3. Adequate variability information will be gathered to design a larger-scale, adequately
           powered clinical trial of NAC in cannabis dependent adolescents.

      Twenty-four adolescents between 12 and 20 years old will be recruited in this study. Results
      from this project will be used to design further studies.
    
  