
    
      Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) accounts for 10 %-15 % of all strokes and is one of leading
      causes of stroke related mortality and morbidity worldwide. Despite advances in medical
      knowledge, treatment for ICH remains strictly supportive. ICH accounted for 26.7～51.5% of
      stroke in China, the proportion was higher than in Western countries. There were lack of data
      and analysis about medical management, etiology, and long-term outcome of ICH in Beijing.

      In this study we do acute CT angiography (CTA), a non-invasive imaging method to explore
      etiology and prognostic risk factors of ICH. Further we will aim to develop and validate a
      risk score for predicting 1-year functional outcome after ICH. There are some studies of CTA
      to assess the cause of ICH and functional outcomes, but lack of multi-center, large sample
      studies to support and validate these findings, particularly fewer application of
      postcontrast CT. This would allow an early intervention base on different causes and Select
      treatment decisions according to risk score.

      We are planning to:

      When patients with ICH arrive in stroke department of the topic cooperation hospitals within
      72 hours after symptom onset, they will be subject to CTA with the protocoled sequences.

      Standard sequences: Pre- and postcontrast head imaging is acquired from the skull base to
      vertex with parameters: 120 kVp; 340 mA; 4x5 mm collimation; 1second/rotation; and a table
      speed of 15 mm/rotation. CTA was performed immediately after initial noncontrast CT(NCCT)
      performance using a bolus-tracking method by injecting 90 mL of nonionic iodinated contrast
      (OPTIRAY 350) at 5 mL/s. The protocol for the circle of Willis was 120 kVp, 360 mAs, 0.5
      second/rotation, 0.75 mm thick with a pitch of 0.65. Postprocessing procedure including
      multiplanar reconstruction was performed by a CT technologist at the CT operator's discretion
      for assessment of contrast extravagation and etiologies of ICH such as vascular malformation,
      and venous sinus thrombosis. Coronal and sagittal multiplanar reconstructed images were
      created as 10.0-mm-thick images spaced by 3 mm. Axial reformed images were 4 mm thick with
      2-mm spacing.

      Clinical data of patients with ICH will be collected by 2 neurologists blinded to the
      radiological data during patients' hospitalization and at the 3-month, 6-month, and 1-year
      follow-up. The collected demographic and clinical variables included gender, age, body mass
      index, alcohol and tobacco use, history of hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, stroke,
      coronary heart disease, and medications (antihypertensive, antiplatelet, and anticoagulation
      agents). The systolic and diastolic blood pressure of patients will be recorded. Stroke
      severity on admission will be evaluated by Glasgow Coma Scale and National Institutes of
      Health Stroke Scale. Laboratory tests on admission included white blood cell count,
      hemoglobin, platelet count, serum glucose, serum creatinine, fibrinogen, activated partial
      thromboplastin time, and prothrombin time as expressed by the international normalized ratio.
      Length of hospital stay was recorded. The patients' clinical outcome will be assessed by
      modified Rankin Scale on discharge and 30-day, 3-month, 6-month, and 1-year.

      To sum up the purpose of this present study is to explore etiology and prognostic risk
      factors of ICH by acute CTA and develop and validate a risk score for predicting 1-year
      functional outcome after ICH.
    
  