
    
      Tourette syndrome (TS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with childhood onset characterized by
      the presence of chronic motor and vocal (phonic) tics. Tics typically begin between the ages
      of 4 - 7 years, frequently persist, and often lead to psychosocial, physical, functional, and
      academic difficulties. Epidemiological studies have shown that about 20-30% of children
      exhibit tics in a classroom setting whereas the estimated prevalence of impairing cases of TS
      is 1/100 - 1/1000 individuals. There is no cure for tics and a variety of behavioral and
      pharmacotherapies have been used successfully to suppress tics. Comprehensive Behavioral
      Intervention for Tics (CBIT) has been shown to be beneficial in several large trials as has
      habit reversal training (HRT), one of its major components. In the past, it has been
      suggested that only "competent and trained practitioners should administer CBIT." This
      proposal challenges that concept and believes that one can establish a successful front-line
      home-based CBIT treatment program that would be beneficial for the treatment of patients with
      tic symptoms throughout the country.

      CBIT is a safe, effective, front-line treatment for TS. Nevertheless, the investigators
      emphasize the acute shortage of appropriately trained clinicians available to assist affected
      individuals. Hence, in this proposal the investigators will assess the effectiveness of a
      behavioral home-based, parent administered treatment by investigating at Johns Hopkins
      Hospital whether the home-based digital video disc (DVD) reduces tic severity comparable to
      that achieved with face-to-face treatment administered by an experienced therapist. The
      investigators' confidence in the success of this project is based on prior experiences with
      another childhood movement disorder, primary complex motor stereotypies. The potential
      significance of this project is enormous, recognizing that home-based therapy reduces health
      care costs, visits to practitioners, the need to train large numbers of therapists, and most
      importantly provides direct, available care for a greater number individuals affected with
      tics.
    
  