
    
      We will conduct an observational longitudinal prospective study in 3 hospitals in units with
      high prevalence of resistant organisms. Consenting patients will be screened for carriage of
      AMR organisms at admission, and those found to be carriers of the target ARB will be included
      in the longitudinal study. To improve the yield of screening we may use risk stratification
      based on risk factors identified at each center. Patients included in the longitudinal study
      will be asked to provide serial stool samples every 2-3 days during hospitalisation (rectal
      swab will be allowed as replacement for stool specimen, after developing appropriate
      methodology to correlate between stool samples and rectal swabs).

      These samples will be analysed using quantitative cultures for the number of resistant
      organisms, and samples will be subject to quantitative real time PCR to quantify resistant
      genes (CTX-M, TEM, SHV, KPC, VIM as required). In parallel, environmental contamination will
      be examined and quantified using similar methods. Data will be collected daily regarding
      antibiotic treatment, other medications, clinical parameters, bowel movements and presence of
      diarrhoea, and various PK/PD indices. The target antibiotic for this study include commonly
      use agents in the hospital setting including quinolones, cephalosporins,
      piperacillin/tazobactam, ertapenem, imipenem, doripenem, metronidazole, clindamycin and
      aminoglycosides. The duration, the sequential order of treatment and PK/PD indices will be
      examined. The effects of surgical antibiotic prophylaxis will be examined as an important end
      point. The effects of the target antibiotic agents/classes on selection, enrichment, and
      spread of the target AMR organisms. Analyses will be conducted to compare: 1. the effects of
      various antibiotics 2. the effect of duration of therapy 3. the durability of the effect
      (posttreatment). 4. The effects of PK/PD indices.

      Secondary analysis will examine the risk of developing infections as function of various
      factors including time and load of carriage of resistant organisms and of exposure to
      antibiotics will be performed. Correlation with clinical isolates will be performed including
      typing, gene and plasmid analyses to determine correlation between colonising and infecting
      strains. Experiment simulating patient contact will be conducted to examine contamination of
      hands, gloves and gowns after contact in order to correlate between environmental
      contamination and contamination of healthcare workers. Additional work will be conducted on
      profiling bacterial communities by DNA fingerprinting techniques using length hetrogeneity
      (LH-PCR) and automated ribososmal internal spacer analysis (ARISA) on a sample of the
      patients studied.
    
  