
    
      Patients with Stage IIIC colon cancer have a 5-year survival rate of 28%. Stage III colon
      cancer indicates that lymph nodes are involved.

      Adjuvant FOLFOX only reduces the risk of recurrence of colorectal cancer by 40%, so almost
      50% of patients still die from the disease. It is estimated that 50% of the patients relapse
      within 18 months.

      Because the prognosis of colorectal cancer is dependent on disease stage and because
      metastatic disease is incurable, the concept of adding regorafenib to adjuvant FOLFOX has
      been developed to allow patients with high-risk colorectal cancer the best chance of cure.

      It is proposed to treat high-risk colorectal patients (Stage IIIC [T4a, N2a, M0] or
      [T3-4a,N2b, M0], or [T4b, N1-N2, M0] per American Joint Committee on Cancer [AJCC] 7th ed.)
      selected from the iKnowMed (iKM) electronic health records database who have completed
      adjuvant FOLFOX. This feasibility study is to find the starting dose of regorafenib and
      estimates that at least 75% of the patients will be able to tolerate the full dose of
      regorafenib after receiving adjuvant FOLFOX.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to regorafenib or to SOC (no treatment). In order to test
      the best tolerated starting dose, the first 50 patients will receive regorafenib and will be
      randomized 1:1 to either 120 mg by mouth (PO) or 160 mg PO. If the 120 mg dose is well
      tolerated and the toxicities are not severe (Grade 2 or less) upon the completion of cycle 2,
      the dose will be increased to 160 mg starting with Cycle 3. Registration and randomization of
      patients will resume after the 26th then after the 50th patient completes 3 cycles of study
      treatment. The Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will meet after the 26th patient completes
      3 cycles of treatment and the second meeting will take place after the 50th patient completes
      3 cycles. If needed, a third DSMB meeting will be scheduled. The remaining 214 patients will
      be randomized 2:3 to the decided starting dose versus SOC.

      In addition, evaluating the Texture (spatial variations in pixel intensity) in computed
      tomography (CT) scans might help predict the risk of recurrence. Therefore, CT disks will be
      sent to Imaging Endpoints Core Lab, Scottsdale, AZ, where the TexRAD platform (a software
      algorithm) will be used for analysis.
    
  