
    
      For this research, three different types of samples will be collected

        1. seizure samples from patients: (S+)

        2. non-seizure samples from patients : (S-)

        3. samples from healthy people (H)

        4. positive control samples consisting of a standard chemical mix (C+) (Only for part IV)

        5. negative control samples with gauze exposed to the environment in which the samples from
           patients and healthy people are taken). (C-) (Only for part IV)

      2.1 Collection of type a and b samples (from patients)

      Sweat samples will be collected from epilepsy patients admitted for clinical purposes in the
      4 EEG units at the UZ. At the time of admission, they will be asked if they agree to
      collaborate with the study and with their samples being taken. The patients' care is the
      responsibility of the staff of Ghent University Hospital. The researcher from this study will
      be present to collect samples in consultation with the nursing staff.

      Sample collection

      All the collection material will be treated with HPLC-grade methanol, and then heated to 110
      degrees in an oven. The treated material will be kept in 40 ml glass vials until the
      collection time.

      A. Planned samples:

      Four times a day at fixed time points (9:30, 11:30, 13:30, 15:30), a researcher will ask the
      volunteers to wash their hands with non-scented soap and then place a sterile cotton gauze in
      the palm of their non-dominant hand. They will be asked to close the fist and keep the gauze
      for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, the gauze will be retrieved by the researcher. After later
      analyzing the EEG readings, the samples will be marked as S+ if a seizure happened during
      those 10 minutes, or S- if no seizure occurred. Samples collected 24 hours before and after a
      seizure will not be used for further analysis.

      B. Spontaneous samples

      As the patient will be under continuous monitoring, sweat samples will be also collected
      during and/or right after a seizure occurs if the volunteer is not holding a gauze at that
      time. The sweat samples will be collected by the researcher by applying a sterile gauze to
      the patients hands, either during or immediately following a seizure during 10 minutes. The
      samples will be marked as S+ after confirming with the EEG reading.

      2.2 Collection of type c samples (from healthy people)

      In order to ensure that environmental odour is not a confounder, samples will be also
      collected from healthy volunteers in the same location as where samples from patients are
      collected. Only sweat samples will be collected from healthy volunteers.These samples are
      identified as healthy samples (H). Attempts to match the samples from healthy people with
      those from patients based age, gender and ethnicity will be made.The healthy volunteers will
      be recruited from among colleagues from the department and UZ staff.

      The healthy samples will be collected on the same floor of Ghent University Hospital and as
      close as possible to where patients reside.

      2.3 Sample processing.

      The gauzes containing the sweat samples will be cut in 4 pieces. Two pieces will be stored in
      glass vials, one frozen to -20 °C and the other stored at room temperature, these samples
      will be sent to shipped to Florida International University. The remaining two pieces, will
      be shipped to Medical Detection Dogs, will be stored in sterile Falcon tubes and frozen at
      -20 °C.

      2.4 Medical Detection Dogs sample analysis

      Two dogs belonging to MDD will be asked to discriminate between seizure and non-seizure
      samples from patients. They will also be asked to discriminate between seizure-samples,
      non-seizure samples and healthy samples. The dogs will be using an 8-arms carousel. Seven
      samples will be placed in one arm each and one arm will remain empty.

      First, dogs must be trained to recognize the hypothetical odour that is associated with
      epilepsy. Consequently, prior to the trial, 30 seizure samples from different patients and
      120 non-seizure and healthy samples are needed for the training of the dogs

      Next, 24 seizure samples from different patients and 144 non-seizure and healthy samples will
      be used in a double-blinded trial (24 panels with 1 seizure samples and 6 non-seizure or
      healthy samples). Sample size calculation is based on the assumption of a success rate of 40%
      to be compared with a theoretical ratio of 14.3%. A power analysis indicates that a sample
      size of 24 test panels is large enough to reach a power of 80% with an alpha level of 0.05
      (two-sided).

      2.5. Chemical analysis

      Seizure samples, non-seizure samples, healthy samples and the positive and negative controls
      will be sent to Florida International University for SPME GC-MS analysis.

      Every month for as long as the study lasts, 3 S+, 15 S-, 5 H, 1 C+ and 1 C- sample will be
      shipped. Analysis of the VOC profile will allow to identify potential molecules specific to
      the samples associated with seizures.
    
  