
    
      Being physically active on a regular base makes part of a healthy lifestyle. Research has
      shown several positive effects of physical activity on physical and mental health. This is
      also the case in diabetic persons, who are more vulnerable for certain diseases (e.g.
      cardiovascular diseases).

      However, a lot of people are not interested and motivated to participate in the local
      exercise activities. The offer often does not satisfy the different needs of those subjects
      or the barriers for participating are too high. Diabetic persons are also confronted with
      these problems. However, physical activity is an important part in the treatment of the
      disease. There is an urgent need for accessible physical activity programs which motivate
      diabetic persons to adapt a healthy lifestyle, in the short and long term.

      A physical activity coach can set up a physical activity plan, individually adapted and
      according to the medical needs of a diabetic person. This program is created, based on the
      principles of need supportive coaching.

      In this project the researchers will investigate the effects of an individually adapted
      physical activity plan on health and behavior in diabetic persons. The focus of this project
      will be on the tertiary prevention. For the recruitment of the subjects, there will be a
      collaboration with a health insurance company in Belgium (CM).

      Communication: Possible participants (cfr database CM) will receive a letter with the
      invitation of an information session. This information session handles about the importance
      of being physically active enough in diabetic persons and will present the project where
      participants are guided by a physical activity coach.

      Information session: In the end of the session, participants can register for the physical
      activity coaching.

      Screening: All General Practitioners in the neighborhood were informed about the project,
      several weeks before the information sessions took place.

      Before starting the physical activity coaching, participants have to visit their General
      Practitioner. The doctor will perform a screening and will decide if the subject is able to
      participate. For this screening, a fixed protocol is set up by the investigators.

      Set up: This study is a randomized controlled trial. An intervention (60 subjects) - and
      control (40 subjects) group will be included in the study. CM will recruit these people by
      looking in the database (only people with type 2 diabetes and intake of oral antidiabetic
      medications will be included). The control group will operate as a waiting group. It means
      that in the first 6 months of the project, the subjects of the control group will only be
      measured and will not receive any intervention.

      Following measure moments will take place:

      Intervention group: pretesting (start), posttest (after 6 weeks), follow up 1 (after 6
      months), follow up 2 (after 12 months).

      Control group: baseline 1 (start), baseline 2 (after 6 weeks), pretesting (after 6 months),
      posttest (after 6 months + 6 weeks).

      The intervention and control group receive an intervention (group sessions + physical
      activity plan) between pretest and posttest.
    
  