
    
      Introduction Meibomian gland disease (MGD) is increasingly recognized as a primary cause or
      contributor to tear instability and dry eye disease. Effective management of this disorder
      often requires meibomian gland expression and clearance. A variety of devices which apply
      pressure, heat or a combination of both to the glands have been used.

      Two such devices that apply heat and pressure simultaneously are commercially available.
      LipiFlow (JNJ Vision Care) is an automated computer-controlled device that uses vectored
      thermal (hydraulic) pulsation applied by an activator device placed on the eye between the
      globe and the eyelids to achieve gland clearance. The iLux System (Alcon) is an operator
      controlled assisted manual device which applies heat generated by infrared LEDs and
      expression through cam driven mechanical pressure applied to the lids.

      Device Descriptions LipiFlow Thermal Pulsation System

      The Lipiflow Thermal Pulsation System is a commercially available device used in the
      treatment of MGD. It is cleared to be marketed by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration. The LipiFlow Thermal Pulsation System is intended for the application of
      localized heat and pressure therapy in adult patients with chronic cystic conditions of the
      eyelids, including meibomian gland dysfunction (MGD), also known as evaporative dry eye or
      lipid deficiency dry eye.

      The LipiFlow Console provides the user interface and control elements of the system,
      including all software, algorithms and control elements. The Activator, a single-use sterile
      device, delivers automated therapeutic energies to each meibomian gland. Its contoured design
      vaults the cornea and protects the eye allowing a maximum therapeutic temperature of 43
      degrees Celsius to reach glands from the inner eyelid, without damaging the eyelid or
      delicate structures of the globe. Insulation protects the cornea from exceeding a safe 39.5
      degrees Celsius, while a pressure feedback loop sends pulsed sequences to expel blockages.
      Force equalization protects the globe from pressure transmission by focusing energy only on
      the eyelid. Delivered through the LipiFlow Activator, Vectored Thermal Pulse™ (VTP)
      technology applies a combination of heat and pressure to the inner eyelid to safely remove
      gland obstructions and stagnant gland content. Vectored heat and adaptive force equalization
      target the pulse, heat, and pressure on the meibomian glands to maximize effectiveness.
      Therapeutic motion provides proximal-to-distal peristalsis to clear gland contents.

      iLux System

      The iLux™ System is a medical device commercially available for use by Eye Care Professionals
      (ECP) to apply localized heat and pressure therapy to a patient's eyelids. It is cleared to
      be marketed by the United States Food and Drug Administration. The system consists of a
      handheld instrument coupled to a single-use, sterile disposable component that is positioned
      to bridge the eyelid. The iLux device allows an ECP to view the eyelid margin through a
      magnifier, then warm the eyelid tissue to a range of 40 to 42˚C, and then apply force-limited
      compression to the eyelid in order to express melted meibum from obstructed glands. The iLux
      System is indicated for the application of localized heat and pressure therapy in adult
      patients with chronic cystic conditions of the eyelids, including meibomian gland dysfunction
      (MGD), also known as evaporative dry eye.

      The iLux Instrument is a handheld, electronic instrument used together with the iLux
      disposable to apply heating and pressure to the eyelid. The Instrument includes electronic
      circuits that read sensors in the Inner and Outer Eyelid Pads to measure temperatures
      representative of inner and outer eyelid temperature, respectively. Warming is accomplished
      using light energy emitted from LEDs in the Instrument. The LEDs are located behind a clear
      window on the open end of the Shroud. Two wavelengths of light are used: lime-green (568 nm)
      and near-infrared (850 nm). A mechanism in the Instrument allows the operator to apply
      pressure to the eyelid by controlling the movement of the Outer Pad using finger pressure
      applied to the Compression Control button. The force applied to the Compression Control is
      measured by a sensor in this mechanism. A graphic Screen displays information for operating
      the Instrument during a treatment.

      Study Purpose / Objectives This study is designed to compare patient acceptance, comfort, and
      preference between two meibomian gland clearing devices. Both devices are exempt from IDE
      regulations [21 CFR 812.2(c)]. Primary Objective is to compare patient comfort as assessed by
      Likert-style scale questionnaire following each bilateral procedure. Secondary Objective is
      to compare overall experience and treatment preference as assessed by Likert-style
      questionnaire following each bilateral procedure.

      Background "Comparison Between iLux™ and LipiFlow® in the Treatment of Meibomian Gland
      Dysfunction" listed on ClincalTrials.gov looked at a 4-week efficacy comparison between the
      two treatment devices. Pain and discomfort data were collected regarding the two procedures
      but was not analyzed for significance due to no pre-trial hypothesis. The raw data shows
      lower pain and discomfort scores immediately following the procedure for the Lipiflow as
      compared to iLux with similar pre-treatment and one-day post post-treatment scores (Thornhill
      2019). There is currently no published research on the patient acceptance, comfort, and
      preference comparing any meibomian gland emptying devices.
    
  