
    
      A quasi-experimental longitudinal and analytical study, consisting of two groups were carried
      out: a group of individuals with visceral obesity and other individuals with normal weight;
      both groups with no alteration in glucose tolerance. The world of work will be patients 30-40
      years of age; for the group of individuals with visceral obesity body mass index (BMI)
      30.0-39.9 kg/m2 and a waist circumference greater than 80 cm in women and 90 cm for men, and
      for the group of individuals with normal weight BMI 18.5-24.9 kg/m2 with lower waist
      circumference of 80 cm for women and 90 cm for men.

      It will be confirmed by a curve oral glucose tolerance, that individuals do not have impaired
      glucose tolerance at baseline; likewise, they are determined serum levels of urea,
      creatinine, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT) and
      lipid levels (total cholesterol, triglycerides [TG], high-density lipoprotein cholesterol
      [HDL-C], low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C] and very low density lipoprotein
      [VLDL]). BMI, waist circumference and body weight distribution (body fat percentage, visceral
      fat level, weight, lean body mass and percentage of water): On the other hand, at the
      beginning and end of the study the following determinations were obtained.

      The study will last for 6 days. To measure glycemic variability on the first day they place a
      system of continuous glucose payment (MCG) through the iPro ™ 2 system (Medtronic MiniMed,
      Northridge) which determine interstitial glucose levels every five minutes. During the first
      3 days the individual volunteer perform their usual activities, and three days later made
      moderate intensity physical activity for 30 minutes in the morning with fasting for 8-12
      hours.

      From the data obtained from MCG the mean amplitude of glucose excursions (MAGE), which will
      assess glycemic variability and area under the curve (AUC) was calculated. For statistical
      analysis, the Mann-Whitney U test, Fisher's exact test, Wilcoxon and linear regression was
      used. It is considered significant difference for p <0.05.
    
  