
    
      This is a single-center, pilot (phase IIb), randomized, standard care- and placebo (sham
      acupuncture)-controlled clinical trial (N=60) assessing the effects of acupuncture to prevent
      chemotherapy dose reduction due to chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) and to
      elucidate the mechanism of action. Breast or colorectal cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant
      or adjuvant chemotherapy containing neurotoxic agents (taxanes or oxaliplatin) at the
      University of Maryland Marlene & Stewart Greenebaum Cancer Center (UMGCC) will be screened
      for CIPN. Once these patients develop greater than or equal to National Cancer
      Institute-Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) grade 2 CIPN, they will be recruited for this
      study. Severity of CIPN as defined by NCI-CTC is listed in Appendix A. Patients will be
      stratified based on cancer type (breast cancer vs colorectal cancer). The patients will then
      be randomly assigned to one of three arms: (A) real acupuncture, (B) sham acupuncture or (C)
      standard care. All patients will follow the same chemotherapy dose reduction algorithm
      (Appendix B). No concomitant anti-neuropathy medication is allowed. Patients in the
      intervention arms will be randomly assigned to undergo weekly real or sham acupuncture until
      the end of their chemotherapy. In these two arms, the patient, the patient's medical
      oncologist, pharmacist, research nurse, and study coordinator will be blinded to the
      treatment assignment. In standard care arm, patients will not receive additional therapy for
      CIPN. Their CIPN will be managed according to the standard chemotherapy dose reduction
      algorithm. In all arms, chemotherapy dose will be documented during the patient's scheduled
      chemotherapy sessions. The chemotherapy relative dose intensity (RDI) will be calculated at
      the end of their chemotherapy. Validated patient-reported outcome questionnaires: Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy/ Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-Ntx)
      questionnaire and Neuropathy Pain Scale (NPS), described later, will be used to assess CIPN
      severity weekly in all patients until the end of their chemotherapy and at the 4 week follow
      up. Nerve conduction study will be performed by a neurologist at baseline and after
      chemotherapy is finished. Side effects from real or sham acupuncture will be recorded weekly.
      Approximately 4 ml of blood will be drawn from patients before each real or sham acupuncture
      treatment, or with routine weekly blood work check (in the standard care arm), at the end of
      chemotherapy, and at the 4 week follow up to measure changes in nerve growth factor and other
      neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, the
      insulin-like growth factors, and vascular endothelial growth factor. They will be analyzed in
      the cytokine lab at the University of Maryland School of Medicine (UMSOM).
    
  