
    
      This will be a randomized controlled trial in which eligible participants will be members of
      the general surgery residency and adult gastroenterology fellowship. Investigators will ask
      all consenting participants to fill out a baseline set of demographic information including
      their year of training, the approximate number of colonoscopies to date, specialty, age, sex
      and dominant-handedness. Additional questions to be asked will inquire about the
      participant's experience in regard to the unassisted and supervision/coached colonoscopy
      module experience. Participation in this activity is completely voluntary, and the
      participating trainee is under no obligation to complete or finish the simulation or
      subsequent surveys The participant will be randomized to one of two groups. A computer
      program will make this random assignment. Neither the participant nor their physician coach
      will be able to choose which group they will be in. Participants will either first partake in
      an unassisted colonoscopy module twice (case one and case two) and then transition to a
      supervised/coached colonoscopy module session twice (case three and case four). The
      alternative is in which the participant first partakes in a supervised/coached colonoscopy
      module session twice (case one and case two) and then transitions to performing an unassisted
      colonoscopy module twice (case three and case four). A questionnaire examining training
      experience will be administered after case # 4 in both groups. This survey will take
      approximately 5 minutes to complete. Other objective measures will be assessed by supervising
      faculty and other metrics acquired through the simulator software. Individuals' survey
      responses will be used to see if early supervision improves trainee satisfaction and
      perceptions on survey scores. Participants will attend one individual training session date
      that will satisfy the designed simulation experience. The trainee can stop participating in
      this study at any time and participation in the study is voluntary and trainees may choose
      not to participate. It is important to note that refusal to participate will not affect a
      learner's access to the training center and will not affect their standing in their
      respective training program. The results will not be included in their official training
      record. Note no prior procedural or technical knowledge is required. Enrollment will continue
      for the 2018-2019 academic year and possibly academic years thereafter.
    
  