
    
      Regional analgesia techniques have shown to have benefits over conventional analgesia. The
      lower opioids analgesics requirements decrease side effects associated with the use of this
      type of medication. It is also increasingly established scientific evidence that reducing
      opioids administration may play a role in prognosis of cancer patients given the
      immunosuppressive effect of these drugs.

      In patients undergoing oncologic/reconstructive breast surgery paravertebral block has been
      traditionally performed, however the paravertebral space lacks a clear anatomical barrier
      from the spinal cord so the drugs administered can diffuse to the intervertebral foramen
      causing deeper levels of blocks (epidural or spinal blocks) and injections at the
      paravertebral level are associated with serious complications both neurological and
      respiratory (meningitis, spinal hematomas abscesses, pneumothorax, respiratory failure. This
      has led to the development of less invasive technique with an improved safety profile.

      The serratus plane block falls within the framework of these newly developed techniques and
      the present study aims to assess its role in the management of the patient undergoing cancer
      / reconstructive surgery.

      Considering a decrease in postoperative morphine consumption of 40% and the average
      consumption of opioid after breast surgery under general anesthesia is 15 milligrams (
      standard deviation 8 mg ) investigators calculated that with an alpha error 5% power 80 % 56
      patients (28 per group) were required to achieve a significant result. In anticipation of
      possible loss of sample, 60 patients were recruited . Analysis will be performed by intention
      to treat.

      Quantitative variables (opioid consumption, pain estimated by VAS scale) will be analyzed
      using mixed linear model adding a random variable for interindividual variability for pain
      threshold. If the data do not meet the criteria of normality the Mann-Whitney U test will be
      used. If the groups differ in preoperative variables. Investigators will make a multivariable
      analysis adjusting for these variables. The need for rescue analgesia over time is analyzed
      by Kaplan-Meier curve where the terminal state is the administration of the first dose of
      opioid postoperatively. The difference side effects (nausea, pruritus, apnea, urinary
      retention, ileus ) and complications IPO questionnaire and analyzed by chi-square test and
      Fisher exact test. Scheffe correction will be applied for multiple comparison. Missing data
      are excluded from analysis.

      The study has planned data monitoring and auditing by the IIS la Fe according to AEMPS
      guidelines. Registries will be obtained from electronic medical records available for double
      check procedures.
    
  