
    
      Background: Among older VA patients who have Medicare coverage, 43% use both VA and non-VA
      (Medicare-covered) services. VA and non-VA providers are often uninformed about encounters,
      treatments and test results provided in the other system. In particular, the absent or
      delayed notification of a non-VA hospital encounter is a missed opportunity for the VA to
      provide post-hospital transitional care services that have been shown to be effective in
      preventing adverse events and hospital readmission after hospital discharge. Objectives: The
      overall objective of this project is to examine the effectiveness, cost, and implementation
      acceptance of VA provider notification of non-VA hospitalization or emergency department (ED)
      visit using electronic health information exchange (HIE), with or without provision of
      evidence-based post-hospital transitional care services. Specific Aim 1 is to examine the
      impact of these approaches on preventing hospital admission or readmission as the primary
      outcome, and, as secondary outcomes, increasing provider follow-up, improving patient's
      condition self-knowledge, and preventing medication errors after discharge. been shown to be
      effective in preventing adverse events and hospital readmission after hospital discharge.

      Specific Aim 2 is to examine the effect of these approaches on VA and non-VA costs. Specific
      Aim 3 is to examine the acceptance of these approaches among VA and non-VA stakeholders.

      Methods: The study sample consists of Veterans followed in geriatrics or primary care clinics
      at the Bronx and Indianapolis VAs who are older than 65. The investigators will monitor
      patients for non-VA hospital admission or ED visit using technology provided by regional HIE
      organizations (i.e., the Bronx Regional Health Information Organization and the Indiana
      Health Information Exchange). Patients will be cluster-randomized 1:1 to
      notification-plus-coordination or notification-only groups by PACT team, stratified by
      facility. For both groups the PACT provider will receive real-time notification of a non-VA
      hospital admission or ED visit if it occurs. For the notification-plus-coordination group, a
      care transitions coordinator will deliver coordination activities during a home and/or VA
      facility visit and via follow-up phone calls over 1 month. Coordination activities will
      consist of: reconciliation of and counseling on the patient's VA and non-VA medications,
      education on signs of condition worsening, coordination of VA and non-VA follow-up
      appointments, and counseling on communicating with VA and non-VA providers, using structured
      protocols. All information-gathering by the transitions coordinator will include the HIE as
      an information source. The notification-only group will receive usual care after the
      notification. Multivariable regression models will be estimated to compare effects of
      notification-plus-coordination versus notification-only on primary and secondary outcomes and
      costs (Aims 1 and 2). The investigators will conduct interviews with intervention team
      members, patients, VA and non-VA staff, and other stakeholders to ascertain the barriers and
      facilitators to implementation of these approaches (Aim 3).
    
  