
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety, tolerability and feasibility of bintrafusp alfa (M7824) when
      administered together with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) reirradiation. (Lead
      In) II. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) rate of M7824 plus SBRT reirradiation
      at 1 year. (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST).

      II. To evaluate the 1-year locoregional control (LRC), locoregional failure-free survival
      (LFFS), distant metastasis (DM) and overall survival (OS) rates.

      III. To evaluate acute and late toxicity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) - version (v) 5.0.

      IV. To evaluate fibrosis-related toxicities and functional outcomes. V. To evaluate patient
      reported outcome (PRO) measures of symptoms using MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI).

      VI. To evaluate volumetric tumor regression rate and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) kinetic
      biomarkers after M7824 plus SBRT.

      VII. To compare quality-adjusted-life-years (QALY) between M7824 plus SBRT reirradiation and
      historic SBRT reirradiation control.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Biomarkers will be accessed in the tumor and blood samples and correlated with clinical
      outcomes and toxicity.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive bintrafusp alfa intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 15. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Beginning day 15 of cycle 1, patients also undergo SBRT over 5
      fractions once every other day (QOD) for 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days and then every 6
      months for 3 years.
    
  