
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if there is a signal for an increase in complete response (CR) rate in the
      measurable brain metastases at 12 weeks post radiation therapy (RT) (whole brain or
      stereotactic radiosurgery [SRS]) as determined by magnetic-resonance imaging (MRI) scan of
      the brain, with the addition of lapatinib (lapatinib ditosylate) to whole-brain radiation
      therapy (WBRT)/SRS compared to WBRT/SRS alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate CR rate of the measurable brain metastases at 4 weeks post RT as determined by
      MRI scan of the brain, with the addition of lapatinib to RT compared to RT alone.

      II. To evaluate objective response rate of measurable brain metastases at 4 and 12 weeks post
      RT as determined by MRI scan of the brain, with the addition of lapatinib to RT compared to
      RT alone.

      III. To evaluate targeted lesion-specific objective response rate (CR + partial response
      [PR]) at 4 and 12 weeks post RT.

      IV. To evaluate central nervous system (CNS) progressive disease outside the targeted
      measurable disease with addition of lapatinib to RT compared to RT alone.

      V. To evaluate targeted lesion-specific progression at 4 and 12 weeks post RT. VI. To
      evaluate treatment related adverse events when adding lapatinib to RT compared to RT alone.

      VII. To evaluate overall CNS complete response: disappearance of all CNS target lesions
      sustained for at least 4 weeks; with no new lesions, no use of corticosteroids, and patient
      is stable or improved clinically, when adding lapatinib to RT compared to RT alone.

      VIII. To evaluate overall CNS progressive disease (within or outside targeted measurable
      disease) with addition of lapatinib to RT compared to RT alone.

      IX. To evaluate overall survival when adding lapatinib to RT compared to RT alone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Patients are followed 4 weeks post-RT completion, 12 weeks post-RT completion, every 3 months
      to year 3, and then annually.
    
  