
    
      Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the most common cause of disability in the
      United States. According to the American Stroke Association, the prevalence of stroke in the
      U.S. is approximately 4.8 million with approximately 700,000 additional strokes occurring
      annually. Approximately 150,000 to 250,000 stroke survivors becoming severely and permanently
      disabled each year.

      A common neurological deficit among these stroke survivors, and thus a substantial
      contributor to post-stroke disability is Broca's aphasia, a condition in which the patient is
      unable to speak normally, as they cannot effectively organize the muscular movements required
      for speech. Broca's aphasia is often referred to as "non-fluent" or "motor" aphasia as
      essentially the patient has impaired motor abilities for speech and thus, become non-fluent
      in speech/language. The loss of speech for these patients is extremely debilitating and has
      enormous social and economic impact to the quality of life for these patients. Presently, the
      only treatment available for patients with Broca's aphasia is speech-language rehabilitation.
      However, with rehabilitation only, many patients achieve a less than satisfactory improvement
      in speech-language function and thus, are left with significant disability.

      Since Broca's aphasia is largely due to an impairment of language-related motor function,
      researchers and clinicians believe it is very likely that cortical stimulation in conjunction
      with speech rehabilitation may also enhance recovery of language motor function for Broca's
      aphasia patients. This study proposes to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of such
      cortical electrical stimulation in study subjects with Broca's aphasia after stroke,
      delivered concurrent with speech-language rehabilitation.

      In addition to evaluating changes from baseline level, safety and efficacy measures will be
      compared to patients who undergo the same speech-language rehabilitation activities but
      without cortical stimulation. The two study groups will be compared to determine the degree
      to which the aphasia can be improved beyond rehabilitation alone by epidural stimulation of a
      targeted cortical region.
    
  