
    
      BACKGROUND Cervical cancer is one of the most common female malignancies worldwide, with the
      largest proportion of women affected in low income countries. Radical hysterectomy with
      pelvic lymphadenectomy constitutes the primary treatment of early stage cervical cancer.
      Surgery has traditionally been performed by laparotomy but the past 20 years, the use of
      minimally invasive techniques has increased. Several studies suggest that laparoscopic
      radical hysterectomy is associated with less preoperative morbidity and superior quality of
      life.

      In 2005, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved robot-assisted surgery for
      gynaecological indications. Observational studies have confirmed advantages in form of
      shorter hospital stay, less bleeding and acceptable OT. Furthermore, compared to conventional
      laparoscopy OT is significantly shorter with robot technique. Despite wide acceptance and
      implementation of the robotic system into gynecological oncology todate there are mainly
      retrospective observational data published on oncological outcomes, offering a low evidence
      level.

      The sentinel node biopsy concept (SNB) is well established in the surgical management of
      several malignancies including breast, melanoma and vulvar cancer. Theoretically, the
      implementation would change the management of patients with early cervical cancer
      dramatically by avoiding multimodal treatment.

      Traditionally, radiotracers (Technetium) with or without augmentation of blue dye have been
      used for SNB. Novel tracers such as fluorescent dyes (indocyanine green (ICG)) have been
      demonstrated to be superior.

      Apart from detection rate, the rate of bilateral mapping of sentinel nodes and sensitivity
      (false negative rate included), constitutes the most important aspect of the technique. In
      recent ESGO guidelines on the management of stage IA disease SNB is recommended as the
      standard treatment unless in patients with positive LVSI where complete PLND should be
      considered.

      RATIONALE In 2018, the LACC (Laparoscopic Approach to Cervical Cancer) trial was completed
      and the results demonstrated inferiority for minimally invasive surgery (MIS). In the trial,
      631 women were randomized to MIS (85% by traditional laparoscopy and the remaining by
      robot-assisted surgery). Disease-free and overall survival were significantly worse by MIS
      with no observed advantage in quality of life or perioperative morbidity.

      After the trial was closed, two large population-based studies from the Nordic countries
      (unpublished data) show no difference in either DFS or OS. The absolute majority in these
      studies were operated by robot-assisted surgery.

      Robot-assisted surgery has replaced traditional laparoscopy for radical hysterectomy. Whether
      robot-assisted surgery is associated with better oncologic outcomes than traditional
      laparoscopy is unknown.The purpose of the RACC trial is to assess the safety of
      robot-assisted laparoscopy for the surgical treatment of early stage cervical cancer.

      RATIONALE FOR THE QUALITY OF LIFE ASSESSMENT Two randomised controlled trials (LAP2 and LACE)
      have demonstrated that MIS is superior to laparotomy i in terms of perioperative morbidity
      and quality of life. However, the LACC trial did not show any differences between MIS and
      laparotomy for these outcomes. Whether robot-assisted surgery offers superior outcomes is
      unknown. In the RACC trial, QoL will be assessed in both arms at 5 time points using the
      EORTC QLQ-CX24 form and the FSFI (Female Sexual Function Index).

      RATIONALE FOR THE SENTINEL NODE ALGORITHM Tumor extension to pelvic lymph nodes is the most
      important prognostic factor in early stage cervical cancer. Traditionally, nodal assessment
      has been performed through systematic pelvic lymphadenectomy. Sentinel node concepts have
      been evaluated in several smaller studies but none with sufficient power to properly assess
      the diagnostic accuracy.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT

      - Recurrence-free survival (RFS) at 60 months

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS

        -  Overall survival (OS) at 60 months

        -  Perioperative morbidity

        -  Quality of life

        -  Diagnostic accuracy of a sentinel node algorithm in cervical cancer

        -  Health care costs
    
  