
    
      Normally the insides of blood vessels either widen or narrow in response to the need for more
      or less blood flow. This is a function of the endothelial cells, which are the cells that
      line the inner layer of blood vessels. However, in some people endothelial function is
      impaired, which may put them at an increased risk of heart disease and stroke. It is widely
      assumed that HIV-infected people not yet receiving antiretroviral medications experience more
      impaired endothelial function than HIV-uninfected people, possibly because of the link
      between HIV and inflammation. However, no rigorously controlled study has yet to be performed
      to verify this presumption. It is important to establish whether HIV infection itself, and
      not the use of antiretroviral medications, is indeed the cause of impaired endothelial
      function. This study will compare endothelial function in people with HIV who are not already
      receiving antiretroviral medications and in people without HIV. Specifically, inflammation,
      immune activation, endothelial activation, and metabolic measures will be compared.

      This study will involve two groups of participants. The first group will consist of people
      with HIV who are enrolling in two other separate HIV studies (NCT00864916 and NCT00796822),
      one lasting 8 weeks and the other lasting 48 weeks. The second group will consist of people
      without HIV who are similar to the first group in terms of age, sex, smoking status, and
      height. All HIV-infected participants will undergo assessments during the study visits of
      whichever other HIV study they are enrolled in. All HIV-uninfected participants will attend a
      main study visit that will include the following: a review of medical records and family
      medical history; measurements of blood pressure, heart rate, weight, temperature, and waist
      and hip circumferences; blood and urine collection; and a procedure called brachial artery
      reactivity testing, which is a noninvasive way to measure endothelial function. Some of the
      HIV-uninfected participants will continue in the study so that any changes in their
      endothelial function can be assessed. They will attend either two additional study visits at
      Weeks 4 and 8, which will correspond with one of the HIV studies, or three additional study
      visits at Weeks 8, 24, and 48, which will correspond with the other HIV study. The additional
      visits will include repeat testing except for blood and urine collection.
    
  