
    
      Rationale Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) or Astrocytoma's grade IV (WHO) are devastating
      tumors with one of the worst prognoses in oncology. Extending resection improves survival in
      patients with GBM. Surgery of GBM nowadays is usually performed under general anesthesia (GA)
      and resections are not as aggressive as possible, due to the chance of seriously damaging the
      patient with a rather low life expectancy. A surgical technique optimizing resection of the
      tumor in eloquent areas but preventing neurological deficits is necessary to improve survival
      and quality of life in these patients. Awake craniotomy (AC) with the use of cortical and
      subcortical stimulation is an alternative surgical technique that is standardly implemented
      in surgery for low grade glioma, but not yet for GBM. AC has shown to increase resection
      percentage and preserve quality of life in low grade glioma (LGG) and could be of important
      value in the surgery of GBM.

      Objective The study is performed to increase safety and efficacy during surgery in patients
      with GBM in eloquent areas. This study will compare awake craniotomy with surgery under
      general anesthesia for patients with GBM near or in eloquent areas. Primary end points are:
      1) Proportion of patients with NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) deterioration at 6 weeks post-
      surgery, where deterioration is defined as at least one point increase in total NIHSS score
      compared to baseline. 2) Proportion of patients without residual contrast-enhancing tumour on
      postoperative MRI. Secondary end points are: 1) Health related quality of life (HRQoL) at 6
      weeks, 3 months and 6 months after operation. 2) Progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 months
      after operation. 3) Overall survival (OS) at 12 months after operation. 4) Frequency and
      severity of Serious Adverse Effects in each group: Infections, intracranial bleeding,
      epilepsy, aphasia, paresis/paralysis in arms or/and legs. Also, a cost benefit analysis will
      be performed.

      Study design The trial is set up as a multicenter randomized controlled study. The study will
      include 246 patients in 5 neurosurgical centers in the Netherlands. Patients with GBM in
      eloquent areas on diagnostic MRI will be selected by the neurosurgeons according to the
      eligibility criteria. After informed consent the patient will be randomized for awake
      craniotomy (AC) or regular craniotomy under general anesthesia (GA) with 1:1 allocation
      ratio. After surgery, only patients with histologically proven GBM will continue with the
      study. Patients in whom no GBM could not be proven histologically, will be considered
      off-study. Thereafter, patients will receive the standard treatment with concomitant
      Temozolomide and radiation therapy and standard follow up. Total duration of the study is 5
      years. Patient inclusion is 4 years. Follow-up is 1 year.

      Study population Patients aged 18-90 years old, with Glioblastoma Multiforme near or in
      eloquent areas and eligible for awake craniotomy.

      Intervention Awake craniotomy compared to craniotomy under general anaesthesia

      Main study parameters/endpoints

        1. Proportion of patients with NIHSS deterioration at 6 weeks post-surgery

        2. Proportion of patients without residual contrast-enhancing tumour on postoperative MRI

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness Patients have 50% chance to be randomized for an awake procedure. The
      risk-benefit-ratio of this procedure in patients with GBM is subject of this trial and the
      investigators expect less neurological morbidity than surgery under generalised anaesthesia.
      Three quality of life questionnaires and 1 neurological examination will take place
      preoperatively, 6 weeks after, 3 months after and 6 months after the surgery. The burden of
      this trial for the patient is therefore confined.
    
  