
    
      Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer（NSCLC）is one of the malignancies with high incidence and
      mortality. In recent years, surgery become the preferred treatment for early stage of NSCLC.
      Patients with stage IA-IIIA lung cancer can undergo radical surgery, but postoperative lung
      cancer patients also have shortness of breath, chest pain, cough, expectoration, upper limb
      dysfunction and other symptoms. The symptoms seriously affect the quality of life and
      follow-up treatment. Comprehensive rehabilitation program may alleviate the symptoms as an
      effective treatment which including rehabilitation training and TCM.

      The investigators performed a multi-centered, randomized, placebo-controlled, prospective
      clinical trial on the effect of comprehensive rehabilitation program to improve quality of
      life(QOL) and long-term survival of postoperative patients who are not recommended for
      postoperative chemotherapy at stage IA and IB. Patients are randomized into observational
      group (rehabilitation training plus TCM), and control group (rehabilitation education plus
      placebo). The treatment should be last three months and the patients will be followed up
      regularly. The primary efficacy assessments are: (1) QOL (QLQ-LC43 scale); (2) Pulmonary
      function test(PFTs): 1) Forced vital capacity (FVC); 2) Forced expiratory volume in one
      second (FEV1); 3) Forced expiratory flow rate from 25% to 50% (FEF25-50); 4) Residual volume
      (RV); 5) Total lung capacity (TLC). Secondary efficacy assessments are: (1) 2 years
      disease-free survival; (2) TCM symptoms changes; (3) Tumer markers (CEA, CA-125 and
      CYFRA21-1); (4) Exercise tolerance; (5) Toxicity, side effects and security of the treatments
      will be assessed at the same time. The investigators plan to enroll 236 cases in 3 years (118
      cases for rehabilitation training plus TCM, 118 cases for rehabilitation education plus
      placebo), expecting that comprehensive rehabilitation program has a better efficacy on
      improving QOL and long-term survival.
    
  