
    
      Visit 1 (consent, screening and familiarisation) During visit 1, participants will give their
      informed consent, followed by a health screening questionnaire. In addition to the health
      screening questionnaire, medical history and a blood sample will be collected and analysed
      for a full blood count, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), liver and kidney function. Finally, a
      resting electrocardiogram (ECG) will also be recorded and then examined for irregularities,
      where a clinical decision will be made on further participation to the study by consultants
      at QA hospital. Participants will then be shown the rest of the equipment and taken through
      the procedure for the next 3 visits and, if the participant is happy to continue the study,
      the next visit will be organised.

      Visit 2, 3 and 4 Participants will arrive at the laboratory at ~9 am for conditions 1 and 2
      and 8 am for condition 3. Prior to a 15 min resting period (supine) before any measures are
      taken participants will be asked to insert a rectal thermistor (participants will be given
      clear instructions using the investigator's SoPs). Condition 1, 2 and 3 will be balanced and
      participants randomly allocated to begin the study in either visit 2, 3 or 4 using a blinded
      member of the team.

      For all visits (see figure 2), participants will lie in a semi recumbent position in minimal
      clothing (bathing shorts and a t-shirt) for the entirety of the visit. Initially,
      participants will be cannulated (Versatus winged and ported IV cannula, Terumo, Japan) and
      blood samples drawn for analysis of osmolality (Lithium Heparin (LH) tubes BD, USA) plasma
      [glucose] (Fluoride/Oxalate tubes, BD, USA), [insulin] (Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid
      (EDTA) K2, BD, USA), and [eHSP70] (EDTA K2, BD, USA) at baseline and every 30 min of each
      experimental visit. Following cannulation an 180 min OGTT (75g) (Rapilose OGTT solution,
      Penlan healthcare, Japan) will commence in a thermoneutral room (~ 23oC). A maximum of 18 mL
      of blood being drawn at each time point (max 126 mL per visit). To maintain the patency of
      the cannula and to reduce the risk of infection, after every sample is taken, 5 mL of saline
      will be flushed through the cannula. Then before every sample is taken, 2.5 mL of blood will
      be drawn out of the cannula to ensure any remaining saline will not interfere with the
      samples and data interpretation (additional 17.5mL per visit). During the OGTT, HR (via
      electrocardiogram) will be measured continuously, whilst blood pressure (M5-1, Omron, Japan),
      deep body temperature (rectal probe) and resting metabolic rate (indirect calorimetry) (Quark
      CPET, Cosmed, Italy) will be assessed every 30 min.

      Condition 2 will employ identical procedures to condition 1, except thirty minutes into the
      OGTT, the participant will be immersed into an immersion tank (~39oC) for 60 min. Water
      temperature will be manipulated as required to achieve and maintain a target Trec at 38.5 oC
      using water between 37.5 and 39oC, and then participants will be removed horizontally back
      into the thermoneutral room for the reminder of the OGTT. Participants will be towel dried
      and given a towelled robe to wear. Condition 3 will employ identical procedures to condition
      2, with the exception that the heating via immersion will start as soon as the participant is
      instrumented (and following a 15 min rest period) and the OGTT will commence 30 min after the
      60 min immersion time for a further 180 min (see figure 2 for a schematic).
    
  