
    
      This is a prospective, interventional, non pharmacological study for testing-validation of a
      new app for optimising home management of oral therapies for cancer treatment.

      All patients will be treated according to the local clinical practice. Enrolment period: 8
      (training step) + 12 (validation step) months. Total duration of the study: 36 months. This
      is a multicenter study. Objective of the study is to assess the capability of a newly
      developed interactive health care application to support patients and health professionals in
      the shared management of oral anticancer therapies, and to assess the system usability and
      acceptability by patients and health professionals.

      Eligible patients must meet the following criteria:

        -  adult 18-75 years old;

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status ≤ 1;

        -  candidate for treatment with capecitabine or sunitinib as monotherapy (adjuvant and
           advanced settings allowed);

        -  sufficient ability to manage mobile devices after basic training course held at
           baseline;

        -  clear understanding of the Italian language;

        -  written informed consent.

      Health professionals and patients define the items of the system through participatory design
      techniques (e.g. focus group sessions, joint review).

      To define whether the system is capable of monitoring patient adherence, the number of pills
      counted by the system (self-reported by the patient at home) will be compared with that
      counted by the physician as residual pills returned by the patient at the hospital visit. A
      difference in the number of pills within +/- 10% will be considered acceptable. A comparison
      of type and grade of toxicity will be made between the adverse events indicated by the system
      and those reported by the patient at the clinical visit. The quality of the system will be
      considered adequate if all the grade 3 and at least 80% of the grade 2 or more toxicity data
      reported by the patient at the time of the visit is recorded in the app.

      To investigate system usability and acceptability, Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-General (FACT-G) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) questionnaires will
      be used. Scores will be subdivided into different subscales and analyzed using the Wilcoxon
      rank-sum test. Two new questionnaires have been developed and will be used to evaluate
      patient expectations of the system, and system acceptability + patient-doctor communication.
      An internationally validated questionnaire translated into Italian on system usability (SUS)
      will be also administered at the end of observation. Conversational interviews will be
      audio-recorded, transcribed and analyzed.
    
  