
    
      Cricothyroidotomy is an infrequent but potentially life-saving procedure. The need for
      cricothyroidotomy arises from the can't intubate and can't ventilate (CICV) scenario and is
      therefore incorporated in the difficult airway guidelines for both adults and children. This
      CICV scenario is less common in the paediatric population than in the adult population and
      most difficult airways can be managed with-bag mask ventilation and PEEP.

      The cricothyroid membrane is a useful place to access the airway in the case of glottic or
      supraglottic obstruction as it is relatively avascular, superficial and the 'full ring' of
      the cricoid protects against posterior perforation. In adults, the average the cricothyroid
      membrane CTM is 13.7mm long and 12.4mm wide. The CTM is relatively short in children. In
      neonates the CTM has a mean height of 2.6mm and a width of 3mm.

      In children the most prominent anterior midline structures in the neck are not the thyroid as
      in adults but the hyoid bone and cricoid cartilage. As the larynx is more cephalad in
      children the cricothyroid membrane is higher than in adults and placement of a catheter may
      be more difficult as the mandible gets in the way. A healthy amount of adipose in the
      subcutaneous tissue can obscure the anatomy. Currently clinicians identify the CTM using
      palpation of anatomical landmarks. In infants, with the head in extension and soft tissue
      pulled up towards the mandible, the CTM may be difficult to distinguish. It is suggested that
      bimanual manipulation may enable identification of the cartilaginous trachea.

      To perform a cricothyroid puncture, a syringe containing sterile saline is attached to a
      cannula. The skin over the cricothyroid membrane is stabilised with the index finger and
      thumb of the non-dominant hand. The transtracheal cannula is inserted through the
      cricothyroid membrane at a 45ยบ angle heading caudal and posterior. However, in neonates due
      to the restricted dimensions, a needle is the only option for cricothyroidotomy. Even in
      experienced hands, cricothyroidotomy is technically challenging. In inexperienced hands this
      can lead to significant injuries including the risk of fracture of the thyroid and cricoid
      cartilages.

      A recent abstract has tried to determine whether how easy it is to locate the CTM in
      children. Their initial conclusions suggest that the identification of the CTM is difficult.
      The limitations of their study are that there are small numbers and only one person has been
      asked to perform the identification.

      The applications of ultrasound are vast and varied. It is readily available, portable and
      easy to use. Of note, a recent study has used ultrasound (Sonosite 10Hz) to help identify the
      CTM in adults. Following a period of training, it was found to improve accuracy and speed of
      identification.

      The investigators aim to determine how easy it is for anaesthetists to identify the CTM in
      children and infants and whether ultrasound maybe a useful adjunct. The investigators aim to
      conduct a randomized single blinded trial to compare methods to detect the CTM: palpation of
      anatomical landmarks versus ultrasound .
    
  