
    
      Study Design:

      A prospective, randomised, controlled, single blinded, multi-centre trial.

      Intervention:

      After meeting the inclusion criteria stated above and obtaining informed consent, patients
      will be randomly assigned to three groups: one receiving Nadroparine (2850 IE anti-Xa = 0,3
      ml, given once daily), one receiving Fondaparinux (2,5 mg = 0,5 ml, given once daily) and one
      receiving no prophylaxis. These dosages are standard for the use in thromboprophylaxis. The
      first two groups will be instructed by a trained nurse in subcutaneous self-injection of the
      medicine and will be given pre-filled disposable syringes for once-daily administration for
      the duration of immobilisation.

      In the light of current scientific knowledge a placebo effect of subcutaneous injections of
      saline in the control group is implausible since the outcome measure (colour duplex
      sonography) is an objective one.

      Patients further will receive a letter explaining the symptoms suggesting the development of
      deep-vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism and adverse events and will be asked to contact the
      emergency room when any of these would occur.

      All patient-information will be coded so that it cannot be traced back to the individual
      patient. This coded information can be used for publication.

      Outcome:

      At the time of removal of the plaster cast symptoms or signs suggestive of DVT will be noted
      and a colour duplex ultrasonography of the treated limb will be performed in all patients by
      an experienced technician according to a strict diagnostic test protocol (see enclosure 1).
      When there is incompressibility of a vein or lack of flow the diagnosis of DVT is made. The
      technician will be blinded to treatment.

      In case of a suspected pulmonary embolism pulmonary angiography will be performed.

      The following risk-factors for DVT will be recorded: age, sex, body mass index (BMI), current
      smoking, use of estrogen-containing hormonal replacement therapy or oral contraception,
      active cancer (treatment on going or stopped for less than one year), congenital or acquired
      hypercoagulable state, previous deep venous thromboembolism and varicose veins.

      Safety will be assessed as a secondary outcome. Adverse events such as haematomas, bleeding
      and allergic reactions will be recorded.
    
  