
    
      This is a multi-center, open-label, phase Ib/II study of combination therapy with APG-1252
      plus paclitaxel in patients with relapsed/refractory SCLC. The phase Ib portion will be done
      using time-to-event continual reassessment method (TITE-CRM) methodology to determine the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of APG-1252 with a fixed dose of paclitaxel. The phase II
      portion will utilize a Simon two-stage design to determine the efficacy of the combination
      therapy with response rate as the primary endpoint.

      Upon enrollment, patients will undergo a comprehensive history and physical exam, along with
      baseline laboratory assessment. Baseline CT imaging will be required within 4 weeks prior to
      study entry. Archival tissue is mandatory; a fresh biopsy of the primary tumor or a
      metastatic lesion prior to initiation of therapy is optional and post-treatment tumor biopsy
      is strongly encouraged.

      In the phase Ib portion, eligible patients will receive APG-1252 at the assigned dose-level
      on days 1, 8 and 15 plus a fixed-dose of paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day
      cycle. There will be three dose-levels of APG-1252 (-1, 80 mg; 1, 160 mg; 2, 240 mg) with the
      first patient starting at dose-level 1 and subsequent patients at dose-levels determined by
      the TITE-CRM methodology. There will be no intra-patient dose-escalation. Patients will be
      continuously assessed for adverse events, including DLTs which are defined in the protocol.
      Response assessment by CT imaging will occur every 2 cycles and treatment will continue until
      progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, patient preference to stop treatment,
      withdrawal of consent, or administrative discontinuation.

      In the phase II portion, eligible patients will receive APG-1252 at the recommended phase 2
      dose (RP2D) determined in the phase Ib portion on days 1, 8 and 15 plus paclitaxel 80 mg/m2
      on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle. Response assessment by CT imaging will occur every 2
      cycles and treatment will continue until progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity,
      patient preference to stop treatment, withdrawal of consent, or administrative
      discontinuation.
    
  