
    
      Participants will contact the research team with the information on the flyer. Participants
      will be asked to come to the Iyengar Yoga Center (407 W Springfield Ave, Urbana, IL 61801) to
      receive more information. Participants will need to disclose their diagnosis to the research
      staff. If they are not aware of what their diagnosis is, they will need to contact their
      physician to get their official diagnosis. For example, a woman with dysmenorrhea may be
      diagnosed with poly cystic ovarian disease or endometriosis or idiopathic dysmenorrhea, or
      another reproductive disease; participants will need to know their specific diagnosis or find
      out their specific diagnosis and report it to the research staff. Participants can do this by
      calling their physicians. For participants that are unaware of their diagnosis, they may also
      request a copy of their medical records. These records may be shared with the research staff
      to help determine diagnosis. The research staff will not keep these medical records, but
      return them to the participants. Participants can then either consent on the first visit or
      choose to take time as much time as they need and return to the yoga center when they are
      ready to sign the consent form. Participants will complete the first round of surveys at the
      yoga center after they sign the consent form (20 minutes). Participants will receive an email
      or phone call from the study team to inform them of their randomization results.

      A blind third party statistician will complete the randomization for all participants at the
      beginning of the study for all 90 participants and will email the study coordinator with the
      randomization results. Randomization will be done through a free online software called
      graphpad. (https://www.graphpad.com/quickcalcs/randomize1.cfm).

      The study lasts 12 months for the intervention and 9 months for the control group with an
      optional 3 month yoga therapy session offered at the end: Once consented, participants will
      fill out baseline surveys, and then undergo 3 months of usual care (no intervention), the
      same baseline surveys will be filled out again, then participants will get biweekly free yoga
      therapy classes for 3 months, and surveys will again be completed at the end of the
      intervention. Patients will then have a 6 month follow up and will fill out the surveys one
      last time. Recruitment will occur on a rolling basis so patients may join the study at
      anytime and not have to wait for a batched group.
    
  