
    
      In patients with multiple relapsed aggressive lymphoma or refractory lymphoma life expectancy
      is short. Without potent treatment options the remaining life span can be measured in weeks
      to a few months.

      Recently, an increasing number of reports have shown that either single agent use or the
      incorporation of potentially more potent agents or new approaches aiming at the inhibition of
      lymphoma specific pathways may help to overcome the current stagnation in the improvement of
      first and second line therapies. Surprisingly, little efforts have been undertaken to
      identify optimal standard dose backbone regimens based on currently available and novel
      drugs, which ideally would combine activity with reasonable safety and tolerability which
      allows the addition of targeted drugs in the future. Therefore this trial aims to test
      prospectively one potential combination to evaluate its potency in patients not suitable for
      intensive treatment.

      Obinutuzumab is an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody which has shown clinical efficacy even in
      patients failing Rituximab pre-treatment and therefore is an attractive combination partner
      within chemo-immunotherapy regimen. Pixantrone belongs to the most potent class of cytostatic
      drugs for the treatment of lymphoma. Given the proven efficacy of both drugs in relapsed
      aggressive lymphoma as well as the side effect profiles of both drugs, combination treatment
      seems sufficiently safe and promises significant efficacy.

      This is a multicenter, prospective, open-label, non-randomized trial to evaluate the overall
      response rate of Obinutuzumab (GA101) in combination with Pixantrone in patients with
      relapsed aggressive B-cell lymphoma. The trial consists of a 28-days screening period, a
      treatment-period of up to 6 cycles of the combination regiment, including an interim staging
      prior to cycle 4 and an end of treatment visit 4-6 weeks after the last study-medication
      application. The response to treatment is measured by results of computer tomography (CT)
      after cycle 6 or at the individual end of treatment. Structured follow up visits are
      scheduled for 2 years, afterwards patients will be followed for survival and progression via
      a simplified survey until the end of the trial.
    
  