
    
      ED are highly prevalent mental disorders and one of the main causes of disability worldwide.
      Currently, there is evidence showing the efficacy of transdiagnostic treatments for anxiety
      disorders, and for comorbid depression and anxiety disorders. An important line of research
      within the transdiagnostic treatment of ED was initiated by D. H. Barlow. Barlow's theory of
      triple vulnerability emphasizes the underlying vulnerabilities that are common to ED and help
      to explain the comorbidity among these diverse conditions. A central aspect within this
      theoretical perspective is the role of emotion regulation in ED. The regulation of negative
      emotions in ED has received a great deal of attention in cognitive behavior therapy (CBT)
      research, and more recently in transdiagnostic ED models like the UP developed by Barlow's
      team. However, although Barlow underscored the role of low PA in the onset and maintenance of
      ED, the main objective of the treatment components in the UP is to train patients in negative
      affect (NA) regulation, but less attention has been paid to the inclusion of treatment
      components to directly target PA regulation. Moreover, literature has shown that higher
      levels of PA are associated with better physical and psychological health, healthier
      lifestyles, and better general functioning. Consequently, an important treatment goal from a
      transdiagnostic treatment approach would be to increase PA while decreasing NA.

      The aim of this study is to compare the differential effect of two transdiagnostic treatment
      protocols for ED using a randomized pilot study design: a) a transdiagnostic treatment
      protocol (TTP) based on the Unified Protocol; and b) a version of this protocol that also
      includes a specific component to address the regulation of positive affect (TTP+PA). Another
      aim is to assess the acceptability of both treatments by patients. It was hypothesized that
      the intervention would result in significant differences in favor of the TTP+PA protocol in
      all measures. Regarding acceptability, it was hypothesized that both treatments (TP and
      TP+PA) would be well-accepted by the two groups of participants.
    
  