
    
      2. Methods

        1. Design:

           This study was designed as an assessor-blinded, prospective, two parallel groups,
           randomized, controlled trial.

        2. Participants and setting:

           Participants were recruited from palliative care outpatient clinics at King Hussein
           Cancer Center in Amman, Jordan.

           The sample size was calculated using statistical software package G* Power 3.0.10. Based
           on α = 0.05, a power of 80%, and a medium effect size (Cohen's d = 0.50), the minimum
           required sample for each group was 64 patients. To be conservative and avoid the
           negative impact of attrition, the sample was increased to 150 patients for both groups;
           hence 75 participants were required per group.

        3. Randomization:

           The list of potential patients was given weekly to the first author by palliative nurse
           coordinator. The second author assessed the patients based on study inclusion criteria.
           A total of fifteen patients were excluded due to not meeting the trial criteria (n=13)
           and refusing to participate in the trial (n=2). The second author was not engaged in
           study intervention divided remaining 150 patients into two groups (intervention group
           (n=75), and control group (n=75)).

           Participants were randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to PMR and control groups using a
           computer-based minimization algorithm stratifying for gender, type of analgesics
           (non-opioid or weak opioid). The second author informed the participants about the
           results of randomization by providing labels coded either intervention or control group.
           Training on PMR technique were done by the first author who was not blinded to study
           groups. The participants were also not blinded to the study intervention due to the
           nature of kind of study intervention. All evaluations were completed by a single data
           collector who was blinded to study groups.

           In this trial, the blinding condition of data collector was maintained by two steps: (1)
           the first author informed the patients to not provide any information to the data
           collector about their allocated group, and (2) the data collector reminded all the
           patients to not reveal what group s/he was randomized to. Thus, the condition of
           assessor-blind was confirmed in this trial by blinding the data collector. During the
           study period, one participant in control group due to travel outside the country, and
           one participant in intervention group due to lack of sufficient time withdrew from the
           study. Thus, 148 participants completed the study (RMP group (n=74), and control group
           (n=74)).

        4. Procedures:

           The participants received training on the PMR intervention in the palliative care
           outpatient clinic in a quiet room with adequate light to make them feel relaxed during
           the intervention. Training on the PMR intervention was delivered individually by face to
           face. Patients in the intervention group were received instruction on PMR technique by
           the first author who trained and experienced in the technique. The theoretical session
           on the PMR took approximately 15 minutes. After the completion of the theoretical
           session, the first author demonstrated the PMR technique, then the participants applied
           the technique until they acquired the skill. Participants in intervention group received
           totally 30 to 40 minutes training on PMR technique including theoretical and practical
           sessions. Then, PMR booklets designed by the authors were given to the patients in
           training sessions. Furthermore, the first author recorded PMR technique with a voice
           recorder using her own voice, and the recorder file was downloaded on compact disc (CD).
           Each participant was given a copy of the CD to practice PMR technique at home. The
           intervention group continued the PMR daily for 20 minutes for a total of four weeks at
           their home. All participants were warned not to take analgesics either orally sixty
           minutes before or intravenously thirty minutes before the PMR technique. Daily reminder
           phone calls or Short Message Service (SMS) were performed to remind participants for
           practicing the technique and check their compliance with study protocol. Regarding to
           control group, the patients were invited to the same room and completed the baseline
           assessment. All participants received usual care for their pain during the study period
           which contained only pharmacological interventions.

           For ethical reasons, after completing this study, the participants in the control group
           had the opportunity to receive study intervention. These data were not analyzed.

        5. Data analysis:

      Data were evaluated using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 22.0.
      Patients' demographics, clinical characteristics, and BPI scores were represented as mean
      values, standard deviations (SD), and percentages. Authors analyzed between-group differences
      at baseline using t tests for continuous variables and Chi-square tests for categorical
      variables. The comparisons between two groups in terms of BPI scores were made using
      Mann-Whitney U test. Additionally, Friedman test was conducted to assess the data for
      differences in BPI scores within-group. The level of significance was set at p < 0.05 for all
      tests.
    
  