
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM), the second most common hematological malignancy, is a clonal plasma
      cell disorder characterized by the secretion of monoclonal immunoglobulins. The annual
      incidence of newly diagnosed MM (NDMM) patients is about 2-3/100,000. In the past 20 years,
      the median overall survival (OS) of MM patients has prolonged from 3 to 5 years to 8 to 10
      years since many novel agents developed on the pipeline of treatment. Moreover, multi-drug
      combination chemotherapy, low-intensity maintenance therapy after achieving a certain effect
      also contributed to improving the progression-free survival (PFS) and OS in MM patients.
      Therefore, many international guidelines have explicitly recommended maintenance therapy
      after first-line regimens until disease progression.

      Common maintenance medications include immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) such as lenalidomide,
      thalidomide, ect; proteasome inhibitors (PIs) such as bortezomib. Among them, lenalidomide
      has the most reliable data as maintenance therapy for prolonging PFS. Although bortezomib
      maintenance has shown advantages in high-risk MM patients in some clinical trials, it has
      poor compliance in the real world due to the injection mode of administration and peripheral
      neuropathy (PN) after long-term use. There is currently no data on the maintenance of
      large-scale cases in China. The maintenance of regimens in the real world is not
      standardized, including drug dosage and duration of application. In addition, due to the high
      cost of bortezomib or lenalidomide for long-term application, domestic thalidomide still
      accounts for a certain proportion, but its side effects especially PN are very prominent. In
      addition to the proven efficacy, MM maintenance treatments should preferably include good
      tolerability, manageable toxicities and administration convenience.

      The second-generation PI drug, Ixazomib, was approved in China in May 2018. Based on the data
      of TOURMALINE MM1 trial and China extended study, ixazomib was approved for the treatment of
      relapsed and refractory MM. Further more, recent maintenance study after autologous
      transplantation (MM3) suggested that ixazomib significantly prolonged PFS for 6 months
      compared with placebo. Because ixazomib is an oral form with a few side effects, especially
      less PN than bortezomib, safety data and compliance of ixazomib in the real world were
      comparable as those in the clinical trials.

      The survival of patients with multiple myeloma in China is worse than that of western
      countries. One of the important reasons is irregular follow-up and nonstandard maintenance
      therapies. Many Chinese MM patients still use traditional maintenance drug thalidomide, which
      is difficult to apply for a long time due to toxicities especially PN and gastrointestinal
      reactions. The second generation IMiD drug lenalidomide as maintenance treatment has been
      increasingly accepted by patients and hematologists. However, due to the low proportion of
      autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) after first-line regimens in China, the efficacy
      of single-agent maintenance is also limited, especially for high-risk patients. As novel
      anti-myeloma drugs were rapidly approved and reimbursed in China, a dual oral maintenance
      regimen of lenalidomide in combination with ixazomib is being explored.

      The purpose of this multi-centered study is to evaluate the real world efficacy and safety of
      the maintenance therapies in Chinese patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM),
      which include ixazomib monotherapy, ixazomib combined with lenalidomide, and lenalidomide
      monotherapy.

      Adult NDMM patients who acquire at least partial response (PR) after 4~9 cycles of front-line
      regimens including ASCT will be recruited. Those who do not reach a PR after 4 cycles of
      front-line regimens will be switched to the second regimen for at most 5 cycles. After
      reaching a PR, these patients will also be recruited to the study. Maintenance therapies will
      be classified into three groups depending on patients' and doctors' discretion, including
      ixazomib 4mg day 1, 8,15; lenalidomide 25mg qod day 1~21; ixazomib and lenalidomide
      combination with same doses. Front-line maintenance is given till disease progression.
      Progression free survival and safety issues will be recorded. Drug doses will be adjusted or
      withdrawn based on the degree of toxicities.

      Adjunctive treatments are prophylaxis of herpes zosters with acyclovir, prophylaxis of venous
      thrombotic events with aspirin, prophylaxis of high-risk infections with sulfanilamide. The
      doses of lenalidomide are adjusted depending on clearance of creatinine.
    
  