
    
      The overall aim of this study is to explore the usefulness of integrating PROM assessments in
      the clinical management of hemodialysis patients. The specific objectives are as follows:

      Primary objective: to determine the effects of routine measurement and reporting to
      clinicians of PROMs, namely, the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System- revised: Renal (ESAS-r:
      Renal) or the Integrated Palliative care Outcome Scale - Renal (IPOS-Renal) and/or the
      EQ-5D-5L on patient-reported experience, particularly patient-clinician communication,
      measured by the Communication Assessment Tool (CAT), for patients with kidney failure
      requiring hemodialysis.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To determine if there is a difference in patient-reported experience and other outcomes
           induced by a condition-specific (ESAS-r: Renal /IPOS-Renal) versus a generic (EQ-5D-5L)
           PROM;

        2. To determine the effects of routinely measuring and reporting the ESAS-r:
           Renal/IPOS-Renal and/or the EQ-5D-5L on the clinical management of symptoms;

        3. To determine the effects of routinely measuring and reporting the ESAS-r: Renal
           /IPOS-Renal and/or the EQ-5D-5L on overall HRQL;

        4. To determine the effects of routinely measuring and reporting the ESAS-r:
           Renal/IPOS-Renal and/or the EQ-5D-5L on symptom burden, mental health outcomes and
           healthcare utilization;

        5. To determine the cost-effectiveness of routinely measuring the ESAS-r: Renal/IPOS-Renal
           and/or the EQ-5D-5L for patients with kidney failure requiring hemodialysis;

        6. To explore the perspectives and experience of patients and clinicians with routine
           measurement and reporting of PROMs in clinical practice.

      Study Design:

      The investigators propose the use of a cluster RCT design to avoid any potential
      contamination between the study groups. This study is a pragmatic RCT that will involve the
      random allocation of clusters (i.e., dialysis units) into four groups:

        -  Group 1: Completes disease-specific PROM

        -  Group 2: Completes generic PROM

        -  Group 3: Completes both PROMs

        -  Group 4: Usual care; does not complete any of the PROMs (control)

      Treatment aids for symptoms assessed by the PROMs will be made available for all clinicians
      in all study groups. Details about intervention and treatment aids are provided below.

      Hypotheses:

      The investigators hypothesize that the routine measurement and reporting of PROMs will lead
      to improvement in communication between CKD patients and clinicians in dialysis units in
      Canada compared to usual care. The investigators also hypothesized that this will lead to
      better symptom and disease management, and improvement in mental health and quality of life.
      Furthermore, the investigators anticipate that this intervention will be cost-effective and
      will be acceptable and feasible in the dialysis units' environment.

      Setting and Population:

      All available dialysis units from Alberta (Alberta Kidney Care - North (AKC-N) and Alberta
      Kidney Care - South (AKC-S)) and selected units in Ontario (Ontario Renal Network - ORN) will
      be invited to participate in this study. The unit of randomization will be the dialysis units
      within AKC-N/AKC-S/ORN, not dialysis programs or individual patients. Randomization will be
      done within each renal program (AKC-N/AKC-S/ORN) to ensure that units from all programs are
      represented in all study groups.

      Dialysis Unit Eligibility Criteria:

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  The unit provides chronic in-center hemodialysis;

        -  Hemodialysis clinicians are willing to review individual patients' routinely collected
           ESAS-r: Renal or IPOS-Renal and/or EQ-5D-5L as part of routine patient assessment;

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  The unit is unable to administer the ESAS-r: Renal or IPOS-Renal and EQ-5D-5L to
           in-centre hemodialysis patients as part of clinical workflow to all possible patients;

        -  The unit is part of a long-term care facility

        -  There are 5 or fewer patients treated at that unit

        -  Lack of WiFi connectivity (Alberta only)

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria for individual patients: All patients undergoing hemodialysis
      who are 18 years or older at the start of the study, and are willing and able to complete the
      PROMs as part of the trial will be eligible to participate in this study. Patients with
      cognitive impairment, undergoing acute dialysis, or transiently dialyzing in the unit are not
      included.

      Interventions:

      Since blinding is not feasible in this trial, it will be conducted as an open trial.
      Consequently, research staff, clinicians, and all patients will be aware of group allocation;
      cluster randomization is intended to minimize potential biases associated with an open trial
      design. Eligible dialysis units will be randomly allocated to one of 4 study groups:

        1. The disease-specific PROM group: The disease-specific PROM will be administered every 2
           months to all patients able to complete the instrument for a period of 12 months. The
           PROMs results will be reported back to the patient, and patients will be prompted to
           follow-up with their care providers if they provide a positive response to any of the
           symptoms assessed by the PROM. The PROMs results will also be printed in a report form
           and added to the patient's medical chart for review by clinicians. The report will
           display each patient's most recent results in comparison with their previous results,
           and in comparison with the general dialysis population. The PROMs report will be
           accompanied by treatment aids for all symptoms.

        2. The generic PROM group: The generic PROM will be administered every 2 months to all
           patients able to complete the instrument for a period of 12 months. The PROMs results
           will be reported back to the patient, and patients will be prompted to follow-up with
           their care providers if they provide a positive response to any of the symptoms assessed
           by the PROM. The PROMs results will also be printed in a report form and added to the
           patient's medical chart for review by clinicians. The report will display each patient's
           most recent results in comparison with their previous results, and in comparison with
           the general dialysis population. The PROMs report will be accompanied by treatment aids
           for all symptoms. The proposed generic PROM is the EQ-5D-5L.

        3. The disease-specific and generic PROM group: The disease-specific and generic PROMs will
           be administered every 2 months to all patients able to complete the instrument for a
           period of 12 months. The PROMs results will be reported back to the patient, and
           patients will be prompted to follow-up with their care providers if they provide a
           positive response to any of the symptoms assessed by the PROM. The PROMs results will
           also be printed in a report form and added to the patient's medical chart for review by
           clinicians. The report will display each patient's most recent results in comparison
           with their previous results, and in comparison with the general dialysis population. The
           PROMs report will be accompanied by treatment aids for all symptoms.

        4. The control or 'usual care' group: Patients in this group will follow usual care as
           provided in the dialysis unit and will not complete any PROM; however, all the treatment
           aids will be made available for clinicians in this study group during the trial period.

      Treatment aids:

      Treatment aids are assessment and treatment resources developed by expert clinicians for the
      management of certain symptoms and disorders. Each renal program developed treatment aids
      specific to symptoms assessed by the ESAS-r: Renal or IPOS-Renal (e.g., itchiness, restless
      leg syndrome, nausea) and the EQ-5D-5L (e.g., pain, anxiety/depression). Treatment aids are
      intended to support clinicians in the assessment and management of symptoms identified by
      these PROMs and will be made available for all clinicians at all study sites regardless of to
      which group they are randomized.

      Patient-facing materials are also provided to patients, to help them better understand the
      reasons why their symptom/problem may have developed, treatment options that might be
      considered, as well as self-care activities they can undertake to alleviate the symptom or
      problem.

      Data Analysis:

      The primary analysis will assess change in the overall CAT score, between study groups from
      baseline to 12 months using a linear mixed-effects model, with the mean CAT for the dialysis
      unit at baseline as a fixed effect covariate, and dialysis unit (cluster) as a random
      intercept. Our primary analytic plan will be based on changes in mean CAT score at the unit
      level, from baseline to 12 months. The primary analysis will be based on all of the PROMs
      intervention groups combined compared to the control group as fixed effects. As one of our
      secondary objectives, assessing differences between specific and generic PROMs, we will
      compare the individual interventions groups (i.e., ESAS-r: Renal /IPOS alone, EQ-5D-5D alone,
      or the combination) to the control group.

      We will also compare the proportion of patients reporting symptoms/problems on the ESAS-r:
      Renal or IPOS-Renal and EQ-5D-5L and the management of such symptoms/problems. Through
      clinical records, we will link PROMs scores with the use of specific treatments as per the
      treatment aids. We will obtain medication lists, allied health referrals, and chart notes to
      capture how symptoms are being treated. Each renal program (i.e., AKC-N, AKC-S, and ORN) will
      be analyzed separately then we will use meta-analyses to analyze the data from each renal
      program.

      Economic Evaluation:

      A cost-effectiveness analysis will be employed of the different study groups, compared to the
      usual care group as the reference case. The incremental costs and incremental QALYs of the
      different interventions relative to the usual care group will be compared to calculate
      incremental cost per QALYs gained ratios. Costs will be estimated for patients in the
      different study groups, including treatments received by patients, taking the perspective of
      the provincial health care system, personnel costs for training and delivery of the PROMs
      assessments, and subsequent health care utilization for patients in each of the study groups.
      Health care utilization will be estimated through linkage with provincial administrative
      health care databases at the individual patient-level. Costs associated with the provision of
      the intervention, including training and nursing time, will be estimated through observations
      for time and valued using standard staffing wage scales for the respective geographic
      regions. QALYs will be calculated based on changes in the EQ-5D-5L index score, using the
      Canadian preference weighting.

      Study Period:

      The study will be implemented over 48 months. The first 6 months will involve the
      administrative approvals, completing ethics requirements, training of clinicians on the use
      of PROMs; the following 18 months will involve trial implementation including assessments and
      interventions. The last 12-24 months will involve compiling the data from all study sites,
      data analysis and reporting of results.
    
  