
    
      The rapid decline in neonatal mortality during the past 4 decades has been attributed to
      improvements in neonatal intensive care. This decline was attributable to improved condition
      of the infants on NICU(Neonatal Intensive Care Unit) admission (improved birth weight, higher
      Apgar scores, and better physiologic ability).

      There are multiple risk factors related to admission of newborns at NICU as low birth weight
      , neonatal sepsis , hypothermia , hypoglycemia , respiratory distress and other factors.
      These risk factors are also considered as causes of death beside prematurity and congenital
      malformations.

      One of the most important risk factors for admission and is considered as a major cause of
      death is premature infants. Neonatal intensive care has become a cornerstone for treatment of
      premature infants worldwide.

      Another group is low birth weight (LBW) infants. LBW babies face increased risk of a myriad
      of physical and developmental problems. Before the era of neonatal intensive care units, few
      VLBW infants survived. Today, babies who weigh as little as a pound and developed in the
      uterus for as early as 26 weeks have been known to survive. LBW babies need high cost of
      intensive neonatal care and adequate nursing coverage.

      Neonatal respiratory morbidity in term infants is another cause of admission and death in
      neonates and is multifactorial in aetiology.

      Neonatal sepsis as well is one of the most common reasons for admission to neonatal units in
      developing countries. It is also a major cause of mortality in both developed and developing
      countries.

      Hypoglycaemia also plays an important role as it accounts for approximately one-tenth of term
      admissions to neonatal units can cause long-term neurodevelopmental impairment and is
      associated with the significant burden to the affected infants, families and the health
      system.

      Knowing the disease patterns and causes in the neonatology unit and the disease-wise outcome
      can inform the required efforts to reduce morbidity and mortality. Thus, in this study we
      will assess the causes and risk factors for neonatal admission at NICU of Assuit University
      Children Hospital (AUCH) and the outcome of them.
    
  