
    
      Study sample : patient with low ejection fraction indicated for CABG surgery in NCCHK who
      fulfill inclusion and exclusion criteria

      Sampling method : first we use consecutive method to find subject with male sex and age
      40-70. After that, we use simple random sampling to allocate each subject to each group.

      Total samples is 13 for each group. To anticipated drop out rate 10%, total sample is 15 for
      each group.

      Intervention and measurement :

      Control group will only receive CABG surgery. Study group will receive CBAG surgery and stem
      cell implantation. Stem cell aspiration will be performed 1 day before CABG procedure. Before
      aspiration, patients will be given local anesthetic and light sedation. Stem cell will be
      collected from posterior iliac crest. Total aspirate 190 cc. Stem cell CD133+ will be
      separated using CliniMACS® Magnetic Separation Device after labelled with Magnetic microbeads
      - anti CD133 labelling.

      Myocardial perfusion reserve index will be measure using MRI. MPRI value will be obtained
      globally and segmentally in each 16 ventricle segments VEGF plasma level will be measured
      using sandwich Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay method.

      Ejection fraction, left ventricle dimension, and scar size will be measured using MRI.

      Quality of life will be measured using Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire.

      Statistical analysis is done using IBM SPSS Statistics version 21.0 (SPSS inc, Chicago, IL,
      USA). Numerical data will be presented in either mean/standard deviation or median/min-max
      depend on distribution of data. Hypothesis test for numeric variable is done using
      paired/non-paired T test or Mann-Whitney/Wilcoxon depend on normality of data. Normality test
      is done using Shapiro-Wilk test. Hypothesis test for category varible is done using
      chi-square or fischer test.
    
  