
    
      In recent years, numerous neurophysiological studies have characterized the alterations of
      voluntary movement and the pathophysiological mechanisms of MP. Kinematic studies have shown
      that in addition to bradykinesia, which literally means slowing of movement, voluntary
      movements in PD are characterized by reduced amplitude (hypokinesia), altered rhythmicity
      (dysrhythmia) and progressive decrease in amplitude and speed during the execution of
      repetitive movements (sequence effect). Recent evidence also suggests that the
      characteristics of voluntary movement can vary in the various stages of PD, it has been
      observed, for example, that in early stages of disease, i.e. in newly diagnosed patients not
      previously treated with dopaminergic drugs repetitive finger-tapping movements are
      characterized by reduced amplitude and speed and the effect sequence, without significant
      changes in the rhythm of movement. In the advanced stages of PD, movement is characterized by
      a marked decrease in amplitude and velocity and by an altered rhythm of movement but not by
      the sequence effect.

      TMS is a neurophysiological technique that allows the non-invasive study of different
      physiological mechanisms of M1 in humans. Stimulation, delivered in single stimuli, allows
      for example to evaluate neurophysiological parameters such as motor thresholds, the amplitude
      of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and the so-called input-output recruitment curve of MEPs,
      i.e. parameters that reflect the overall excitability of the corticospinal system. TMS
      delivered in pairs of magnetic stimuli allows additional parameters to be evaluated, such as
      intracortical inhibition at short intervals (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF), i.e.
      parameters that reflect the excitability of inhibitory and facilitator cortical interneurons.
      In recent years, further protocols have been developed using the repetitive stimulation of M1
      to induce lasting changes in the amplitude of MEPs that are thought to reflect the mechanisms
      of synaptic plasticity, similar to similar phenomena observed in the experimental animal. In
      particular, the technique of associative stimulation (PAS), is based on percutaneous
      electrical stimulation of the peripheral nerve and concomitant stimulation of M1 by TMS at
      certain inter-stimulation intervals (25ms or 10ms) to induce lasting changes, in a
      facilitatory or inhibitory sense, in the amplitude of MEPs. Numerous TMS studies have been
      performed in PD patients in recent years. Among the main results observed are altered
      excitability of M1, especially a reduced SICI and reduced synaptic plasticity, tested with
      the PAS technique or other methods. Recently, we have also observed that some alterations of
      excitability and plasticity of M1 correlate with specific kinematic alterations of movement
      in PD patients, suggesting therefore that neurophysiological changes of M1 contribute to the
      pathophysiology of bradykinesia. In addition to the central role played by a dopaminergic
      deficit in MP, recent evidence suggests a possible involvement of the neurotransmitter
      glutamatergic system.

      MAIN ASSUMPTIONS AND OBJECTIVES

      Hypothesis:

      Previous studies have observed relationships between the reduced cortical inhibition and
      reduced synaptic plasticity of M1 and the overall severity of PD evaluated with standardized
      clinical scales and kinematic motion analysis techniques. In the present study, we will
      relate metabotropic type 3 glutamate receptor polymorphisms (mGlu3) to the severity of motor
      and non-motor symptoms, cortical plasticity and other neurophysiological parameters in
      patients with PD.

      Preliminary data:

      Previous observations obtained in our laboratory have shown that the kinematic study in PD is
      a valid technique for objectively documenting various alterations of voluntary movement,
      including bradykinesia, hypokinesia, altered rhythmicity, and sequence effect. These
      characteristics may change at various stages of PD. For example, it has been observed that in
      the early stages of illness, repetitive finger movements are characterized by reduced
      amplitude and speed and by the sequence effect, without significant alterations in the rhythm
      of the movement. In the advanced stages of PD, movement is characterized by a marked decrease
      in amplitude and velocity and an altered rhythm of movement but not by the sequence effect.
      Kinematic studies in patients with PD have also made it possible to objectively quantify the
      effects of dopaminergic replacement therapy on the various alterations that characterize the
      PD. The objective effects of dopaminergic therapy on the various alterations of voluntary
      movement, quantified by kinematic studies, are variable. In particular, it has been
      repeatedly observed that the sequencing effect in patients with PD does not improve
      significantly following the administration of dopaminergic drugs. Previous observations
      obtained in TMS studies have also demonstrated altered M1 excitability in patients with PD,
      including for example reduced SICI and reduced synaptic plasticity, tested with the PAS
      technique or other methods. In some cases, it has been observed that the administration of
      dopaminergic drugs is able to normalize the alterations of neurophysiological parameters of
      M1 in PD, the results are however variable. Recently, we have observed that some alterations
      of excitability and plasticity of M1 correlate with specific kinematic alterations of
      movement in PD patients, suggesting therefore that neurophysiological changes of M1
      contribute to the pathophysiology of bradykinesia.

      Objectives:

      In the present monocentric observational study, the investigators propose to:

      A) To carry out an accurate characterization of the alterations of the voluntary movement in
      patients with PD through the use of standardized clinical scales and a computerized system
      for the objective analysis of the voluntary movement and a detailed study of possible
      neurophysiological alterations of M1 in patients with PD, through the use of TMS techniques.

      B) Evaluate metabotropic type 3 glutamate receptor polymorphisms (mGlu3) in PD patients.

      C) Investigate possible correlations between type 3 metabotropic glutamate receptor
      polymorphisms (mGlu3), clinical evaluation scales, alterations of kinematic motion parameters
      and neurophysiological parameters of M1.

      METHODOLOGY AND EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN The study involves the recruitment of 20 PD patients,
      diagnosed according to current clinical criteria and 20 healthy control subjects. Patients
      with motor fluctuations and dyskinesia will be excluded. Recruitment of patients and control
      subjects will be carried out at the IRCCS NEUROMED Institute, Pozzilli (IS). All PD patients
      will undergo blood sampling to assess metabotropic glutamate type 3 (mGlu3) receptor
      polymorphisms All study participants will give informed consent to the experimental
      procedures, which will be approved by the local ethics committee and conducted in accordance
      with the Helsinki Declaration.

      Standardized clinical scales and a computerized system for objective analysis of voluntary
      movement will be used to characterize alterations of voluntary movement in PD patients. With
      this system, the movements of the upper limb will be examined, following the instructions
      dictated by the scale most widely used today in the clinical environment, namely the new
      version of the UPDRS, promoted by the Movement Disorder Society. The repetitive movements of
      the fingers will be examined by inviting the patient to tap his index finger on his thumb.
      For each test, the movements shall be made for 15 seconds in succession. Three recordings
      will be made for each movement. Participants will be encouraged to make the movements as fast
      and as wide as possible. The movements will be analyzed at the most affected side. The
      computerized analysis system will allow to objectively extrapolate the parameters related to
      speed, amplitude, the rhythm of the movement and effect-sequence.

      The study of neurophysiological alterations of M1 will be carried out by means of the TMS
      technique. Ejecting single magnetic stimuli, a measurement of parameters reflecting the
      excitability of the corticospinal pathway will be carried out, i.e. the measurement of motor
      thresholds and of the input-output recruitment curve. By delivering magnetic stimuli in
      pairs, according to a condition-test paradigm, at inter-stimulus intervals fixed at 2-4-10
      and 15ms parameters reflecting the excitability of intracortical circuits of inhibitory
      (SICI) and facilitatory (ICF) type will be measured. Finally, the PAS technique will be used
      to study the mechanisms of synaptic plasticity of M1. PAS uses joint peripheral nerve
      stimulation (percutaneous electrical stimulation) and M1 (TMS) at an inter-stimulation
      interval fixed at 25ms. During the PAS technique, 225 stimuli are delivered globally, at a
      frequency of 0.4 Hz and for a total duration of 15 minutes of stimulation.

      Patients with PD will be studied in a single experimental session, at least twelve hours
      after the suspension of dopaminergic drugs (OFF session). Healthy control subjects will be
      evaluated in a single experimental session.

      MEANING AND INNOVATION The main innovative aspect of the study is the integrated approach
      that involves the use of both techniques of kinematic analysis of movement, and techniques of
      non-invasive brain stimulation. The present work could, therefore, allow to deepen the
      current knowledge and to obtain advancement in terms of understanding the pathophysiological
      mechanisms underlying the altered motor control in patients with PD.

      EQUIPMENT AND RESOURCES The study will be carried out at the IRCCS NEUROMED Institute,
      Pozzilli (IS). The institute has the material to conduct the study and in particular: the
      optoelectronic system of infrared cameras (sampling rate, 120Hz), (SMART motion system, BTS
      Engineering, Milan, Italy) for kinematic evaluation; the dedicated software for kinematic
      data analysis (SMART Analyzer, BTS Engineering, Milan, ltaly); two Magstim magnetic
      stimulators (Magstim Company, Withland, UK) for single and double stimulation magnetic
      stimulation and one DS7 Digitimer electric simulator (Digitimer, UK) for PAS stimulation; one
      D 360 Digitimer amplifier (Digitimer, UK) and one AD 1401 plus analogue-to-digital converter
      (Cambridge Electronic Design, UK) for recording the electromyographic signal; one dedicated
      software (Signal® version 4.00, Cambridge Electronic Design, UK) for off-line analysis of the
      electromyographic signal.

      TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE OF THE STUDY The results of the study could be useful for a better
      understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms, and in particular of the involvement of
      M1, at the basis of the alterations of voluntary movement in MP. The results of the study
      could also be useful in developing possible treatments, based on the use of subtype-selective
      agonists and positive allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate type 3 receptors
      (mGlu3).
    
  