
    
      For people who have become hemiplegic as a result of a stroke, a critical safety-related
      retraining area for physical functions is wheelchair transfers. In addition, to incorporate
      the relatively unsupervised home care into the rehabilitation process, clinicians require a
      better means to assess functional gains and provide effective training tools. Our goal is to
      develop a personalized training and clinical assessment instrument based on the Video-Based
      F-PAT (Functional Performance Assessment and Training) which relies on the manipulation of
      digitized videoclips. Our development objectives are (1) to enhance the pilot F-PAT web site
      to allow clinicians password-protected access to the digitized video and assessment
      information; and (2) to train an Occupational Therapist collaborator to create the
      personalized videotapes for patients to take home with them. Our clinical objective is to
      implement a 2-year evaluation of the F-PAT design concept with 30 subjects, divided in 3
      groups, who as patients undergo acute rehabilitation at the VA Comprehensive Rehabilitation
      Center and are discharged to their homes or a sub-acute facility. This study has the dual
      goal of evaluating the effectiveness of the personalized training videotapes and the
      effectiveness of the video-based assessment methodology.

      The study will divide the subjects into three treatment groups to compare the effectiveness
      of accepted practice, generic videotape, and personalized videotape home-based instruction
      for clients and care providers. Comparison of outcomes will be done using videotape of task
      performance before release from the acute therapy program and at the follow-up evaluation one
      month later. The subjects will be evaluated by a blinded physiatrist viewing and rating
      digitized videoclips of task performance on the F-PAT web site. This study will determine if
      personalized videoclip-based instructional material is effective, and if videoclip
      comparisons by a clinician is an effective diagnosis and assessment instrument. If it is not
      possible for logistical reasons for a subject to return to the clinic for the follow-on
      evaluation, the F-PAT team will visit the subject's home and perform the videotaping on-site.
      The remainder of the evaluation with input from the physiatrist will occur subsequently at
      the clinic.
    
  