
    
      Design:

      Prospective interventional study.

      Patients and methods:

      Tracked on a population of 80 patients with CHC (estimated fibrosis F2-F3),

      An evaluation of the CVR will be performed by determining biomarkers of endothelial
      activation and macrophage activation, measuring flow-mediated vasodilation and
      atherosclerotic damage.

      All evaluations will take place prior (at baseline) and after antiviral treatment.
      Particularly, all determinations will be performed immediately before and 3, 12 and 24 months
      after the end of antiviral treatment.

      In order to improve the diagnostic accuracy in terms of discriminating liver damage
      associated to Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) from HCV infection, the investigators
      will use the owl-liver® technique in all patients before and after treatment.

      Sample size: Considering the primary endpoint the flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD), data have
      been reported on FMD of 7.6 ± 2.4% in healthy subjects and 5.1 ± 2.2% in subjects with risk
      factors (Dalli et al Rev Esp Cardiol 2002; 55: 928-35). Assuming these SD and a correlation
      coefficient of 0.3 between the two measurements, 80 patients will be needed to detect a
      change of 1% in vasodilation with an output of 90% and a significance level of 5%.

      Variables and tasks:

      Task 1. Assessment of endothelial function.

        1. -Vasodilation mediated by ultrasound brachial flow through the rate of increase of
           brachial artery diameter (d2) as compared to baseline (d1) after a ischemia time (300
           mmHg) for 4 minutes (FMD = (d2-d1) / d1 (x 100).

        2. -Endothelial function biomarkers: ICAM-1, VCAM-1, E-selectin, P-selectin, MCP-1,
           angiopoietin-2, sTWEAK and ADMA.

        3. - Macrophage activation biomarkers: Gal-3BP, sCD163 and sCD14.

      Task 2. Assessment of atherosclerotic damage. Common carotid, internal carotid and carotid
      bulb (bilateral) will be explored by ultrasound. The images will be electronically stored in
      DICOM format.

      The analyzed parameters will be:

        1. cIMT (Carotid intima media thickness and carotid intima-media thickness) defined as the
           distance between the interface of the carotid lumen with arterial intima and the
           interface of medium with adventitia of the distal arterial wall. They will be measured
           on the back wall in a free-plaque area in the common carotid (cIMT CC) in the carotid
           bulb (cIMT -B), and internal carotid (cIMT -CI).

        2. Presence of carotid plaques in these territories. Plaque will be defined following the
           Mannheim criteria.

        3. Presence of atherosclerotic plaque: to distinguish between focal and diffuse thickening.
           In the focal plate area, maximum thickness and Gray Scale Median (GSM) will be
           quantified. In the diffuse thickening (IMT> 1.5 mm) only the GSM will be quantified.

      Task 3. Assessment of vascular risk. Classic and emerging vascular risk assessment.

        1. -Study of classic risk factors: through REGICOR and Framingham Score tables. Fatty Liver
           Index to exclude or confirm NASH (BMI, waist circumference, triglycerides and GGT).
           Metabolic syndrome will be detected by the NCEP-ATPIII.

        2. - Study of emerging vascular risk factors, including proinflammatory factors. In this
           way, the investigators will analyze the plasma levels hcPCR, homocysteine, Lp(a),
           pentraxin 3, SAA, oxidized LDL, PON1, PCSK9 and elevated plasma levels of von Willebrand
           factor factor (VWF)

        3. - Qualitative lipoprotein changes: the total concentration of lipoprotein (VLDL, LDL,
           HDL) will be determined as well as their composition (total cholesterol, triglycerides,
           phospholipids, protein, apolipoprotein B, lipoprotein ratio / total triglyceride mass
           VLDL, LDL and HDL, number of VLDL, LDL and HDL, cholesterol molecules per particle and
           triglyceride molecules per particle).

        4. - Insulin resistance by HOMA.

        5. -HbA1c

        6. - Rx Thorax.

      h)-ECG with QTc interval measurement.
    
  