
    
      "PIGMENT - Subretinal PDE6A gene therapy for retinitis pigmentosa" is an open mono-center,
      phase I/IIa trial with fellow-eye comparison.

      The study begins with a detailed preliminary examination (Screening), comprises a total of 13
      visits and ends after one year. In between, after the gene therapy injection (injection of
      the vector under the retina with one of four doses), regular controls are carried out at the
      Center for Ophthalmology Tübingen. Monitoring will be contimued after the first year, once a
      year two, three, four and five years after the injection. The study will take place
      exclusively at the Center for Ophthalmology in Tübingen and involves nine patients.

      All patients participating in this study receive treatment, i.e. there is no placebo or sham
      treatment group. A 30-day safety distance is maintained between each patient and each group.
      An independent committee will decide, after each injection of three patients, which dose the
      following three patients will receive.

      Patients can benefit from the treatment by slowing or stopping the loss of the rods and
      allowing them to function to a certain extent. Therefore, a possible benefit for patients may
      be that the vision problems will be improved by gene therapy. Such improvements could improve
      the overall quality of life and well-being. However, as no experience with gene therapy for
      retinitis pigmentosa in humans has yet been gained, we cannot promise any improvement. Within
      the scope of this study, patients will be given particularly intensive care and psychological
      support will also be offered in order to do everything for the patient's well-being and
      health during the study.

      Time Schedule: Start of trial Q3/2019 (FPFV), end of recruitment Q3/2020, end of trial
      Q4/2025 (LPLV), duration of trial per patient: one year with four years of follow-up. The
      final study report will be prepared after completion of the four year follow-up period (5
      years after treatment).
    
  