
    
      Peripheral nerve blocks are commonly used for upper and lower limb surgery. Continuous
      popliteal sciatic nerve block achieved by delivery of local anesthetic through a perineural
      catheter plays an important role in post-operative pain control after major orthopedic
      surgeries of the ankle and foot. Factors affecting the success and clinical outcome of
      continuous sciatic nerve blocks include the accuracy of catheter placement, the local
      anesthetic dose (volume and concentration), and the infusion method.

      Methods of local anesthetic infusion commonly used for peripheral nerve blockade include
      continuous infusion (CI) and CI combined with patient-controlled analgesic (PCA) boluses. A
      third option, regular intermittent boluses of local anesthetic, is not commonly used as it
      usually requires manual administration by a healthcare provider and is thus time and
      labor-intensive. Recently, however, infusion pumps capable of providing automated programmed
      intermittent bolus (PIB) dosing have become available.

      The premise of PIB dosing is that it results in more extensive spread of local anesthetic
      around nerves, and thus more effective sensory block and analgesia. PIB dosing regimens have
      been extensively studied in labor epidural analgesia, where they have been shown to decrease
      local anesthetic consumption and improve maternal satisfaction when compared with continuous
      infusion regimens.

      In contrast, there has been little investigation into PIB dosing regimens in the context of
      continuous peripheral nerve blockade. In 2005, Taboada et al 2 published a study that
      compared automated PIB dosing with CI dosing of local anesthetic for continuous popliteal
      sciatic nerve blockade. In both regimens, patients were also allowed to administer PCA
      boluses of local anesthetic as needed to improve the quality of the nerve block. The authors
      found that the automated PIB dosing regimen resulted in patients using less local anesthetic
      and fewer PCA boluses, while providing equivalent analgesia. There was a non-significant
      trend to lower pain scores in the PIB group of patients. These effects are attributed to
      better perineural spread of local anesthetic with the PIB regimen. No other studies have been
      conducted to confirm these benefits.

      The reduced local anesthetic requirement is of particular advantage in patients who are
      discharged home with a nerve block catheter in situ as the supplied reservoir of local
      anesthetic will last longer. Ambulatory infusion pumps with both PIB and PCA features are now
      commercially available. The investigators hypothesize that a PIB+PCA dosing regimen using one
      of these new ambulatory infusion pumps will provide more effective postoperative analgesia
      with less local anesthetic consumption than the CI+PCA dosing regimen.
    
  