
    
      Patients will be initially assessed by overactive bladder (OAB) and incontinence
      questionnaire. Examination was done to determine any neurological, or congenital
      abnormalities.

      Urodynamic study (UDS) will done for all patients. The patients will be asked to drink fluids
      to obtain a comfortably full bladder. Initially, a pelvic-abdominal ultrasound was done
      followed by the UDS. Urodynamic study consisted of uroflowmetry (volume: ≥150 ml and Qmax:
      20-30 ml/s); filling cystometry in physiological or medium filling rate of 40 ml/min (using
      normal saline at room temperature through a double lumen urethral catheter); stress leak
      test; and pressure flow study.

      No sedation will be administered during the study as the patient should be aware. The
      patients were placed in a semi-seated lithotomy position. After a detailed explanation to the
      patient, the examination will begin by passing a catheter into the bladder (5 Fr) to measure
      the postvoiding residual urine followed by filling the bladder and measuring the intravesical
      pressure through the catheter.

      A rectal catheter was placed for measuring the abdominal pressure. The systems will be always
      zeroed at the atmospheric pressure. The patients will be periodically asked to cough to check
      the operation of the equipment and instructed to report her sensations.

      The volume of the first sensation of filling, first desire (1 s) and second desire (2 s) were
      recorded. When the bladder was filled up to 150 ml, patients were asked to cough (Valsalva)
      to predict the stress leakage. If not occur at 150 ml, the bladder was refilled, and the
      stress test was repeated until the leakage occurred or the bladder capacity was reached.
      Additionally, any unidentified involuntary detrusor contractions will be noted.

      When the patient had the urge to void, the permission for voiding will be given. Then voiding
      cystometrogram (pressure-flow) was performed and the urodynamic parameters, such as maximum
      flow rate (Qmax) and detrusor pressure at maximum flow (Pdet Qmax) will be observed.
    
  