
    
      Background:

      Orthognathic surgery is a commonly accepted treatment modality for the management of
      dentofacial deformities. Although in many cases, satisfying, if not excellent, aesthetic and
      functional results can be obtained with orthognathic surgeries, this is not without risks;
      and one of the most prevalent and long-term complication encountered is neurosensory
      disturbance either in the inferior alveolar nerve or the infraorbital nerve depending on the
      jaw receiving the osteotomy. A systematic review by Jędrzejewski et al. in 2015 reported
      cranial nerve injury/sensitivity alteration to be the most common complication after
      orthognathic surgery and is seen in 50% of cases, and almost all patients will report altered
      sensation in the immediate post-operative period. Although this will decrease over time,
      Henzelka et al. have reported a 3% incidence of paresthesia in the inferior alveolar nerve 1
      year post-surgery, and Thygesen et al. reported sensory changes in the infraorbital nerve in
      7 to 60% of patients depending on site of measurement 1 year post-surgery. In Hong Kong, a
      10-year retrospective study of 581 patients by Lee et al. in 2013 reported a 5.9% rate of
      neurosensory disturbance 1-year post-orthognathic surgery. Of these cases, the majority
      affected the inferior alveolar nerve, and the combination of ramus osteotomies together with
      anterior mandibular osteotomies significantly increased the chances of permanent neurosensory
      disturbance.

      Biosynthesis of Melatonin:

      Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is a neurohormone that is endogenously produced and
      secreted by the pineal gland in the brain in a circadian rhythm, with a plasma concentration
      highest at night and lowest during the day. Its normal physiological roles in humans are to
      regulate diurnal rhythm, sleep, mood, immunity, reproduction, intestinal motility, and
      metabolism. Oral exogenous melatonin has been used in the management of jetlag and other
      sleep disorders. Recently, animal and human studies have shown melatonin to improve tolerance
      to tourniquet pain in patients receiving hand surgery performed under regional anaesthesia,
      to improve dyspnea in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and to have a
      neuroprotective and neuroregenerative effect after nerve injuries.

      Pharmacology of Melatonin:

      i) Bioavailability: The absorption and bioavailability after oral intake of Melatonin varies
      greatly. Absorption of Melatonin can range from complete in younger patients and decrease to
      approximately 50% in the elderly. Bioavailability is usually approximately 15% due to
      variations in first-pass metabolism. Peak value is ususally observed 60 - 150min after oral
      consumption. When applied topically to the skin, it has been found that topical application
      of 0.01% Melatonin cream will increase serum levels of Melatonin from a mean of 4.9pg/mL
      pre-application to 5.1pg/mL 1-hour post-application to 8.1pg/mL 8-hours post-application, and
      to 9.0pg/mL 24-hours post-application.

      ii) Distribution: Melatonin is highly lipid-soluble with a protein binding capacity of
      approximately 60%. In vitro, Melatonin has been shown to mainly bind to albumin, alpha1-acid
      glycoprotein and high-density lipoprotein. Due to its high lipid-solubility, Melatonin has
      the ability to cross most membrane barriers, including the blood-brain barrier and placenta
      and can be found in saliva, serum, and urine after oral administration. Melatonin receptors
      can be found in many tissues throughout the body.

      iii) Biotransformation and Excretion: Melatonin is mainly hydroxylated by cytochrome P450
      (CYP1A2) in the liver into 6-hydroxymelatonin with a small amount into the serotonin
      metabolites cyclic 3-hydroxymelatonin and indolinone tautomer of 2-hydroxymelatonin. These
      are further conjugated to their sulfate and glucuronide conjuates and excreted in the urine.

      Usages of Melatonin:

      Aside from the regulating sleep and diurnal rhythm, exogenous Melatonin has been recently
      proved in animal studies and randomized controlled trials in humans to be beneficial in many
      other areas of medicine and surgery, mostly hypothesized to be due to its antioxidative
      properties that reduce inflammatory mediators.

      A randomized controlled trial by Mowafi and Ismail in 2008 have shown that in patients who
      required hand surgery with the use of tourniquet under regional anaesthesia, pre-medication
      with 10mg oral Melatonin 90 minutes before surgery can significanly reduce verbal pain score
      for tourniquet pain when compared to the placebo group. The time to the first dose of
      post-operative analgesic request was significantly longer in the Melatonin group and the
      amount of post-operative analgesic consumption in the Melatonin group was also significantly
      lower. No significant difference in the incidence of adverse effects between the Melatonin
      and placebo groups was reported in the study.

      Animal studies have shown neuroregenerative and neuroprotective effects of Melatonin. In a
      controlled study in rats, Atik et al. have shown Melatonin to be beneficial in promoting
      nerve recovery at high doses. In this study, the tibial and peroneal branches of the sciatic
      nerve were dissected and subsequently coapted with prolene suture. Post-trauma, 10mg/kg
      Melatonin was injected intraperitoneally for 21 days. Histologically, rats which received
      Melatonin exhibited less endoneural collagen with better organizad collagen along the repair
      line of the nerve. There were also fewer demyelinized axons. By 12 weeks post-trauma, walking
      track analysis showed significantly better function in the Melatonin group when measured with
      the sciatic function index (SFI). Electrophysiological findings showed that by 12 weeks
      post-trauma, the latency was significantly less in the Melatonin group, whilst action
      potential amplitude and nerve conduction velocity were significantly higher in the Melatonin
      group compared to the control group. It was concluded in this study that high doses of
      Melatonin has a significant beneficial effect on nerve recovery as measured functionally,
      histopathologically, and electrophysiologically.

      In another controlled study in rats, Kaya et al. have shown beneficial effects of Melatonin
      on cut and crush injured sciatic nerve. In this study Melatonin was administered
      intraperitoneally at a dose of 50mg/kg/day for 6 weeks post-trauma. In terms of SFI values,
      Melatonin treatment accelerated the recovery process to reach -50 SFI level by the 3rd week,
      as compared to the placebo group, which only reached this SFI level by the 6th week.
      Histologically, rats treated with Melatonin showed better strutural preservation of the
      myelin sheaths compared to the control group. Biochemically, the beneficial effects of
      Melatonin was further comfirmed by showing lower lipid peroxidation and higher superoxide
      dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase activities in sciatic nerve samples when
      compared to the control group.

      Similar beneficial effects were reported by Zencirci et al. in their study of Melatonin in
      peripheral nerve crush injury in rats. In their study, rats were allocated into the control
      group or into the treatment group, which further divided into a group receiving 5mg/kg
      intraperitoneal Melatonin for 21 days post-trauma, and another group receiving 20mg/kg for
      the same length of time. Again, they have shown an increase in SFI values in the injured
      sciatic nerves treated with Melatonin when compared to the control group.
      Electrophysiological measurements again showed that Melatonin treatment deceased the latency
      values and increased the conduction velocities. However, it was not mentioned whether
      significant differences were observed between the group receiving 5mg/kg Melatonin and
      20mg/kg Melatonin.

      Fujimoto et al. were also able to show a potent protective effect of Melatonin on spinal cord
      injury. In this study, experimental ischemic-induced spinal cord injury was inflicted in
      rats. Subesequently, the rats were either placed in the controlled group or received 2.5mg/kg
      Melatonin injected intraperitoneally at 5 minutes, then 1, 2, 3, and 4 hours after injury. It
      was found that Melatonin reduced the occurrence of neutrophil-induced lipid peroxidation.
      Melatonin also reduced thiobarbituric acid reactive substance content and myeloperoxidase
      activity, which were responsible for motor deficits. Histologically, findings from the
      Melatonin group showed less cavity formation than the control group.
    
  