
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether the addition of octreotide pamoate to tamoxifen alone or to
      tamoxifen and chemotherapy improves the disease free survival of patients with primary
      invasive breast cancer with estrogen receptor (ER) positive tumors and histologically
      negative axillary lymph nodes or histologically negative sentinel lymph nodes if
      participating in NSABP B-32. II. Determine whether the rate of endometrial cancer associated
      with tamoxifen is altered by the concurrent administration of octreotide pamoate. III.
      Determine whether the addition of octreotide pamoate to tamoxifen decreases the rate of
      opposite breast cancer more than tamoxifen alone. IV. Evaluate the incidence of gallstone
      formation (including the development of symptoms and complications of biliary tract disease),
      hyper and hypoglycemia, hypothyroidism, and vitamin B12 deficiency in patients treated with
      octreotide pamoate in comparison with patients not treated with octreotide pamoate.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized into one of four treatment arms.
      Arm I: Patients receive oral tamoxifen (TMX) daily continously for 5 years. Lumpectomy
      patients receive breast radiotherapy following recovery from surgery. Arm II: Patients
      receive TMX as in Arm I and octreotide pamoate (SMS 201-995 pa LAR) intramuscularly (IM)
      every 21 days for 4 doses, followed by octreotide pamoate IM for 28 days for 23 additional
      doses. Lumpectomy patients receive breast radiotherapy following recovery from surgery. Arm
      III: Patients receive doxorubicin (DOX) IV and cyclophosphamide (CTX) IV every 3 weeks for 4
      courses and TMX as in Arm I. Lumpectomy patients receive breast radiotherapy after recovery
      from chemotherapy. Arm IV: Patients receive DOX and CTX as in Arm III, TMX as in Arm I, and
      octreotide pamoate as in Arm II. Patients receive TMX and octreotide pamoate on day 1 of
      first course of chemotherapy. Lumpectomy patients receive breast radiotherapy after recovery
      from chemotherapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Total accrual of 3,000 patients will be acrrued for this study over 5
      years.
    
  