
    
      Despite the potential for full recovery surprisingly few older injury survivors are able to
      realize maximal recovery of function and quality of life after injury due to fragmentation of
      care delivery and lack of focus on psychological symptoms in the early post-injury period.
      Older injured adults are at particular risk of death and disability after injury. Thus, a
      fundamental gap in knowledge exists regarding the best way to enhance the recovery of injury
      survivors. The continued existence of this gap is an important problem because unless it is
      filled, injury survivors will continue to suffer from potentially reversible impairments of
      health and well-being. The long-term goal of this line of research is to improve the health
      and quality of care for injured patients. Indiana University School of Medicine researchers
      have over 20 years of experience developing innovative and effective collaborative care
      models that integrate with primary care and specialty physicians to address the complex
      biopsychosocial needs of patients with chronic disease states, such as dementia and
      depression. Based on these successes, an interdisciplinary team of clinical investigators at
      Indiana University revised the collaborative care model to meet the needs of injury survivors
      who are in an active recovery state. This injury specific collaborative care model is called
      the Trauma Medical Home (TMH). This proposal aims to conduct a randomized controlled trial to
      evaluate the efficacy of a 6-month collaborative care intervention in improving the
      functional and psychological recovery of 430 injury survivors 50 and older. The trial has the
      following specific aims: 1) Evaluate the ability of the TMH intervention to improve the
      physical recovery of older injury survivors; and 2) Evaluate the ability of the TMH
      intervention to improve the psychological recovery of older injury survivors; and 3) Evaluate
      the ability of the TMH intervention to reduce healthcare costs of older injury survivors and
      evaluate the cost of effectiveness of the TMH intervention. The research proposed in this
      application is innovative, in our opinion, because it represents a new and substantive
      departure from the status quo. Previous collaborative care models focused on chronic care
      management and they lack rapid adaptability. Because the recovery trajectory of injured
      patients is dynamic and changes quickly, the innovations in this proposal have to do with
      providing real-time feedback to a care coordinator that will allow the care coordinator to
      adjust an injury specific collaborative care protocol to meet the needs of the injured as
      they move through the dynamic recovery period after injury. This contribution will be
      significant as broad application of the Trauma Medical Home in trauma centers and trauma
      systems nationwide could result in better health and improved quality of post-injury care for
      older injured patients. Improved physical health and fewer psychological symptoms, will
      likely result in better overall functional ability, the increased ability to return to work
      and less reliance on family, social, and health care resources.
    
  