
    
      Identifying the cause of chest pain is a challenge to the Emergency Physician.Coronary artery
      disease is the most common group of Emergencies that has a high potential for rapidly
      developing a lethal outcome.

      Significant proportion of patients who presented to and released from the Emergency
      Department (ED)with AMI or unstable angina develop poor outcomes. This is because a large
      proportion of AMI present atypically.The initial single 12 lead ECG done at an ED is only 50%
      sensitive for AMI.Serial ECGs have been shown to improve sensitivity by 25%.Because of these
      limitations, physicians may admit patients with chest pain, liberally. On the other hand only
      25-50 % of patients admitted to CCU without AMI are eventually determined to have Acute
      Coronary Syndrome.

      Several serum cardiac markers such as myoglobulin, CKMB and Troponin T (TnT) are found to
      increase sensitivity in detecting AMI than just history and ECG. Among them TnT is a better
      predictor of adverse cardiac event than CKMB. Absence of TnT elevation identifies a lower
      risk group of patients , but not necessarily a low risk group since TnT cannot detect
      myocardial ischaemia in the absence of myocardial injury or myocyte cell death.

      There has been some chest pain evaluation practice in the ED using the graded exercise
      testing to screen for severe ischaemia.

      Several studies have suggested the safety of exercise testing in low risk patients presenting
      to ED with chest pain.The use of exercise testing has been found to be a powerful tool for
      prognostication.

      Stress nuclear imaging was also performed at the end of 6 hours of observation instead of
      graded exercise stress testing alone. There will be a significant proportion of patients who
      will not be eligible for standard exercise treadmill stress test due to poor exercise
      tolerance. Even for those who underwent exercise testing, studies showed that 24.2% were
      inconclusive because of baseline ECG abnormalities (left ventricular hypertrophy, left
      bundle-branch block or patient on digoxin). Some patients may not be able to achieve the
      required exercise level.

      Studies have shown that the mean sensitivity and specificity for graded exercise testing to
      detect severe coronary artery disease were 68 and 77% respectively. The sensitivity of graded
      exercise test for detecting single vessel disease is lower.

      Stress nuclear imaging is valuable in establishing the prognosis of patients with a low
      likelihood of coronary artery disease. Stress nuclear scans have additive prognostic value to
      graded exercise test especially if the latter is abnormal or non-diagnostic.For those who
      cannot exercise, pharmacological stress tetrofosmin with dobutamine or adenosine will be
      performed instead.

      The efficacy of acute chest pain evaluation centre has not been compared with a conventional
      protocol in a prospective randomised clinical trial.

      Aims

        1. To compare the incidence of adverse cardiac events among patients discharged after
           evaluation through ACTION with those through conventional protocol. Adverse cardiac
           events are defined as any of the following:

           i) Cardiac related death ii) Ventricular fibrillation iii) Myocardial infarction iv)
           Cardiogenic shock requiring intra-aortic balloon pump circulatory assistance v) Acute
           pulmonary oedema requiring endotracheal intubation

        2. To study the sensitivity specificity graded exercises testing, stress tetrofosmin scan
           in predicting adverse cardiac event

      5. Treatment Plan

      First 6 hours Once informed consent was obtained, the patient was then enrolled. They were
      put on continuous ECG monitoring. Ten mls of blood were drawn at 0,3,6 hours after arrival at
      the ED for myoglobin, CKMB and TnT analysis. Blood for LDL & HDL were also drawn at 0 hour as
      well with the cardiac markers. The old hospital case record of patient, if available, were
      retrieved and previous ECG's were also compared against the new ECG.

      Patients who develop recurring chest pain consistent with myocardial ischaemia, ST segment
      elevation or depression on continuous 12 lead ECG monitoring indicating myocardial necrosis,
      or have positive CKMB (> 5), Troponin T (> 0.01), were admitted to the Department of
      Cardiology. If the patient was not admitted at the end of 6 hours, he/she were reviewed by a
      ED Registrar/Associate Consultant/Consultant. The senior ED doctor reviewed the patient, his/
      her 12 lead ECGs and blood results for serum markers for myocardial necrosis.

      After first 6 hours - Study Group (Intervention Protocol)

      The patient then underwent a stress tetrofosmin scan within 24 hours of presentation
      (exercise or pharmacological stress for those who cannot exercise). Tetrofosmin scans was be
      done at NHC or the Department of Nuclear Medicine, SGH. Patients were monitored until the
      test was completed. If the stress tetrofosmin scan turned out to be positive, the patient was
      then admitted to the hospital for further management. If the stress tetrofosmin scan was
      negative, the patient was released from ED with instructions for follow-up in the cardiology
      clinic as an outpatient.

      Control Group (conventional protocol) The patient with high or intermediate risk for coronary
      artery disease (CAD) as defined by Agency for HealthCare Policy and Research guidelines for
      Unstable Angina was admitted. The indicators for coronary artery disease are definite angina,
      T wave inversion> 1 mm in leads with dominant R waves and diabetes. If in doubt, patients
      were also admitted. Patients who were discharged from the ED will be reviewed by a
      cardiologist at the NHC cardiac clinic within two weeks.

      6. Follow Up

      Patients were followed up at one month, six months and one year for any primary or secondary
      endpoints.
    
  