
    
      Human and animal studies have reported the beneficial influence of exercise on cognitive and
      brain functions. Accordingly, exercise is drawing increasing research attention as a possible
      lifestyle factor for improving neurocognitive functions.

      Low frequency and low amplitude Pulsed Electromagnetic Fields (PEMFs) recapitulate many of
      the benefits of exercise by activating many of the same cellular second messenger cascades
      activated by mechanical input (exercise) yet, without imparting a physical stress on the
      cells. Through a series of in vitro and in vivo experiments the investigators have shown that
      at field strengths of 1-2 mT amplitude, the PEMF system stimulates muscle without physically
      stressing the tissues and delivers the following benefits: 1) slows muscle loss, 2) improves
      muscle strength and, 3) releases important regenerative and metabolism-enhancing agents.

      Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is a relatively new optical imaging technology
      that uses light in the near-infrared spectrum to non-invasively monitor the haemodynamic
      responses evoked by neural activity through measuring the changes in oxyhaemoglobin (HbO) and
      deoxyhaemoglobin (HbR) concentrations in the cerebral cortex. The increased blood supply to
      the area of neural activation typically results in an increase in HbO concentration while a
      decrease is observed in HbR due to the blood's washout effect. The HbO and HbR responses from
      fNIRS measurements have been shown to be spatially and temporally correlated with the blood
      oxygen level-dependent signal obtained by fMRI. The advantage of fNIRS over other imaging
      modalities is that it is inexpensive, non-invasive, non-ionising and portable, making it a
      highly popular modality for implementing brain-computer interfaces. OBELAB NIRSIT is a
      commercially available, high-density fNIRS device that optically measures haemodynamic
      variations in the pre-frontal cortex (PFC).

      Low-frequency and low amplitude pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMFs) recapitulate many of
      the healthful benefits of exercise by activating many of the same cellular second messenger
      cascades activated by mechanical input (exercise) yet, without imparting a physical stress on
      the cells. Response windows are a largely unrecognised rule in mechanobiological systems,
      whereby cells are most responsive to a given strain, duration and frequency of stimulation;
      greater strain of higher frequency and duration of stimulation is too much of a stress for
      cells and results in null responses.

      The investigators have shown that PEMFs likewise obey an electromagnetic window of efficacy
      with temporal and frequency dependencies of similar scale as those required for mechanical
      stimulation, further supporting the conclusion that PEMFs are activating cellular
      mechanotransduction pathways. At field strengths of 1-2 mT amplitude, the PEMF system
      stimulates muscle without physically stressing the tissues and aims to deliver the following
      benefits: 1) slows muscle loss; 2) improves muscle strength and; 3) releases important
      regenerative and metabolism-enhancing agents. Accordingly, this study will investigate the
      exercise mimetic effects of PEMFs on cerebral haemodynamics and cognitive performance via
      targeting muscle. The results of this study will support future work with patients with
      memory deficits, such as mild cognitive impairment, to possibly mitigate disease progression.
    
  