
    
      Controlled ovarian stimulation (COS) is crucial for optimizing in vitro fertilization (IVF) /
      intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) success. Multiple factors influence the ovarian
      response to COS, making predictions about oocyte yields not so straightforward. As a result,
      ovarian response may be poor or suboptimal, or even excessive, all of which has negative
      consequences to the affected patient. The study of gene polymorphisms regulating the female
      reproductive function may help to clarify the mechanisms responsible for gonadal function and
      fertility, and also the inter-individual variability in ovarian response to COS.

      The main objective of COS is obtaining an adequate number of good quality oocytes, and also
      minimize the adverse drug reactions and cycle cancellations due to a high or poor response.
      The ideal number of oocytes to optimize treatment outcomes has been subject of debate for
      many years. However, based on recent published data, it seems reasonable to define the
      optimal number of oocytes to be retrieved after an adequate COS as 10-15 oocytes. To perform
      an adequate COS, it has been suggested that the antral follicle count (AFC) and
      anti-müllerian hormone (AMH) are the best biomarkers to predict the ovarian response.
      Recently, two nomograms have been proposed for the calculation of the follicle stimulating
      hormone (FSH) starting dose for COS, taking into account different parameters, namely: 1)
      Age, AFC and day 3 serum FSH; and 2) Age, serum AMH and FSH. Meanwhile, these prediction
      models are not able to predict an unexpected poor response and also a higher and undesirable
      ovarian response to FSH monotherapy.

      Considering the number of retrieved oocytes, it has been recently purposed a new patient
      stratification during ART treatments: poor response (1-3 oocytes); sub-optimal response (4-9
      oocytes); normal response (10-15 oocytes); high response (>15 oocytes). The reason to create
      this new category of sub-optimal responder is that they have poorer outcomes during ART
      treatments when compared to patients that have 10-15 oocytes retrieved. This category of
      sub-optimal responder has led to the introduction of new concept in reproductive medicine
      with the objective to stratify low prognosis patients undergoing ART based on the combination
      of quantitative and qualitative parameters. There is a group of patients that although
      present normal biomarkers of ovarian reserve, such as AFC and AMH, they have a sub-optimal
      response to COS. They have 9 retrieved oocytes, showing the inadequacy of using only the
      traditional ovarian reserve biomarkers to predict the ovarian response. This sub-optimal
      response should be related to ovarian sensitivity to exogenous gonadotrophins modulated by
      genetic factors.

      Hence, adoption of a pharmacogenetic approach in assisted reproduction seems attractive as it
      may help understanding the relationship between genetic variants and ovarian response to
      exogenous gonadotropins. The patient´s genetic profile could be used to select the most
      appropriate gonadotropin type, predict the optimal dosage for each drug, develop
      cost-effective treatment plan, maximize the success rates, and finally decrease the
      time-to-pregnancy.

      The study of genetic polymorphisms is undoubtedly a promising field in reproductive medicine.
      The candidate genes that play a role in the ovarian response to COS are as follows: i) genes
      that affect follicular function by exerting a hormonal effect - FSH, FSHR, V-LH, AMH, AMHR2,
      ERα, ERβ, CYP17, CYP19, COMT, MTHFR, GnRH1, KISS1, and KISS1R; ii) genes that affect the rate
      of initial primordial follicle recruitment in relation to the pool of growing follicles -
      BMP15, GDF9, and FOXL2; and iii) genes that encode DNA binding proteins and transcription
      factors, such as LHX8 and NANOS3. Variations in these genes can determine the variability of
      the follicular pool and explain the variance of the COS response and the results of ART.

      In modern reproductive medicine, where the individualization and personalized treatments
      should be the norm, optimizing and obtaining the best result in each COS would be of great
      interest to both clinicians and patients alike. Considering the variability of patients´
      response to COS, it is clear inadequate to select the type of gonadotropin and its initial
      dose empirically or based only on clinical and hormonal parameters.

      In this study, the investigators will evaluate genetic variation or polymorphisms between
      individuals submitted to IVF/ICSI cycles, and how these variations influence response to COS
      and pregnancy outcomes. Thus, this project has the aim to develop a pharmacogenetic algorithm
      associating gene polymorphisms, the patient clinical information, and functional and hormonal
      biomarker to: 1) predict the patient response to gonadotropin; 2) develop individualized
      gonadotropin regimens; 3) improve the accuracy of determining appropriate dosages of
      gonadotrophins; 4) improve efficacy and patient compliance to COS; and finally 5) reduce the
      time-to-pregnancy.
    
  