
    
      BACKGROUND

      Living with cerebral palsy is challenging for the child as well as the family charged with
      their care and support needs. Many families seek effective and sustainable interventions to
      improve gait of their children with cerebral palsy. An intervention that could be used in the
      home setting, assessed periodically by health care professionals of a tertiary pediatric
      centre, that has a benefit on gait and motor function in children with cerebral palsy might
      be feasible to families in the local Singapore healthcare setting. The Mollii suit is a
      non-invasive therapeutic technology using electrical stimulation in the form of whole-body
      garment with multiple electrodes individually programmed to stimulate selected muscles. Based
      on small preliminary studies, it is suggested that the Mollii suit improves mobility, gait,
      function and quality of life.

      OBJECTIVES

      This study aims to examine the effectiveness of the Mollii suit in improving gait in children
      with cerebral palsy. It also aims to determine the value of the Mollii suit by evaluating the
      acceptability, tolerance and compliance of the Mollii suit in children with cerebral palsy.

      METHODOLOGY

      This is a single-centre study that will recruit up to 20 children with cerebral palsy, GMFCS
      I-III. This study will evaluate change in gait and function following a four-week
      intervention period using a protocol of wearing the Mollii suit at home for one hour every
      day for four weeks using instrumented 3-dimensional gait analysis and objective standardised
      assessment tools. Primary outcome is improvement in gait, measured using the Gait Profile
      Score, Gait Deviation index, gait speed and cadence. Secondary outcomes include changes in
      functional assessments such as Functional Assessment Questionnaire (FAQ), Gross Motor
      Function Measure (GMFM), 10 metre walk test, Goal attainment Scale (GAS) and quality of life
      measures.
    
  