
    
      Pneumonia is the leading cause of death from nosocomial infections. Intubation and mechanical
      ventilation greatly increase the risk of ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) which is
      highest in trauma, burn, neurosurgical and surgical patients. Oral bacteria have been shown
      to be responsible for the development of VAP since the endotracheal tube provides a pathway
      for direct entry of bacteria from the oropharynx to the respiratory tract. Therefore,
      reducing the number of microorganisms in the mouth reduces the pool of organisms available
      for translocation to and colonization of the lung. The Tri-Service Oral Health Survey showed
      that military recruits had inferior oral health when compared to their civilian cohorts.
      Further, oral hygiene is likely to deteriorate in combat situations, increasing oral
      microbial flora. Intubation of combat casualties in the future will likely be performed in
      the field by the EMT-B trained combat medic (91W) under adverse conditions. Therefore,
      interventions to reduce oral microbial flora with intubation are attractive to reduce the
      incidence of VAP in combat casualties. This study will test the effect of a single
      peri-intubation oral intervention on oral microbial flora and the development of VAP in
      traumatic injury. Two hundred trauma patients requiring endotracheal intubation will be
      randomly assigned to either the intervention or control group over an 18-month data
      collection period. Data related to oral microbial flora (measured by semi-quantitative oral
      culture) and VAP (measured by the clinical pulmonary infection score-CPIS) will be obtained
      on study admission, at 24 (oral culture data only), 48 and 72 hours after intubation. The
      exact Wilcoxon two-sample one-sided test will be used to test for difference between groups.
      CPIS data will be compared using an analysis of covariance model. Covariates such as baseline
      oral culture category, trauma-injury and severity score (TRISS), illness severity (APACHE
      III) and frequency and timing of usual oral care will also be included. The findings from
      this study will be the first report of an empirically based peri-intubation oral intervention
      to reduce VAP and can be easily applied to the care of traumatic injury in both combat and
      civilian casualties.
    
  