
    
      By the year 2030, 50% of American adults could be obese. Increasingly, Americans are
      consuming more foods away from home and most of these foods are consumed in fast-food
      restaurants. Menu calorie labeling provides calorie information at the point of purchase in
      fast-food restaurants and is one strategy employed to promote lower calorie, healthier food
      choices. Initial studies of the impact of calorie labeling, however, suggest that posting
      calories may only affect calories purchased in a minority of consumers.

      The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) mandates that calorie labeling be
      implemented nationally and fast-food restaurants throughout the U.S. will begin to post
      calorie information. With an overarching goal of improving the impact of calorie labeling
      policies; this proposal will develop and pilot test a brief intervention that is
      complementary to the posted calorie information, and will explore potential barriers to
      reducing calories among an urban clinic population. The study aims are: (Aim 1) To develop
      the Complementary Calorie Labeling (CCL) intervention, an individual single-session
      intervention that can be delivered in primary care settings. Semi-structured interviews will
      be conducted among 40 overweight or obese participants to guide development of intervention
      components and materials. (Aim 2) To conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial of the CCL
      intervention among 188 overweight or obese participants. The CCL intervention will be
      compared to a control group that receives an educational brochure about calories. The primary
      outcome will be weekly calories purchased at fast-food restaurants as measured by fast-food
      receipts and food logs. (Aim 3) To examine whether calorie knowledge, health literacy,
      numeracy, and motivation are barriers to using calorie information and whether these
      variables moderate intervention efficacy.

      The proposed study will be conducted in a primarily low-income, minority clinic population in
      the Bronx NYC. NYC was the first major city to implement calorie labeling. Preliminary data
      from NYC suggest that fast-food consumers in the Bronx may be less likely to reduce their
      calories purchased when calorie information is posted, compared to other consumers in NYC.
      Developing interventions that may improve the impact of calorie labeling policies within this
      population will have important implications as these policies are implemented in urban
      communities throughout the U.S.
    
  