
    
      Dentinal hypersensitivity commonly occurs in patients with gingival recession, resulting from
      a reduced periodontium or in patients who have undergone non-surgical and surgical
      periodontal therapy (Pradeep 2010, Yilmaz 2011). When the gingiva recede, the root surfaces
      of the teeth are exposed (West 2008). In addition, after a non-surgical or surgical
      periodontal procedure, the cementum of the root surface is removed as a result of scaling and
      root planing. This leaves dentin exposed on the root surface with open dentinal tubules. In
      addition, dentin is less mineralized than enamel and has a greater susceptibility to and a
      faster progression of root caries and dentinal hypersensitivity (Saunders 2005). Root caries
      commonly occurs in patients who have undergone periodontal therapy and extensive root caries
      often results in the extraction of the tooth (Hull 1997).

      Dental professionals often make a variety of recommendations to remedy dental
      hypersensitivity, including the application of fluoride varnishes, anti-hypersensitivity
      toothpaste, gingival grafting procedures and various restorative procedures, aiming to
      occlude the dentinal tubules or desensitize the pulpal nerve endings (Brahmbhatt 2012, Orsini
      2010).

      Since the introduction of Caries Management By Risk Assessment (CAMBRA) in the Journal of the
      California Dental Association in 2007 (Jenson 2007, Young 2007), the marketplace for
      anti-caries products has surged. As a result, many approaches to the management of dental
      caries have been introduced and dental practitioners and sales representatives have promoted
      several anti-caries products. In addition, the reduction or the abatement of the progression
      of dental caries (coronal, root and interproximal) as a result of a caries management program
      has been reported (Featherstone 1992, Ito 2012). Many caries management products have
      ingredients that include fluoride and calcium phosphate (Amorphous Calcium Phosphate-Casein
      Phosphopeptide (Recaldent ™), (Wang 2012) Tri-Calcium Phosphate ™ or Novamin ™) (Su 2011).
      Moreover, encouraging clinical findings have been reported, including, but not limited to the
      reduction of white spot enamel lesions and dentinal hypersensitivity (Kowalczyk 2006).

      The topical application of "antihypersensitivity" materials is a common recommendation (least
      invasive of the "standard of care" recommendations) to diminish dentinal hypersensitivity and
      will serve to provide data for the research study. The study will evaluate which of these
      products result in the greatest reduction of dentinal hypersensitivity. The application of
      the experimental products for the reduction of dentinal hypersensitivity is for research
      purposes.

      The methods used to test sensitivity in this study have been used in published studies
      (Brahmbhatt 2012, Holland 1997). The VAS scale used in this study has also been used for
      tooth sensitivity studies (Holland 1997, Hughes 2010). A 30% decrease in VAS score has been
      shown to be clinically meaningful (Ritter 2006, Raymond 2008).

      This pilot study would investigate the ability of anti-caries products to reduce dentinal
      hypersensitivity when compared to a sensitivity-reducing dentifrice. It would be a novel
      contribution to the dental community if a material that is proven to reduce tooth decay is
      also proven to reduce dentinal hypersensitivity. The results may potentially have a
      tremendous impact on the dental community because it may provide dental professionals a
      scientifically-supported approach to improve the comfort and quality of life of periodontal
      patients (patients who are treated for gum disease/ bone loss around teeth) and increase the
      lifespan of teeth that undergo periodontal treatment.
    
  