
    
      Defunctioning stomas are commonly formed in order to divert the bowel stream mostly in case
      of distal anastomosis, particularly after a low anterior resection. It has been reported that
      a temporary ileostomy may decrease the risk of an anastomotic leak, which is a lethal
      complication. In addition, in case of an anastomotic leak, stomas may limit the septic
      sequence and may help the diseased anastomosis to heal or the area of inflammation to
      resolve. Stomas have been also shown to decrease the necessity of an urgent reoperation due
      to septic intra-abdominal complications that may occur after an anastomotic leak. Many
      believe that stoma complications are generally easily managed and reversal of stomas are
      associated with limited morbidity. Thus, selective or routine creation of diverting stomas
      have been recommended in patients underwent a low anterior resection.

      The risk factors for stoma reversal failure have been rarely studied, which is probably one
      of the worst scenarios for a case who has a sphincter preserving procedure for a rectal
      cancer and is expecting to have regular bowel movements through a functional anus. Several
      studies have analyzed this particular issue and some have shown that up to 30% of 'temporary'
      stomas have never been closed. However these data have been criticized to be heterogeneous,
      since they have included patients with benign and malignant diseases, cases underwent
      elective or emergent anterior or low anterior resections or restorative proctocolectomy; and
      those with a colostomy or ileostomy, even an end stoma in some subjects. In addition, some
      studies have underlined some risk factors for the failure of stoma reversal, but they also
      have similar limitations as mentioned above. Finally, survival -to the best of investigators'
      knowledge- has never been separately studied in patients who cannot receive a stoma reversal
      procedure. Thus, current study aims to present a single-surgeon experience regarding the rate
      of diverting ileostomy takedown, the factors adversely affecting stoma reversal rate in
      patients underwent laparoscopic low anterior resection for rectal cancer, and accordingly to
      expose the fortune of these cases.
    
  