
    
      This study is a randomized, 4-arm, single-blinded, controlled, cross-over trial design
      focused on determining the health benefits associated with Polydextrose intake.

      A planned sample size of 40 will be enrolled into the study. This study will require one
      initial screening visit and 4 weekly study visits. This study will take approximately 4 weeks
      per subject to complete.

      The initial screening visit will provide subject with the informed consent document and
      determine subject eligibility through anthropometric measurements, vital signs, fasting blood
      glucose test (finger prick), and completion of a survey relate to general eating, health, and
      exercise habits.

      If willing and eligible to participate, subjects will be invited to participate in the study
      for 4 study days. Subjects will be instructed to maintain their usual diet pattern and
      physical activity throughout study duration. A dinner meal will be provided the day before
      the study visit to control the second meal effect from the food and beverage intake of the
      night before the study visit.

      Subject will arrive at the center in a fasted state for at least 10 hours, well hydrated and
      rested. Each study visit will require blood draws throughout the visit. After evaluation of
      subject's health status (via anthropometric, vital sign and blood glucose measurements and
      in-person interview), a Licensed health Care Professional will place a catheter in subject's
      arm for the purpose of multiple blood sample collections and take the initial blood draw in
      the fasting state. Subjects will be randomized to receive a placebo or treatment beverage
      based on randomized treatment sequences for 4 study visits. The sequences of receiving the
      beverage treatments at each visit will be randomly assigned to one of sequences.

      Each study visit will involve with blood samples collection at time points 0 (fasting), 0.5,
      1, 2, 3 hour (h) for assessment of change in plasma glucose and insulin concentrations.
    
  