
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS An estimated 47 million Americans have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome.
      Glucose intolerance, abdominal obesity, hypertension and abnormal lipid profile are the
      identified traits of metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is a grouping of conditions that
      collectively are associated with a two-fold risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD).
      Inflammation and oxidative stress are contributing factors for the development of
      atherosclerotic plaque in CVD and are the initial pathological responses for each of the
      abnormal conditions associated with metabolic syndrome. Consequently, reducing inflammation
      and oxidative stress are considered appropriate targets for interventions designed for
      primary prevention of CVD and metabolic syndrome. Primary prevention is the fundamental
      strategy to reduce cardiovascular mortality. Given the high mortality rate associated with
      CVD and its vast impact on healthcare expenditures, it is imperative that the investigators
      develop novel interventions for primary prevention of CVD in persons with metabolic syndrome.

      Interventions designed to address primary prevention are considered to be the most effective
      and logical strategy to improve health before the devastating burden of CVD becomes evident.
      There is an arsenal of CVD treatment modalities available today with many pharmacologic
      interventions, however, these come at an enormous cost to individuals and to our healthcare
      system. To address a gap in the treatment of CVD, nonpharmacologic interventions provide an
      alternative strategy without expense or undesirable adverse side effects. Simple, inexpensive
      dietary interventions can have a significant impact on an individual's health and are often
      overlooked by mainstream healthcare providers because of their simplicity. The impact of
      increasing fruit and vegetables, which are loaded with antioxidants, into a dietary pattern
      has consistently been supported in research and is recommended in all primary prevention
      guidelines. Yet, nine out of ten Americans get less than the recommended amounts of fruits
      and vegetables in their diet.

      The purpose of this study is to test the effect of a dietary antioxidant intervention on
      inflammation and oxidative stress in individuals with metabolic syndrome. The study has the
      potential to reduce the incidence of cardiovascular disease. This proposal will address a
      major goal of Healthy People 2020: Improving cardiovascular health through prevention,
      detection, and treatment, specifically addressing primary prevention of CVD in individuals
      with metabolic syndrome.

      Specific Aim #1: To test the effect of a dietary antioxidant intervention on biomarkers of
      inflammation and oxidative stress in individuals who have metabolic syndrome.

      Hypothesis #1: Compared to a usual care control group and to their own baseline, individuals
      randomized to a dietary antioxidant intervention (30-day intake of V8® 100% Low-Sodium
      Vegetable juice) group will have lower levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and malondialdehyde
      (MDA) at one month from baseline. CRP is a biomarker of inflammation and is an independent
      predictor of cardiovascular disease. MDA is the most prevalent byproduct of lipid
      peroxidation during oxidative stress and is considered an excellent measurement for use in
      clinical trials to evaluate oxidative stress.
    
  