
    
      Between March 2003 and December 2004, 53 patients (16 males and 37 females) with ventral
      hernias were treated by a laparoscopic or open approach. Patients were divided into two
      groups: one group underwent laparoscopic repair with GORE-TEX Dual Mesh, and the other group
      underwent open repair with proline mesh. Informed written consents were obtained from all
      patients.

      Inclusion criteria involved any patient aged over 30 years, medical fitness for general
      anesthesia, the absence of coagulopathy, and hernial defect ≥ 5 cm in any dimension or
      recurrent hernias. Exclusion criteria were neoplastic patients, immune compromised patients,
      mentally incompetent patients and those who refused to give signed consents.

      Demographic features, operative details and postoperative outcomes were collected
      prospectively and included patient age, gender, body mass index (BMI) (weight in kg/height in
      m2), number of prior abdominal operations, number of previous hernia repairs, technique of
      repair, size of facial defect, type of prosthetic mesh, operating time, conversion rate,
      length of hospital stay, operative and postoperative complications, and hernia recurrences.

      Thirty-seven patients presented with an incisional hernia (12 upper midline, 15 lower
      midline, and 10 transverse abdominal), 8 had an epigastric hernia, 8 had an periumbilical
      hernia, . All defects were estimated to be larger than 5 cm in diameter.

      Standard bowel preparation was undertaken for every patient on the day before the operation.
      Prophylactic short-term antibiotic therapy with a one gram of third-generation cephalosporin
      was also administered routinely two hours before the operation. Nasogastric suction and
      bladder catheterization were used routinely during the operation only. All operations were
      performed under general anesthesia; Open mesh repair was done as described else where (9,
      10).

      Operative Procedure of laparoscopic ventral hernia repair:

      pneumoperitoneum was established by using a Verses needle. The initial entry site was usually
      just inferior to the tip of the eleventh rib to establish a 15 mmHg pneumoperitoneum for
      exploration of the abdomen. One 10-mm trocar and three to five 5-mm trocars were then placed
      outside the perimeter of the hernia. Adhesiolysis was performed to free the anterior
      abdominal wall and identify the hernia defect. The peritoneal sac was not reduced and the
      mesh was placed in an intraabdominal position.

      The mesh was prepared to extend 3 to 5 cm beyond the hernia defect. Four anchoring sutures
      were placed in the corners of the mesh, which was then introduced into the abdomen via a
      10-mm port. The sutures were secured across the full thickness of the abdominal wall with the
      use of a laparoscopic suture passer. A laparoscopic mesh stapler device was used to place
      5-mm spiral staples at 1-cm intervals around the mesh edge. . No drains were placed.

      Postoperative management intravenous analgesia was administered postoperatively. All patients
      were encouraged to move as soon as possible. Postoperatively, the severity of pain was
      assessed daily by a visual analogue scale (VAS) on a scale from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst
      pain). Upon discharge, all patients were taught to complete a pain score chart at home for
      daily documentation of pain score at rest and on coughing.

      Follow up at the surgical Clinic was scheduled at 1 week, 8 weeks and 1 and 2 years after
      operation for assessment of postoperative complications: seromas (collection of fluid
      persisting > 4 weeks or causing local discomfort), hematomas, infection, abdominal wall pain,
      bowel obstruction, recurrences, aesthetic evaluation. The pain score charts were collected by
      the surgeon at the surgical clinic. All complications were recorded and clinical recurrence
      was documented during follow up.

      Also, the outcome evaluation was measured by the duration of return to activity, pain free
      return to activity, return to work and pain free return to work.

      Statistical analysis Variables measured on a nominal scale were analyzed in the form of 2 x K
      tables and Fisher's exact test when appropriate. Variables measured on an ordinal scale were
      analyzed by kruskal Wallis test. All tests were two tailed and made at a level of
      significance of < 0.05.
    
  