
    
      Objective: Individuals who have suffered a stroke or traumatic brain injury (TBI) may benefit
      from the development of new rehabilitative interventions that can improve motor recovery
      after injury. The purpose of this protocol is to test the hypothesis that oscillatory brain
      activity that originates in the affected hemisphere in the form of desynchronization of
      Mu-rhythm of patients with chronic stroke or TBI can be used to drive movements of an
      orthosis attached to a paralyzed hand through a Brain Computer Interface (BCI). Mu-rhythm is
      a type of brain wave activity that originates in the sensorimotor areas of the brain that can
      be controlled voluntarily; it is present in the affected hemisphere of stroke patients and
      can be used to control the hand prostheses through the BCI interface. Control of Mu-rhythm
      amplitudes by volition requires training since it does not happen spontaneously. A
      proof-of-principle sub-experiment will test the hypothesis that in stroke survivors
      non-invasive cortical stimulation of the ipsilesional primary motor cortex (M1) will
      facilitate learning to control a hand orthosis through a BCI device. This is the purpose of
      the training: to teach the subject to control Mu-rhythms.

      Study population: The study population will consist of individuals with chronic stroke or TBI
      that have virtually no movement of their paretic hand and age- and gender- matched healthy
      volunteers. Healthy volunteers, which may include the age- and gender- matched volunteers,
      will be recruited to refine instructions given to patients.

      Design: This is primarily an intraindividual comparison study, designed to determine if this
      brain-computer interface (BCI) approach contributes to drive grasping motions through a BCI
      interface and hand-orthosis. To test the effect of non-invasive cortical stimulation 21
      stroke patients will be randomly assigned to three groups (group A, anodal stimulation; group
      B, cathodal stimulation; group C, sham stimulation). Study of normal volunteers will
      contribute to (a) set up of the experiment, (b) identifying differences in the training time
      required to modulate Mu-rhythm in healthy volunteers and patients and (c) to isolate training
      effects as measured by TMS and fMRI on the healthy brain from training effects on brains
      affected with stroke or TBI. This information will be treated descriptively within the
      framework of this protocol but it is also important for designing future studies.

      Outcome measures: Behavioral endpoint measure: ability to drive the paralyzed hand orthosis
      in flexion and extension motions using Mu-rhythm. Physiological endpoint measures: peak fMRI
      activity in the hand knob representation, and corticomotor excitability as tested with TMS
      and MEG in ipsilesional and contralesional hand knob representations. Normal volunteers will
      undergo evaluation of the same physiological endpoint measures as patients.
    
  