
    
      This prospective observational study program has a set of objectives within three major
      domains that will be analysed separately and synergistically:

      Peripheral near infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS)

      Aims:

        1. to describe the effects of non-sanguineous intravascular volume expansion on systemic
           oxygen delivery

        2. to describe how changes in systemic oxygen delivery impact on peripheral oxygen kinetics
           as measured by tissue oxygen saturation (StO2) in the thenar and forearm regions at rest
           and using a vascular occlusion test

        3. to determine the clinical applicability of using thenar and forearm NIRS to guide
           haemodynamic optimisation following cardiac surgery

        4. to assess the relation between systemic and peripheral oxygen kinetics vs. onset of
           organ dysfunction and need for extended stay in ICU following cardiac surgery

      Hypotheses:

        1. Peripheral oxygen kinetics using NIRS offer more specific guidance for haemodynamic
           optimisation post cardiac surgery compared to using systemic variables only

        2. Impaired peripheral oxygen kinetics as assessed using NIRS can be used to identify
           patients at risk for developing organ dysfunction or needing extended period of ICU
           support an earlier stage compared to traditional systemic variables

      Main measurements:

        1. peripheral near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) measuring tissue oxygen saturation (StO2)
           at the thenar eminence and forearm during a 3 minute vascular occlusion test at 50mmHg
           above systolic pressure, following the establishment of a baseline (an StO2 average over
           3 minutes with less than 5% variability)

        2. StO2 measurements are repeated at 30 minutes intervals during the first 6 hours
           following admission to ICU.

        3. vascular occlusion tests are repeated before and after volume expansion.

      Cardiac output and common carotid Doppler sonography

      Aims:

        1. to apply computerised algorithms to derive advanced haemodynamic information (mean
           systemic filling pressure, heart efficiency, vascular compliance) in patients requiring
           fluid boluses following cardiac surgery

        2. to correlate changes in cardiac output, cardiac power and estimates of fluid
           responsiveness using the pulmonary artery catheter with the variables mean systemic
           filling pressure and heart efficiency

        3. to characterise indices of fluid responsiveness by measuring volume efficiency

        4. to determine the impact of changes in vascular resistance state on the assessment of
           changes in volume state in the post-operative cardiac surgery period

        5. to assess the relation between fluid responsiveness, fluid management and clinical
           outcomes in ICU following cardiac surgery

        6. to evaluate the potential for carotid Doppler blood flow measurements as a surrogate
           parameter for cardiac output, including incorporation into computerised algorithms

      Hypotheses:

        1. the derived measures of mean systemic filling pressure and heart efficiency are superior
           to identify fluid responsiveness compared to cardiac output measurements alone in
           patients following cardiac surgery

        2. carotid Doppler blood flow measurements can be used as a surrogate parameter for cardiac
           output and in particular for changes in cardiac output when fluid responsiveness is
           investigated

      Main measurements:

        1. Pulmonary arterial thermodilution studies (for cardiac output, stroke volume, cardiac
           index) by at least triplicate injections within a ± 10% range

        2. Computerised algorithms are used to derive an analogue mean systemic filling pressure,
           heart efficiency, volume efficiency based on cardiac output, central venous pressure and
           mean arterial pressure

        3. Common carotid Doppler sonography to measure vessel diameter, cross sectional area and
           time average mean velocity to generate blood flow as well as respirophasic peak flow
           velocity variation

      Oxygen and carbon dioxide gradients

      Aims:

        1. to assess any insufficiency of oxygen delivery to match the oxygen consumption,
           resulting in anaerobic metabolism, by determining i) arteriovenous concentration
           gradients for lactate, ii) the venoarterial carbon dioxide tension gradient [P(v-a)CO2]
           and the arteriovenous oxygen content gradient ([C(a-v)O2]

        2. to assess whether central venous blood gas analyses can substitute pulmonary arterial
           (mixed venous) blood gas analyses in the [P(v-a)CO2] and [C(a-v)O2] gradients and ratio

        3. to assess whether arteriovenous O2 and CO2 gradients are more specific and
           contemporaneous measures of anaerobic metabolism compared to serum lactate

      Hypotheses:

        1. Changes in [C(a-v)O2] and [P(v-a)CO2] gradients can be used as prognostic markers with
           persistently abnormal values correlating with the presence and degree of organ failure

        2. Changes in [C(a-v)O2] and [P(v-a)CO2] gradients can be used as targets during
           haemodynamic optimisation

        3. Cumulative measurements of [C(a-v)O2] and [P(v-a)CO2] gradients to generate an area
           under the curve value can be used to assess and target the presence of an oxygen debt

      Main measurements

      1) Central venous, pulmonary arterial (mixed venous) and arterial blood gas analyses (pO2,
      pCO2, bicarbonate and lactate concentrations)

      A fluid bolus will be administered as 250ml or 500ml of fluid (crystalloid or colloid) at
      1500ml/hour. Measurements will be conducted immediately before fluid administration and 10
      minutes post fluid cessation.

      The following risk scores will be calculated: Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA),
      Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE II and III), Simplified Acute
      Physiology Score (SAPS2), Australian New Zealand Risk of Death (ANZROD), Euroscore 2.

      Routine biochemical tests will be recorded including electrolytes, renal function tests,
      liver function tests.
    
  