
    
      Although regional synthesis of nitric oxide (NO) by the endothelium contributes importantly
      to local vasodilator tone, we have previously shown that NO bioactivity may be transported in
      blood, and have biological effects at a distance from the site of entry into the circulation.
      These endocrine effects of NO are mediated by intravascular NO-stores - candidates are
      protein and heme-bound NO species (RXNO) in plasma or erythrocytes and the oxidative
      NO-metabolite nitrite. Cumulating evidence suggests that nitrite may serve as a major
      intravascular storage pool for NO. Recent studies by our group show that regional,
      intra-arterial infusion of nitrite elicits downstream vasodilator response. The mechanism of
      nitrite reduction in vivo may involve a number of pathways. We have observed that nitrite is
      reduced to NO by its reaction with deoxyheme proteins. This chemistry suggests a role for
      hemoglobin and other heme proteins as an oxygen dependent nitrite reductase and further that
      nitrite ions might contribute to systemic hypoxic vasodilation. Other research groups have
      proposed pH-dependent mechanisms, the involvement of electron donors such as ascorbic acid,
      or xanthinoxidase as a reducing agent.

      The present study will be conducted in two stages (Parts A and B) with the following
      objectives: Part A will determine 1) whether systemic (intravenous) infusion of nitrite
      modulates vascular tone in the systemic circulation, 2) whether oxypurinol (a potent
      inhibitor of xanthine oxidase activity) lowers or ascorbic acid potentiates nitrite-induced
      vasodilation, 3) elucidate the pharmacokinetic profile of nitrite application in humans and
      4) determine phase I data for dosing nitrite in human disease. Part B will determine whether
      the systemic and pulmonary vascular responses to nitrite infusion are potentiated under
      hypoxic conditions and are mediated by NO gas per se as measured by NO content in exhaled
      breath.
    
  