
    
      Dry Eye Syndrome (DES) is a common eye disease that damages corneal eye surface in
      approximately 30% of patients who turn to treatment by Ophthalmologists. These diseases
      derive from changes in the quantity and quality of the tear film. Lack of timely treatment
      can lead to corneal surface damage, pain, infection and vision disturbances. However,
      effective treatment of the disease can lead to a significant improvement in patients' quality
      of life and improvement in visual acuity.

      Conventional treatment modalities focus mainly on lubricating eye drops, but these do not
      treat the pathophysiologic cause which is the inflammatory process evolving on the ocular
      surface. Topical Cyclosporine 0.05% (Restasis®) is an anti-inflammatory drug which is the
      most recommended treatment option for patients with moderate-severe DES who failed
      conservative treatment. It has been proven to be an effective and safe treatment modality for
      DES patients, improving tear production, tear film stabilization and slowing disease
      progression.

      The primary modalities for diagnosis and follow-up of DES patients today are manual and
      require clinician skill and experience. Moreover, current diagnosis modalities are
      subjective, examiner-based and are not easily reproducible. This raises the need for new
      diagnosis and follow-up modalities with higher resolution, precision and reproducibility
      qualities to allow more effective diagnosis and assessment of disease severity and well as
      assessment of disease progression over time.

      AdOM - Advanced Optical Methods produced a Tear Film Imager, a modality based on a standard
      camera, using white light to image the tear film up to a resolution of 0.1 micrometers. This
      allows imaging of the individual tear film layers, a property currently not enabled by
      advanced OCT imaging modalities in use today (yielding a maximum resolution of 2.5
      micrometers, thus now allowing imaging of individual tear film layers). In addition, this
      modality functions using full field imaging rather than raster scanned imaging, thus allowing
      a wide, full image of the scanned area.

      The purpose of the current study is to assess the usage of the TFI in the follow-up of DES
      patients with moderate-severe disease treated with topical Cyclosporine 0.05%. In our
      previous study we found that the TFI yields high resolution tear film images, presenting
      significant differences between healthy and DES eyes. In this study we wish to examine the
      effects of topical Cyclosporine 0.05% on the tear film and assess the tear film before and
      after treatment. We believe this can help us better understand the effects of both the
      disease and the treatment on the tear film, thus allowing more effective diagnosis and
      treatment for future DES patients.
    
  