
    
      About 552.000 infants are born in Italy each year, 1% of them with gestational age under 30
      weeks. Survival rates are improved, but long-term disabilities are still common. Major
      destructive focal lesions became less common, the most predominant lesion at present is
      diffuse white matter (WM damage). The prevention of neurodevelopmental impairment is a major
      public health challenge and efforts are needed to test neuroprotective strategies. Melatonin
      (ME) serves as a neuroprotectant cerebral ischemia through its potent
      anti-oxidant/-inflammatory effect. Preclinical studies demonstrated that protects the
      developing brain by preventing abnormal myelination and inflammatory glial reaction. Clinical
      studies demonstrated ME ability in reducing brain damage after neonatal Hypoxic Ischemic
      Encephalopathy (HIE) or preventing neonatal impairments due to antenatal/ post-natal
      injuries: preeclampsia, IntraUterineGrowthRestriction (IUGR), ventilation, Bronchopulmonary
      Dysplasia (BPD). Ongoing studies are testing in premature neonates and pregnant women its
      neuroprotective properties. ME has a good safety profile with no known adverse effects.

      This study aims to highlight that ME can prevent brain impairment due to premature birth. ME
      will be administered orally (3 mg/kg/die for 15 days within 96 hours from birth) to neonates
      born before 29+6 week gestation age (GA), in a prospective double blind, randomized vs
      placebo study, 2 parallel arms (30 preterm infants each). ME and malondialdehyde (MDA, a
      lipid peroxidation product) levels will be measured before and at the end of treatment. At
      birth, within 40 weeks of neonatal age, at 4-6 and at 24 months of age the following
      examinations are performed: Cerebral ultrasounds (cUS); cerebral magnetic resonance imaging
      (cMRI), during natural sleep (i.e. adopting sleep deprivation and/or feeding protocols);
      "Fagan test"eye tracking, ophthalmological, auditory brain stem evoked response (ABR),
      neurological/cognitive child assessments. Monitoring parental distress, which can influence
      the neurodevelopmental outcome in preterms.
    
  