
    
      This is a pilot trial to investigate the use of GM-CSF DNA as an adjuvant for peptide
      vaccination in patients with metastatic melanoma. The objective of this study is to determine
      the safety and adjuvant effect of vaccination with the gene coding for human GM-CSF with a
      multi-epitope melanoma peptide vaccine (tyrosinase and gp100 peptides) in patients with AJCC
      stage IIB, IIC, III and IV melanoma who are HLA-A2+. We will assess whether use of GM-CSF DNA
      is safe and generates an immune response to peptides derived from antigens on melanoma cells.

      In the Dose Ranging part of the study, cohorts of 3 patients will be treated at increasing
      dose levels of GM-CSF DNA delivered subcutaneously (100, 400, or 800 ug), followed by
      administration of both peptides subcutaneously to the same site on day 5 or day 6. Patients
      will be treated monthly for three immunizations. Pharmacokinetic studies will be performed
      during the first cycle. Patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be collected in
      order to measure the T cell responses induced by the vaccines. Toxicity will be assessed
      during this part of the study, although we do not expect to achieve a dose limiting toxicity
      (DLT). The dose for the second part of the study will be the maximum tolerated dose.

      The second part of the study will assess the immunological efficacy of the vaccine. Nine
      patients will receive GM-CSF DNA delivered subcutaneously at one site, followed by
      administration of both peptides to the same site on day 5 or day 6, every month for three
      immunizations. A total of at least 18 patients is planned for both phases of the study.
      Patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be collected in order to measure the T cell
      responses induced by the vaccines. Specifically, Elispot assays for CD8+ T cells responses
      against the peptides will be assessed, and will be the primary method to determine the
      generation of a specific immune response to the peptide antigens.
    
  