
    
      There is a lack of evidence-based treatment for patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) with
      pulmonary hypertension (PH). PH is a leading cause of mortality in SCD and is an independent
      risk factor for mortality in this population. SCD is a major health problem worldwide,
      primarily affecting people of African descent. In the United States approximately 100,000
      individuals have SCD and 0.2% of African Americans have homozygous SS sickle cell disease,
      while 8% of African Americans carry one allele and have sickle cell trait. In developed
      countries, even in the current era of hydroxyurea, SCD patients have relatively shortened
      lifespans with a median life expectancy of approximately 48 years for females and 42 years
      for males.

      PH affects up to 1/3 of adults screened by echocardiography and pre-capillary PH is diagnosed
      in 6% by right heart catheterization (RHC). Data suggest that either precapillary or
      post-capillary PH in SCD are associated with a 5-fold risk of early mortality, and SCD
      subjects with echocardiographic signs of both have a 13-fold risk of early mortality. Though
      a cause and effect relationship between the presence of PH and early mortality in adult
      subjects with SCD has not been conclusively established, data regarding the causes of death
      in a prospective observational study of adult SCD patients suggest that cardiopulmonary cause
      of death was present in at least 35% of patients.

      The World Health Organization (WHO) reclassified SCD-related PH as Group 5 in 2013.
      Therefore, SCD-related PH is not eligible for vasodilator therapies currently available for
      WHO Group 1 pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). There have only been three prospective
      clinical trials of vasodilator therapies in sickle cell patients with RHC-defined PH. After
      the findings of the Walk-PHaSST study were reported, a strong recommendation against
      sildenafil in sickle cell patients with PH was made in guidelines published by the American
      Thoracic Society in 2014. However, a major limitation of the trial was that, in order to
      improve trial feasibility, subjects were eligible for enrollment based on an elevated TRV, as
      well as RHC-defined PH, leading to incomplete hemodynamic characterization of study patients.
      The physiologic understanding of the differences between subjects who developed SAEs and
      those who tolerated sildenafil remains poorly understood. In individual circumstances, some
      patients may have chosen to continue sildenafil. If some patients with SCD-related PH have
      continued to benefit from sildenafil therapy in the time since this clinical trial was
      reported, it would raise the question of whether a subgroup of SCD-related PH patients may
      still benefit from PDE5-Is and how these patients could be clinically characterized.

      Given the difficulty of enrolling SCD-related PH patients into prospective, multi-center
      trials, for example as demonstrated by the ASSET trials being closed due to low enrollment,
      we plan to utilize existing clinical data available on patients who were documented to have
      RHC- defined PH prior to initiation of PDEI-5 therapy, in order to better characterize the
      use of this medication in patients with SCD-related PH.
    
  