
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of venetoclax in combination with 10-day
      decitabine in patients with refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML); elderly (> 60
      year old) patients with newly diagnosed AML not eligible for intensive chemotherapy; patients
      with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with bone marrow blasts between 10% and 20%,
      relapsed or refractory to prior hypomethylating agent (HMA) therapy, or chronic
      myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) with bone marrow blasts >= 10% regardless of prior therapy;
      AML patients with prior history of MDS or CMML who received therapy for the MDS or CMML and
      progressed to AML, and younger patients with newly diagnosed AML with poor risk complex
      karyotype and/or TP53 deletions/mutations and patients with blastic plasmacytoid dentritic
      cell neoplasm (BPDCN).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the duration of response, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival
      (OS) of patients with refractory/relapsed AML treated with this combination.

      II. To determine the number of patients who achieve a hematologic improvement (HI) in
      platelets, hemoglobin, or absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and the number of patients who
      achieve > 50% reduction in blasts on therapy with venetoclax/10-day decitabine.

      III. To determine the safety of venetoclax in combination with 10-day decitabine in patients
      with refractory/relapsed AML.

      IV. To determine the number of patients who transition towards stem cell transplantation upon
      achieving response with the combination venetoclax/10-day decitabine regimen.

      V. To determine the incidence of infectious complications per cycle with venetoclax in
      combination with 10-day decitabine.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate possible relationships between baseline protein and gene expression
      signatures/mutation profile and BH3 profiling in predicting clinical response to the
      combination.

      II. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of venetoclax in combination with
      decitabine and antifungals in plasma samples.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10 and may also
      receive decitabine on days 1-5 after achieving complete remission/complete remission with
      incomplete count recovery during consolidation/maintenance. Participants also receive
      venetoclax orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and on days 1-21 of subsequent cycles.
      Treatment repeat every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 to 6 months for up
      to 5 years.
    
  