
    
      Patient examination and diagnosis will be made at the outpatient clinic, department of
      prosthodontics, faculty of Dentistry-Cairo University. Eligible Patients following the
      inclusion criteria will be consented to enrol in the trial. Randomization and allocation
      concealment will be done through sealed envelopes having groups for interventions and
      comparator. Each patient enrolled in the trial will pick an envelope having either the
      intervention or control group.

      Preliminary impressions will be made and poured to study casts. Customizing trays from
      autopolymerising acrylic resins for final impressions with Zinc Oxide Eugenol , then
      impressions will be poured into dental stone producing master casts. Record bite blocks will
      then be constructed and bite registration will be made.

      All bite records with their corresponding master casts will be digitalized by an extraoral
      desktop 3D scanner having the station sequence of scanning upper cast, lower cast then bite
      registration to be stored as standard triangulation language (STL) files.

      STL files are then imported to EXOCAD design software designing full dentures with their
      permanent bases, teeth sizes and shapes following the recorded inter-arch space. Full upper
      and lower designed denture bases will be stored as STL files ready for manufacturing.

      In first Intervention: STL files will be imported to SHERA CNC CAM software ready for nesting
      each file for the suitable PMMA block size and height, ready for milling them in denture
      bases with SHERA 5-axis Eco-mill milling machine . After milling denture bases, acrylic teeth
      will be chosen for each patient with the suitable shade and size following the inter-arch
      space, then glued by auto-polymerizing resin in their corresponding sockets in the milled
      denture bases.

      In second intervention: STL files will be imported to Mogassam 3D-printer CAM software
      followed by adjusting the object to be virtually placed on X,Y and Z axes on the printer
      plate to be ready for layering it in three dimension. Photopolymerizable PMMA liquid resin
      will be added in the printer and the files processed into 3D printed upper and lower denture
      bases. Acrylic teeth are then glued in their sockets in the printed denture bases using
      auto-polymerizable resin.

      In control group:Conventional complete denture construction by normal processing steps will
      be made for patients enrolled in the control group.

      For the three groups, full dentures will be delivered and checked for occlusion, speech and
      mastication. Patient satisfaction will be assessed by a questionnaire template for each
      patient to be recorded at the day of delivery (baseline), 3months then 6 months. Retention
      for dentures will be assessed by engaging the snap hook on denture bases and pulling action
      will be made with the digital force gauge device to obtain the records on the day of delivery
      (baseline), 3months then 6 months' follow-up interval.
    
  