
    
      In vitro sperm selection for ICSI is important as it has a direct influence on the paternal
      contribution of preimplantation embryogenesis. Men with oligozoospermia who require ICSI
      often demonstrate compromised DNA integrity and increased chromosomal aberrations of the
      sperms in their semen. Studies have shown that embryos resulting from ICSI in those men have
      higher risk of sex chromosome disomies, chromosomal aneuploidies, de novo numerical
      chromosomal aberrations and cytogenetically detectable structural chromosomal aberrations.
      Although the main candidates for ICSI are oligozoospermic men, there is an increase in the
      use of ICSI, therefore, more couples are potentially exposed to those potential risks.

      Various laboratory tests were developed to assess the functions of the spermatozoa. Among
      them, only the tests for sperm DNA fragmentation (Halosperm), hyperactivation of the
      spermatozoa and the hyaluronan-binding ability (HBA) are simple and fast enough to allow the
      same semen sample tested to be used for oocytes' insemination. Spermatozoa that are fail to
      bind to hyaluronan have many aspects of immaturity. They retain histones in the sperm
      nucleus, cytoplasm on the sperm neck, and have higher aberrant sperm head morphology, in
      addition to, lower genomic integrity. It has also been shown that sperm DNA fragmentation is
      associated with male factor of infertility, correlating with the morphology and motility of
      spermatozoa.

      The aim of the present study is to carry out a comparative analysis between two groups:
      Hyaluronan binding system for sperm selection for ICSI procedures and another group of
      conventional morphology sperm selection (ICSI-PVP), both in cycles with only male infertility
      factor. The evaluated parameters were semen quality, fertilization and cleavage rates,
      chemical and clinical pregnancy, and miscarriage rates.
    
  