
    
      JAKaL is a single arm phase Ib study evaluating the effect of Itacitinib in 25 patients with
      advanced HCC.

      Many patients diagnosed with HCC will have advanced disease where only palliative care is
      offered to them, this could account for the relatively low reported 5-year survival rate of
      approximately 10%. There are a number of epidemiological and pre-clinical studies that have
      investigated the role of chronic inflammatory conditions in the development of HCC and these
      provide evidence that inflammation promotes malignant transformation. The production of
      tumour-promoting cytokines by inflammatory cells can activate transcription factors, such as
      STAT3 via the JAK/STAT pathway in premalignant cells. STAT3, once activated, can cause the
      expression of further genes necessary for cell activation, localisation, survival and
      proliferation. Inhibition of JAK could therefore be a way of directly affecting malignant
      cell proliferation, as STAT3 in most malignancies are persistently phosphorylated and thereby
      stimulated to carry out its function; to sustain cell proliferation and block apoptosis.

      For reference, STAT3 is a member of the STAT protein family and is switched on, via
      phosphorylation, by receptor-associated Janus kinases (JAK), a type of tyrosine kinase, and
      together they form homo-/heterodimers that translocate to the cell nucleus and act as
      transcription activators. STAT3 mediates the expression of a variety of genes and therefore
      is integral to many cellular processes, as mentioned above, such as cell growth and
      apoptosis, and thus they can promote oncogenesis by being over-active in the different
      signalling pathways it is involved in.

      Itacitinib has not yet been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for any
      clinical indication but has been developed as potential treatments for myelofibrosis (MF),
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriasis, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), B cell malignancies
      and solid tumours like HCC. It is a small molecule selective inhibitor of JAK1 thereby
      preventing its phosphorylation of STAT proteins, particularly STAT3, resulting in a decrease
      in the expression of genes responsible for cell activation, localisation, survival and
      proliferation
    
  