
    
      Primary research questions

        1. Is the phased introduction of smoke-free legislation in The Netherlands associated with
           reductions in adverse perinatal outcomes (e.g. perinatal mortality, preterm birth, small
           for gestational age)?

        2. How do these associations compare with those described for other European countries in
           comparable studies (i.e. Belgium (Cox 2013), England (Been et al under review), Scotland
           (Mackay 2012))?

      Study design Retrospective cohort study (using prospective routinely collected health care
      data)

      Study population All singleton births in the Netherlands between January 1st 2000 and
      December 31st 2011.

      Intervention The intervention under study is the ban on smoking in workplaces, and in bars
      and restaurants implemented in the Netherlands on January 1st, 2004 and July 1st, 2008,
      respectively.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria We will include all registered singleton births in the
      Netherlands occurring between January 1st, 2000 and December 31st, 2011. This is the maximum
      time period surrounding the ban's introduction for which the required birth data are
      available through the data source. Multiple pregnancies, neonates with chromosomal anomalies,
      pregnancies with unknown gestational age, pregnancies that ended before 24 weeks and
      pregnancies resulting in the birth of a child weighing less than 500 grams will be excluded.

      Outcome

      The primary outcomes are:

        -  Perinatal mortality (stillbirth + early neonatal mortality, i.e. within the first 7 days
           of life)

        -  Preterm birth (live birth with gestational age <37+0 weeks)

        -  Small for gestational age (SGA; live birth with birth weight below 10th centile; The
           Dutch PRN reference curves for birth weight by gestational age according to parity, sex
           and ethnic background will be used)

      To assess whether smoke-free legislation had a selective impact on certain subgroups of
      outcomes we furthermore identified a number of secondary outcomes:

        -  Stillbirth (born dead from 24+0 weeks of gestation)

        -  Early neonatal mortality (live birth and death within first 7 days)

        -  Very preterm birth (live birth with gestational age <32+0 weeks)

        -  Low birth weight (live birth with birth weight <2500 grams)

        -  Very low birth weight (live birth with birth weight <1500 grams)

        -  Very small for gestational age (live birth with birth weight below percentile 2.3rd
           centile)

        -  Major congenital anomalies (based on reported associations with antenatal smoke exposure
           (Hackshaw 2011)).

      Data sources Individual level health care data will be extracted from The Netherlands
      Perinatal Registry (PRN). Linked midwifery, obstetric, and neonatal data are available from
      2000 to 2011 (including 2011).

      Data extraction and handling All relevant variables regarding our outcomes, as well as
      relevant potential confounders will be extracted from the database.

      Sample size Power calculation for interrupted time series modelling is complicated given the
      complexity of the analysis. Similar previous studies have demonstrated statistically
      significant and clinically relevant effects of smoke-free legislation on preterm birth (Cox
      2013; Mackay 2012; Page 2012), low birth weight (Mackay 2012), SGA (Mackay 2012; Kabir 2013),
      and perinatal mortality (Mackay et al. and Been et al. both under review). Given the larger
      population size of the Netherlands as opposed to the regions in which these studies were
      carried out (except for Been et al. under review), we expect our study to have sufficient
      power to detect similar effect sizes, should these be present.

      Statistical analysis Incidences for each outcome will be presented graphically for each time
      period to facilitate visualisation of temporal fluctuations and trends in changes of
      incidence levels. To facilitate timing of the events, date of delivery and expected term date
      are required for each pregnancy. Data will be presented as outlined in different Tables.
      Interrupted time series analyses with adjustment for potential confounders will be performed
      to assess the associations between implementation of smoke-free legislation and primary and
      secondary outcome measures. Individual-level analysis will be performed using logistic
      regression analysis. The models will account for the underlying temporal trend in incidence,
      and will allow for a sudden change in incidence ('step change') following the introduction of
      the smoking bans. We will test and adjust for any non-linearity in the underlying time
      trends, and seasonality will be accounted as appropriate.

      Sensitivity analyses (primary outcomes only) In recent years, gestational age is usually
      estimated based on early ultrasonography findings, which is more reliable than estimation
      based on the last menstrual period. Although the method of ascertainment is not recorded in
      PRN, there is an item indicating 'certainty' of the gestational age, which is positive in
      about 93% of records. For the primary outcomes preterm birth and SGA we will perform a
      sensitivity analysis including only cases in whom gestational age estimation is considered
      reliable according to this item.

      Recent perinatal management changes have been implemented in The Netherlands resulting in
      increased active management of babies born at the edge of viability (i.e. 23-24 weeks
      gestation) (NVOG 2010). This has resulted in increased survival at this gestational age as
      well as altered management of 25-26 week infants, which likely affects the number of babies
      born preterm (although this effect is expected to be small given the small percentage of all
      preterm babies being born at this stage), as well as mortality indicators. For the primary
      outcomes preterm birth and perinatal mortality we will therefore perform a sensitivity
      analysis excluding babies born before 26 completed weeks of gestation.

      Smoking during pregnancy is known to be underreported in the PRN database. Definitions
      between different caregivers differ; (any) smoking and heavy smoking (>20 cigarettes daily).
      We will consider performing subgroup analyses of the impact of smoke-free legislation on the
      primary outcomes according to maternal smoking status during pregnancy.

      In a sensitivity analysis we will investigate whether smoke-free legislation has any
      differential impact on spontaneous preterm birth versus medically indicated preterm birth.

      All analyses will be performed using Stata 13.0.
    
  