
    
      Upto 80% of all pregnant women experience some form of nausea and vomiting during their
      pregnancy (NVP). The International Statistical Classification of Disease and Related Health
      Problems ICD-10 defines hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) as persistent and excessive vomiting
      starting before the end of the 22nd week of gestation, and further subdivides the condition
      into mild and severe, severe being associated with metabolic disturbances such as
      carbohydrate depletion, dehydration or electrolyte imbalance. HG is a diagnosis of exclusion,
      characterized by prolonged and severe nausea and vomiting, dehydration, large ketonuria and >
      5% bodyweight loss.

      HG affects approximately 0.3- 2.0% of pregnancies and is the commonest indication for
      admission to hospital in the first half of pregnancy and second only to preterm labor as a
      cause of hospitalisation overall. According to the Hyperemesis Education and Research
      Foundation, conservative estimates indicate that HG can cost a minimum of $200 million
      annually in house hospitalizations in the United states. Taking into account other factors
      such as emergency room treatments, potential complications of severe HG and the fact that up
      to 35% of women with paid employment will lose time from work through nausea the actual cost
      of NVP to the economy is significantly higher.

      NVP can be extremely debilitating for the patient and if inadequately managed can cause
      significant morbidities including malnutrition and electrolyte imbalances, thrombosis,
      Wernicke's encephalopathy, depressive illness and poor pregnancy outcomes such as prematurity
      and small for gestational age fetuses.

      Day care has proven to be beneficial and safe mode of care for patients in other clinical
      settings. Studies have demonstrated that day care management of patients with NVP appears
      acceptable and feasible but no systematic reviews or randomized controlled trials have been
      performed which examine the effects of introducing day care on rates of hospital admission,
      duration of inpatient stay and patient satisfaction.

      We aim to conduct a prospective open label randomized controlled trial to test the hypothesis
      that the availability of day care services for the initial treatment of NVP reduces the mean
      duration of stay in hospital by 1 day (28.6%) and results in significantly greater patient
      satisfaction compared with standard inpatient management.

      The null hypothesis states there is no difference in the amount of inpatient hospital days
      when women with NVP are treated initially in day care or by standard inpatient admission.

      All pregnant women under 22 weeks gestation, who have not already been treated for NVP in
      their current pregnancy, presenting with the diagnosis of NVP are eligible for inclusion in
      the trial. The treatment group will be day care treatment of NVP. The comparison group will
      be the inpatient treatment of NVP.
    
  