
    
      Multiple sclerosis, like most of the chronic diseases, can affect the sexuality of those who
      suffer from it. This situation has an evident and marked impact on the QoL of the subjects
      and his/her partner, and causes conflict in the relationship, with high levels of mutual
      dissatisfaction.

      The impact that the duration of the disease or the degree of disability have on the level of
      sexual dysfunction is not clear. However, the possible organic and state of mind causes of
      the sexual dysfunction makes us think that the degree of disability is a crucial factor in
      the genesis and duration of the symptoms in the sexual area. The frequency with which the
      sexual dysfunction is detected or referred in these subjects is variable.

      The sexual dysfunction in subjects with MS is typically characterized by a decreased libido,
      erectile dysfunction and ejaculation disorders in men, and decreased lubrication and
      anorgasmia in women. The most commonly detected problems are the erectile dysfunction and/or
      lack of sexual interest in men and lack of interest, decreased libido and orgasmic disorder
      in women.

      This observational study aims to assess a population of subjects with MS that show symptoms
      of sexual dysfunction, in order to determine the relationship, if any, between the severity
      of the general disability and the incidence of sexual dysfunction. At the same time, this
      epidemiologic study aims to measure the impact the sexual dysfunction generates in the
      quality of life of subjects with MS.

      The data to be obtained could contribute to a better understanding of the relationship
      between the studied variables and, eventually, to alert the treating doctors about the
      incidence of these morbid associations.

      The total duration of the study is 24 months. The recruiting period will be 12 months. Once
      the recruiting time is over, the collection of data will continue during the full 24 months
      period that was planned.
    
  