
    
      Tension-type,migraine and cervicogenic headache are the most common reasons for visits to a
      primary care physician among working women. Headache has major economic impact due to
      patients' absence from work, and pharmacy claims. Neck symptoms induce three percent of all
      visits to a primary care physician and 1 % of all costs in health care, and moreover,
      institutionalizing increase costs of treatment. Active treatment may offer cost-effective
      option for outpatients. In addition, there is no data showing how much headache/neck pain
      restricts participation in physical activity (PA) or other activities in society.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate whether specific therapeutic exercises reduce
      cervicogenic headache cost-effectively, and simultaneously improve neck function and quality
      of life. The other aim is to evaluate the effect of exercises on daily PA in women with
      chronic headache.

      The following hypotheses will be tested:

        1. Specific therapeutic exercises based on individual training reduce cost-effectively
           cervicogenic headache and improve neck function, and quality of life on women at regular
           work during a 6-month intervention

        2. The intervention increases general physical activity of women with cervicogenic headache

        3. The intervention assists them to manage the headache by way of exercising during the
           follow-up.

        4. Physical activity of women with chronic cervicogenic headache is lower than average in
           Finnish population.

      The HEADEX intervention study is a randomized controlled trial. Volunteers, women at regular
      work and having ongoing status with chronic migraine and/or cervicogenic headache will be
      recruited using newspaper advertising, from the register of Finnish Migraine Society and
      occupational health care services in Helsinki, Tampere and Jyvaskyla. The study sample is
      restricted to women, as the headache is much more common in women. After recruitment, the
      eligibility of patients to participate is screened. In total, the aim is to obtain 120 women
      to participate. The two subsequent baseline assessments and follow-up of headaches with the
      diary between two months before the beginning of the intervention enable ensuring intensity
      and type of the headache and that it is chronic. Randomisation is centralised but the
      intervention will be accomplished and clustered in three study centres. Sample size has been
      estimated for the primary outcomes. The number of participant will be 60 women in treatment
      and 60 control group.

      The 6 months exercise intervention consists of 6 supervised progressive exercise training
      sessions and home training program, and the participants are instructed to increase their PA.
      The main emphasis of the exercise program is to improve and relearn postural and movement
      control of neck, and later on strengthen the postural muscles. The exercise intervention
      consists of six supervised progressive exercise training sessions to teach rehabilitative
      training technique with similar home training program. Before the intervention, information
      on work ergonomics will be enquired and if needed, changes will be recommended. The control
      group will receive Transcutaneous Nervous Stimulation treatment (6 times) as a placebo
      treatment (intensity 0), and recommendation to maintain their PA at previous level. The
      follow-up is identical for both groups, and information on exercise frequency is collected up
      to 24 months follow-up.
    
  