
    
      Stroke is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in adults and the leading cause of
      disability in all developed countries. Its incidence is approximately one million per year in
      the European Union.

      It produces a huge social impact, not only because of mortality but also by the high demand
      for health and social services that involve its disabling effects on more than thirty
      thousand Spanish every year. Hemiplegia is the most common physical consequence of stroke and
      it is defined as the complete paralysis of the upper and lower extremities of one body side.
      However, other consequences as perceptual, cognitive, sensory and communication problems
      should be considered in the physiotherapy treatment.

      Age is the most important risk indicator of stroke as it represents an exponential increase
      in incidence. After the age of 55 the risk doubles for every decade and triples at 80. After
      rehabilitation, most people who have suffered a stroke get to walk independently or with some
      technical help, but approximately 50-60% continue to have a certain degree of motor
      impairment and approximately 50% are, at least in part, dependent for daily life activities.
      Therefore, gait recovery is one of the main objectives in the rehabilitation process of
      stroke survivors.

      Regarding the process of rehabilitation after stroke, currently, there is insufficient
      evidence to conclude that any of the physical therapy approaches is more effective to promote
      recovery of lower limb function or postural control than any other. Thus, future research
      should focus on determining the effectiveness of individual techniques clearly described and
      specific treatments for each problem regardless of their approach. Furthermore, after
      reviewing the different approaches of physiotherapy rehabilitation after stroke, no
      physiotherapy treatment protocols based on clinical status of the patient have been found.
      Instead, vague and general instructions are given, so it is necessary to clarify what to do,
      when and what is the effectiveness of these techniques.

      On the other hand, studies have scarcely taken into account the special characteristics of
      the elderly as a population group so involved in this pathology.

      This study aims at addressing these issues, since its main objective is to identify and
      evaluate the effect of a protocol of physiotherapy to retrain walking ability after stroke in
      patients older than fifty-five, composed of specific, clearly defined and reproducible
      techniques, based on clinical and functional criteria.
    
  