
    
      Cognitive decline is the impairment of memory, execution, or language. Early detection of the
      individuals who manifest cognitive decline and provide appropriate interventions may help
      reduce the burden of their caregivers and the medical expenses of the health-care system.
      Many studies have found that dual-task training combining cognitive training and exercise can
      improve cognitive function in older adults. However, it is yet not clear the appropriate
      frequency of the effective dual-task training for elderly with cognitive decline. Thus, this
      study aims to compare the intervention effects of high frequency sequential and low frequency
      dual-task training for elderly with cognitive decline.

      We anticipate recruiting a total of 80 participants with cognitive decline. The participants
      will be assigned into 2 groups: high frequency dual-task training (HF) and low frequency
      dual-task training (LF) groups. The participants of HF will receive a total of 36 training
      sessions, and each session will contain 90-120 minutes of training. The participants of LF
      will receive a total of 12 training sessions, and each session will contain 90-120 minutes of
      training. The programs are based on dual-task trainings which contain cognitive training and
      exercise simultaneously. For physical exercise, we will design the programs that involve
      balance or strength training components in the aerobic exercises. In terms of cognitive
      training, we will design self-made teaching aids and board games to train different domains
      of cognitive functions. We plan to assess the participants before and after the intervention
      programs. We expect that elders receiving dual-task training will improve on outcome
      measures, and the group with more frequency will have better performance. The results of the
      study will provide evidence of interventions for elderly with cognitive decline, thereby
      reducing the burden on their caregivers and the cost of medical resource.
    
  