
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the pharmacodynamic effect (PD) of linaclotide (linaclotide acetate) (single
      daily dose x 7 days, stage I cohort dose= 0.870 mg/day) on cyclic guanosine monophosphate
      (cGMP) levels, based on biopsy samples obtained pre- and post-intervention from the rectum,
      until an effect is documented.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To confirm the safety and tolerability of linaclotide. II. To assess the pharmacodynamic
      effect of linaclotide on cGMP levels, analyzed sequentially from the transverse colon to the
      cecum, if no cGMP effect was observed in the rectum for the primary endpoint.

      III. To compare the change in the cGMP levels from baseline to day 7 between all the assigned
      doses of linaclotide (including placebo), analyzed sequentially from the rectum, transverse
      colon, and cecum.

      IV. If the study proceeds to stage II, the pharmacodynamic effect of linaclotide on cGMP
      levels will be assessed from day 6 rectal biopsies (un-prepped).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the pharmacodynamic effect of linaclotide on an additional pathway-specific
      biomarkers relevant to guanylate cyclase C (GCC) signaling (i.e., vasodilator-stimulated
      phosphoprotein [VASP] phosphorylation) and a marker of general proliferation (Ki67
      expression), based on intestinal mucosa biopsy samples obtained by colonoscopy pre- and
      post-exposure at the anatomical location (rectum, transverse colon, or cecum) in which cGMP
      is elevated following linaclotide exposure.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

      ARM I: Participants receive linaclotide acetate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-7.

      ARM II: Participants receive placebo PO QD on days 1-7.

      After completion of treatment, participants are followed up for 21-51 days.
    
  