
    
      Mind body therapies which induce relaxation through the use of imagery and meditation, are
      being increasingly sought as treatments to assist individuals cope with stress and chronic
      illness. These holistic therapies have become accepted by both physicians and patients
      because of the recent emerging body of evidence supporting their effectiveness for a variety
      of physical and psychological conditions. In the case of holistic (or integrative) practices
      used to alleviate pain, the infrequency of adverse effects makes them particularly attractive
      to physicians who have become wary of the risks of prescription narcotics.

      Pain medications, though they provide immediate relief, have many noted adverse side effects.
      These include respiratory depression, decreased heart rate and in extreme cases of misuse,
      death. These medications are especially prone to abuse by patients, even after their initial
      pain subsides. Overdosing from prescription pain killers has become a significant cause of
      accidental death, and providers are seeking alternative treatments for pain for their
      patients that do not carry this risk.

      A significant body of research has investigated the benefits of meditation for a wide variety
      of physical and psychological conditions . However, clinical evidence for the efficacy of
      meditation for reducing pain is sparse, although some research suggests the mechanisms of
      this possible benefit , Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) is a mindfulness
      intervention which is currently used in over 500 clinical sites around the world for patients
      with a wide variety of clinical problems, including pain. MBSR was developed by Jon Kabat
      Zinn at the University of Massachusetts in the 1970s. It is derived from the Oriental
      traditions of Zen Buddhism, yet free from its religious roots. It is supported by over 30
      years of research that substantiate its positive effects on numerous ailments, including
      stress , chronic pain , anxiety and depression .

      The key concept in mindfulness meditation involves learning how to observe the thoughts that
      enter one's mind without the passing of judgment and by keeping the focus on breathing or
      another constant. This is called "detached observation". The mechanisms at work are unknown
      but are thought to be the meditation facilitating the tuning out of distractions by learning
      to maintain and control attention.

      The process of mindfulness meditation entails sitting in a quiet location and comfortable
      position with one's eyes closed. Individuals are instructed to relax and focus on their
      breathing, or another chosen object of attention, such as parts of the body in the body scan,
      body movements in mindful movement, or the act of walking in walking meditation. While the
      mind may wander and numerous thoughts, worries or concerns may arise, the individual learns
      to non-self-critically acknowledge the shift in attention, and return to the chosen object of
      attention. Over time, increased attentional control and awareness of mental events leads to
      the ability to respond more positively and less reactively to stressful events, including
      pain.

      An early study of MBSR for chronic pain patients found that, after a 10-week training
      program, participants demonstrated statistically significant reductions in pain, negative
      body image, pain-related reductions in activity, anxiety, and depression, compared with a
      control group5.

      Whereas the benefit of MBSR for pain has been suggested by existent research, the fact that
      it is an 8-week course requiring participation on a weekly basis in 2 ½ hour classes, with
      daily practice at home of 30-45 minutes, may limit its accessibility to some patients. This
      study seeks to identify an intervention that may be widely used by participants with both
      acute and chronic pain.

      Open Focus technique is a specific mindfulness-based practice developed by Les Fehmi, PhD, of
      Princeton, NJ. It guides practitioners to modify their attention in ways that have been shown
      to promote relaxation and pain reduction, as measured by brain wave activity .

      Additionally, recent research has reported actual physical and structural changes in the
      brain with long term practice of meditation. Benefits of mindfulness meditation appear to
      have a neuroplastic effect on the brain. Studies among those practicing meditation have
      demonstrated a change in the mass of grey matter as well as an increase in brain connectivity
      . The structural changes in the brain include an increased density of grey matter in the
      hippocampus, which is a region involved in the process of learning and memory. In addition, a
      decrease in density in the amygdala was noted; this region plays a role in stress and
      anxiety.
    
  