
    
      With the growing numbers of children with dyspraxia in Hong Kong, the focus of paediatric
      rehabilitation services has shifted from severe motor disorders (e.g., cerebral palsy) to
      relatively minor motor problems such as developmental coordination disorder (DCD).
      Evidence-based treatment strategies must be developed to suit this changing need. Children
      diagnosed with DCD are characterised by marked impairment in motor functions. Poor balance
      ability is a major concern because it may predispose children to falls and affect their motor
      skill development. At present, rehabilitation regimes for DCD-affected children use
      functional movement training (FMT) to induce neural plastic changes in the central nervous
      system (CNS) and thus enhance functional (balance) performance. Less emphasis is placed on
      treating the neuromuscular impairments that might also affect functional outcomes. Recently,
      the investigators research team discovered that slowed hamstring muscle force production, a
      neuromuscular deficit, may be one of the causes of poor balance strategies in children with
      DCD, but no effective treatment strategy has yet been examined. Power training (PT) has been
      found to be effective in increasing the speed of muscle force production and balance in
      adults through various neuromuscular mechanisms. In this study, the investigators intend to
      treat both the CNS and peripheral neuromuscular deficits in DCD-affected children. Therefore,
      the investigators will incorporate PT into a conventional FMT regime. The investigators
      hypothesise that balance strategies and functional performance in children with DCD will be
      improved most by treating both the CNS and neuromuscular deficits. This hypothesis will be
      supported by the finding that PT with FMT is superior to FMT alone in improving balance
      strategies and functional performance in children with DCD.

      Objective: To compare the effectiveness of PT-FMT, FMT alone and no intervention in improving
      balance strategies and performance among children with DCD. Design: A randomised controlled
      clinical trial. Sample: 87 children with DCD. Interventions: 12 weeks of PT and FMT or FMT
      alone in the two intervention groups.

      Major outcomes: Sensory organisation test - balance strategy and composite scores; Movement
      Assessment Battery for Children - total impairment score and balance subscore; hand-held
      dynamometer measurements of lower limb muscle strength and time to peak force.

      Anticipated results and clinical significance: DCD-affected children who receive FMT together
      with PT will have the best balance performance outcomes. If the results are positive, this
      training programme could be readily transferrable to clinical practice. This could have
      positive socio-economic implications, such as shorter treatment periods and reduced
      healthcare costs.
    
  