
    
      The study recruited 60 patients with Acrophobia and randomly assigned them to the VR
      treatment group and the imaginary exposure treatment group. Recruitment conditions for
      Acrophobia: The Acrophobia questionnaire scored more than 45.45 points; Age 18-55 years old;
      Right-handedness; No psychotherapy or psychiatric medication for six months; Normal vision or
      corrective vision; Not during pregnancy or lactation. Before the formal treatment, the
      participants were interviewed, mainly to understand in detail the fear of heights in the
      subjects, and to tell the subjects the reasons for the fear of heights and the principles of
      our treatment. After confirming the participants 'intention to participate in the treatment,
      a heart test was conducted to eliminate heart problems and finally sign an informed consent
      form. At the end of the interview, pre-tests were performed to collect fear of heights
      questionnaires, high attitude questionnaires, behavioral avoidance tests, and nuclear
      magnetic data collection. There were a total of 5 treatments in the VR treatment group,
      followed by cliffs, cliffs, cliffs, single-plank bridges, and high-altitude rescues. The
      difficulty of the scene increased in turn. The frequency of treatment twice a week, about 30
      minutes each time, fills in the motion sickness questionnaire before and after each treatment
      to understand the safety of VR treatment. In the course of treatment, physiological data such
      as skin electricity, skin temperature, heart rate, and blood volume were measured, and the
      state of the subjects was objectively evaluated. At the same time, every two minutes,
      participants were asked about sud values and recorded. Visualizing exposure therapy is to
      achieve the goal of exposure by transforming the five scenes of VR exposure therapy through
      language and guiding the subjects through the guidance language. Both treatment groups were
      required to collect scales and nuclear magnetic data before, after and after six months of
      follow-up. In addition, at the beginning of this treatment program, an experimental study was
      added to understand the characteristics of eye movement in people with anorexia. By looking
      at high altitude images, recording their eye movement characteristics and physiological
      feedback, and rating the anxiety levels of each image, adding to the normal control group, we
      found a high altitude image that can cause high altitude fear in people with high altitude
      fear. And lay the foundation for future related research.
    
  