
    
      Introduction:

      Intranasal injection of epinephrine is used routinely during endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS)
      to reduce bleeding in the nasal mucosa and hence improve visualization of the surgical field
      [1, 2].

      Systemic absorption of epinephrine via the nasal mucosa, due to its vasoconstriction ability
      and cardiac effect, is often accompanied by cardiovascular side effects (e.g., hypertension,
      hypotension, tachycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, etc) during the early postinjection period [1,
      3-5]. In patients with minimal cardiac reserve, these acute hyperdynamic effects may result
      in myocardial ischemia or infarction [6, 7]. The nasal mucosa has an excellent absorbing
      capability which may be utilized for local administration of vasoconstrictive substances
      instead of intranasal injection [8, 9], thus avoiding their systemic adverse effects .

      Evidence indicate that topical use of epinephrine may achieve similar hemostatic effects
      compared with injection of epinephrine [10]. Another pilot study has demonstrated that
      epinephrine injection better facilitates visualization of the surgical field, yet topical
      application does not involve hemodynamic side effects [11]. However, a prospective,
      randomized larger trial has shown that, when local anesthetic containing epinephrine was used
      compared with normal saline (NS) injection for ESS, there was no significant reduction in
      intraoperative blood loss or duration of surgery. More importantly, a significantly higher
      mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) was associated with injection of epinephrine [2].

      The objective of the current study is to compare the hemostatic and hemodynamic effects of
      intranasal injection versus topical application of epinephrin during ESS, in order to
      evaluate whether the previous could be avoided due to its untoward effects.

      Study design:

      After obtaining informed consent, patients will be assigned to one of two groups - intranasal
      injection group (IG) or topical application (TG) of epinephrine, by computer-generated
      assignment of random numbers.

      Intra-operative surgical management:

      Routine ESS will be performed on each subject. Resection and removal of different structures
      in the sinonasal complex will be executed appropriately as indicated according to underlying
      pathology.

      Intra-operative vasoconstrictor administration Vials containing either epinephrine 1:100,000
      or saline will be prepared in the operating room (OR) by the surgeon, with the assistance of
      the OR nurse. The content of the vials will not be disclosed to the surgeon (or anesthetist),
      who will thus not be aware of the type of solution being diluted. While patients allocated to
      the IG group will be injected with epinephrine, saline injection (total of 8 mL) will be used
      in the TG group.

      Topical epinephrine will be applied in exactly the same manner and quantity for the
      saline-injected group as for the IG group:

      Following initiation of general anesthesia and intubation, cotton pledgets soaked in 1 mL
      epinephrine 1:1,000 will be positioned in the nasal cavity for approximately 10 minutes.
      Following this, all patients will receive intranasal injection according to their assigned
      group. In the IG group a total of 8 mL of epinephrine 1:100,000 will be injected in the
      lateral nasal wall in two locations: the area superior to the insertion of the middle
      turbinate and area anterior to the posterior insertion of the middle turbinate, at the
      spheno-palatine artery region. The injection will be applied to both sides (total of 8 mL).
      Following the injection, Epinephrine-soaked cotton pledgets (1 mL of 1:1,000) will be placed
      at the middle meatus and anterior to the sphenoethmoidal recess. During the procedure the
      pledgets will be used at various locations as required for primary decongestion.

      In the TG group, saline will be injected instead of epinephrine.

      Patient assessment:

      Patients' parameters will be collected during the procedure by an anesthesiologist via
      iMDsoft software. A printout delineating the following data will be obtained: heart rate, ECG
      for arrhythmias, systolic (SP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP) measured from a blood
      pressure cuff once per 2 minutes, and total intraoperative blood loss. These parameters will
      be monitored by the anesthetist throughout the procedure.

      Study patients will be monitored throughout the procedure for any hemodynamic events
      potentially related to the vasoconstrictor applied to them. We will continue follow-up until
      they discharge in order to detect any post-operative complications that may occur due to
      systemic absorption of epinephrine.

      Previous studies have demonstrated a significant increase in the plasma catecholamine level
      after nasal injection of epinephrine, which was associated with hemodynamic fluctuations [1,
      11]. We therefore wish to analyze the systemic absorption of injected epinephrine during ESS.

      Intraoperative catecholamine blood levels (epinephrine and norepinephrine) will be obtained
      by taking blood samples (7ml in each sample) from each patient: immediately after intubation
      (baseline), before pladget placement, 5min after pladget placement, before injection
      (approximately 10 minutes after applying epinephrine gauze strips), 2min post injection and
      placement of cotton pledgets (to both sides), 5min, 10min and 15 minutes post injection.

      Other records will include: patient demographics, the duration of surgery, extent of
      nasosinusal polyposis/number of structures to be operated, the presence of polyps will be
      recorded, and need for intraoperative pharmacological intervention (vasopressors,
      vasodilators, inotropes, etc.).

      The primary endpoint of the study will be changes in intraoperative hemodynamic parameters,
      and incidence of hemodynamic events during surgery, and specifically in the immediate post
      injection/topical application period (5min). These will include:

        1. Lowest and highest HR, SP and MAP values.

        2. Mean HR, SP and MAP during surgery.

        3. Incidence of hypotensive and hypertensive events (>20% relative to baseline).

        4. Incidence of tachycardic (HR>115) and bradycardic (HR<55) events. Analysis for
           correlation of these parameters with catecholamine blood levels will be performed.

      The secondary endpoints will include:

        1. Extent of nasal bleeding (estimated by assessment of the suction bottles, sponges, and
           the surgical drapes and gowns).

        2. The total number of epinephrin pledgets used during surgery.

        3. Incidence of arrhythmias and ST changes on ECG.

        4. Subjective surgeons' evaluation of the feasibility of performing the procedure,
           effectiveness of hemostasis, and visualization of the operative field.

        5. Pharmacokinetics of epinephrine administered to the nasal mucosa via injection and
           topical administration.

        6. Post-operative complications due to systemic absorption of epinephrine in patients with
           risk factors (i.e., arteriosclerosis, hypertension, ischemic heart disease and other
           cardiac problems, anemia, preexistent liver or renal damage, and endocrinologic
           dysfunction such as hyperthyroidism, phaeochromocytoma, and diabetes mellitus) will be
           monitored until the patients discharge.

      References

        1. Anderhuber W, Walch C, Nemeth E, Semmelrock HJ, Berghold A, Ranftl G, Stammberger H.
           Plasma adrenaline concentrations during functional endoscopic sinus surgery.
           Laryngoscope 1999;109: 204-7.

        2. Javer AR, Gheriani H, Mechor B, Flamer D, Genoway K, Yunker WK. Effect of intraoperative
           injection of 0.25% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine on intraoperative blood loss
           in FESS. Am J Rhinol Allergy 2009;23: 437-41.

        3. van Hasselt CA, Low JM, Waldron J, Gibb AG, Oh TE. Plasma catecholamine levels following
           topical application versus infiltration of adrenaline for nasal surgery. Anaesth
           Intensive Care 1992;20: 332-6.

        4. Yang JJ, Wang QP, Wang TY, Sun J, Wang ZY, Zuo D, Xu JG. Marked hypotension induced by
           adrenaline contained in local anesthetic. Laryngoscope 2005;115: 348-52.

        5. Moshaver A, Lin D, Pinto R, Witterick IJ. The hemostatic and hemodynamic effects of
           epinephrine during endoscopic sinus surgery: a randomized clinical trial. Arch
           Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2009;135: 1005-9.

        6. Campagni MA, Howie MB, White PF, McSweeney TD. Comparative effects of oral clonidine and
           intravenous esmolol in attenuating the hemodynamic response to epinephrine injection. J
           Clin Anesth 1999;11: 208-15.

        7. Kaufman E, Garfunkel A, Findler M, Elad S, Zusman SP, Malamed SF, Galili D. [Emergencies
           evolving from local anesthesia]. Refuat Hapeh Vehashinayim 2002;19: 13-8, 98.

        8. Lang S, Rothen-Rutishauser B, Perriard JC, Schmidt MC, Merkle HP. Permeation and
           pathways of human calcitonin (hCT) across excised bovine nasal mucosa. Peptides 1998;19:
           599-607.

        9. Roth Y, Chapnik JS, Cole P. Feasibility of aerosol vaccination in humans. Ann Otol
           Rhinol Laryngol 2003;112: 264-70.

       10. Lee TJ, Huang CC, Chang PH, Chang CJ, Chen YW. Hemostasis during functional endoscopic
           sinus surgery: the effect of local infiltration with adrenaline. Otolaryngol Head Neck
           Surg 2009;140: 209-14.

       11. Cohen-Kerem R, Brown S, Villasenor LV, Witterick I. Epinephrine/Lidocaine injection vs.
           saline during endoscopic sinus surgery. Laryngoscope 2008;118: 1275-81.

       12. Dershwitz M, Hoke JF, Rosow CE, Michalowski P, Connors PM, Muir KT, Dienstag JL.
           Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of remifentanil in volunteer subjects with severe
           liver disease. Anesthesiology 1996;84: 812-20.

       13. Wormald PJ, van Renen G, Perks J, Jones JA, Langton-Hewer CD. The effect of the total
           intravenous anesthesia compared with inhalational anesthesia on the surgical field
           during endoscopic sinus surgery. Am J Rhinol 2005;19: 514-20.
    
  