
    
      Aging has been associated with reduced bioavailability of nitric oxide(NO) and endotelial
      dysfunction.

      Curcumin, a phenolic compound present in the rhizomes of turmeric, possesses cardiovascular
      protective, anti-inflammatory and antioxidante properties.

      The present study is evaluating the effects of ingestion of 10 g of curcumin
      suplementation(CUR) on endothelial function and muscle oxygen saturation in the elderly at
      cardiometabolic risks.

      The study is randomized, crossed-over, double blind and controlled by placebo.Twenty-eight
      volunteers have been recruted for the research. They will perform three visits in vascular
      dymamic laboratory, that is located at the Federal Universite of Rio de Janeiro , campus
      Macaé. Basic measures have been performed on the first visit: systolic blood pressure (SBP),
      diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and heart rate (HR), maximal voluntary contraction (MVC),
      endothelial function analysis, vascular responsiveness during rest ( TOV) and rhythmic
      handgrip exercise. On second and third visits, after 10 minutes period of quiet in rest ,
      volunteers are submitted (SBP), (DBP) and (HR), MVC, blood and urine samples are drawn at
      baseline in order to analyse curcumin absorption and verify oxidative stress markers( vitamin
      C and malondialdehyde). Moreover , volunteers are submitted to 10 g of curcumin
      supplementation (CUR) diluted in 400 ml cold water or placebo (sucralose) that is offered in
      capsules ingested with 400 ml of water. Microvascular responsiveness and muscle oxygen
      saturation have been is measured 120 minutes after intervention.Urine and blood samples have
      been drawn again 20 minutes after exercise.

      Before each visit, participants are instructed to fast 8 hours avoiding ingestion of high
      nitrate such as ( sausages, cheeses, dark green leaves, beets), polifenols foods ( tea,
      coffee, grape juice and cocoa) and curcumin based dressings(turmeric, curry, colorau). Also,
      participants have been instructed not practice plysical activities and not change food habits
      during the research period.
    
  