
    
      Osteoporosis is a systemic bone disease characterized by low bone mass and microarchitectural
      deterioration of bone tissue with consequent bone fragility and susceptibility to fractures.
      Fifty percent of women and 20% of men older than 50 y.o. will have an osteoporotic fracture
      (fragility fracture). Fragility fracture is defined as one that results from a low-energy
      trauma such as a fall from body height. A previous fracture is an important predictor of a
      new fracture, especially in the first 5 years after the initial fracture. A second fracture
      can be particularly devastating if a hip fracture. Approximately 25% of individuals with hip
      fracture die in five years and only half of them recover the pre-fracture status, meaning
      loss of ambulation ability and independence in domestic activities. In addition, fragility
      fractures generate significant cost to the health system - the annual cost of osteoporotic
      fractures in patients older than 50 years in the United States is estimated at 1.3 billion
      dollar.

      Low bone mineral density, measured by bone densitometry, as well as a previous osteoporotic
      fracture, are the two major risk factors for the occurrence of a new fracture. A crucial
      observation is that fracture attracts fracture, ie, individuals who had a fragility fracture
      are twice as likely to suffer a second fracture and half of patients with a hip fracture had
      previously broken another bone. Therefore, a more rational approach currently used to
      minimize the costs of health care more effectively and in a short time uses firstly the
      strategy of preventing the occurrence of secondary fracture, followed by primary prevention
      strategies. In this context, the correct identification of fragility fractures and the
      consequent treatment of individuals makes it imperative. However, it is surprising and
      discouraging the information that despite the huge range of currently available treatments,
      most patients who sustain a fragility fracture does not receive treatment.

      Vertebral fractures and hip has undoubtedly the greatest impact on walking ability of the
      elderly, and great attention is given to these two types of fracture. Consequently, there are
      currently insufficient data on the epidemiology and evolution of other fragility fractures,
      also known as non-vertebral non-hip fracture (NVNH). Among these, distal radius and proximal
      humerus fractures are the most frequent. There is a type of fracture, however, that is simply
      ignored by the medical community: the knee insufficiency fracture. The fact that no
      literature study even hypothesize that this type of fracture may be a fragility fracture may
      be because, until a few years ago, it was believed that this entity was a osteonecrosis of
      the knee. The knee insufficiency fracture usually occurs in older individuals and those with
      knee osteoarthritis. This study therefore aims to evaluate whether a relation between the
      knee insufficiency fracture and osteoporosis. Moreover, it is expected to find out if this
      fracture may be defined as a fragility fracture, electing the individuals affected by it to a
      prophylaxis for the occurrence of new osteoporotic fracture.

      BACKGROUND

      The knee insufficiency fracture usually occurs in older individuals and those with knee
      osteoarthritis. Currently no literature study even suggests the hypothesis that this type of
      fracture may be a fragility fracture. A possible explanation for this information gap could
      be the fact that, until a few years ago, this entity was believed to be a osteonecrosis of
      the knee. Only recently it is becoming clear that the cause of pain and marrow bone edema
      that occur subtly in older individuals is, in fact, a insufficiency fracture. This study
      therefore aims to evaluate whether a relation between the knee insufficiency fracture and
      osteoporosis. Moreover, it is expected to find out if this fracture may be defined as a
      fragility fracture, electing the individuals affected by it to a prophylaxis for the
      occurrence of new osteoporotic fracture.

      OBJECTIVES

      The objective of this study is to evaluate whether there is a relationship between the knee
      insufficiency fracture and osteoporosis.

      EXPECTED FINDINGS

      Patients with knee insufficiency fracture have a higher prevalence of osteoporosis than the
      general population.

      Patients with knee insufficiency fracture have a higher risk of having a second osteoporotic
      fracture
    
  