
    
      Acoustic analysis aims at studying the acoustic emission of the pneumo-phono-articulatory
      system, i.e. the vocal signal. Currently, digital technology instruments enable the
      processing and analysis of the verbal signal quickly and reliably, also offering graphical
      products and numerical data. Among the various existing software products for the study of
      the vocal signal, PRAAT is available.

      In practice, the vocal parameters are acquired in a non-invasive way with a microphone. At
      the same time, these analysis systems can be integrated by other methods, such as
      laryngostroboscopy. This method is one of the most widely used techniques for laryngeal
      clinical evaluation. This is a non-invasive endoscopic practice performed by means of a
      flexible fibroscope, which, through a pulsed light source, allows visualization of the
      chordal movement.

      At first, a study will be carried out on healthy volunteers, comparable for their demographic
      characteristics to the second population to be included. In this way the investigators will
      test the instrument used for the voice analysis, in order to set the reference values for the
      general population. In a second step, the investigators will evaluate the incidence of
      post-intubation laryngeal complications, considering as a pathological all values above 95%
      percentile compared to healthy individuals.

      During the first phase, healthy volunteers will undergo voice analysis in two different days.
      Subsequently, the patients included in the study population will be undergo during the
      preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative to a combined evaluation between
      Anesthesiologists and ENTs for data collection.

      The data to be recorded, both for the healthy volunteers as well as for patients, will
      include personal data, anamnestic, working exposure and specific risk factors such as
      smoking, alcohol, irritants, a previous diagnosis of GERD, frequent inflammation of upper
      respiratory tract (VADS); moreover, only for patients, the pre-, intra and post-surgery
      anesthesia evaluation parameters will be collected.

      During the pre-surgery visit, patients will receive an otorhinolaryngeal evaluation by
      laryngostroboscopy and the vocal analysis.

      Any lesions due to endotracheal intubation will be standardized according to Mendels et al.'s
      modified classification, in grade I (lesion of the vocal cords in terms of vibratory changes,
      which can be observed in the epithelium, lamina propria or arytenoid cartilages ) and grade
      II (vocal cords movement disorders in terms of paralysis, arytenoid dislocation or incomplete
      glottal closure).

      The vocal analysis will consist, instead, in asking the patient to voice through a microphone
      (Sennheiser E 835 S) placed at about 15 cm from the mouth, a certain vowel (ie "a") and
      recording it using PRAAT software (version 6.0. 29 64bit). The PRAAT is a multi-platform
      application developed since 1992, constantly updated and made available free of charge by
      Paul Boersma and David Wenink of the Phonetics Laboratory of the University of Amsterdam. It
      provides numerical data with the possibility of objective evaluations of the vocal
      characteristics. The system provides information on the fundamental frequency (F0), glottal
      impulses, microperturbations or causal variations of the fundamental period (Jitter) and of
      the amplitude (Shimmer) and also the relationship between the periodic and aperiodic signal
      (NHR).

      F0 is the frequency of vocal cord vibrations during phonation, it is calculated in Hz and it
      differs from man to woman with a difference of about 1.5 times higher in women.

      Jitter is a parameter related to the microperturbation of the fundamental period and in
      particular the Jitter % represents the percentage ratio between the absolute average of the
      differences between the consecutive fundamental periods and the average fundamental period.
      The parameters relating to changes in the fundamental period increase in the presence of an
      irregular glottal vibration.

      The Shimmer identifies the microperturbations of the signal amplitude, therefore the Shimmer
      % expresses the average relative perturbation of the amplitude period; the values increase in
      case of organic or functional vocal pathology, as a consequence of the inability of the
      chordal oscillator to maintain a regular vibration.

      NHR (noise-to-harmonics ratio) expresses the relationship between the disharmonic component
      (noise) and the harmonic component, it constitutes a global evaluation of the presence of
      noise in the analyzed signal due to the simultaneous variation of frequency and amplitude, of
      turbulent noise, of sub-harmonic components and sound interruptions; its increase is related
      to the subjective perception of dysphonia.

      Then, after a forced inhalation, the sound emitted until exhaustion will represent the
      maximum phonatory time (MPT), ie the longest time during which a patient can sustain the
      phonation of a vowel sound and it is calculated in seconds (s). These measurements will be
      performed three consecutive times; for the F0 variation, Jitter %, Shimmer % and NHR will be
      kept the avarage value while for the MPT the best recording will be kept.

      Finally, the investigators will submit to the subject a self-assessment questionnaire on the
      quality of the voice (Voice Handicap Index or VHI 10). This assessment is necessary to
      estimate the psychological and social impact of the severity of dysphonia according to the
      subject with regard to his normal daily activity. In this case, it will help the
      investigators to exclude patients with pre-existing dysphonic problems. It will not be used
      after surgery, since it is not indicative of short term variations. The anaesthesiological
      evaluation will consist of a normal pre-surgery visit with particular regard to demographic
      and anamnestic parameters and difficulties associated with respiratory tract, which will be
      indicated in the appropriate form.

      During surgery patients will be monitored and the respiratory tract will be handled as the
      usual standard of care, collecting all necessary data for subsequent evaluations. 24-48 hours
      after surgery, the patient, still hospitalized, will undergo an otorhinolaryngeal
      re-evaluation by means of vocal analysis and laryngostroboscopy.

      In case of laryngeal morbidity (i.e edema, granulomas, mucosal damage, cordial paralysis
      and/or alterations in the voice characteristics) the patient will be advised to undergo an
      otorhinolaryngology visit.

      The pilot study will enroll patients who must undergo general and/or urology surgery of an
      elective type.
    
  