
    
      Cisgender men and transgender women ages 20-50 years living with HIV will be enrolled at
      affiliated clinical sites of the University of Puerto Rico, the National Institute of Public
      Health, Mexico, and University of São Paulo, Brazil. Participants will have a baseline blood
      draw for serum HPV antibodies and stored plasma, an oral rinse for HPV testing, stored anal
      and genital samples for HPV testing as well as a baseline questionnaire about risk factors
      for oral HPV infection and oropharyngeal cancer.

      Five-hundred participants will be randomized in a 1:1 allocation to receive 9vHPV or placebo
      at Day 1, Month 2 and Month 6. Randomization will be stratified based on clinical site
      (Brazil, Mexico, Puerto Rico) and age (20-30, 31-40, 41-50 years). The age range of enrolled
      participants will be monitored to ensure enrollment of an approximately even distribution of
      participants across the age range. Each of the three clinical sites will enroll approximately
      167 men during the first 18 months of this study.

      Follow-up testing for oral HPV will be conducted at Months 2, 6, 7, 12 and every 6 months
      thereafter up to 42 months post-vaccination. The rationale for oral testing at Months 2 and 6
      is to identify participants who are oral HPV positive prior to receiving the full 3 doses of
      vaccine. In addition, collection of anal canal and genital specimens (penile head, shaft,
      scrotum) will occur at Day 1, Months 7, 12 and every 6 months thereafter up to 42 months
      post-vaccination. These specimens will be stored for future studies of HIV and HPV and as
      such will not be analyzed as part of this study. Blood will be stored for serum HPV antibody
      testing at month 7, 12 and every 12 months thereafter. Participants will undergo a follow-up
      questionnaire on risk factors for oral HPV and oropharyngeal cancer. Participants will be
      assessed for adverse events at each follow-up visit. This is a 4 year study. Participants who
      received placebo will be offered 9vHPV vaccine at the end of the study free of charge.

      The trial analyses will be case driven with case counting commencing at Month 7, one month
      post-dose 3. The primary analysis will take place when at least 29 cases of the primary
      endpoint (incident persistent oral HPV infection with HPV types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45,
      52, or 58) have been observed.
    
  