
    
      Subjects suffering from visual height intolerance are asked to go in 20 min as height as
      possible riding in two elevators of adjacents buildings separated by a board they have to
      cross at each stage.

      Inclusion visit:

        -  Confirmation of eligibility criteria

        -  Written informed consent

        -  Completion of Acrophobia Questionnaire (AQ), Attitude towards Height Questionnaire
           (ATHQ), Height Interpretation Questionnaire (HIQ), Visual Height Intolerance scale(vHI),
           State-Trait Anxiety (STAI), Inventory and Clinical Global Impressions (CGI)

        -  Virtual task (10 minutes): riding in an elevator. At each level,subjects are asked to
           rate their Subjective Units Discomfort (SUD scale from 0 to 100).

        -  Assessment of basal cortisol before beginning of exposure to virtual reality (sampling
           saliva through a Salivette®)

        -  Pulse and blood pressure measurements before and after session

      Session 1 (within 1 to 7 days following Inclusion Visit) and session 2 (within 48 hours
      following session 1):

        -  Randomization is made by the tDCS software (double bind).

        -  Equipment of subject with Vive Headset (virtual reality HTC vive), trackers and (tDCS).
           The subject does not see the experimental room.

        -  Virtual task (20 minutes): the subject has to ride in an elevator up to the next floor,
           cross a footbridge between 2 buildings to access the elevator on the other side and be
           able to climb to the next floor. At each level, the subject asked to rate their SUD. The
           objective is to climb as high as possible.

        -  The active or sham brain stimulation is applied randomly during the entire virtual task.

        -  Assessment of basal cortisol before and after exposure to virtual reality

        -  Pulse and blood pressure measurements before and after session

        -  After session: debriefing and explication of the subjective experience (30 minutes).

      End of study visit:

        -  Identical to inclusion visit plus :

        -  acrophobia/visual height

        -  Completion of Simulator Sickness Questionnaire (SSQ) and Igroup Presence Questionnaire
           (IPQ)
    
  