
    
      Trial Objectives: Primary objective is to investigate whether an Internet-based exposure
      therapy can effectively reduce the degree of Fibromyalgia symptoms and impact. Secondary
      objectives are to 1) investigate the treatment's ability to reduce degree of a) quality of
      life b) function c) insomnia and fatigue d) pain-related fear and negative thoughts e)
      depression and anxiety, cost-effectiveness of this treatment; and 2) to study if any
      variables could moderate/mediate the treatment outcome, such as a) degree of covert
      avoidance, b) degree of reactivity to inner sensations

      Trial Design: Randomized controlled trial with waitlist control, who also will receive
      treatment after the first group has finished.

      Duration: Ten weeks

      Primary Endpoint: Change in Fibromyalgia symptoms and impact from baseline to Week 10. Long
      term follow-up is also investigated (potential changes from post-treatment to 6- and 12
      months after treatment completion)

      Efficacy Parameters: the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ)

      Description of Trial Subjects: Patients > 18 years old, Fibromyalgia diagnosis, residing in
      Sweden.

      Number of Subjects: 140

      Sample size estimation: Sample size is based on a estimated effect size (measured by Cohen's
      d) of 0.5, based on a power of 0.8 and with room for a 10 % dropout rate.

      Recruitment: Self-referral. Advertising will be made through national newspaper, social media
      and on patient organisations' websites.

      Safety parameters: Participants will have the opportunity to report any adverse events during
      treatment at posttreatment and follow-up measurements.

      Data collection: Data will be collected electronically via the treatment platform.

      Plan for missing data: Last-observation carried forward (LOCF).

      Main statistical analysis: Hierarchical linear mixed modelling.
    
  