
    
      Stillbirths will be identified by the RHEOP (Registre des Handicaps de l'Enfant et
      Observatoire Périnatal).

      The RHEOP was created in 1988 in the Isère district in the Rhône-Alpes region of France. The
      area covered by the registry was enlarged to include two contiguous districts in 2005 (Savoie
      and Haute-Savoie). This registry includes all cases of childhood disability as well as all
      stillbirths to residents in these districts. Its objective is to monitor the trends in
      stillbirth and chid disability, and to identify conditions associated with these events. The
      three participating districts constitute a population-based sample of 30 000 births per year.
      The RHEOP registry uses the WHO definition of a stillbirth, i.e., "the birth of a baby with a
      birth weight of 500 g or 22 or more completed weeks of gestation who died before or during
      labor and birth". Its completeness is checked by matching its database with three data
      sources : results of placental examination and fetal autopsy, adjacent register of fetal
      anomalies, and regional reference center for prenatal diagnosis.

      Stillbirths are identified in maternity hospitals thanks to collaborating midwifes and
      routinely collected data. Several specific investigators, who are trained nurses, midwives or
      physicians, complete a standardized form based on the medical record for each case.

      For the purpose of the project, additional data will be collected allowing to describe
      prenatal care including ultrasound and Doppler examinations, and obstetrical management.
      Healthcare professionals (GP, midwife, obstetricians and gynecologists) will be solicited if
      data are missing in maternity medical records. SGA stillbirths in 2012 and 2013 will be
      included.

      Consecutive SGA livebirths to residents in Isère, Savoie and Haute-Savoie, will be identified
      by the same way. Two months (probably october and november 2013)are approximately needed to
      record the sample size of controls.
    
  