
    
      Though steroid output of the testes is minimal during childhood, important changes take place
      that impact spermatogenic potential. Specifically, the number of Sertoli cells increases
      until testosterone secretion rises during puberty. In animal models, the proliferation of
      Sertoli cells appears to be regulated by follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) even though FSH
      levels in childhood are relatively low. At puberty, the number of Sertoli cells becomes
      fixed; however, the existing cell population then undergoes functional maturation. This
      switch from proliferation to maturation of Sertoli cells appears to result from rising levels
      of intratesticular testosterone.

      FSH deficiency during testicular development results in decreased numbers of Sertoli cells,
      even if physiologic hormonal replacement therapy is introduced in adolescence or adulthood.
      The number of mature Sertoli cells appears to correlate with testicular size, sperm count,
      and future fertility. An improved understanding of the specific roles of FSH, luteinizing
      hormone (LH), and testosterone in testicular development may have direct clinical
      applications in the treatment of male infertility. This study will define the role of FSH in
      stimulating Sertoli cell proliferation in the human male.

      Patients in this study will be randomized to receive either FSH and GnRH (Group 1) or GnRH
      alone (Group 2). Patients in Group 1 will receive subcutaneous FSH injections daily, titrated
      to achieve a FSH level of 4-8 IU/L, for 4 months. Patients will then receive GnRH therapy for
      18 months. GnRH will be administered via a portable infusion pump at 2-hour intervals to
      stimulate endogenous LH secretion. Patients in Group 2 will receive the same regimen of
      exogenous GnRH for 18 months without prior FSH administration.

      All patients will undergo an initial assessment that includes an overnight 12-hour frequent
      blood sampling study, testicular ultrasound, and testicular biopsy. Patients will be followed
      through monthly study visits with blood tests and seminal fluid analysis. Patients will also
      have serial testicular ultrasounds to measure testicular growth. Patients in Group 1 will
      also have a second frequent blood sampling to measure LH, FSH, and testosterone and to
      confirm the absence of LH pulses.
    
  