
    
      Design: Crossover controlled study. Cases: 60 pregnant women recruited at the Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology, Aarhus University Hospital (AUH). Subjects will receive both
      written and oral information before entering the trial. According to their prepregnancy BMI,
      subjects will be recruited for three different groups: i) normal weight (BMI 18,5-24,9), ii)
      overweight and obese (BMI ≥ 25) and iii) GDM. 20 women in each group. Group i and ii will be
      recruited at the routine ultrasound scan at gestational week 19. Group iii will be recruited
      after the Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) that diagnoses gestational diabetes mellitus.
      The routine OGTT is done at gestational week 28. When diagnosed with GDM the women are
      referred to Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, AUH, and the investigators will recruit
      participants from here. Participants will be examined during gestational week 30-34 where
      insulin resistance peaks during pregnancy.

      Intervention: Participants will receive a fixed diet for a total of 8 days. The 8 days of
      fixed diet are split into a 4 days intervention period and a 4 days control period separated
      by two days of regular food intake. The two days of regular food intake will function as a
      "wash out period" to avoid carry over effect. During the 4 days intervention period the
      participants will perform 30 minutes of interval walking immediately after each main meal.
      The interval walking consists of alternating fast and slow intervals (3 minutes each) aiming
      at > 70% and < 40% of peak energy expenditure measured by the Sensewear Armband. During the 4
      days control period the participants will be normally active, not performing any set physical
      activity. Participants will be randomized to the order of the two periods.

      Study variables: Fasting blood samples will be taken on the first day of both the
      intervention and control period and on the morning after the last day of each period. Blood
      samples will be analyzed for blood glucose, HbA1c, C-peptide and lipid profile
      (triglycerides, HDL and LDL).

      During the entire experimental period, movement data will be collected using the Sensewear
      Armband. Blood glucose will be monitored continuously using the IPro2 Continuous Glucose
      Monitor (CGM) from Medtronic.

      The diet will consist of three main meals and three snacks and will be calculated to match
      their metabolic need. The calculations will be done by a nutrition specialist and will
      include weight, height, BMI and energy need during 3rd trimester pregnancy.

      Data on demography, family history of diabetes, prepregnancy BMI, gestational weight gain and
      complications during pregnancy are collected from medical records of the patients and their
      offspring.
    
  