
    
      Depression is common among persons with epilepsy (PwE), affecting roughly one in three
      individuals, and its presence is associated with personal suffering, impaired quality of
      life, and worse prognosis. Despite the availability of effective treatments, depression is
      often overlooked and treated inadequately in PwE, in part because of concerns over drug
      interactions. Previous studies strongly suggest that cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can
      help alleviate depression in PwE, but CBT is not always available to patients.
      Internet-administered psychological interventions are easily accessible and might complement
      antidepressant medication or psychotherapy, and preliminary evidence suggests that such
      interventions can be effective. However, no trial has yet examined whether a CBT-based
      internet intervention designed to meet the needs of PwE can achieve sustained reductions in
      depression and related symptoms, such as anxiety, when offered as adjunct to treatment as
      usual.

      The Internet-based intervention evaluated in this trial was designed with the aim of
      conveying evidence-based psychotherapeutic techniques, gleaned primarily from CBT, to PwE
      over a period of 180 days. The intervention focuses on identifying and challenging cognitions
      that trigger or sustain depression and anxiety, increasing activities that are likely to
      reduce depression and anxiety, practicing relaxation and stress management exercises and
      increasing mindfulness skills. The program is based on general CBT and other evidence-based
      psychotherapeutic techniques that have been shown to be helpful for patients suffering from
      depression (and ideally, that have been shown to be helpful among PwE). Furthermore, program
      content addresses other issues in disease self-management, including lifestyle habits (e.g.,
      nutrition, exercise) and medication adherence. The delivery and training of content is
      continuously individualized to match users' preferences and needs, based on responses within
      the program. The intervention is delivered via the Internet and protected by individually
      assigned passwords.

      This randomized controlled trial will include 200 participants with epilepsy and a current
      depressive disorder, along with currently at least moderately elevated depression.
      Participants will be recruited from various settings, including epilepsy treatment clinics,
      outpatient treatment centers, and Internet forums/groups. Methods such as newspaper articles,
      flyers, posters, and media articles or web-advertisements will be used to inform potential
      participants about the study (all material will be in German). Participants will be randomly
      assigned to either (1) a control group, in which they receive care as usual (CAU) and are
      given access to the internet intervention (Desiconnect) after a delay of 3 months (i.e.,
      CAU/Wait list control group), or (2) a treatment group that may also use CAU and in addition
      immediately receives six-month access to the novel, internet-administered intervention
      (Desiconnect). Measurements are collected online at pre-treatment (baseline, T0), three
      months (T1), six months (T2), and nine months (T3).
    
  