
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the 3-year survival rate in elderly patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia
      (Ph)-negative acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with blinatumomab followed by POMP
      (prednisone, vincristine sulfate, methotrexate, and mercaptopurine) maintenance.

      II. To evaluate in a preliminary manner (feasibility study) the safety of dasatinib-steroid
      based induction followed by blinatumomab treatment in combination with dasatinib followed by
      dasatinib-based maintenance in patients with newly diagnosed Ph-positive ALL,
      relapsed/refractory Ph-positive ALL, and Ph-like dasatinib-sensitive mutations or kinase
      fusions (DSMKF) ALL (newly-diagnosed relapsed or refractory).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate toxicities in these patient populations treated with these regimens.

      II. To estimate the rates of complete response (CR), complete remission with incomplete count
      recovery (CRi) and disease-free survival in Ph-negative patients.

      III. To estimate disease-free and overall survival in Ph-positive ALL and Ph-like DSMKF ALL.

      IV. To estimate in each cohort the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity, and the
      time to achieve MRD negativity (exploratory analysis).

      V. To determine whether anti-idiotype antibodies directed against blinatumomab develop with
      blinatumomab treatment in this study.

      ADDITIONAL TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the incidence of the Ph-like signature in elderly patients (>= 65 years of
      age) with newly diagnosed Philadelphia-chromosome negative ALL.

      II. To estimate the incidence of the various tyrosine-kinase fusions, making up the Ph-like
      signature in elderly patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia-chromosome negative ALL.

      III. To evaluate outcomes (event free survival [EFS] and overall survival [OS]) in patients
      with the Ph-like signature versus those without the Ph-like signature in Ph-negative ALL.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment cohorts according to Philadelphia
      chromosome status.

      COHORT I (PHILADELPHIA CHROMOSOME NEGATIVE PATIENTS):

      INDUCTION: Patients receive blinatumomab intravenously (IV) continuously over 24 hours on
      days 1-28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (Closed to accrual
      06/29/17)

      RE-INDUCTION: Patients not achieving CR or CRi after Induction, receive blinatumomab IV
      continuously over 24 hours on days 1-28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      POST-REMISSION: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 42 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-5, vincristine sulfate IV on
      day 1, mercaptopurine PO on days 1-28, and methotrexate PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II (PHILADELPHIA CHROMOSOME POSITIVE PATIENTS):

      INDUCTION: Patients receive dasatinib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-84 and prednisone PO on
      days 1-24 with tapering on days 25-32 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      RE-INDUCTION: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-28.
      Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      POST-REMISSION: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-28 and
      dasatinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-42. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 3 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients receive dasatinib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive prednisone
      PO on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 18 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually until 10 years from initial registration.
    
  