
    
      The teeth were first anaesthetized with Ultracaine Ds-Forte (Sanofi Aventis, İstanbul,
      Türkiye) and then isolated with rubber dam. Caries was removed and access cavity was prepared
      using a round diamond bur with copious water in each tooth. Barbed broaches were used to
      extirpate the pulpal tissue and 2.5 % sodium hypochlorite was used as the irrigation
      solution. Sterile cotton pellets were used to dry the cavity.

      For working length determination, the groups were performed as; Group 1: Tactile Sense Method
      Group 2: Radiographic Method (digital periapical radiography) Group 3: Ipex® EAL Group 4:
      Propex® pixi EAL The measurement techniques given in the groups were used in each root canal
      of all primary molars (n=90).

      Root canal length determination by tactile sense method:

      In the determination of working length using tactile sense, a K-file with the tip that best
      adjusted to the apical area was selected and gently inserted into the canal until the
      operator felt the narrowest region. The silicone stop was then placed at the coronal
      reference, and tooth length considering the end of the root was measured with an endodontic
      ruler (0.5mm accuracy).

      Root canal length determination by radiographic method:

      In group 2, working length determination was performed with digital periapical radiograph
      (……………….). Before the radiographic evaluation, the protective thyroid lead and protective
      lead apron were used for all children. Digital periapical radiograph was taken with using
      paralleling technique while the files were in the canals. X-ray positioning device (FPS
      3000-Film positioning system complete, TPC Advanced Technology Inc., California, USA) was
      used to standardize the distances between the source and the tooth, and the tooth and the
      film. Cusp adjacent to the canal was taken as the occlusal reference. Files, 1 mm shorter
      than the tooth length as recorded according to the preoperative radiograph, were inserted in
      the canals. The difference between the tip of the file and the end of the root was calculated
      on the image. In case the file had not passed the apex, this amount and the original length
      was calculated. In case the file had passed the apex, the amount was subtracted from the
      original length. Lastly, 1 mm was subtracted from this adjusted length to confirm the
      cemento-dentinal junction and recorded as radiographic working length.

      Root canal length determination by EALs:

      The electronic working length determination was performed either with Ipex®/Goup 2 (NSK Ltd,
      Tokyo, Japan) or ProPex Pixi®/Group 3 (Dentsply Maillefer, Ballaigues, Switzerland) apex
      locators. Lip clip was attached to patients' lower lip in order to complete the circuit.
      Then, the root canals were moistened with 0.9% saline solution, and a no.15 K- file (Dentsply
      Maillefer, Baillaigues, Switzerland) mounted to the holder was gently inserted till "0.5"
      signaled on the screen, meaning that the tip of file was at the apical constriction. If the
      reading was stable for at least 5 seconds, the file was pulled back and the length between
      the silicone stopper and the tip of the file was measured with an endodontic ruler.

      Endodontic treatment was completed in same appointments.
    
  