
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate and compare overall survival (OS) in patients with resectable pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin
      calcium and oxaliplatin (modified [m]FOLFIRINOX) and surgery versus up-front surgery followed
      by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate and compare disease-free survival (DFS) in patients with resectable pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery
      followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      II. To evaluate and compare time to locoregional recurrence (TLR) in patients with resectable
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front
      surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      III. To evaluate and compare time to distant metastases (TDM) in patients with resectable
      pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front
      surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      IV. To evaluate and compare the R0 resection rate in patients with resectable pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery
      followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      V. To evaluate and compare rate of unresectability in patients with resectable pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery
      followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      VI. To evaluate rate of pathologic complete response in patients randomized to the
      perioperative therapy arm.

      VII. To evaluate and compare mFOLFIRINOX dose intensity delivered and number of cycles
      received in patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative
      mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      VIII. To evaluate and compare adverse event profile in patients with resectable pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery
      followed by adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      IX. To compare physical functioning, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea, as measured with the
      European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life
      Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) between patients with resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      treated with perioperative mFOLFIRINOX and surgery versus up-front surgery followed by
      adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX.

      X. To prospectively assess the influence of diet, body mass index, weight loss, physical
      activity, and other lifestyle habits on the disease-free survival and overall survival among
      patients with localized pancreatic cancers.

      XI. To assess the influence of diet, obesity, physical activity, and other lifestyle habits
      on the risk of toxicity associated with chemotherapy.

      XII. To evaluate the ability of computed tomography (CT)-based radiomics in distinguishing
      post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) fibrosis from viable tumor in patients randomized to the
      perioperative therapy arm.

      XIII. To determine whether CT-based radiomics retrieved from baseline examination may act as
      non-invasive predictors of survival outcome in patients randomized to the adjuvant therapy
      arm.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride
      IV over 90 minutes, and leucovorin calcium over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over
      46-48 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 8 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 2-8 weeks of completing neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy, patients undergo surgical resection. Patients then receive oxaliplatin IV over
      2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, and leucovorin calcium over 2 hours on
      day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for
      4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo surgical resection. Beginning 3-12 weeks after surgery, patients
      then receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, and
      leucovorin calcium over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1-3.
      Treatment repeats every 14 days for 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 years.
    
  