
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether high dose, short course vorinostat achieves higher peak serum
      concentrations than standard dosing.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the toxicity profiles of two different escalated intermittent dosing
      schedules of vorinostat combined with carboplatin at an area under curve (AUC) of 5.

      II. To describe the response rate in patients with advanced solid tumors treated with these
      regimens.

      III. To develop pharmacodynamic markers for vorinostat. IV. To determine the toxicity
      profiles of escalated intermittent dosing schedule of vorinostat at 1200 mg combined with
      paclitaxel at 175 mg/m^2 and to describe the response rate in patients with advanced solid
      tumors treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive high-dose vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-3 and
      low-dose vorinostat PO QD on days 8-10 (course 1). After 5 days, patients receive high-dose
      vorinostat PO QD on days 1-3 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 3 of all subsequent
      courses.

      ARM II: Patients receive high-dose vorinostat and low-dose vorinostat as in arm I. After 5
      days, patients receive lower-dose vorinostat PO QD on days 1-3 and carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes on day 3 of all subsequent courses.

      ARM III: Patients receive low-dose vorinostat PO QD on days 1-3 and high-dose vorinostat PO
      QD on days 8-10 (course 0). After 5 days, patients receive vorinostat and carboplatin as in
      Arm I.

      ARM IV: Patients receive low-dose vorinostat and high-dose vorinostat as in Arm III. After 5
      days, patients receive vorinostat and carboplatin as in Arm II.

      ARM V: Patients receive low-dose vorinostat PO QD on days 1-3 and mid-dose vorinostat PO QD
      on days 8-10 (course 0). After 5 days, patients receive mid-dose vorinostat PO QD on days 1-3
      and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 3.

      ARM VI: Patients receive mid-dose vorinostat PO QD on days 1-3 and low-dose vorinostat PO QD
      on days 8-10 (course 0). After 5 days, patients receive vorinostat and paclitaxel as in Arm
      V.

      In all arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  