
    
      The acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is the most severe and lethal complication of
      COVID-19, and healthcare resource utilizations are currently being heavily challenged in most
      countries worldwide, with a high risk that some intensive care resources, such as the number
      of ventilators to allow management all patients, may be insufficient to face the current
      surge in ARDS cases. There is, therefore, an urgent need to evaluate candidate therapies that
      may impact clinical outcomes in patients with COVID-19-related ARDS and potentially be
      relevant to current public health issues, in accordance with the international efforts by the
      World Health Organization (WHO) (Global research on coronavirus disease) and most
      international public health organizations. Beyond the current efforts to find specific
      antiviral therapies or vaccines, improving supportive care and treatment options for patients
      with COVID-19-related ARDS, in accordance with up-to-date guidelines on the management of
      critically ill patients with COVID-19 (Surviving Sepsis Campaign: Guidelines on the
      Management of Critically Ill Adults with Coronavirus Disease 2019; The Australian and New
      Zealand Intensive Care Society (ANZICS) COVID-19 Guidelines; Recommandations d'experts
      SRLF-SFAR-SFMU-GFRUP-SPILF sur la prise en charge en réanimation des patients en période
      d'épidémie à SARS-CoV2), is of major importance.

      Indeed, given the number of intensive care unit (ICU) patients for whom the question of
      sedation applies during the current COVID-19 outbreak, any sedation practice that would be
      associated with improved clinical outcomes could have significant economic and public health
      implications. In this perspective, the rationale supporting inhaled sedation with halogenated
      agents (such as isoflurane or sevoflurane) as a way to improve lung function, to decrease the
      inflammatory response, and to possibly improve patient outcome is strong.

      The authors hypothesized that inhaled sedation, either with isoflurane or sevoflurane, might
      be associated with improved clinical outcomes in patients with COVID-19-related ARDS,
      compared to intravenous sedation. The authors, therefore, designed the "Inhaled Sedation for
      COVID-19-related ARDS" (ISCA) non-interventional, observational, multicenter study of data
      collected from the patients' medical records in order to :

        1. assess the efficacy of inhaled sedation in improving a composite outcome of mortality
           and time off the ventilator at 28 days in patients with COVID-19-related ARDS, in
           comparison to a control group receiving intravenous sedation (primary objective),

        2. investigate the effects of inhaled sedation, compared to intravenous sedation, on lung
           function as assessed by gas exchange and physiologic measures in patients with
           COVID-19-related ARDS (secondary objective),

        3. report sedation practice patterns in critically ill patients during the COVID-19
           pandemics (secondary objective).

      This study will be performed in accordance with the Strengthening the Reporting of
      Observational studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement.
    
  