
    
      The mechanism of action of Olaparib, a potent inhibitor of mammalian PARP-1, PARP-2, and
      PARP-3, has been proposed to involve the trapping of inactivated PARP onto single-stranded
      breaks preventing their repair and generating a potential block for cellular DNA replication.
      In tumors with homologous recombination deficiency, such as those with BRCA mutations, single
      agent treatment with Olaparib can lead to cell death and tumor regressions by a process known
      as synthetic lethality.

      Tremelimumab is a human monoclonal immunoglobulin G2 (IgG2) antibody specific for human
      cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4), a co-inhibitory receptor expressed on
      activated T cells. Tremelimumab has been shown to block the inhibitory signal mediated by
      interaction of human CTLA-4 on activated T cells with B7-1 and B7-2 on antigen-presenting
      cells. This is thought to maintain T cell activation in the tumor microenvironment and
      promote the establishment of tumor-specific immune responses.

      Like melanoma, ovarian cancer is associated with significant tumor heterogeneity, and is also
      a rational target for immune therapy. Although antitumor effects have been observed in
      patients with epithelial ovarian cancer in response to anti-CTLA-4 antibody treatment,
      evidence of clinical disease regression has not been demonstrated. Based on data indicating
      that a subset of ovarian cancers associated with germline mutations in BRCA1/2 genes may be
      more immunogenic, we hypothesized that BRCA-negative tumors would be particularly vulnerable
      to checkpoint blockade, and that immune priming with targeted cytotoxic therapy using a
      PARP-inhibitor would sensitize ovarian tumors to immune therapy and optimize patient
      survival. We have demonstrated this in pre-clinical models of high grade BRCA1-negative
      ovarian cancer.

      Based on significant therapeutic benefit demonstrated in pre-clinical models, this clinical
      trial evaluates the combination of Olaparib and Tremelimumab in women with recurrent
      BRCA-deficient ovarian cancers.
    
  