
    
      The purpose of this study is to test the effects of a mobile app and study website for a
      gestational weight gain intervention targeted to pregnant women living anywhere in the United
      States (n=130). Participants will be assigned to groups of 8-12 and assigned to two
      conditions: intervention or comparison. The intervention groups will receive a weight-related
      intervention (focused on fruit and vegetable intake, self-regulation of foods, and physical
      activity (PA)), while the comparison groups will receive a non-diet/PA health behavior
      program (focused on sleep, stress reduction, mental health, and stress management).
      Participants will be instructed on how to use the a commercially available free mobile app
      and study website. Each week for 12 consecutive weeks, participants will receive a health
      related behavioral goal through the mobile app. Participants can track their goal
      achievements through the app and connect with other pregnant women in the study. The study
      website will have participants log daily body weight or stress level, based on their
      respective group assignments. The study website will also offer 10 podcasts and weekly
      pregnancy tips related to the study content of both groups. Participants will also be asked
      to complete three online surveys and provide a report of body weight at three time points
      throughout pregnancy. Participants will receive an incentive gift for their participation.

      The proposed research project is significant for several reasons: (1) rates of overweight and
      obesity among pregnant and postpartum women are increasing, (2) overweight and obesity is
      associated with unfavorable maternal and child health outcomes and (3) past research has
      demonstrated the importance of providing social support during pregnancy to reduce antenatal
      and postpartum depression.

      The proposed research project is innovative for several reasons: (1) current modes of
      delivering interventions are costly and may be limited in reach and scope while mobile
      technology provides a solution to these burdens, (2) this intervention is the first of its
      kind to utilize a commercially-available mobile app to address GWG among pregnant women
      living in the US, (3) using mobile technology for all aspects of the study will allow greater
      reach to rural populations who have limited ability to regularly receive health information,
      and (4) this intervention will employ social support strategies by grouping pregnant women
      into small groups assigned with a weekly weight-related health goal.
    
  