
    
      Rehabilitative exercises have been central to dysphagia (swallowing difficulty) treatment for
      decades, with the goal to increase strength, endurance, and/or coordination of the muscles
      responsible for swallowing. With any exercise-based therapy, an understanding of dosing is
      critical to optimize outcomes and to avoid over- or under-prescribing exercise, which can
      have a negative effect. For example, overtraining can lead to reductions in strength, which
      may put patients who are completing a swallowing rehabilitation program at increased risk.
      Therefore, it is important to develop dosing recommendations specific to swallowing
      musculature. Clinical practice remains unguided in terms of whether a progressive or maximum
      intensity, both common forms of rehabilitative exercise for dysphagic patients, should be
      used for lingual resistance training. Speech-Language Pathologists (SLP) currently base these
      decisions on preference and experience; however, research is desperately needed in this area
      to support and guide clinical decisions. The investigators aim to fill this gap in evidence
      by determining an optimal dosing for tongue strengthening in older persons. It is anticipated
      that the study findings will directly influence clinical decisions in both inpatient
      rehabilitation facilities and home health post-acute care settings, and ultimately improve
      patient outcomes in the area of swallowing. This study represents the start of a research
      program intended to provide significant information on optimal delivery of tongue
      strengthening exercise in various populations with difficulty swallowing.

      To determine an optimal delivery method for tongue resistance training in healthy older
      persons by examining how intensity progression and biofeedback impacts tongue strength,
      participant motivation, and program adherence. The data collected in this initial study will
      inform future studies designed to develop a framework for guiding clinical practice with SLPs
      prescribing tongue strengthening exercise to patients with swallowing issues.

      Primary Research Questions:

        -  Is tongue strength impacted by exercise resistance intensity when comparing progressive
           resistance to maximum resistance?

        -  Is tongue strength impacted by visual biofeedback during tongue resistance training?

      Secondary Research Questions:

        -  Is participant motivation impacted by progressive intensity exercise when compared to
           maximum intensity exercise?

        -  Is participant motivation impacted by the use of biofeedback when compared to no visual
           biofeedback?

        -  Is participant adherence to the exercise program impacted by progressive intensity
           exercise when compared to maximum intensity exercise?

        -  Is participant adherence to the exercise program impacted by the use of biofeedback when
           compared to no visual biofeedback?
    
  