
    
      A total of 60 women who will apply to our obstetric clinic for early pregnancy loss or
      routine first trimester prenatal care will be included in the study. Patients will be divided
      into two groups. In Group 1, 30 women who applied to our clinic will be included due to the
      absence of fetal cardiac activity or fetal pole in ultrasonographic examination. Patients
      with two or more unexplained first trimester abortions and no live births will be included in
      the study. Pregnancies in the first trimester will be excluded. Group 2 will include 30
      consecutive healthy women with at least one uneventful natural pregnancy for prenatal care in
      the first trimester. Women with normal pregnancy outcomes and no previous pregnancy loss will
      be included in the study. Patients who previously had diabetes or vascular disease will be
      excluded. The result of healthy pregnancy will be defined as delivery after 37 weeks, where
      the newborn birth weight was above the 10th percentile for pregnancy and no hypertensive or
      diabetic disease of pregnancy.

      The gestational age for patients in the control group was calculated from the last menstrual
      period and will be verified by ultrasound examinations performed during the recording by
      trained ultrasonographers. It will be performed in the recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) group
      according to the last menstrual period and previous sonography records of existing
      pregnancies without an existing fetal pole or intrauterine death. All results of term
      pregnancies for group 2, will be checked by reviewing the main delivery suit database and
      individual patient records A research protocol will be carried out to exclude known RPL
      relationships, such as antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) and an approved genetic abnormality.
      Recurrent abortions will include testing blood for diabetes, thyroid problems, autoimmune
      antibodies, coagulation factors, and parental karyotypes, and previous hysterosalpingography
      for abnormal uterine cavity. All couples diagnosed with chromosomal, anatomical,
      endocrinological and autoimmunological etiology of recurrent pregnancy loss will be excluded
      from group 1. Women with a history of ischemic disease, diabetes, heart disease,
      hypertension, or any known medical condition will not be recorded in two groups. Multiple
      pregnancy, any major or minor fetal anomaly, or existing smokers will also be excluded.
    
  