
    
      We propose the conduction of a prospective, randomized, double-blinded clinical trial to
      evaluate an alternative prophylactic regimen for the prevention of surgical site infection.
      This study is to be conducted by the Department of Obstetrics at University Hospital. The
      intervention being studied will be the continuation of cephalexin and metronidazole for 48
      hours. The primary outcome measure will be the development of infectious morbidity, including
      wound infection and endometritis, in the postoperative period.

      In order to most effectively and accurately analyze our primary and secondary research
      outcomes, the investigators will standardize our surgical operation techniques in all ways
      feasible. These recommendations will be in concordance with American College of Obstetrics
      and Gynecology recommendations, as those generally accepted in the medical literature. All
      patients will undergo surgery in the same small group of HEPA filtration and positive air
      pressure operating rooms. Appropriate limitations on number of surgeons and assistants
      scrubbed for surgery as well as general OR traffic will be enforced. Patients will undergo
      hair clipping of the incision site when appropriate. Chlorhexidine skin decontamination will
      be the standard surgical site preparation. An antimicrobial, adhesive drape will be used.
      Prior to skin incision, cefazolin will be administered.

      All patients to be considered for recruitment to this study will be undergoing delivery at
      University Hospital. Patients with an elevated BMI > 30 kg/m2 who undergo cesarean section
      will be considered for randomization either prior to delivery or in the first 7 hours after
      delivery, to accommodate the need for the first dose of study medication or placebo 8 hours
      after surgery. Only patients who agree to inclusion after informed consent will be randomized
      per protocol.
    
  