
    
      Some COVID-19 patients have sequelae after infection acute phase. These sequelae can be
      physical (dyspnea, exercise intolerance, abnormal fatigue) but also psychic (anxiety,
      depression). Systemic sequelae have also been observed in pulmonary, cardiac, hepatic, renal,
      nervous or immune systems. Respiratory rehabilitation (RR) is indicated in these patients to
      help their complete recovery. Regional Health Agencies (ARS) have listed Health Care Centers
      (HCCs) that can welcome these patients. Their arrival and sanitary constraints imposed by
      COVID-19 changed these HCC organization. Risk of contagiousness after infection acute phase
      still exists. Consequently, patients must first respect a quarantine time and then have no
      contact with other HCC patients to respect barrier rules. HCC accommodation capacities are
      reduced to the detriment of patients with chronic diseases for whom RR is essential. Certain
      SSRs saturation can also be responsible for a non-proposal of RR to COVID-19 patients. To
      cope with the new constraints imposed by COVID-19, telemedicine is beeing developed in
      affected industrial countries. Some SRH physicians are starting to offer post-COVID-19
      patients a tele-rehabilitation program (TRR). Such a program has been validated for people
      with respiratory failure. It allows a patient to follow his care program without leaving home
      and it does not require health professional visits. In addition to reducing post COVID-19
      patient inflow in HCC, it allows fragile patients to respect social distancing and could
      contain virus spread on the territory by reducing patient movements. When choosing between RR
      and TRR, a clinician must ask himself two questions. Is TRR as efficient as RR for
      post-COVID-19 patients? Is there a profile of patients for whom either method gives better
      results? This study evaluates both methods: a 4-week TRR program vs a conventional RR
      program. If the hypothesis that both methods have similar effects is verified, this would
      allow TRR prescription generalization. Benefits will be individual with greater access to
      respiratory rehabilitation for post COVID-19 patients. There will also be collective benefits
      by maintaining sufficient SSR access for patients with chronic diseases.

      This study could also help clinicians to choose the best therapeutic methods to combat post
      COVID-19 sequelae. Indeed, effectiveness study of rehabilitation programs according to
      medical, physical and psychological patient profile will define what is the most suitable
      post COVID-19 care method (TRR or RR) for each patient. Thus, it could help to determine the
      characteristics of the patients for whom a tele-rehabilitation program is indicated.

      Sessions carried out in RR and TRR programs are similar. Session number is the same in both
      programs. They have the same goal and the same intensity. In RR program, sessions are carried
      out at Renée Sabran Hospital, supervised by medical staff. In TRR program, sessions are
      carried out at patient's home, supervised by medical staff by videoconference. Additionally,
      aerobic and walking sessions are carried out outside home. The intensity of each session will
      be controlled by heart rate monitor.

      The same outcome measurements are carried out before and after both respiratory
      rehabilitation programs. To verify that both respiratory rehabilitation programs have similar
      efficiency, outcome measures will be analyzed using a 2-factor analysis of variance:

        -  group (TRR vs RR)

        -  time (before vs after respiratory rehabilitation program)

      Relationship between effectiveness of both respiratory rehabilitation programs and the
      different characteristics of patients when programs start will be analyzed using multiple
      linear regression.
    
  