
    
      Background: Background: An estimated 11 million Americans were prescribed long term opioids
      in 2014-up to 4 percent of the entire U.S. adult population. Patients with chronic pain
      taking long term opioids are at higher risk for multiple health problems including more
      severe pain and addiction, and death from accidental overdose. Opioid related overdoses are
      now a leading cause of death in the U.S. Multiple national agencies have called for reduced
      opioid prescriptions.

      Lower doses of opioids are safer for patients. Patients who take very high dose opioids for
      chronic pain (>200 morphine equivalent daily dose; MEDD) are at 3-fold increased risk for
      accidental overdose death compared to those on low doses (1). However, the primary patient
      concern about reducing opioids is fear of having increased pain. Indeed, evidence is lacking
      for how to help real-world patients with chronic pain reduce opioid use while controlling
      their pain.

      Inpatient studies suggest that pain improves with intensive pain rehabilitation and opioid
      cessation (2). interdisciplinary chronic pain rehabilitation combined with opioid cessation
      in veterans has been associated with improved indices of psychological and physical function,
      as well as significantly reduced pain in those who stop opioids during the program (3).
      However, inpatient and intensive opioid reduction programs are costly and unavailable to most
      patients. Recently, researchers conducted an outpatient randomized controlled trial comparing
      an outpatient opioid tapering program to usual care (4). The tapering program consisted of
      psychiatric consultation, opioid dose tapering, and 18 weekly meetings with a physician
      assistant to explore motivation for tapering and learn pain self-management skills.

      No studies exist to inform best practice on opioid reduction in primary care or outpatient
      pain clinics. There is a critical gap in knowledge on how to help community-based (primary
      care and pain clinic) outpatients with chronic pain actively reduce opioids while controlling
      pain. This project was intended to inform real-world patient care to specifically help
      patients with chronic pain taking long term moderate-, high-, and super high-dose opioids
      reduce their daily use and associated risks. The goal is to understand whether a simple,
      patient-centered opioid taper conducted with limited resources and no interdisciplinary
      supportive treatments (e.g., psychology services, physical therapy) could effectively reduce
      opioid dose without increasing pain.

      Methods

      Study Design: A prospective observational study of a voluntary patient-centered opioid
      tapering program. The study was conducted in compliance with the Stanford University's
      Internal Review Board.

      Participants: Adult patients with chronic pain prescribed opioids from a private practice
      pain clinic in Colorado were invited by their prescribing physician to participate in a
      voluntary opioid tapering program. Patients who expressed interest were called and invited
      into the study (note that the study, which involved collecting patient data, is distinct from
      the taper program. Patients could taper their opioids without agreeing to be studied).
      Inclusion criteria included adults over the age of 18 years, medically diagnosed chronic pain
      for at least 6 months, interest in participating in patient-centered opioid tapering, intact
      cognitive function, an absence of frank psychological disorder, able to speak/read English,
      able to complete online forms, and not being enrolled in a treatment program for substance
      use disorder.

      Procedure

      Patients from a private clinic with chronic pain using daily opioid medications were invited
      to participate in a voluntary opioid taper program by their physician. Those who agreed to
      participated were enrolled in the weaning program (taper program) with the physician. After
      patients provided informed consent, enrolled patients completed a series of online
      questionnaires that collect data on demographics, psychosocial factors, and physical,
      emotional, and cognitive function, and opioid medications (type and dose) at baseline and at
      4-month follow-up. The opioid taper program was not regulated by the study protocol. It was
      supervised by the physician, and individually tailored to meet the patient's specific
      clinical needs. The goal was to reduce opioid consumption at a comfortable pace (individually
      determined) and target cessation at 4 months from the time they enter the weaning program.

      Data Collected:

      Demographics included age and gender. Clinical variables included opioid medications, length
      of time on opioids, pain diagnoses, pain intensity, and marijuana use (yes/no). Opioids were
      converted to a Morphine Equivalent Daily Dose (MEDD) using standard procedures. MEDDs were
      calculated for baseline and for the 4 month follow-up time point.

      Current Medications Pain Catastrophizing Scale PROMIS Global Health Scale PROMIS Fatigue
      Scale PROMIS Pain Interference Scale PROMIS Physical Function Scale PROMIS Emotional
      Distress-Anxiety Scale PROMIS Depression Scale PROMIS Sleep Disturbance Scale PROMIS Sleep
      Interference PROMIS Pain Behavior Scale PROMIS Social Isolation PROMIS Sleep Related
      Impairment Scale PROMIS Cognitive Function Scale PROMIS Pain Intensity PROMIS Applied Cog
      Abilities Marijuana use (yes/no)

      Analytic Plan:

      Descriptive statistics will include means, medians, ranges, frequencies and percentiles for
      study variables.

      For continuous variables: Welch Two Sample, two-sided t-test without assumption of equal
      variance will be used.

      Polychotomous variables: Pearson's Chi-squared test with Yates' continuity correction. For
      cells with small numbers, P value will be simulated with 2000 replications.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME:

      Assuming the primary outcome MEDD will not be normally distributed, Kruskal-Wallis rank sum
      test will be used to compare MEDD at baseline and 16 weeks.

      Pain intensity, our secondary outcome will be assessed similarly.
    
  