
    
      Phase 1:Our study team completed Phase I of the project in June, 2011. Our initial plans
      called for our team to analyze RT data that was collected by Delaware treatment programs to
      determine specific predictors for early attrition from treatment. Eleven counselors were
      trained to use RT as part of their standard practice in May, 2011. In an effort to generate a
      predictive algorithm for Phase II, we analyzed data from three datasets available from IRB
      approved research projects. However, the results were inconclusive, possibly due to small
      sample sizes and differences in the recruitment and definition of drop out across samples. In
      order to proceed with Phase II, we created an algorithm based largely on severity of
      substance use, a consistent predictor of drop-out across the alcohol and illicit substance
      literature; the algorithm also addresses when clients are not using but their Risk factors
      greatly outweigh the influence of Protective factors. We determined that the algorithm did
      work to identify clients who self-reported using substances or high levels of risk. However,
      the identification rate of high-risk cases was too low, and so we modified the algorithm to
      identify: 1) clients with high use at baseline, 2) clients with positive urine samples, 3)
      clients with any use at subsequent [post-baseline] interviews, and 4) clients whose risk
      factors outweighed their protective factors. This increased our rate of identification of
      risk cases by about 32%.

      As part of Phase I, we also completed the programming changes to RT to add a Clinical Alert
      feature that informs counselors when a client is at high risk based on the algorithm. The CBI
      intervention and training materials for Phase II was created. We developed the CBI into a
      brief clinical "toolkit" that enabled counselors to respond to clinical risk based on their
      judgment. This Toolkit allows counselors to exercise clinical judgment to determine whether
      clients are generating a Clinical Alert because 1) they are using drugs or alcohol, or are at
      risk to start using, 2) they have unmet psychosocial needs [i.e., need for psychiatric
      consultation], or 3) they have a poor alliance with the counselor / treatment provider and
      need some help building on the relationship. The Clinical Alert Toolkit included a series of
      exercises / interventions that counselors could deploy once they had determined which of the
      client's needs were most pressing (either based on their own judgment or in agreement with
      the client).

      Phase 2:Three counselors consented to participate in this study and were trained to use RT in
      May, 2011 and were trained on the CBI intervention in June, 2011. Recruitment of client
      participants began in July, 2011. The training and intervention materials were well received
      by the participating counselors. One counselor ended their employment prior to the research
      staff beginning client recruitment. 30 clients out of 35 who were approached participated in
      the feasibility trial; 28 clients completed baseline (93%), 23 completed the one month follow
      up (77%), 21 completed the two month follow up (70%), and 21 completed the three month follow
      up (70%). Out of these clients, two clients were incarcerated for their 1 month follow up
      window, 2 clients were incarcerated for their 2 month follow up window, and three clients
      were incarcerated for their three month follow up window therefore they were not approached
      to complete the follow-up interview. We used our experiences during Phase II to make several
      changes in our training and clinical protocol for counselors to follow. We revised several of
      our Toolkit components (specifically the worksheets to make them more user-friendly and to
      reduce training burden). We also simplified our feedback strategy which took place during the
      clinical supervision sessions to focus much less on general therapeutic skills and more
      specifically on actual compliance with the trained Clinical Alert CBI. Additionally, we found
      that while our Phase II training counselors verbalized motivation to try to learn to use the
      CBI techniques, that the learning curve was slower than we desired, and we decided to employ
      a contingency management feedback strategy to increase their incentive to acquire the basic
      elements of the CBI more quickly. This revision required IRB approval; in the revised
      approach, counselors could earn bonuses when a rated audio recorded session showed that they
      had been at least minimally adherent in delivering the CBI. Finally, during Phase II we
      completed the Attention Control training (focused on treatment planning) for use in the TAU
      condition.

      Phase 3: Because we needed to move the study from Delaware Site 1 (our original clinical site
      and partner), our team recruited Alternate Site 1 in Philadelphia and Alternate Site 2 in
      central New Jersey to conduct the Phase III clinical pilot trial. We enrolled 20 counselors
      who were trained to use RT on a monthly basis with their clients, starting at the first
      scheduled individual session and monthly thereafter. We randomly assigned these counselors to
      receive either TAU treatment planning training or to receive Clinical Alert (CA) training.
      After training, recruitment began. During the trial, three counselors in the CA condition
      either were noncompliant with the study protocol (N = 2), or never had any clients report any
      high risk (N = 1). We worked with all three of these counselors to encourage improved
      engagement with the intervention and study procedures, but this was not successful.
      Consequently, we decided that we would over-recruit additional counselors into the CA
      condition, to create additional opportunities to determine whether the Clinical Alerts +
      Intervention training would impact outcomes. We recruited an additional three counselors, but
      did not randomize them; rather, we assigned them directly to the CA condition.

      We enrolled 336 clients in Phase 3. 142 self-reported clinical RT data which would result in
      a Clinical Alert profile (TAU: N = 78, CA: N = 64). Because of a low recruitment rate, the
      study was severely underpowered for our subanalyses to examine specific effects of the
      intervention training on dealing with High Risk cases; this is where we believed our
      strongest effects would present themselves.
    
  