
    
      This study will include approximately 50 patients, aged 7-12 years. All participants and
      their parents will sign an informed consent form before entering the study. At the beginning,
      participants are asked to answer a "vas scale" questionnaire for pain. Participants will be
      recruited from the population of overweight children from children's sports medical center
      'Meir' in Kfar Saba. In the first stage the participants will be divided randomly into two
      groups of intervention and control. All children will take a test of 1 km and will be
      instructed to walk in the maximum phase before running (at the maximum it that the child can
      go without running) for calculating and determine the rate of 1.0 during the assessment of
      the intervention program for each participant. In addition, measures of the knees (valgus)
      will be made by a Goniometer, which is a protractor that measures angles between bones at a
      precise angle.

      Each participant will fill a questionnaire about pain and difficulty from which he suffers in
      the knee. Participants will describe to the researcher the degree of pain and / or discomfort
      in motion (such as walking, running) and then pass a physical examination to diagnose a knee
      injury.

      The intervention program will take four weeks while in each week their will be two exercise
      session and a total of 8 sessions. Each session length is about 9 minutes. Each session will
      include a continuous exercise in which the patient will do walking, walking pace and running
      (3 minutes each section). During the meeting, participant will receive biofeedback that will
      displayed on a computer screen that shows the forces that develop in the knee joint so that
      the patient can see graphically the forces that develop around the knee joint and will be
      guided / try to reduce the values of the graph by changing the intensity of his landing on
      the tracks (be guided to land more "light", "soft" landing with a smaller noise). In all
      training the time that the biofeedback is shown will be reduced. The control group will
      receive the same training program without providing biofeedback. Each participant will
      perform the test with his personality shoes. At the end of the intervention program will be a
      statistical comparative test of the GRF that developed in the knee Relative to each child Vs
      his original GRF and the group averages.
    
  