
    
      1. Patient including & excluding Criteria Including: Those were diagnosed to have
           gastro-esophageal variceal bleeding after endoscopic examination. No evidence suggestive
           of infection was found including: 1)fever more than 37.5。C, 2)leucocytosis with WBC >
           15000 mm3 or immature neutrophils > 500 mm3, 3)PMN of ascites more than
           250/mm3，4)urinalysis, WBC > 15 WBC/HPF, 5)suspected pneuminia in CXR.

           Excluding:1)no consent 2)already has infection 3) antibiotic usage within 14 days 4)
           less than 18 years old 5) pregnancy 6) has malignancy other than HCC 7) allergy to
           ceftriaxone

        2. Management, Allocation and Prophylaxis Those with esophageal variceal bleeding receive
           edoscopic variceal ligation; those with gastric variceal bleeding receive Histoacryl
           injection therapy. They all recieve glypressin 1mg q6h injection for 3 days and start to
           feed on the second day if not contraindicated. We will perform 2nd session of endoscopic
           treatment 14 days later. These patients will randomly alloacted to 2 groups and recieve
           prophylactic antibiotic after 1st endoscopic treatment; Group I: ceftriaxone 500 mg iv
           bolus stat and then q12h for 3 days, Group II: ceftriaxone 500 mg iv bolus stat and then
           q12h for 7 days. If rebleeding occurs after allocation, further treatment was decided by
           attending physician. If active infection occurs during prophylaxis period and no
           improvement was observed for 24 hours, ceftriaxone use will be stopped and further
           treatment was decided by attending physician.

        3. Data record and Surveillance Data Record: We will record the basic data of the patietns:
           including: age, sex, co-morbidity (CAD, heart failure, COPD, chronic liver and renal
           diseases, malignancy, etc);hemogram before allocation,U/A, transfusion amount,ascites
           routine if significant ascites noted,CXR, endoscopic finding of varices; lowest blood
           pressure before allocation, Child-Pugh classification of the patient Surveillance:
           rebleeding and infection during admission, Transfusion amount and hospitalization day
           after allocation, rebleeding rate within 14 days & mortality rate within 28 days.

        4. End points Primary end points: Rebleeding rate within 14 days after initial endoscopic
           treatment. Definition of rebleeding: the following manifestation after stabilization of
           vital sign for 24 hours,(1) appearance of hematemesis and bloody stool(2) need of
           transfusion more than 2 units of blood and vital sign change (systolic pressure < 100
           mmHg or heart rate >100 beats/min).

      Secondary end points: infection during admission, mortality rate within 28 days. Definition
      of infection: 1) bacteremia：positive blood culture, but no definite focus indentified, 2)
      spontaneous bacterial peritonitis : ascites routine: PMN> 250/mm3, 3)urinary tract infection:
      U/A WBC > 15/HPF and positive urine culture, 4)other infections: suspected by clinical,
      radiological or other bacterialogical examination, 5)respiratory tract infection:CXR changes
      with clinical evidence, 6)possible infection: fever (>37.5。C more than 6 hours) and
      leucocytosis,WBC > 15000 mm3 ，but with negative blood culture
    
  