
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although the familial clustering of coronary heart disease has been well documented, it is
      unclear as to whether the familial clustering can be explained by shared environmental
      factors by members of a family or by clustering of risk factors having a genetic component
      such as blood pressure, familial hyperlipidemia and/or diabetes. Studies indicate that a
      family history of coronary disease may be an independent risk factor. Major
      histocompatibility complex genetic markers to identify individuals at risk within a family
      may be useful. In 1985 when the study began, there was a paucity of data dealing with the
      interrelationship of family history, genetic markers, immunological markers, and traditional
      risk factors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this case-control study, the study population consisted of incident cases who presented to
      the Georgia Heart Clinic in La Grange, Georgia with coronary heart disease. The majority of
      the subjects were from three counties in mideastern Alabama and from counties in midwestern
      Georgia. All subjects had undergone diagnostic coronary angiography. A determination was made
      in patients and controls of the association of major histocompatibility complex genetic
      markers HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR, C4 and BF, C3, the restriction fragment length polymorphisms
      (RFLP's) flanking the apolipoprotein AI and insulin genes, presence of autoantibodies, and
      family history of coronary disease, diabetes, or hypothyroidism. The frequency of these
      variables was compared with the standard coronary risk factors of family history,
      hypertension, lipid abnormalities, lifestyle, Type A behavior, obesity and with diseases such
      as diabetes and hypothyroidism. An analysis was made of the strength of these variables for
      predicting those individuals at risk and whether there were variables which predict severity
      of disease based on 1, 2, or 3 vessel involvement.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  