
    
      Assisted reproductive technologies (ART), such as in vitro fertilization (IVF),
      intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) and in vitro maturation (IVM), are widely used to
      solve human infertility, and have provided great benefits for millions of couples who have
      struggled with infertility disorders. The use of ART has been growing persistently and more
      than 8 million babies worldwide have been born via ART since the first IVF conceived child
      was born in 1978 (ESHRE monitoring).

      During the last two decades, many studies have shown that children born following assisted
      reproductive techniques (ART) have an increased risk of adverse obstetric, perinatal and
      short-term follow-up outcomes when compared to naturally conceived (NC) infants (Jackson RA
      2004, Helmerhorst et al., 2004; Pinborg et al., 2013; Adams et al., 2015). The etiologies of
      this association are mainly related to higher proportion of multiple pregnancies due to
      double embryo transfer option and greater rate of unfavorable comorbidities of infertile
      women (older age, high BMI, diabetes…). But with the trend toward single embryo transfer in
      current IVF practice, there are existing evidences supporting that the perinatal risks of
      singleton gestations following IVF treatment are still higher than those that result from a
      spontaneous conception (McDonald et al., 2009; Pandey et al., 2012).

      Long-term development of children born by ART is also a concerned issue. It is evident that
      children born as a result of IVF treatment have an excess rate of congenital abnormalities,
      higher risk of developing metabolic, cardiovascular disorders and subclinical hyperthyroidism
      in later life (Roger Hart and Robert J. Norman, 2013, part I). Regarding mental health and
      development outcomes, cerebral palsy and slight neurodevelopmental delay are potential
      long-term associations with ART (Roger Hart and Robert J. Norman, 2013, part II). However,
      these adverse outcomes can be explained by obstetric factors (higher rate of prematurity and
      intrauterine growth restriction) rather than IVF. This leads to the concern about research
      biases in studies of long-term development of children born by ART where multiple gestations,
      prematurity, neonatal hospitalization and growth restriction were not well-controlled.
      Another concern about long-term follow-up studies of IVF children is the limitation of
      literatures and high-quality clinical trials that investigate the general health outcomes of
      children born by ART. The majority of valuable data only exist on the short-term outcome of
      infants born as a result of IVF treatment (Kalra and Barnhart, 2011) even though it is
      possible that some suspected disorders might only be identifiable beyond the first year of
      life (Oliver et al., 2012).

      When studying about the long-term development of children following ART, a very important
      factor need to be considered is the medium of culture. There have been existing theories that
      proposed the mechanism of how epigenetic environment can up or down-regulate a set of genes
      which then results in the changes in embryonic growth or even the long-term development of
      children in later stage of life. Different ART methods may cause possible changes in DNA
      methylation patterns which in turn affect development of the placenta and fetus. This is the
      "developmental origins of health and disease hypothesis" (DOHaD) explaning why exposure to an
      adverse environment (possibly the culture medium) may result in unfavorable development and
      illnesses profiles in the ART offspring (Barker, 2007).

      CAPA-IVM is a new promising IVM technique involving the use of a new compound to facilitate
      the oocyte and embryo competence. CAPA-IVM preserved the maintenance of trans-zonal
      projections and significantly improved maturation rate and blastocyst yield. NGS analysis of
      20 good quality CAPA-IVM blastocysts did not reveal increased aneuploidy compared to age
      matched routine ICSI patients. The first CAPA-IVM baby was born in 2017 at My Duc Hospital,
      Vietnam and up to now, there are 33 babies born from this technique. There is no study to
      investigate the development of babies born from CAPA-IVM.

      The investigators therefore conduct this study to investigate the physical and mental
      development of babies born from CAPA-IVM, IVF or natural conception.
    
  