
    
      Introduction: Minimally invasive dentistry has been proposed as an conceptual framework for
      the conservative management of caries lesions. This approach allows reducing potential
      adverse effects derived from the conventional treatment, including the loss of pulp vitality.
      Complete removal carious tissues compromising deep dentin significantly increases the risk of
      pulp exposure and post-operative symptoms, leading in many cases, to the need for endodontic
      treatment, with the subsequent high costs and low coverage for the population. In this
      context, a new technique for the management of deep caries lesions has been introduced called
      selective removal of carious tissue to soft dentin (SRCT-S), which partially removes only the
      outer layer of the affected tissue, leaving carious tissue in the pulpal wall, but not on the
      lateral walls of the operatory cavity. This procedure has been reported in several studies,
      with lower clinical time, cheaper cost and lower discomfort for the patient. The SRCT-S aims
      to preserve pulp vitality, prevent access of nutrients to carious tissue, stopping the caries
      process and preserving a greater amount of dental structure. Although the SRCT-S technique
      has proven effective compared to conventional treatments, it is unclear and with insufficient
      evidence about how to manage the remaining carious tissue and whether a cavity lining agent
      is needed. This decision may have important clinical implications, but there is no general
      consensus, strongly suggesting further research. Objective: To analyze the behavior of a
      resin restoration performed after SRCT-S for deep dentin caries, treated either with a Glass
      Ionomer or only with a Self-Etching Adhesive, in permanent teeth. Methodology: A double
      blinded randomized controlled clinical trial was devised. Trained dentists will treat the 142
      restorations included in deep dentin carious lesions of permanent molars, at the dental
      clinics of the University of Talca. After recruiting, patients will be randomly assigned to
      the experimental groups: Group 1: (n=71) no cavity lining, treating carious tissue with
      self-conditioning adhesive followed by composite resin restoration and Group 2: (n=71)
      remaining carious tissue covered with a conventional glass ionomer followed by composite
      resin restoration. The dependent variables (outcomes) will be; a. clinical: restoration
      survival and pulp response and b. radiographic: lesion progression. Clinical and radiographic
      outcomes will be monitored annually at 12 and 24 months. The analysis of the restorations and
      the pulp response will be performed with Weibull regression. The Friedman test will be
      applied for the analysis of the data regarding radiographic subtraction, (p≤0.05). Given the
      lack of studies on the subject with longitudinal evaluations, this project is expected to
      contribute relevant evidence that impacts the generation of novel guidelines for the
      management of deep dentin caries. Additionally, the results will contribute evidence to
      increase the support to a more conservative clinical behavior.
    
  