
    
      PHASE I STUDY OF tTF-NGR IN PATIENTS WITH RECURRENT OR REFRACTORY MALIGNANT TUMORS OR
      LYMPHOMAS BEYOND ALL STANDARD TREATMENTS

      Short Title: tTF-NGR Phase I Study Sponsor's Study Code: UKM12_0018

      EudraCT-No.: 2016-003042-85 Sponsor: Universitätsklinikum Muenster Investigator: Prof. Dr.
      Christoph Schliemann

      Indication: All solid tumors and lymphomas beyond standard therapy Study Design: Phase I
      Study Investigational Medicinal Product: tTF-NGR

      Therapy: Phase I, open label, single arm, non-randomized prospective, monocenter study.
      tTF-NGR will be given as 1-hour infusion via central venous access once daily for 5 days with
      a subsequent rest period of 2 weeks and following cycles with dose escalation of 0.5 mg/m2
      upon judgement of tolerability and therapeutic activity. Starting dose will be 1 mg/m2/day.
      Patients within the dose-escalation part will be treated in sequence and not in parallel.
      Individual patients can undergo a maximum of 8 dose-escalations. Dose-escalation is stopped
      before the maximum number of 8 escalation steps if tumor response, tumor progression or a
      Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is observed. In the case of stable disease (SD) and with good
      tolerability these patients can obtain further cycles without dose-escalation until tumor
      progression or Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) and the next patient can start with
      dose-escalation cycles on the highest tolerable dose for the previous patient.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) of
      intravenously (iv) infused daily applications of tTF-NGR for 5 days every 3 weeks in patients
      with relapsed or refractory cancer, who had obtained all standard treatment known for their
      disease entity prior to entry on study.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine the perfusion and vascular volume fraction of measurable tumor lesions
           versus normal reference tissue before and after tTF-NGR application as a biological
           surrogate parameter for biological activity of the IMP in the patients treated within
           the verification cohorts.

        2. To obtain pharmacokinetic data of tTF-NGR.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Safety Endpoint: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD). MTD is the dose below the dose leading
      to reproducible episodes of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in at least 2/6 patients. DLT will
      be characterized by clinical, blood and serum monitoring at specified time points before and
      during study period.

      Secondary Efficacy Endpoints:

        1. Occurrence and frequency of inhibition of tumor blood flow as measured by
           contrast-enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in the patients treated in the
           verification cohorts.

        2. Occurrence and frequency of tumor response defined as Complete Response (CR), Partial
           Response (PR), or Stabile Disease (SD) as defined by RECIST criteria.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  age > 18 years

        -  histologically proven or cytologically confirmed solid malignant tumor or malignant
           lymphoma

        -  recurrent or refractory disease after standard therapy and with no known curative or
           survival-prolonging treatment options according to the judgement of the investigators

        -  life expectancy of at least 6 weeks according to the judgement of the investigators

        -  Karnofsky performance status >50

        -  measurable disease with at least one marker-lesion measurable in 2 dimensions by
           Vascular Volume-Fraction-MRI

        -  adequate bone marrow function with absolute neutrophil count > 1000/microliter and
           platelet count > 50/nl.

        -  normal global coagulation parameters (Quick, PTT, TZ, fibrinogen), no prophylactic
           anticoagulation

        -  adequate liver function (total bilirubin < 3x the upper normal limit (ULN), SGPT/SGOT <
           3x ULN)

        -  adequate renal function (serum creatinine < 3x ULN)

        -  no history of coronary heart disease, stroke, transitory ischemic attacks, pulmonary
           embolism, or deep vein thrombosis

        -  time elapsed from previous therapy (including other IMPs) > 3 weeks with recovery from
           side effects

        -  exclusion of central nervous system (CNS) disease and CNS vascular abnormalities by MRI

        -  ability to understand and provide written informed consent

        -  written informed consent given

        -  for female patients with child-bearing potential exclusion of pregnancy by adequate
           testing within 48 hours prior to entry on study

        -  females of childbearing potential as well as fertile males must agree to use a highly
           effective form of contraception (Pearl Index < 1) during the study and for 120 days
           following the last dose of the IMP

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  clinically significant unrelated illness which in the judgement of the investigators
           could compromise the patient's ability to tolerate the IMP or be likely to interfere
           with the study procedures or results

        -  known hypersensitivity reactions to prior application of E. coli-derived material

        -  women with breast-feeding activity

        -  concomitant use of any other investigational agent (agent for which there is currently
           no approved indication from regulatory authorities)

        -  clinical application of any other drug with known antitumor activity

        -  prophylactic anticoagulation within the last 3 days

      NOTE: Since this is a phase I study for end-stage cancer patients, patients who would be
      excluded from the protocol strictly for laboratory abnormalities only can be included at the
      Investigator's discretion. This will be documented as an exception to the criteria and will
      be signed and filed in the CRF and the Trial Master File.

      Statistical Methods: Descriptive statistics are performed to characterize MTD (= dose level
      below DLT occurring in 2/6 patients) Financial Support: Deutsche Krebshilfe, grant 111004
      Schedule Planned start date of the study (FPFV): 01.11.2016 Planned end date of recruitment
      (LPFV): 01.11.2017 Planned end date of the study (LPLV): 01.05.2018

      Studied period (years): (date of first enrolment) 2017 03 29; (date of last completed) 2019
      12 19

      Study centre: Department of Medicine A (Hematology, Hemostaseology, Oncology) University
      Hospital Muenster, Germany Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1 D-48149 Muenster, Germany

      Methodology:

      We have treated 17 patients with advanced cancer beyond standard therapies with tTF-NGR
      applied as a 1-hour infusion via central venous access for 5 consecutive days and rest
      periods of 2 weeks before the next cycle. The study allowed for intraindividual dose
      escalations from cycle to cycle and established MTD and DLT by verification cohorts of 6
      patients. This was an investigator-initiated, monocenter, single-arm, open-label study.

      Number of patients (planned and analysed):

      The number of patients required to complete this study was determined by the occurrence of
      DLT. Eventually, 24 patients had to be screened and 17 of them treated and analyzed in order
      to evaluate the study.
    
  