
    
      The study will involve orthopedic surgeons skilled in total hip arthroplasty and experienced
      with the implants subject of this study. In total, 5 centers will be involved. This number of
      clinical sites will permit assessment of the consistency among a multitude of Investigators.
      A total number of 200 subjects will be included in the study. It is anticipated that each
      clinical site will enroll 40-60 eligible study subjects, who have provided written informed
      consent.

      Ethics Committee (EC) approval for each site has to be obtained prior to conducting this
      research. Sequentially, all eligible patients will be offered study enrollment at each center
      to avoid potential selection bias. All potential subjects will be required to participate in
      an informed consent process and sign an EC approved written informed consent prior to study
      enrollment. It is anticipated the enrollment period may be 12 months or longer to assure an
      adequate number of cases at each site. Each case enrolled will receive an Allofit IT HXPE
      Bearing System. The study is designed to be prospective to ensure that the study population
      is representative of the type of population that the device is intended to treat. The
      subjects included will be candidates for All subjects will undergo preoperative clinical,
      functional and radiographic evaluations, total hip arthroplasty, immediate post-operative
      evaluations and post-operative clinical, functional and radiographic evaluations at 6 months
      (± 1 month), 1 year (± 2 months), 2 year (± 2 months), 3 year (± 2 months), 5 year (± 2
      months), 7 year (± 2 months), and 10 year (± 2 months). In addition, tantalum markers
      (Industrial Techtonics, Ann Arbour, Michigan, USA) for RSA will be installed into the
      acetabular and femoral bone of 40 patients around the implant during the surgery. Stability
      and motion of the Cup System will be assessed by RSA at immediate postoperative evaluation
      and at 4 further follow-up dates (3 months, 6 months,

      1 year and 2 years postoperative).
    
  