
    
      Structure

      The DZIF HIV Translational Platform belongs to the HIV the Thematic Translational Units
      (TTUs) of the German Centre for Infection Research (DZIF), which is founded by the Federal
      Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). The national, multi-centre structure of the DZIF
      bringing together selceted universities, university hospitals, and non-university research
      institutes and translational efforts focussing on distinct infectious diesease-related health
      problems are co-ordinated by the TTUs. The TTU HIV is located in six DZIF partner sites in
      Germany: Bonn-Cologne, Brunswick-Hannover, Gießen-Marburg-Langen, Hamburg, Heidelberg,
      Munich.

      Mission and Objectives

      Prevention of HIV:

      The main tools for effective prevention include vaccines, microbicides, preventive therapy
      and induction of behavioral change. Currently, few groups in Germany have specific
      preclinical expertise in this area. This expertise needs to be further developed and
      integrated in the DZIF to be able to implement internationally competitive HIV vaccine and
      microbicide programmes.

      Long-term life with HIV:

      This challenge is equally relevant for the developing and developed world. DZIF researchers
      have made many internationally visible contributions to management of HIV infection in the
      past. They have extensive experience in clinical studies in the HIV field and have played a
      major role in the clinical development of new drugs for HIV therapy (e.g. maraviroc,
      raltegravir). They are also intensively involved in the establishment of clinical guidelines
      for management of HIV infection.

      HIV cure:

      Antiretroviral therapy can completely suppress HIV replication below the limit of detection
      for sustained periods of time, but cannot eradicate the virus from silent reservoirs.
      Accordingly, life-long therapy is needed and interruption of therapy always leads to
      resurgence of viral spread and disease. Several approaches have been suggested to eliminate
      silently infected cells or the HIV genomes integrated in these cells. These approaches are
      currently mostly at the stage of basic research or early preclinical development and need to
      be developed in the translational chain. While significant knowledge exists about the nature
      of silent reservoirs, the number and clonality of viral integration sites is currently
      largely unknown and needs to be further investigated to develop virus eradication strategies
      and therapies.

      The aim of the DZIF HIV Translational Platform is to comprehensively and collaboratively
      analyze the above mentioned aspects by using cohorts of HIV infected patients in different
      stages and with different courses of disease. These cohorts have been established by the
      participating partner sites, which will be coordinated and extended by the focus site in
      Bonn-Cologne.

      This study protocol is the framework and platform for future substudies.
    
  