
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis affects approximately 1% of the adult population, and is a chronic,
      progressive disease characterized by synovial inflammation. The resulting inflammation leads
      to destruction of the synovium and surrounding joint tissues, which can result in cartilage
      destruction, bone erosion and resultant loss of joint function. It is an autoimmune disorder
      of unknown etiology and typically affects the joints of the hand, wrist, knee, and foot,
      usually in a bilateral pattern. Symptoms experienced early in the disease process include
      pain, swelling, and tenderness of affected joints. As the disease progresses, many patients
      experience joint stiffness, weakness, fatigue, anorexia, and weight loss, and ultimately
      tissue damage and joint destruction. The severity of symptoms varies widely, ranging from
      annoyance to debilitation. Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that primarily afflicts adults,
      with women being affected more often than men. Because rheumatoid arthritis is both chronic
      and destructive, it requires early diagnosis and aggressive treatment to minimize the
      morbidity associated with its progression, which can lead to deterioration in physical
      function and psychological and social well-being. The objectives of rheumatoid arthritis
      therapy are to reduce inflammation and to decrease the progression of articular damage.
      Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs are used to accomplish these objectives.

      During the past several years, rheumatologists have become increasingly aggressive in
      initiating treatment with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs early in the course of
      rheumatoid arthritis in an attempt to prevent joint destruction. The gold standard of therapy
      has been methotrexate, which has been shown to be efficacious and safe, and appears to remain
      effective, even after many years of treatment. However, not all patients respond to
      methotrexate, and even patients who do respond most frequently have only a partial response
      (reduced signs and symptoms, but still active disease). As a result, many patients are
      treated with 2 or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs at the same time.

      More recently, biologics (biotechnology drugs) have been introduced in the armamentarium
      against rheumatoid arthritis, based on an improved understanding of the role of the
      proinflammatory mediators, TNF-alpha, interleukin-1, and interleukin-6 in rheumatoid
      arthritis. Etanercept (Enbrel®), a soluble TNF-alpha type II receptor-human immunoglobulin
      fusion protein administered subcutaneously twice a week, infliximab (Remicade®), a chimeric
      human mouse monoclonal antibody against TNF-alpha, administered intravenously every 4 to 8
      weeks along with weekly methotrexate, and adalimumab (Humira®), a human-derived recombinant
      immunoglobulin monoclonal antibody, administered subcutaneously every other week, are
      currently available for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. They have demonstrated rapid and
      substantial improvement in rheumatoid arthritis, presumably by preventing the actions of
      TNF-alpha in the joint, thereby reducing the inflammatory and destructive consequences of
      TNF-alpha. Etanercept and infliximab have been granted Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      approved indications for reducing signs and symptoms, inhibiting the progression of
      structural damage and improving physical function of patients with moderately to severely
      active rheumatoid arthritis. Adalimumab has been granted FDA approved indications for
      reducing signs and symptoms and inhibiting the progression of structural damage, and Anakinra
      (Kineret®), an interleukin-1 receptor antagonist administered subcutaneously daily, received
      FDA approval for reducing signs and symptoms.

      TAK-715 is a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor that has shown in nonclinical
      studies to decrease proinflammatory cytokine production, specifically tumor necrosis factor-α
      (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1, and IL-6. These cytokines are thought to be pivotal mediators of
      inflammation and the resultant joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis. TAK-715 has also
      been shown to inhibit the production of cyclooxygenase-2-mediated prostanoids and nitric
      oxide as well as oppose the differentiation of osteoclasts, each of which contributes to the
      joint damage associated with rheumatoid arthritis.

      Individuals who participate in this study will provide written informed consent and will be
      required to commit to a screening visit and up to approximately 5 additional visits at the
      study center. Study participation is anticipated to be up to 6 months. Multiple procedures
      will occur at each visit which may include fasting, blood collection, urine collection,
      physical examinations and electrocardiograms. Participants will be required to provide
      detailed medical histories related to rheumatoid arthritis and complete multiple
      questionnaires.
    
  