
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To investigate the down-regulation of the androgen receptor using tissue samples from
           patients with stage I or II prostate cancer treated with selenomethionine for 8-9 weeks
           prior to undergoing prostatectomy or brachytherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the down regulation of a number of genes regulated by the androgen receptor
           (i.e., prostate-specific antigen, kallikrein 2, cell division cycle 6, and
           dehydrocholesterol reductase 24) using tissue samples from these patients.

        -  To evaluate the down-regulation of haptic nuclear factor 3-alpha using tissue samples
           from these patients.

        -  To evaluate whether the thiol methyltransferase phenotype modifies the prostatic
           response to short-term selenomethionine supplementation in these patients.

      Tertiary

        -  To use quantitative nuclear morphometry to index cellular abnormality in tissue samples
           as measured by nuclear texture (e.g., total optical density, nuclear area, mean nuclear
           density, and optical heterogeneity).

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to planned treatment (brachytherapy vs
      prostatectomy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral selenomethionine once daily for 8-9 weeks. Patients then
           undergo prostatectomy or brachytherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 8-9 weeks. Patients then undergo
           prostatectomy or brachytherapy.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and on the day of prostatectomy or brachytherapy.
      Samples are analyzed for selenium accumulation by atomic absorption spectrophotometry.
      Additional blood samples are stored for future analysis of alpha tocopherol, lycopene, and
      other vitamin levels, as well as oxidative stress biomarkers. Selenium accumulation is also
      evaluated in toenail samples at baseline to assess long-term selenium status. Prostate tissue
      samples are obtained during prostatectomy or brachytherapy and analyzed for RNA and
      expression of selenium-linked biomarkers (e.g., androgen receptor, prostate-specific antigen,
      kallikrein 2, cell division cycle 6, dehydrocholesterol reductase 24, and haptic nuclear
      factor 3 alpha) by quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. Biomarker expression is
      compared in both prostatectomy and brachytherapy specimens.
    
  