
    
      BACKGROUND The adenoma detection rate by colonoscopy for asymptomatic individuals aged 50
      years and older is estimated to be at least 25%. It is known that during colonoscopy, lesions
      may be missed. The miss rates for lesions depend on its size. In a meta-analysis, the overall
      miss rates for colonic polyps of any size was 22% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 19 - 26%)
      but based on size of adenomas, the miss rates ranged from 26% (95% CI: 21 - 30%) for lesions
      1 - 5mm, to 13% (95% CI: 8 - 20%) for lesions 5 - 9mm and 2 (95% CI: 1 - 8%) for lesions
      larger than 10mm. Factors implicated in missed lesions include poor bowel preparation, short
      withdrawal time, lack of meticulous examination, and possibly subtle mucosal changes,
      especially for small or flat adenomas, that may be easily missed on white light imaging
      (WLI).

      Image enhanced endoscopy techniques have been evaluated for the detection and differentiation
      of colonic polyps. Narrow band imaging (NBI), developed by Olympus Corporation (Tokyo, Japan)
      is one such technique and is a function available in all colonoscopies as a press button.
      When NBI is activated, an optical filter is applied to the white light source, such that only
      the narrow bandwidths of blue (440 - 460 nm) and green (540 - 560 nm) wavelengths are
      transmitted. These narrow bandwidths enhance the visualization of blood vessels and mucosal
      pit patterns. This technique has been shown to be useful in predicting colonic polyp
      histology and depth of mucosal invasion in the context of intra-mucosal cancer. The two
      common classification systems used predict histology is the NICE and the Sano classification.
      The NICE classification can be used without optical magnification; it evaluates the color of
      the lesion, regularity of the overlying vessels and regularity of the surface pattern. The
      Sano classification requires optical magnification in order to assess the capillary patterns
      such as whether there is dilation, irregularity or loss of irregular capillaries over the
      lesion. In the context of adenoma detection, the results are more contentious. A
      meta-analysis of randomized studies examining the utility of the first generation NBI system
      when compared to high definition WLI showed no difference in detection rates; it was only
      superior when compared to non high definition WLI, which may not be so relevant now since
      most new systems use high definition WLI. A criticism of the NBI system had been the dark
      endoscopic view; this is a result of the optical filter, and can limit the far view. A second
      generation NBI system has since been developed. It is characterized by much brighter
      illumination despite the optical filter, and thus the far view is improved. A recent
      randomized controlled study compared the second-generation NBI system with high definition
      WLI. NBI was shown to improve polyp and adenoma detection rates compared to WLI (adenoma:
      48.3% vs. 34.4%, p = 0.01; polyps: 61.1% vs. 48.3%, p = 0.02).

      Blue laser imaging (BLI) is another form of narrow bandwidth imaging developed by Fujifilm
      Corporation (Tokyo, Japan). It is a function integrated into the colonoscopy systems and can
      be activated and alternated with white light endoscopy by a push button. There is also
      optical magnification capability, thereby allowing detailed examination of micro-surface and
      micro-capillary structures. Instead of using an optical filter for white light to produce
      narrow bandwidths, the BLI system has a unique feature of illumination using two lasers and a
      white light phosphor to accomplish the visual enhancement of surface vessels and structures.
      A laser with a wavelength of 450nm stimulates the phosphor to irradiate a white-color
      illumination. The other laser, with a wavelength of 410nm, is used to enhance the blood
      vessels at shallow depth in the mucosa. Early data has shown its usefulness in predicting the
      histology of mucosal lesions. A comparative study showed that BLI had a greater far view
      compared to NBI due to its much brighter illumination. Thus far there has been no study to
      determine whether the use of BLI will increase the detection rate of colonic polyps and
      adenomas when compared to WLE. In addition, there has been no prior study of applying the
      NICE and Sano classifications developed using NBI to BLI. Recently in Japan a workgroup has
      proposed the JNET classification system to characterize polyps. This has not been applied
      using the BLI system either, being developed under NBI. Similar to Sano classification, this
      uses optical magnification. The main difference between the JNET and San classification
      systems is that in JNET classification system, Sano 2 is named JNET 2A, and Sano 3A is
      subsumed under JNET 2B, and Sano 3A becomes JNET 3.

      AIM This study aims to determine whether BLI can increase the detection rate of colonic
      polyps and adenomas when compared to white light endoscopy, with the null hypothesis being no
      difference in detection rates. This study will also examine the use of NICE and Sano and JNET
      classification systems to predict histology with the BLI system.

      METHODS This is a prospective randomized controlled study. Patients will be randomized in a
      1:1 ratio in blocks of 10 to undergo either BLI or WLI colonoscopy. Randomization will be
      carried out by computer-generated random sequences. Once informed consent is obtained, the
      research assistant will disclose the assigned imaging technique (BLI or WLI) to the
      responsible endoscopist before the procedure.

      Technique of colonoscopy and imaging All patients will be given dietary instructions before
      colonoscopy and will be prescribed four litres of polyethylene glycol in a split dose for
      bowel cleansing 1 day before colonoscopy. The Fujifilm colonoscope with WLI and BLI
      functions, and optical magnification capability (EC-L590ZW) and Fujifilm LASERO video
      endoscopy system, which supports WLI and BLI functions of the colonoscope, will be used.
      Colonoscopy will be performed under conscious sedation with intravenous midazolam and/or
      fentanyl. In the BLI group, insertion to cecum will be performed under WLI and once the cecum
      is reached, the BLI mode is switched on during withdrawal of endoscope for complete colonic
      examination. In the WLI group, WLI will be used during both insertion and withdrawal.
      Withdrawal time is defined as the time of the initiation of cecal inspection to the time when
      the colonoscope is completely removed from anus. The time for polypectomy will not be
      included. A dedicated research assistant measured the withdrawal time by using a stopwatch.
      The withdrawal time is set to a minimum of 6 min even in patients in whom no polyps are
      found. Bowel preparation of the whole colon will be graded according the Boston Bowel
      Preparation Scale which is routinely used in clinical practice and captured in the electronic
      reporting system.

      The sizes and locations of all colonic polyps will be recorded contemporaneously. The
      locations of colonic lesions will be identified by anatomical landmarks or by
      transillumination. The size of colonic lesions will be measured against the span of an opened
      biopsy forceps. Regardless of the assigned group, once a polyp is detected during withdrawal,
      prior to removal, the surface structure of each polyp detected will be first assessed without
      optical magnification under BLI using the NICE classification. Thereafter optical
      magnification will be applied and the polyp will be classified using the Sano and JNET
      classification. Images will be captured electronically and stored in the electronic medical
      reporting system and can be retrieved for audit and verification and study of inter-observer
      agreement. All lesions will be resected or biopsied and labelled for histological
      examination. If more than 5 polyps are detected, the largest 5 polyps will be used for
      endoscopic-histological correlation. All procedures will be performed by either experienced
      endoscopists who have performed at least 1,000 colonoscopies or by endoscopy fellows under
      direct supervision of the experienced specialists. All endoscopists will have prior
      experience with image enhanced endoscopy using the NBI system. Prior to the start of the
      study, the NICE and Sano and JNET classifications will be formally reviewed with all
      participating endoscopists to ensure familiarity with these classifications for polyp
      assessment. To familiarize endoscopists with the BLI system, all endoscopists will be asked
      to carry out at least five examinations with the BLI system before performing study cases.

      Definitions Complete colonoscopy is defined as successful cecal intubation. All colonic
      polyps removed during each examination will be sent for histological examination with clear
      labelling of location. Histological interpretation of all polyps will follow the World Health
      Organization system. Advanced adenoma will be defined as adenoma ≥ 10 mm in diameter, with
      any villous histology, high-grade dysplasia, or invasive carcinoma. Adenoma detection rate
      and polyp detection rate will be defined as the proportion of patients with at least one
      adenoma and one polyp respectively.

      Outcomes The primary outcomes of this study will be the differences in adenoma (overall and
      flat) and polyp detection rates of BLI with WLI during diagnostic colonoscopy. Sub-analysis
      will be performed for the utility of NICE and Sano and JNET classification systems to predict
      histology with the BLI system.

      Statistics We estimate the overall prevalence of colorectal adenoma in the WLI colonoscopy
      group to be 25%. In order to show a clinically important improvement of adenoma detection by
      BLI, the new system should increase the adenoma detection rate by 15%. With a statistical
      power of 80% and a two-sided significance level of 0.05, 152 patients will be needed in each
      study arm (total 304).

      Adenoma detection rate or polyp detection rate will be calculated on the actual number of
      patients randomized to each group. Adenoma miss rate or polyp miss rate will be based on the
      percentage of patients who had completed the second colonoscopy. Bowel preparation will be
      regrouped into satisfactory (excellent to good) and unsatisfactory (fair to poor) for
      statistical analysis. The differences in detection rates between the BLI and WLI groups will
      be compared by the student's t-test. Statistical significance is taken as a two sided p value
      < 0.05. Factors associated with adenoma detection on first colonoscopy will be first
      identified by univariate analysis. Factors with a P value < 0.1 on univariate analysis will
      be further entered into forward stepwise logistic regression analysis. The adjusted odds
      ratio with 95% CI will be used to describe the influence of various factors on adenoma
      detection rate. All the above statistical analysis will be performed by SPSS statistics
      software (version 19.0, SPSS, Chicago, IL).

      Using histology as gold standard, we will calculate the accuracy, sensitivity, specificity,
      and negative and positive predictive values for each component of the NICE and Sano and JNET
      classifications and for the overall prediction by using these classification systems. The
      differences in performance characteristics between the NICE and Sano and JNET classifications
      will be compared. To evaluate inter-observer variability in the diagnosis of colonic polyps
      using the NICE and Sano and JNET classifications a set of endoscopic digital images of
      histologically confirmed colonic polyps will be reviewed independently by the participating
      endoscopists. The k statistic, a measure of interobserver agreement over and above chance,
      will be calculated using the statistical software StatsDirect version 2.6.2 (Stats-Direct,
      Cheshire, UK). The strength of agreement is defined as follows: very good agreement: k more
      than 0.8 but less than 1; good agreement: k more than 0.6 but less than 0.8; moderate
      agreement: k more than 0.4 but less than 0.6; fair agreement: k more than 0.2 but less than
      0.4; poor agreement: k less than 0.2.
    
  