
    
      The purpose of this project is to evaluate a promising peer-run psycho-educational group
      intervention titled "Vocational Empowerment Photovoice (VEP)" that aims to empower
      individuals with the most disabling psychiatric disabilities to engage in vocational services
      and pursue employment through the enhancement of their vocational hope, sense of vocational
      identity, work motivation, work-related self-efficacy, and capacity to deal with psychiatric
      stigma and discrimination. The VEP program was designed and pilot tested with a small
      randomized study (n=51) as part of a National Institute of Disability and Rehabilitation
      Research (NIDRR) funded research and training center (RTC) on Improving the Employment
      Outcomes (2009-2014). VEP is a 10-week peer-run program enhanced with 3 group booster
      sessions and the availability of weekly individual support provided by the VEP peer-leaders
      in keeping with each participant's formulated vocational goals. The researchers propose to
      evaluate the effectiveness of the VEP intervention using a large multi-site randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) with a total of 160 individuals who are not engaged in vocational
      services or working, but express such interests. The RCT will be carried out at 2 different
      mental health agencies (Thresholds in Chicago, IL and Pilgrim Psychiatric Center in Long
      Island, NY) both of which provide supported employment services. Eighty individuals will be
      recruited at each of these two study sites and will be assessed at baseline and 4 post
      baseline follow-up points. The efficacy of the VEP intervention will be tested in regards to
      two types of outcomes: a) extrinsic (for example, engagement in employment services,
      job-seeking activities, or employment), and b) intrinsic (for example, enhanced vocational
      hope, sense of vocational identity, work motivation, work-related self-efficacy). The
      researchers propose a small qualitative sub-study to inform future implementation and scaling
      up of VEP based on its effectiveness. Upon completion of each wave of the RCT the researchers
      will conduct an approximately 90-minutes focus group with participants in the VEP program and
      individual interviews with the VEP peer leaders. At the conclusion of the RCT at each
      collaborating site, the researchers will conduct individual interviews with the VEP
      supervisor(s), research staff and agency senior manager(s) familiar with the study.

      The study is currently approved for the Thresholds site and recruitment is under way at this
      site.
    
  