
    
      Diagnosis of BV based on Amsel's criteria and Nugent's scoring. In Amsel's criteria include:
      presence of thin vaginal discharge, clue cells, vaginal fluid pH >4.5 and positive whiff
      test. The Nugent score is derived from gram-stained vaginal smear; yielding a score between 0
      - 10. A score of, 4 is normal, 4 - 6 is intermediate and a score >7 represents BV. CDC
      recommends diagnosis of BV on the presence of >3 Amsel criteria and a Nugent score >7. FDA
      recommends, verification of BV cure should be conducted 21 - 30 days after the initiation of
      therapy (absence of Amsel's criteria and Nugent score <4).

      Cure rate of BV with conventional anti-microbial agents have been disappointing due to high
      recurrence rate of BV. Recurrence of BV results in repeated exposure to anti-microbial agents
      which may lead to emergence of drug-resistance strains & the potential for adverse reactions.
      This suggests a need for alternative therapeutic measures of BV.

      Lactobacilli rhamnosus GR-1 and Lactobacilli fermentum RC-14 are H2O2 producing lactobacilli
      which are toxic to bacteria causing BV by antagonizing the growth and adhesion of pathologic
      bacteria causing BV. In non-pregnant women, oral administrations of these strains of
      lactobacilli are safe, and reduce the risk of BV by restoring predominant lactobacilli, the
      normal vaginal bacterial flora.

      Bacterial vaginosis is associated with increased incidence of preterm delivery. For pregnant
      women, restoration of lactobacilli in the genital tract could be very important to prevent BV
      and may lower the risk of preterm labor. At present, the safety, tolerability and efficacy of
      lactobacilli use during pregnancy is not well known for the fetus and the pregnant women. The
      investigators plan to do a phase I trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy
      of oral lactobacilli on vaginal flora of pregnant women and follow up their infants for any
      side effect up to 6 months of age.

      In summary, treatment failure and recurrence of BV following anti-microbial treatment is
      frustrating. During pregnancy, probiotics may be the next step to treat BV and restore normal
      vaginal micro flora. But the safety of lactobacilli use during pregnancy is not established.
      The investigators will do phase I trial to evaluate safety of oral lactobacilli in pregnant
      women along with their infants up to 6 months.
    
  