
    
      Over the past years, an increase in the number of emergency department (ED) visits for asthma
      exacerbation has been reported. Most of these visits are for preschool children.

      Although pulmonary function tests are commonly used to assess the severity of acute asthma in
      adults, they are difficult to perform in children, especially those who are younger than five
      years old .

      spirometry measures pulmonary markers such as vital capacity and maximal forced expiatory
      volume in 1 second. Well-trained personnel are required to perform these tests, and they are
      not routinely available in the ED. Peak flow has been used in the ED to measure the degree of
      respiratory obstruction .This technique is difficult to perform in children less than 6 years
      of age because of their lack of coordination and comprehension .

      Adequate evaluation of the severity of asthma exacerbation is important for the initial
      management of patients, as well as for assessing the clinical response. However, severity is
      more difficult to assess in children. The clinical evaluation and physician's experience are
      often not enough to determine the degree of respiratory obstruction .

      In the emergency room setting, the most critical issue facing the attending physician is,
      deciding the adequacy of outpatient therapy of acute asthma, or when hospitalization is
      indicated. Traditionally, this decision is used to be made according to the clinical history,
      physical examination, laboratory results and response to therapy of the patient .

      A number of asthma severity measures or scoring systems have been established to estimate the
      degree of airway obstruction for children in whom the standard measurements cannot be
      performed. These systems combine a number of physical signs, such as respiratory rate and
      accessory muscle use, to form an aggregate score that estimates the severity of an acute
      asthma exacerbation .no scoring system is perfect, but some method of assessing severity in
      children is needed when spirometry testing is not obtainable.

      modified the pulmonary index was reported by adding 2 scoring items, namely heart rate and
      SpO2 at room temperature, and by dividing the method of heart rate and respiratory rate
      scoring depending on which of 2 age groups the patient belong to. Modified Pulmonary Index
      Score is a quantitative method of evaluating respiratory conditions in asthmatic subjects
      modified and consists of 6 evaluation items, which are important for the assessment of
      dyspnea and are relatively easy to assess in clinical practice, namely heart rate,
      respiratory rate, accessory muscle use, inspiratory to expiatory flow ratio, degree of
      wheezing, and oxygen saturation in room air.

      the predictive validity and reproducibility of the Modified Pulmonary Index Score for asthma
      exacerbation was reported in 30 children with a mean age of 7.6 ± 5.5 years in 2005. They
      found good correlations of the Modified Pulmonary Index Score with clinical outcomes such as
      ICU admission. The Modified Pulmonary Index Score appears to be suitable for measuring the
      severity of acute asthma exacerbation, and was applied as primary outcome measurement in some
      clinical trials .

      A significant correlation between Modified Pulmonary Index Score at hospitalization and
      hospitalization period in children above 5 years old, suggesting that Modified Pulmonary
      Index Score was useful for predicting the clinical course after hospitalization. However, its
      applicability to preschool children has not yet been fully elucidated.

      The Modified Pulmonary Index Score can be a useful tool for several aspects during acute
      asthma attacks, including the determination of a treatment plan, and prediction of the period
      of hospitalization in admitted patients .
    
  