
    
      1 primary objective is to determine maximum tolerated dose of Temodar in combo w
      O6-benzylguanine administered for 5 consecutive days in pts w progressive/recurrent GBM.
      Another primary objective is to characterize toxicity associated w Temozolomide in combo w
      O6-BG administered for 5 consecutive days in pts w progressive/recurrent GBM. 3rd primary
      objective is to determine Neulasta-supported MTD defined as MTD of Temozolomide in combo w
      O6-BG administered for 5 days while receiving Neulasta once per treatment cycle between days
      7 & 14 in pts w progressive/recurrent GBM. Secondary objective is to obtain preliminary
      response rates of Temodar in combo w O6-BG administered for 5 consecutive days in pts w
      progressive/recurrent GBM. Population is Glioblastoma. O6-BG Administration: O6-BG 120mg/m2
      administered intravenously over 1 hr followed by continuous infusion of O6-BG at 30mg/m2/day
      for 5 consecutive days. Every 48hrs repeat dose of 120mg/m2 over 1hr administered for total
      of 3 doses.

      Temodar Administration: Temodar administered orally, in fasting state within 60 mins of end
      of 1st 1-hr infusion of O6-BG & then every 24 hrs during continuous infusion of O6-BG.
      Temozolomide administered on day 1 of treatment cycle and every 24 hrs thereafter for 5 days
      w treatment cycles repeated every 28 days. Body surface area calculated at beginning of each
      cycle will be used to calculate daily dose of Temozolomide administered for that cycle.

      Neulasta Administration. Neulasta administered by subcutaneous injection in 0.6mL pre-filled
      syringe containing 6mg of pegfilgrastim. It will be administered once per chemotherapy cycle
      between days 7 & 14. Neulasta should not be administered in period between 14 days before &
      24hrs after administration of cytotoxic chemo including Temozolomide.

      Data Analysis will be conducted by Biostatistics department of Duke.
    
  