
    
      Hirschsprung's disease (HD) is a rare disease (1/5000) defined as a congenital absence of
      enteric ganglia, secondary to developmental defects in colonization of the gut by the enteric
      nervous system (ENS) and in its maturation, resulting usually in neonatal bowel obstruction.
      The current treatment is the operative removal of the aganglionic bowel and anastomosis to
      the ganglionic zone considered as 'healthy'. However, postoperative course remains
      unpredictable. Functional intestinal disorders, mainly functional obstructive symptoms, are
      present in up to 45% of patients and can occur in the immediate postoperative period or few
      weeks/years later. Postoperative enterocolitis also occurs in up to 25% of patients following
      a similar time course. Until now, there are neither predictive factors of postoperative
      digestive complications nor established treatment for postoperative dysmotility in HD, in
      part due to a lack of understanding of the physiopathological mechanisms involved.
      Abnormalities in ENS phenotype and functions in the 'healthy' ganglionic segment are
      increasingly suspected to be directly responsible for postoperative intestinal dysfunctions
      in HD. In an ongoing multicentre study (Ente-Hirsch project), he investigators have
      identified a reduced density of nitrergic enteric neurons associated with a reduced
      neuromuscular transmission that could account for digestive dysfunctions in HD. Therefore,
      approaches aimed at restoring the nitrergic phenotype could be of major therapeutical
      interest. Among targets regulating the nitrergic phenotype of ENS are the microbiota and/or
      derived metabolites. Indeed preclinical animal models deficient in bacterial sensing
      molecules have a loss of nitrergic neurons and reduced colonic transit. Conversely,
      microbiota transfer to newborn germ-free mice restored colonic transit time. Alternatively he
      investigators has shown that bacterial metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids, in
      particular butyrate, can increase nitrergic phenotype and enhance colonic motility in a gut
      immaturity animal model. Therefore the investigators hypothesize preoperative butyrate enema
      will reduce postoperative intestinal complications at short-term and medium/long-term.
    
  