
    
      The goal of the Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy Registry (HBOTR) for Wounds is to provide
      comparative effectiveness data for patients and to understand whether clinical practice
      guidelines are followed in the use of HBOT.

      Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HBOT) is the use of oxygen at greater than one atmosphere (sea
      level) pressures and is administered by placing the entire patient in a pressurized vessel
      and having the patient breathe 100% oxygen. The minimum treatment pressure with evidence to
      support its use among the conditions approved by the Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical society
      is 2.0 atmospheres absolute (2 ATA) which is an inspired partial pressure of oxygen of
      approximately 1,520 mmHg. Hyperbaric treatments which provide less than 100% inspired oxygen
      at the treatment pressure and/or which provide an inspired partial pressure of oxygen less
      than 760 mmHg are not hyperbaric therapy. Topically applied oxygen is not hyperbaric oxygen
      therapy. Oxygen is a drug with a well-defined dose response curve as well as acute and
      chronic drug effects. HBOT also has side effects including oxygen toxicity to many organ
      systems. The physiological effects of hyperbaric oxygen therapy are well studied.
      Effectiveness in real world patients is the best current option to understand the role of
      HBOT in wound healing.

      Hospital based outpatient wound centers participating in the US Wound Registry agree to
      provide data as part of quality initiatives and to meet their Stage 2 Meaningful use
      criteria. The HBOTR is a subset of the USWR (Chronic Disease Registry) data. All patient data
      from all participating hyperbaric centers are transmitted to the USWR where data are then
      used as designated for benchmarking, to satisfy the requirements of PQRS for advanced
      practitioners, and for data needed by the UHMS to respond to governmental agencies. Data used
      for effectiveness research are HIPAA de-identified.
    
  