
    
      Glaucoma: a major health care challenge of the 21st century

      Glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide and is expected to affect 76
      million people by the year 2020. In glaucoma, there is a permanent loss of retinal ganglion
      cells (RGCs), the long-projecting central nervous system (CNS) neurons that convey visual
      information from the retina to the brain via their axons. Clinically, such changes translate
      into a progressive damage of visual field and sometimes result in a complete loss of vision.
      Currently, intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction remains the sole target of proven glaucoma
      therapies, consisting of a wide range of eye drops, systemic medications, laser procedures
      and incisional surgeries. However, many patients continue to lose vision even when these
      therapies are implemented, exemplifying the unmet need for novel therapies that sustain RGC
      survival and stimulate their regeneration.

      Dendrite pathology: an early sign of neuronal damage in glaucoma Dendrites are specialized
      processes that determine how neurons receive and integrate information within neuronal
      circuits. Dendrite retraction and synapse disassembly are early signs of pathology in several
      psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Dendritic pathology occurs prior to soma or axon
      loss and correlates with substantial functional deficits. In mammals, CNS neurons have a
      limited capacity to regenerate after injury. While a large number of studies have focused on
      axonal regeneration, the ability of mammalian neurons to regrow dendrites and reestablish
      functional synapses has been largely ignored. This is a critical issue because pathological
      disconnection from pre-synaptic targets leads to persistent functional impairment and accrued
      neuronal death, contributing to vision loss in glaucoma.

      The role of insulin in dendrite regeneration Aberrant or insufficient insulin signaling, even
      in the absence of diabetes, has been associated with neurodegeneration in diseases
      characterized by dendritic pathology, notably Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, as well as
      glaucoma. Traditionally viewed solely as a peripherally acting hormone, insulin crosses the
      blood-brain-barrier readily and can influence a number of physiological brain processes
      including neuronal survival, neurotransmission, and cognitive performance. Using a model of
      optic nerve transection (axotomy), members of our team (Agostinone et al. Brain 2018) showed
      that insulin administered as eye drops or systemically after dendrites had retracted,
      promoted robust dendritic growth that restored arbor area and complexity. Remarkably, insulin
      rescued excitatory postsynaptic sites and light-triggered retinal responses while promoting
      robust cell survival. This study provides the first evidence of successful dendrite
      regeneration in mammalian neurons. Unpublished data (manuscript in preparation) from a mouse
      glaucoma model by our colleagues at the CHUM (Agostinone et al., in preparation) also showed
      that insulin stimulates similar dendrite regeneration after ocular hypertension damage. These
      results confirm that injured murine RGCs can effectively regenerate dendrites and validate
      insulin as a powerful strategy to restore dendritic morphology in glaucoma, providing the
      basis for need of further investigation of insulin use as glaucoma treatment in humans.

      Currently, insulin is approved for subcutaneous or intravenous use as a treatment for
      diabetes mellitus. Adverse events of systemic insulin include hypoglycemia,
      hypokalemia,allergies, weight gain, peripheral edema and drug interactions. Experimental use
      of ocular topical insulin have been tested in small cohorts of healthy individuals and
      diabetic patients, reporting no significant adverse events. However, these protocols varied
      in insulin posology and adverse events were only mentioned briefly, if at all, in most of
      these studies, indicating the necessity of better characterizing the safety profile of such
      off-label use of insulin prior to implementing its use as neuroprotective and regenerative
      treatment for glaucoma.

      Experimental nature of the medication / treatment:

      Topical application of insulin with concentrations of 100 U/ml (Humulin R U-100, Eli Lilly
      Canada, St-Laurent, Quebec, Canada) and 500 U/ml (Entuzity, Eli Lilly Canada, St-Laurent,
      Quebec, Canada) once per day to eyes diagnosed with open angle glaucoma. Both products of
      insulin are approved by Health Canada for subcutaneous and intravenous use for the treatment
      of diabetes mellitus. The proposed route of administration and indication of insulin use in
      this current study are therefore of off-label nature, for which the investigators will
      request a non-objection letter from Health Canada.

      Hypothesis of the study: Topical ocular insulin (up to 500 U/ml) at once per day dosing is
      safe in patients with open angle glaucoma.

      Objectives: To document and to report any ocular and/or systemic adverse events associated
      with topical insulin eye drops.
    
  