
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of eculizumab in patients with transfusion-dependent hemolytic
           paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this drug, in terms of hemoglobin stabilization and the number
           of packed red blood cell units transfused during the 26-week treatment period, in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the occurrence of transfusion avoidance, hemolysis (measured by lactate
           dehydrogenase [LDH] area under the curve), and the changes in fatigue during the 26-week
           treatment period in patients treated with this drug vs placebo.

        -  Compare LDH changes, quality of life changes, thrombosis, platelet activity, nitric
           oxide, and free hemoglobin measures during the 26-week treatment period in patients
           treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to the number of packed red blood cell (PRBC) units transfused 1
      year prior to screening (< 15 units vs 15-25 units vs > 25 units). Patients are randomized to
      1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Within 10 days after PRBC transfusion (administered during the study observation
           period), patients receive placebo IV over 30 minutes once a week for 5 weeks and then
           once every 2 weeks for 21 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Within 10 days after PRBC transfusion (administered during the study observation
           period), patients receive eculizumab IV over 30 minutes once a week for 5 weeks and then
           once every 2 weeks for 21 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline; at weeks 0-4, 12, 20, and 26 during study treatment;
      then at weeks 1, 2, 4, and 8 after completion of study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at weeks 1, 2, 4, and 8.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 75 patients (37 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  