
    
      BACKGROUND Non-participation in the screening program is the main risk factor for cervical
      cancer (Andrae et al JNCI, 2008). Therefore it is important to reduce barriers to screening
      and facilitate participation in the screening program for cervical cancer. Offering
      self-sampling kits for human papillomavirus (HPV) testing has been examined in several
      research studies as a way to reach women who have not responded to screening invitations.

      Results from a population-based, randomized study in western Sweden concluded that by
      offering HPV self-sampling kits to screening non-attendees, 17% of cervical cancer cases
      could be avoided. Offering self-sampling kits to women who have not attended screening in the
      organized program, can lead to greater participation without substantial increases in the
      overall health care costs. While there is a growing body of evidence supporting the use of
      self-sampling, it is unclear how this strategy can be implemented effectively in the context
      of an organized screening program. An alternative is to offer women the chance to speak with
      a coordinating midwife who can answer questions and address concerns regarding screening. It
      is unclear how the results of different research studies should be put into practical use
      within an organized screening program. Currently, women who have not attended screening are
      sent an annual reminder invitation. We want to examine whether these alternative strategies
      (self-sampling and contact with a midwife) may work as well, or better, than current strategy
      of reminder invitations to non-attenders.

      AIM The aim of this randomized health services study is therefore both to test the
      feasibility of providing alternative strategies instead of the customary reminder invitations
      to women in Stockholm (so-called feasibility study, primary aim), and whether such strategies
      will increase overall participation in screening (secondary aim).

      STUDY DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY A new IT infrastructure for ordering a self-sampling kit has
      been developed by LabMed, KI. This in conjunction with the screening database, will be used
      to identify and invite women who are long-term non-participants in cervical screening. Women
      who have not participated for ten years, despite annual reminder invitations, will be
      identified and randomized to one of four strategies.

        1. A validated HPV self-sampling kit will be sent directly to women with a study invitation
           letter and instructions.

        2. An invitation to order an HPV self-sampling kit through an online application will be
           sent.

        3. An invitation to call the coordinating midwife with questions and concerns regarding
           screening will be sent.

        4. The standard annual reminder invitation will be sent (control, routine practice)

      Women who choose to participate will be sampled and monitored according to the standards of
      care in the regional cancer screening program. HPV-positive women will be followed by
      colposcopy and biopsy according to standard clinical guidelines. Women will be invited over
      the course of 3 months. All letters will be printed in advance with pre-marked dates. Batches
      will be sent out weekly and checked against changes in the population registry data (for
      individuals that have moved, taken a smear, died, or unregistered, invitation letters will be
      sorted out and those individuals marked in the database).

      2 Notation and abbreviations

        -  PNR = person nummer, personal ID number 3 Study population 3.1 Inclusion criteria

        -  Women who have lived in Stockholm for the past 10 years and have been sent annual
           reminder at least once per year for 10 years without attending screening.

      Specific selection process:

      Include women without an "H-prov" on record for the past 10 years Include women have actively
      been sent a reminder invitation (invitation type=1) during 10 years time. In other words,
      resident in Stockholm for the past 10 years.

      Include women over the age of 33 3.2 Exclusion criteria Women who have opted out of the
      screening program Hysterectomized Return to sender Changed PNR Women who are marked as
      Expired=1. Women who have reason marked for being unregistered but are not marked as is
      unregistered=1.

      Women who are due to receive their reminder invitation in the next 3 months 4 Statistical
      analyses Selection of the study population Randomization A random selection of 8000 women
      will be chosen from all women meeting the study inclusion criteria.

      These 8000 women will be randomized to the 4 study arms (age-stratified 30-50 and 51-60).

      The selection of the study population and the randomization to study arms will be carried out
      by Anna Stoltenberg, Statistician at RCC and outside of the study group 1.

      Follow-up - study end date 2016-12-31
    
  