
    
      Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a bacterium its infection is regarded the most common
      medical condition associated with gastritis1 more over peptic ulcer disease2, gastric
      adenocarcinoma3 and lymphoma.4control of H pylori infection is thought to be the solution of
      public health problem.5,6 rate of infection is abating in developed world 7 , but this is
      slow and people health is challenged, to stop or decrease the new cases is complicated
      despite the fact that route of transmission are still unclear .8-10 The only option for
      reducing incidence and prevalence is that screening of masses followed by eradication
      therapy. A rough estimate propose about 50% of developing country population is affected from
      infection than the industrialized country. Infected individual may be asymptomatic or some
      time present with gastroduodenal disease. Prevalence of H pylori is different in developing
      countries where the adult prevalence reaches up to 80% and in children it is found before the
      age of 10 years.

      Aims and objectives

        1. To establish and evaluate scientific and clinical evidence of herbal/eastern formulation
           and find out the clinical safety and efficacy.

        2. To measure the clinical response of herbal formulation in the patients of H.Pylori.

      Research Questions

      1. has the Unani formulation better effects than quadruple regimen?

      Hypothesis (H1): Unani has shown better clinical, effects than quadruple regimen.

      Null Hypothesis (Ho): Quadruple regimen has shown superior clinical, response than Unani
      formulation.

      Experimental approaches

      To check this hypothesis independent variable to dependent variable and perplexing variables
      will apply by statistical analysis. In this study H. Pylori infection, quadruple regimen are
      independent variables while signs and symptoms, level of improvement are dependent variables.
    
  