
    
      A single center randomised control study on cardiac protection with INTRALIPD in patients
      undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting on cardiopulmonary bypass.

      Purpose and objectives:

      Reperfusion after coronary artery bypass grafting is associated with a modifiable leak in
      cardiac Troponin I (cTnI) secondary to ischemia reperfusion injury. The purpose of the study
      is to test whether INTRALIPID administered at reperfusion can limit myocardial reperfusion
      injury as measured by cTnI release in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.

      Trial design:

      This study is a prospective single centre double blind placebo controlled randomised trial.

      Sample size: 30 Adult Male and Female Patients

      Investigational drug(s):

      INTRALIPID 20% Fresenius Kabi (SA) Registration Number: K/25.2/316 Formulation: IV Solution
      Strength: 20% (200mg/ml) Modified Ringer's Lactate Fresenius Kabi (SA) Registration Number:
      C/24/218 Formulation: IV Solution Dose for both drugs: 1.5 ml/kg Administration: IV Bolus
      through CVP Blood sampling and tissue biopsies: cTnI will be sampled at fixed time points,
      baseline 1, 6, 9, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours after surgery. The first biopsy will be done prior
      to cardioplegic arrest and the second biopsy will be done 5 minutes after reperfusion.

      Safety assessments:

      The safety of the interventions will be monitored routinely for all patients and these will
      focus on:

        1. Changes in the lipid profile after Intralipid

        2. Coagulation as measured by ACT, TEG and PFA

        3. Oxygenation with Arterial Blood Gas monitoring

        4. Hemodynamic monitoring and echocardiography

        5. Lipid interference with laboratory measurements. The laboratory will be informed on
           specimen preparation to avoid interference with instruments

        6. Post operative hemodynamic Intensive Care Unit Monitoring Measurement will be reported
           on all safety monitoring and will be considered adverse events where the measured
           parameter results are out of range from the laboratory references.

      Efficacy assessments. Primary endpoint: The efficacy of the drug will be determined by the
      geometric mean (95% CI) difference in the AUC of the cTnI concentration calculated according
      to the trapezoid rule.

      Secondary End Point: Exploring the molecular mechanism involved in cardiac protection by
      analyzing tissue sample differences in the phosphorylation cytoplasmic protein kinase.
    
  