
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy, in terms of graft rejection at 4 weeks, of a conditioning
           regimen comprising busulfan, anti-thymocyte globulin, and fludarabine followed by donor
           stem cell transplantation (SCT) in children with stem cell defects, marrow failure
           syndromes, chronic myelogenous leukemia in first chronic phase, or acute myeloid
           leukemia in first remission.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of busulfan in children undergoing donor SCT.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine engraftment at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and mixed chimerism in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine overall and disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive one of the following cytoreductive regimens:

        -  Regimen 1 (patients with an HLA genotypic matched sibling donor): Patients receive
           busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours on days -9 to -6, fludarabine IV on days -5 to
           -2, and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) IV over 10 hours on days -3 to -1.

        -  Regimen 2 (patients with an HLA closely matched related [not genotypic] or unrelated
           donor): Patients receive busulfan and fludarabine as in regimen 1, and ATG IV over 10
           hours on days -4 to -1.

        -  Regimen 3 (patients with Fanconi's anemia or severe aplastic anemia with genotypic
           matched sibling donor): Patients receive fludarabine as in regimen 1 and ATG as in
           regimen 2.

        -  Regimen 4 (patients with Fanconi's anemia who have a closely matched related [not
           genotypic] or unrelated donor): Patients undergo thoracoabdominal irradiation on day -6
           and receive fludarabine as in regimen 1 and ATG as in regimen 2.

      All patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow, umbilical cord blood, or peripheral blood stem
      cell transplantation on day 0.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 20 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  