
    
      This is a prospective, single -arm, non-sponsored observational single centre trial in a
      cohort of patients undergoing stress urinary incontinence surgery with ALTIS® procedure. Two
      urologists, experts in female incontinence surgery, performed all procedures. Safety and
      efficacy were evaluated. All participants provided written informed consent prior to
      enrolment.

      The investigators recruited female patients aged 35 years or more with urodynamically proven
      stress urinary incontinence and who had failed to 6 months of non-surgical therapies
      including behavioural changes and drug therapy. Exclusion criteria were pelvic infection,
      pelvic organ prolapse ≥Stage 2, prior stress urinary incontinence surgery, neurogenic bladder
      incontinence, previous pelvic radiotherapy, high post-voiding volume (100 mL in two times) or
      being pregnant.

      Demographic variables (age, number of vaginal deliveries, prior stress urinary incontinence
      surgery, menopause status, BMI and presence of urge incontinence) were collected. BMI was
      categorized according to World Health Organization in normal (18,5-24,9 Kg/m2), overweight
      (25-29,9 Kg/m2) and obese (≥ 30 Kg/m2) patients. For statistical purpose the investigators
      divided patients into two groups, non-obese (18,5-29,9) Kg/m2) and obese (≥ 30 Kg/m2)
      patients.

      Preoperative assessment included urogynecological history, cough test (stress test with at
      least 300 mL of bladder volume measured by ultrasound), Spanish validated version of the
      International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire sort form (ICIQ-SF) and urodynamic
      test (Urodynamic parameters as Valsalva leak point pressure (VLPP), non-inhibited detrusor
      contractions and post-voiding volume were reflected. VLPP was categorized into three groups
      <60 cmH2O, 60-90 cmH2O and >90 cmH2O).

      Follow up was carried out with physical examination, ICIQ-SF, visual scale of satisfaction
      and physical examination including cough test. Subjects were evaluated post-operatively at 1,
      6, 12 and 24 months. Adverse events, such as vaginal erosion or pain related to the procedure
      or the device were evaluated at each visit.

      The primary efficacy measures were objective cure, defined as negative cough test, and
      subjective cure, defined as ICIQ-SF=0.
    
  