
    
      In this study, the investigators propose to investigate T and B cell recovery using
      peripheral blood manipulation that removes potentially Graft-Versus-Host-Disease (GVHD)
      inducing α/β and CD45RA+ T cells, while still providing potentially beneficial donor γδ and
      memory T cells.

      Donors will undergo a standard hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) mobilization regimen
      consisting of 5 days of G-CSF given subcutaneously at 10 micrograms/kilogram. The graft will
      be collected by leukapheresis on days 5 and if needed 6 of G-CSF. The HPC product(s) will be
      T-cell depleted (TCD) using the investigational CliniMACS device.

      The initial HPC product(s) will be split into two portions; one portion will be used for TCR
      TCRαβ/CD19 depletion and the second portion for CD45depleted DLI product.

        1. TCRα/β/CD19-depleted stem cell transplant: All participants will undergo a preparative
           regimen based on the type of Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID) they have. This is
           followed by infusion of TCRα/β/CD19-depleted donor cells (with the exception of
           participants who undergo matched sibling donor HCT).

        2. Donor Lymphocyte Infusion (CD45depleted DLI product): Participants, other than those who
           undergo matched sibling HCT transplant, will receive one dose of CD45RA depleted DLI
           infusion post TCRα/β/CD19-depleted graft infusion.

      During the Phase I portion of the study, up to 4 different dose levels of CD45depleted DLI
      product will be evaluated.

      On the Phase II portion of the study, all participants will receive the Phase I determined
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of DLI.

      Participants on both the Phase I and Phase II portions of the study that are unable to
      receive protocol defined dosing of DLI due to insufficient dose generated will be eligible to
      receive the entirety of the generated product.
    
  