
    
      Rationale: Lumbosacral radicular syndrome (LSRS) is caused by a herniated lumbar nucleus
      pulposus (HNP) and the estimated annual incidence in The Netherlands ranges between 60,000 to
      75,000 people. Open microdiscectomy is the standard surgical technique.

      In recent years, several surgical techniques have been developed including, percutaneous
      transforaminal endoscopic discectomy (PTED). While PTED is gaining popularity in The
      Netherlands, evidence of its effects is lacking, leading to a heated debate. The current
      position of Zorginstituut Nederland (ZiN) is that there is insufficient evidence to support
      its use; therefore, PTED is not financially covered. The consequence is, patients are forced
      to pay the costs of treatment themselves. This study is expected to provide the necessary
      data to answer the question regarding effects and costs of PTED vs. open microdiscectomy, and
      help resolve the current debate. Objective: To determine the effects and costs of PTED vs.
      open microdiscectomy. Study design: Pragmatic, multi-center non-inferiority randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) with subsequent observational study once sufficient subjects have been
      recruited for the RCT.

      Study population: In total, 682 subjects are to be included, with including 50 patients in
      the PTED-group per surgeon who will learn the procedure "the learning curve". Therefore, for
      the 3 surgeons who will learn the technique, the first 50 patients who will undergo PTED (150
      total) will be analyzed seperatly.

      The inclusion criteria are as follows: subjects 18-70 years of age with > 10 weeks of
      radiating pain with- or without motor or sensory loss in the leg, or with > 6 weeks of
      excessive radiating pain and no tendency for any clinical improvement and strong patient
      preference for surgery. There must also be an indication for an operation and a MRI
      demonstrating lumbar disc herniation with nerve compression with or without concomitant
      spinal or lateral recess stenosis or sequestration.

      Participants must also have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language.
    
  