
    
      PPHN is characterized by hyper reactivity of the muscle layer in pulmonary arterioles and
      right to left shunt across the ductus arteriosus and the foramen ovale in the absence of
      structural heart defects. It could also include right ventricle dysfunction in many cases.
      The reported incidence of this disease is 0.43 to 6.8/1000 live new born infants with a
      mortality of 10-20%.

      The main objective of therapy in PPHN is to reduce pulmonary vascular resistance. To this
      purpose, inhaled nitric oxide has been used in developed and several under developed
      countries. However 30-40% of these patients do not respond to this therapy. Extra corporeal
      membrane oxygenation is also useful but is an invasive therapy in PPHN with serious adverse
      effects reported. Recently Sildenafil has been evaluated as an alternative or adjunctive
      pulmonary vasodilator. It inhibits phosphodiesterase type 5 and elevates the concentration of
      cyclic guanosine monophosphate in the muscle cells of pulmonary vessels, which in turn
      decreases pulmonary vascular resistance.

      The FDA in the USA has recently approved the use of Sildenafil for use in adults with PPHN.

      Recently 3 clinical trials have evaluated Sildenafil versus Placebo or control in newborns
      with PPHN,all of them showing a significant improvement in oxygenation index, decreased
      mortality and reduced risk of rebounds after discontinuing iNO. The use of Sildenafil in
      treating PPHN secondary to Chronic lung disease in older infants had been receiving
      significant attention over the last few years.

      At HMC, Women's hospital, the number of deliveries average 15,000 to 16,000 per year with an
      admission rate to the NICU of about 10%. The number of PPHN cases admitted to our NICU ranges
      between 14-20 cases per year.

      In this study the investigators plan to compare the effectiveness of the use of early
      combined Sildenafil and iNO in newborns with PPHN and or hypoxemic respiratory failure and
      whether it would improve oxygenation, decrease the time spent in mechanical ventilation and
      prevent rebound hypoxic episodes.
    
  