
    
      Compliance of patients to their prescribed at-home exercises is a large issue. To many
      patients, the exercises are seen as mundane and boring, decreasing the motivation of patients
      to complete their exercises. However, even when patients do complete their exercises,
      patients may have difficulty knowing whether the participants are doing their at-home
      exercises correctly and to the right amount. After leaving his or her therapist's office, the
      patient usually has nothing more than a written handout, if anything, to guide them through
      their at-home exercises. Especially since range of motion and pain levels can change daily,
      it is difficult to expect the patient to consistently do his or her exercises every time,
      much less to do them correctly. Ineffective exercises and / or a lack of compliance can lead
      to setbacks, complications, or even expensive and painful repeat surgeries. And at the
      therapist's office, the therapist may have trouble telling whether setbacks or lack of
      progress is because of lack of compliance, ineffective exercises, or an underlying medical
      problem.

      Advances in technology have made it possible to track the hands of patients suffering from
      hand and wrist medical conditions as patients do their at-home exercises. Furthermore, this
      data can be analyzed in real-time to determine if and how the patient is doing his or her
      exercises. Another advantage of tracking the hand is that the therapy exercises can be
      incorporated into a fun computer game that motivates the patient to actually complete their
      therapy. The hypothesis is that having a computer and accompanying sensors track the hand to
      give real-time feedback, monitor improvements over time, and gamify the therapy experience to
      motivate the patient will improve the standard of care given to patients. If this hypothesis
      is true, patients will understand their exercises better, be inclined to do them more often,
      and thus have better outcomes. Not only will patients benefit, but the therapist's job will
      be easier as well. The therapist will have quantitative data to help distinguish medical
      issues from exercise issues. Ideally, a very successful trial would even suggest a
      possibility for the patient to rely less on the therapist for the at-home exercises, giving
      the therapist time to focus on more difficult cases. This research therefore is important
      because the problems with at-home therapy may be mitigated or solved with such an aid.
    
  