
    
      Study Purpose:

      Hypothesis: After successful surgical cure of primary hyperparathyroidism alendronate
      provides even greater beneficial skeletal effects than parathyroidectomy alone.

      Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is typically a disorder of mild hypercalcemia. Skeletal
      involvement can be demonstrated when bone densitometry is performed. Effects of excess PTH on
      bone include preferential involvement of cortical bone (e.g. forearm) and relative sparing of
      cancellous bone (e.g. vertebral spine). Bone properties, such as bone turnover, size and
      geometry, are also altered in PHPT. The only cure for PHPT is removal of abnormal parathyroid
      tissue. In the absence of medical intervention, bone mass increases briskly after successful
      surgical treatment of PHPT. Parathyroid surgery also promptly reduces bone remodeling,
      typically increased in PHPT, to normal values. Bone resorption markers fall first, followed
      by bone formation markers. The difference in time course between the rapid fall in resorption
      markers and the more gradual fall in formation markers provides a window of time when bone
      mass increases rapidly. The post-surgical increase in BMD is attributed to a filling-in, or
      mineralization, of the enlarged, PTH-driven, remodeling space. Whether further gains in bone
      density could be achieved with more prompt and greater suppression of bone resorption in the
      postoperative period is unknown. The potent bisphosphonate, alendronate (Fosamax), reduces
      bone remodeling and enhances secondary mineralization. It has been shown to increase bone
      density in subjects with PHPT who do not undergo parathyroid surgery. The goal of this
      project is to test the hypothesis that after successful surgical cure of PHPT, alendronate
      provides even greater beneficial skeletal effects than parathyroidectomy alone.

      Study Design and Statistical Analysis:

      The clinical investigation will have as its primary outcome variable an increase in lumbar
      spine density (DXA) when alendronate is used during the first year after surgery. The
      patients will be stratified by BMD upon presentation, because we have shown a variable
      response to parathyroidectomy depending on initial spine BMD. The study design is a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo, 1-year, controlled clinical trial, in which patients will
      receive alendronate 70 mg weekly or a placebo tablet identical in appearance. As a secondary
      endpoint, we also plan to examine the effects of alendronate after parathyroidectomy on bone
      structure and skeletal dynamics using sensitive, state-of-the-art, non-invasive quantitative
      tools. With central and peripheral quantitative computed tomography, we will investigate
      changes in bone size, geometry and cortical porosity in cancellous and cortical bone. With
      serum and urinary markers of bone turnover, we will determine whether alendronate hastens
      control of bone resorption, thus enhancing the discordance between bone formation and
      resorption and leading to even greater improvements in bone mineral density.

      There are 3 Specific Aims; all measurable after successful parathyroid surgery:

      Specific Aim #1 to investigate the effects of alendronate on bone mineral density.

      Specific Aim #2 to determine whether alendronate alters bone turnover to maximize the
      augmented window defined by a rapid fall in bone resorption and a slower fall in bone
      formation.

      Specific Aim #3 to characterize the effects of alendronate on bone size and bone geometry in
      the cancellous and cortical skeletal compartments using QCT and pQCT

      In Specific Aim #1 we will obtain the data for our primary outcome. This will include data
      regarding changes at the lumbar spine, as well as at the hip and distal 1/3 radius. The rate
      of change in BMD at these sites will also be determined by BMD measurements within the 1-year
      period of observation.

      Specific Aim #2 will examine the potential mechanism for the greater improvements with bone
      density, namely a change in bone turnover dynamics that would favor greater accumulation of
      bone mineral with alendronate therapy.

      With Specific Aim #3 we will obtain more detailed information about changes in bone structure
      that are likely to occur with more sophisticated tools than DXA. This will allow for specific
      assessment of changes in cancellous vs. cortical bone and in bone size, geometry and
      porosity.

      Two groups of 20 patients each will self-administer a weekly oral pill, of alendronate or
      placebo, for 12 months. This number will give us the statistical power to make the
      observations that are planned. 18 subjects per group (n=36) allows detection of a between
      group difference of 0.059 gm/cm2 in lumbar spine BMD at one year, with a power of 80%, using
      a t-test and two-tailed alpha of 0.05. Calculation is based on our preliminary data in which
      bone density improves 0.053 ± 0.061 gm/cm2 (6.7% change) without intervention after surgery.
      We will be able to detect an overall change in treatment group of 0.053 + .059 = .112 gm/cm2,
      or 14% after surgery. We will recruit an additional 4 subjects (36+ 4 = 40) to account for
      drop-outs.

      When the main publication has been published, or within two years from the completion of data
      collection, we will prepare a data sharing file that comprises the following components and
      accompanying annotation: the protocol, procedures manual, operations manual, blank copies of
      all report forms used in the study, the schedule of assessments, the data dictionary
      providing data storage specifications for each field, the study database tables representing
      the captured and audited data; the final data analytic data tables and the listing of the
      programming statements responsible for any data recoding or sub-setting, data summaries of
      each data table including descriptive statistics for validation of value integrity, and
      written description of the study conduct and noteworthy details anticipated to potentially
      affect data interpretation.

      Study visits and Procedures:

      Certain tests will be performed as part of accepted procedures in patients with PHPT, but
      most will be obtained specifically for research purposes.

      There will be a total of 6 visits in the study: The pre-parathyroidectomy baseline/safety
      visit ("-1Month" visit) which will occur approximately one month prior to parathyroidectomy,
      and the post-parathyroidectomy baseline ("Zero visit") where they will begin study drug.
      There will also be a one-month ("M1"), three-month ("M3"), six-month ("M6"), and the
      twelve-month visit ("12M").

      The "-1Month" visit:

      At this visit, potential participants will be screened into the study. That is, consent will
      be obtained, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be satisfied, and baseline values will be
      obtained.

      The testing that will be performed at this visit is divided into two categories: research and
      safety.

      Research Testing includes DXA, QCT, and pQCT as well as serum and urinary indices of bone
      mineral metabolism (serum Calcium, PO4, Albumin, PTH, Vitamin D, P1NP, BSAP, and urinary NTX
      and DPD). This reflects the standard baseline information captured prior to parathyroidectomy
      in the clinical setting, which includes serum calcium, vitamin D, and PTH as well as bone
      mineral density by DXA.

      Safety Testing includes the lab tests being performed to satisfy inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. From the participants pre-surgical testing for their parathyroidectomy (which will
      always include CBC, BMET, PT, PTT) we will be able to obtain baseline safety data. Other
      baseline safety tests we will obtain are serum BUN, Creatinine, AST and ALT.

      The complete list of results being sought at the "-1Month" visit are:

      Serum BUN, Creatinine, AST, ALT, Calcium, PTH, Vitamin D, PO4, Albumin, P1NP, BSAP and
      urinary NTX and DPD, as well as bone mineral density by DXA, QCT, and pQCT.

      The "ZERO" visit:

      In order to determine that parathyroidectomy is successful persons having this surgery
      routinely have a serum Calcium and PTH performed. The results of the serum Calcium in
      particular can immediately reflect the success of the surgery. Therefore, as a final
      screening criteria, participants will provide us with the results of their routine
      post-parathyroidectomy serum Calcium (and PTH, but that can be at a later time).

      Study drug will be initiated no longer than one month after parathyroidectomy, since the
      changes in mineral metabolism will likely start immediately after surgery.

      At this visit we will obtain serum Calcium and PTH for research purposes. We will also
      randomize participants at this visit to receive either alendronate or placebo of alendronate.
      We will provide participants with their study pills and they will take their first on the day
      following the ZERO visit.

      The complete list of things being done at the "ZERO visit":

      Serum Calcium and PTH

      MONTH 1 visit:

      Serum and urinary indices of bone mineral metabolism (serum Calcium, PO4, Albumin, PTH,
      Vitamin D, P1NP, BSAP, and urinary NTX and DPD) will be collected.

      MONTH 3 visit:

      Serum and urinary indices of bone mineral metabolism (serum Calcium, PO4, Albumin, PTH,
      Vitamin D, P1NP, BSAP, and urinary NTX and DPD) will be collected.

      MONTH 6 visit:

      Serum and urinary indices of bone mineral metabolism (serum Calcium, PO4, Albumin, PTH,
      Vitamin D, P1NP, BSAP, and urinary NTX and DPD) will be collected and DXA will be performed.
      Also, participants will be supplied with more study pills.

      MONTH 12 visit:

      Serum BUN, Creatinine, AST, ALT, Calcium, PTH, Vitamin D, PO4, Albumin, P1NP, BSAP and
      urinary NTX and DPD, as well as bone mineral density by DXA, QCT, and pQCT will be performed
      at this visit.

      Study Drugs:

      Alendronate, the study drug, has been shown to be very safe in many large, randomized,
      placebo-controlled trials in individuals with osteoporosis and is FDA- approved for
      prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. It has also been shown to be safe in individuals
      with PHPT. In clinical practice, the most common side effect with alendronate is
      gastrointestinal discomfort (for more information see RISKS). Study patients will be
      instructed about how to administer the alendronate (or placebo) so as to minimize the
      likelihood of this side effect.

      Medical Devices:

      Dual x-ray absorptometry (DXA), XtremeCT (pQCT), and QCT (cQCT)
    
  