
    
      In Sweden, education and training in intraoral inspection of the oral mucosa is a part of the
      curriculum in dental hygienists education, so there is an expectation that the dental
      hygienist routinely perform tactile and visual intraoral inspections in practice. However, DH
      are not trained in extra oral inspection and are not allowed to diagnose an oral mucosal
      lesion, but are trained to identify abnormalities and determine whether the patient needs
      referral to a dentist. It is also to expect that the DH are capable to identify risk
      behaviors, such as alcohol and smoking, and recommend, and offer smoking cessation or refer
      the patient to a certified profession for smoking cessation.

      In 2007, The World Health Assembly (WHA) adopted a resolution to prevent oral cancer. The
      resolution urged the member states to ensure that measures against oral cancer was integrated
      into a national cancer control program by engaging and train dental personnel in screening,
      early diagnosis and treatment. Oral cancer is a severe oral health issue as it is potentially
      fatal and is the 5-6 most common tumor with approximately 275,000 cases for oral and 130,300
      cases for pharyngeal cancers, excluding nasopharynx, globally. In Sweden,1000 new cases
      yearly is discovered and it is increasing. The explanation is an aging population and an
      increase in tonsil and tongue cancers caused by HPV, especially in younger subjects. Tumors
      caused by tobacco and alcohol are constant [7-9]. Despite the decreasing prevalence of
      smoking and certain smoking-associated cancers, an increased incidence of tonsillar cancer
      has been seen in both Finland and Sweden. High risk HPV (hrHPV) oral cancer is also
      increasing. The 5 year survival of oral cancer in Sweden is 55 % and only 3-4% in advanced
      cases. The etiology is hrHPV, exposure to tobacco and alcohol in 65% [13] and poor dental
      status. All are lifestyle factors so there are many opportunities for prevention and
      intervention. In 2016, 352 individuals in Sweden died in oral cancer compared with 135
      individuals who died of cervical cancer. Leukoplakia (LP), erythroplakia (EP) and oral lichen
      planus (OLP) are the dominating oral premalignant entities. The diagnosis are clinical and
      often by biopsies. The nonhomogeneous have a risk of malignant transformation of 3.6-8.9% in
      Scandinavia. OLP is a chronic inflammatory lesion where the atrophic and erosive types have a
      risk of cancer development of 0.5-2%.

      The potential for prevention is high, as the risk factors are well known. The Clinical
      examination discloses any potentially malignant lesions. Being aware of the increasing number
      of head, neck, and oral tumors we need to highlight the importance of inspection of the oral
      mucosa.
    
  