
    
      Drug hypersentivity in children is suspected in up to 10% of parents. However, drug
      hypersensitivity is rarely confirmed: its prevalence in children is estimated to be less than
      0.5%. The most frequently suspected drugs are betalactams such as amoxicillin and oral
      cephalosporins (cefpodoxime, cefixime, cefuroxime). Most reported drug hypersensitivity
      reactions to betalactams in children are mild and delayed-onset, typically starting more than
      one hour after the first dose. These reactions often include urticaria, maculo-papular
      rashes, and/or edema. Amoxicillin is indicated as a first-line therapy in the majority of
      common infections in children. Suspicion of betalactams hypersensitivity is associated with
      the prescription of alternate antibiotics often less effective and that may increase the risk
      of bacterial resistance, morbidity and health costs. Therefore it is necessary to confirm or
      exclude a true betalactams hypersensitivity.

      Direct drug provocation testing without prior skin or in vitro testing, is the reference
      standard for confirming the diagnosis of drug hypersensitivity reactions in children
      reporting mild and delayed-onset reactions. However, optimal protocol(s) have not been
      standardized. Although a 2-days' drug provocation testing protocol is effective, increasing
      its duration (up to 14 days) may improve its diagnosis performance without increasing the
      risk of severe reactions. However, a prolonged drug provocation testing could increase the
      risk of emergence of bacterial resistances in the digestive flora. Longer duration could be
      associated with the emergence of extended-spectrum betalactamase producing enterobacteria.
      However, this point has never been confirmed.

      The aim of this study is to determine whether the risk of emergence of ESBL-producing
      bacteria in the digestive flora is higher in case of prolonged drug provocation testing.

      Our hypothesis is that the acquisition rate of extended-spectrum betalactamase -producing
      enterobacteria will be higher in prolonged drug provocation testing.

      As previously published, in the Pediatric Pulmonology and Allergy Department of the Necker
      Hospital, we perform direct drug provocation testing with the culprit drug in children with
      histories of mild delayed-onset reactions. Drug provocation testing is prolonged at home at
      normal therapeutic doses. The duration of the drug provocation testing is 1-2 days more than
      the chronology of the index reactions, with a maximum of eight days.

      The study will include children (0-18 years), referring for histories of mild and
      delayed-onset reactions to betalactams. drug provocation testing will be performed with the
      suspected betalactam in our department, as in clinical practice. Two groups of patients will
      be compared: a group performing short drug provocation testing (arbitrary defined as lasting
      1 to 4 days) and a group with prolonged drug provocation testing (arbitrary defined as
      lasting 5-8 days). A rectal swab will be collected for each patient before the drug
      provocation testing, a second one at the end of the drug provocation testing. Each sample
      will be analyzed to detect the presence extended-spectrum betalactamase -producing
      enterobacteria.
    
  