
    
      This project requires the complete assessment and treatment of 270 older adult participants
      living in LOFT senior housing. We will recruit individuals, age 50 or older, who meet
      criteria for any DSM-V diagnosis, and are living at a LOFT residence.

      Prior to enrolment into the study, participants will undergo baseline assessments consisting
      of clinical, neuropsychological (NP) and functional assessments. Once enrolled, each
      participant will be randomized to receive transcranial direct current stimulation tDCS
      (active or sham) concurrent with Cognitive Remediation (CR) for 8 weeks, 5 days per week,
      followed by 3-5 day of booster sessions on a monthly basis until the end of the study.
      Trained study staff Personal Support Workers will be administering CR and tDCS for the 8-week
      intervention phase and the monthly boosters.

      Participants will undergo NP and functional assessments at the end of the 8-week induction
      period, and then on an annual basis until the end of the study.

      Primary Aim 1:

      To assess whether active-tDCS + CR will result in better cognition (1a), lower fall rates
      (1b), better function (1c), and less transitions to LTCHs from LOFT (1d) compared to
      sham-tDCS + CR.

      Hypothesis 1a: Participants randomized to active-tDCS + CR will demonstrate better cognition
      by the end of the 24-60 month follow-up period compared to those randomized to sham-tDCS +
      CR.

      Hypothesis 1b: Participants randomized to active-tDCS + CR will demonstrate lower falls rates
      by the end of the 24-60 month follow-up period compared to those randomized to sham-tDCS +
      CR.

      Hypothesis 1c: Participants randomized to active-tDCS + CR will demonstrate better self
      function by the end of the 24-60 month follow-up period compared to those randomized to
      sham-tDCS + CR.

      Hypothesis 1d: Participants randomized to active-tDCS + CR will demonstrate less transitions
      to Long Term Care Homes by the end of the 24-60 month follow-up period compared to those
      randomized to sham-tDCS + CR.

      Secondary Aim 2:

      To build the capacity of LOFT PSWs to deliver tDCS and CR independently and with good
      fidelity to the intervention model.

      Hypothesis 2: At each LOFT location, local PSWs will be certified to deliver tDCS and CR
      independently by the end of the first year of implementation of the study at each site.
    
  