
    
      The impact of critical illness is increasing due to an aging population as well as advances
      in effectiveness and availability of critical care. Critically ill patients and their
      families suffer a high burden of symptoms of depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress
      due, in part, to fragmented medical care that is often poorly aligned with their goals.
      Fragmented care includes numerous transitions for patients and families across clinicians and
      across settings, starting in the intensive care unit (ICU) and extending to acute care,
      skilled nursing facilities, or home. As illness progresses, patients and families struggle to
      navigate the spectrum of goals of care, to match their values and goals with treatments, to
      communicate their goals to their clinicians, and to make difficult medical decisions without
      letting unmet emotional needs interfere. Poor communication exacerbated by these transitions
      compounds an already stressful experience, causing distress to patients and their families.
      Taken together, these issues lead to ineffective communication during and after the ICU which
      can often result in high intensity "default" care that may be unwanted.

      Using a randomized trial, this project aims to evaluate an innovative model of care in which
      ICU nurse facilitators support, model, and teach communication strategies that enable
      patients and families to secure care in line with their goals over an illness trajectory,
      beginning in the ICU and continuing into the community. Facilitators use communication
      skills, attachment theory, and mediation to improve: 1) patients' and families' self-efficacy
      to communicate with clinicians within and across settings; 2) patients' and families' outcome
      expectation that communication with clinicians can improve their care; and 3) patients' and
      families' behavioral capability through skill building to resolve barriers to effective
      communication and mediate conflict. Facilitators work with seriously ill patients and their
      families beginning with a critical care unit stay and following them over the course of three
      months.

      The intervention's effectiveness will be measured with patient- and family-centered outcomes
      at 1-, 3-, and 6-months post-randomization. The primary outcome is family members' burden of
      symptoms of depression over the 6 months. The investigators also evaluate whether the
      intervention improves the value of healthcare by reducing healthcare costs while improving
      patient and family outcomes. Finally, investigators use qualitative methods to explore
      implementation factors (intervention, settings, individuals, processes) associated with
      improved implementation outcomes (acceptability, fidelity, penetration) to inform
      dissemination of this type of intervention to support patients and their families. This study
      aims to address key knowledge gaps while evaluating a methodologically rigorous intervention
      to improve outcomes for patients with serious illness and their families across the
      trajectory of care and the spectrum of goals of care.
    
  