
    
      Approximately 142 subjects are expected to be enrolled in the study, 1:1 in the Rifamycin SV
      MultiMatrix (MMX) plus Oral RehydrationTherapy (ORT) group and in the placebo tablets plus
      ORT group respectively. The day of randomization (Visit 1, Day 1), the subjects will start
      the treatment receiving ORT plus Rifamycin SV MMX 400 mg (as two tablets of 200 mg each)
      twice daily (morning and evening) or ORT plus placebo tablets (as two tablets) twice daily
      (morning and evening). The subjects will begin the treatment within 72 hours of onset of
      diarrhea. Treatment duration will last 72 hours. The total number of tablets for the entire
      treatment course will be 12 (4 × 200 mg tablets/day for 3 days). The administration of the
      ORT will follow the specification reported in the product label. The tablets will be orally
      administered during the day. No tablet administration will be done during the night.

      After enrollment, subjects/their parents/or guardians will complete Diary Cards (PDC) in
      which will be daily recorded date, time of first tablets intake, time and consistency of each
      stool, presence of blood in stools, abdominal pain/cramps, flatulence, tenesmus, urgency,
      nausea, vomiting, fever, adverse events (AEs), and concomitant medications.

      During the study, the subjects will be assessed for safety and efficacy at Visit 2 (Day 2)
      and Visit 3 (Day 4/5) as final Study Visit.

      Stool samples for microbiological assessment will be collected at Visits 1 and 3. Stool will
      be examined and cultured at local labs for main enteropathogens and for the presence of
      protozoa, ova and yeasts.

      Stool samples will be required in a subset population of the Rifamycin SV MMX group, at the
      Follow-up visit to determine rifamycin concentration in the feces.

      Blood and urine sampling for routine safety analyses will be collected at Visit 1 and at
      Visit 3.
    
  