
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the major globally cause of death and morbidity and recent
      estimates showed increase in its prevalence over the last decade to > 185 million infections
      worldwide. Prevalence HCV infection in Egypt is the highest in the world.Chronic viral
      hepatitis infection increases liver fibrosis and stiffness and is an important cause of liver
      cirrhosis. Chronic hepatitis C is the leading cause of end-stage liver disease,
      hepatocellular carcinoma and liver-related death in Egypt.It could be considered a special
      type of metabolic diseases involving insulin resistance (IR) which accelerates fibrosis and
      modulation of lipid-cholesterol biosynthesis with increased risk for ischemic heart diseases
      .Increased prevalence of IR and type 2 diabetes mellitus extensively reported in HCV
      infections.Interferon (INF) based therapy was used in chronic HCV patient and investigators
      reported that it's effective in eradicating HCV RNA and improving liver fibrosis. However,
      It's associated with several side effects.Novel direct antiviral agents (DAA) for chronic
      hepatitis C have entered clinical practice. This therapeutics has minimal side effects and
      achieves sustained virological response (SVR) rates of above 90% of patients and they are
      shorter and simpler regimens.Liver fibrosis severity assessment is important when staging
      chronic HCV and it reflects impact of serological viral eradication on hepatic damage and
      fibrosis. Although liver biopsy is the gold standard procedure for fibrosis assessment, but
      non-invasive new approaches have been strongly recommended for evaluation of fibrosis, mainly
      in HCV. They have no complications and have good diagnostic accuracy. One of the most used
      non-invasive mechanical methods based on ultrasound is transient elastography (Fibro Scan).
      Although association of baseline metabolic characteristics with treatment outcome has not
      been fully assessed for DAAs, this group was reported to result in improved rates of SVR and
      to reduce the predictive ability of these factors except for the baseline low density
      lipoprotein. The highest prevalence of HCV was reported in Egypt, where genotype 4 is
      responsible for 91% of infections and DAAs represented main line of treatment in most
      centers.Although the changes in lipid metabolism after treatment with DAAs were reported for
      other genotypes. It was not fully studied in genotype 4 infected patients.
    
  