
    
      Cystinosis is an autosomal recessive disorder due to impaired cystine transport across the
      lysosomal membrane, resulting in abnormal cystine accumulation throughout the body. Fanconi
      syndrome manifests in the first year of life, and end-stage renal failure occurs at ~10 years
      of age, requiring dialysis or kidney transplantation. Oral cysteamine therapy delays but does
      not always prevent the need for a renal allograft in cystinosis, which accounts for ~3% of
      all pediatric transplants in the United States. With improvements in immunosuppression,
      short-term graft and patient survival is quite good for cystinosis patients, although not as
      good as for patients with ESRD due to structural defects. Long-term graft survival can be
      affected by the non-renal complications of cystinosis, which persist after renal
      transplantation.

      The aim of this study is to establish standards for the transplantation of kidneys into
      patients with nephropathic cystinosis using steroid-sparing immunosuppression. Our goals are
      to:

        1. Analyze the long and short term outcome of cystinosis patients following living and
           cadaveric kidney transplantation using steroid-free immunosuppression;

        2. Determine a consistent clinical approach to recipients with cystinosis in the immediate
           post-operative period, specifically regarding fluid and electrolyte management,
           retention of native kidneys, and timing of the re-initiation of cystinosis therapy after
           transplantation;

        3. Assess the immunologic impact of cystinosis by monitoring immune responses using a
           number of in vitro assays.

      In this study, patients will receive a living donor or cadaveric kidney transplant with
      steroid free immunosuppression. Graft function, histology and graft and patient survival will
      be measured. Progression of cystinosis in other organ systems will be monitored. Additional
      studies on the graft will include transcriptional analysis of inflammatory and immunologic
      mediators. Serum will be assayed for inflammatory mediators and peripheral white blood cells
      assayed for immune function. This study will represent the first comprehensive, prospective
      analysis of kidney transplantation in patients with cystinosis.
    
  