
    
      Background: Homeless Veterans often have multiple health care and psychosocial needs,
      including assistance with access to housing and health care, as well as support for ongoing
      treatment engagement. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) developed specialized Homeless
      Patient Alignment Care Teams (HPACT) with the goal of offering an integrated, "one-stop
      program" to address the Housing and Healthcare needs of Homeless Veterans. However, while 70%
      of HPACT's Veteran enrollees have co-occurring mental health and substance use disorders
      (COD), HPACT does not have a uniform, embedded treatment protocol for this subpopulation. One
      wraparound intervention designed to address the needs of homeless Veterans with COD which is
      suitable to be integrated into HPACT clinic sites is the evidence-based practice called
      Maintaining Independence and Sobriety through Systems Integration, Outreach, and
      Networking-Veterans Edition, or MISSION-Vet. Despite the promise of MISSION-Vet within HPACT
      clinics, implementation of an evidence based intervention within a busy program like HPACT
      can be difficult. The current study is being undertaken to identify an appropriate
      implementation strategy for MISSION-Vet within HPACT. The study will test the implementation
      platform called Facilitation and compared to implementation as usual (IU).

      Aims: (1) Compare the extent to which IU or Facilitation strategies achieve fidelity to the
      MISSION-Vet intervention as delivered by HPACT homeless provider staff. (2) Compare the
      effects of Facilitation and IU strategies on the National HPACT Performance Measures. (3)
      Compare the effects of IU and Facilitation on the permanent housing status. (4) Identify and
      describe key stakeholders' (patients, providers, staff) experiences with, and perspectives
      on, the barriers to, and facilitators of implementing MISSION.

      Design: Type III Hybrid modified stepped wedge implementation comparing IU to Facilitation
      across 7 HPACT teams in 3 sites in the greater Los Angeles VA system.

      Discussion: Integrating MISSION-Vet within HPACT has the potential to improve the health of
      thousands of Veterans but, it is crucial to implement the intervention appropriately in order
      for it to succeed. The lessons learned in this protocol could assist with a larger roll-out
      of MISSION within HPACT.
    
  