
    
      Study design:

      We performed an open (i.e. unblinded) non-inferiority, cluster-randomized control trial, to
      assess whether emergency department triage nurses could, using a medical directive and given
      specific training, achieve rates of successful reduction of radial head subluxation that were
      not substantially lower than those of physicians. The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario
      Research Ethics Board approved this study (REB approval number 08-29X). A cluster randomized
      trial design was used to facilitate the enrollment of patients. The unpredictable acuity and
      volume of patients presenting to the emergency department triage area made randomization at a
      patient level unfeasible. Patients were assigned by day of presentation to either nurse or
      physician treatment. Each day represents a cluster. The anticipated number of children
      presenting to the emergency department per day with radial head subluxation was less than
      one, therefore the reduction of power due to clustering was expected to be inconsequential.

      Since this study was an assessment of a practice change (medical directive for nurse
      initiated reduction of presumed radial head subluxation), written, informed consent was
      deemed unnecessary by the responsible research ethics board. On nurse initiated reduction
      days verbal consent for the procedure was obtained from caregivers of eligible children prior
      to the nurse's attempt at reduction. This consent was recorded on the study case report
      forms.

      Study setting and participants:

      All children presenting to the emergency department of the Children's Hospital of Eastern
      Ontario (CHEO) with a presumed diagnosis of radial head subluxation from October 2009 to
      October 2010 were screened for enrolment. CHEO is a tertiary care pediatric hospital with
      approximately 55,000 emergency department visits per year at the time of the study. There are
      about 60 nurses who work in the emergency department, the majority of whom are trained as
      triage nurses. All triage nurses have a minimum 2 years of experience, attend a compulsory
      4-hour orientation course, and complete three 4-hour shifts alongside an experienced triage
      nurse. Physician coverage includes 26 full-time physicians with specific training in
      pediatric emergency medicine and 18 part-time staff physicians with other types of training
      (including general pediatrics, emergency medicine, and family practice), in addition to
      pediatric emergency fellows, residents, and medical students working under their supervision.
      Children were eligible for the study if they met the eligibility criteria for the radial head
      subluxation medical direction (Appendix 1).

      Development of medical directive and training of nurses:

      A multidisciplinary team developed a medical directive according to our institutional
      processes. The medical directive permitted triage nurses to attempt a reduction for children
      presenting with signs and symptoms compatible with radial head subluxation. Children were
      eligible for the medical directive if they met the following criteria: (1) up to and
      including 6 years of age, (2) physical exam consistent with radial head subluxation which
      included not using the affected limb, holding the elbow in extension or slight flexion,
      forearm in hyperpronation, and distressed only on elbow movement, and (3) injury within
      preceding 12 hours. Children were excluded from the directive if they had any of the
      following: (1) an unknown mechanism of injury, (2) deformity of clavicle or arm, (3) swelling
      of elbow or wrist, (4) significant tenderness on palpation of arm, (5) metabolic bone disease
      (such as osteogenesis imperfecta), (6) neuromuscular disorder that excluded adequate
      assessment (such as cerebral palsy), and (7) any concern for abuse or neglect.

      A multimodal training initiative was used to educate nurses on the medical directive. This
      included a short instructional video featuring reduction techniques, a didactic presentation
      on the physiology and presentation of radial head subluxation, and a hands-on, one hour
      training session provided by either a study investigator or the study coordinator (a nurse).
      Training involved instruction on both of the common reduction methods, namely hyperpronation
      and supination-flexion.4-7 The triage nurses were not allowed to initiate reductions until
      all training components completed. The medical directive instructed nurses to first use the
      hyperpronation reduction technique and then the supination-flexion technique, given evidence
      that hyperpronation may be more successful.18

      Study protocol:

      A computer-generated randomization calendar schedule was prepared in advance, by the study
      statistician, for the entire patient recruitment period. The statistician had no role in the
      recruitment of patients and the investigators were not aware of the schedule in advance. The
      sequence was composed of randomly permuted blocks with block size of eight. Since the
      emergency department census can vary daily and seasonally, the use of permuted-block
      randomization ensured an approximate balance of nurse-initiated and physician-initiated
      treatment days through the study. The sequence was kept concealed until the beginning of each
      calendar week, when the sequence for that week was revealed and posted at the throughout the
      department. The weekly calendar indicated whether the given day was a "nurse-initiated" or
      "physician-initiated" day.

      To ensure comparability of groups, only children who met the criteria for probable radial
      head subluxation according to the medical directive were eligible for the study on both
      nurse-initiated and physician-initiated treatment days. Children who, by history, appeared to
      have radial head subluxation, but had a spontaneous reduction of this injury prior to
      assessment by the randomized care provider were not included in the study.

      On nurse initiated days, children with presumed radial head subluxation were identified by
      the triage nurses. Once a patient was identified by the triage nurse as having presumed
      radial head subluxation, the patient's age, sex, arm injured and time and mechanism of injury
      were prospectively collected using a standardized data form. The triage nurse, with the
      parent's verbal consent, then attempted reduction, first using the hyperpronation method.4-7
      If the child did not begin using their arm normally within 10 minutes of this attempt, a
      second reduction was attempted via the supination-flexion method.4-7 If at this time point
      the child still did not have normal arm usage they were placed in the queue to see the
      emergency department physician as per their triage time and the Pediatric Canadian Triage and
      Acuity Scale category (pedsCTAS).19 If the reduction was successful (i.e.: child using arm
      normally) the triage nurse recorded the time of normal arm usage on the standardized data
      form and an emergency department physician was asked to confirm normal functioning prior to
      discharge. If the family did not provide verbal consent for the nurse to attempt reduction,
      the child was placed in the queue to see a physician as per their triage time and triage
      category.

      On physician assigned days, patients with presumed radial head subluxation were typically
      identified by the triage nurse, who would then place a standardized study data form with the
      patient's chart, but patients could also be identified by the treating physician. On
      physician treatment days, children were placed in the queue to see the emergency physician by
      their triage time and pedsCTAS category. Patients were seen via the usual emergency
      department practice by either a trainee (medical student, resident, fellow) or staff and
      treated as per their usual standards. We did not standardize the type or order of reduction
      manoeuvre for the physician-initiated treatment group. The treating physician was asked to
      record the time of normal arm usage and reduction method used.

      Data was abstracted from the emergency department records of all enrolled children by the
      study coordinator related to final diagnosis, discharge time, follow-up recommendations, and
      investigations ordered (such as x-rays) and their results. The study coordinator also
      completed a daily review of all emergency department charts to determine how many children
      had a final diagnosis of radial head subluxation during the study, how many of these were
      enrolled, and of those not enrolled, how many met the medical directive eligibility criteria
      (based on details documented on the triage document, nursing notes, and physician notes).
    
  