
    
      Colorectal cancer is common, affecting 1 in 15 men and 1 in 18 women in the UK in their
      lifetime. Many colorectal cancers develop from polyps via the adenoma-carcinoma sequence:
      there is a pre-cancerous stage (adenoma) during which it is possible to remove the polyp and
      therefore prevent it from progressing to colorectal cancer. The gold standard tool for doing
      this is colonoscopy. However, colonoscopy does not pick up all polyps, particularly flat
      polyps.

      Missed polyps can result in colorectal cancer, so it is imperative to detect and remove as
      many polyps as possible. Many different interventions have been introduced to improve polyp
      detection, the most recent of which is artificial intelligence devices. GI Genius is an
      artificial intelligence device which integrates with existing colonoscopy equipment and
      analyses the video feed from the colonoscope camera in real time. Any areas that may
      represent an abnormality are then highlighted (without any lag) within a green box, alerting
      the colonoscopist to its presence. The potential abnormality can then be assessed more
      closely by the colonoscopist to decide whether it needs to be removed or not.

      COLO-DETECT is a 2-arm, prospective, randomised controlled trial to assess whether GI Genius
      is able to detect more polyps (specifically, adenomas) during colonoscopy than standard
      colonoscopy without GI Genius. The primary outcome will be the mean number of adenomas per
      procedure (MAP) and the key secondary outcome will be the proportion of colonoscopies in
      which one or more adenomas is detected (Adenoma Detection Rate - ADR). These are both
      important quality markers for colonoscopy; the study will be powered to detect a clinically
      meaningful difference in ADR, which will by default detect a meaningful difference in MAP as
      the sample size required for ADR is larger.

      In addition to measuring the effect of GI Genius on polyp detection, COLO-DETECT will provide
      a health economics analysis concerning the use of GI Genius, perform long-term passive
      follow-up to examine for future outcomes related to colorectal polyps and colorectal cancer,
      and perform additional nested studies (subject to ethical approval) that examine the effect
      upon users (for example through a visual scanning study) and their experience of using the GI
      Genius.
    
  