
    
      Recently, the American College of Chest Physicians in their 2012 clinical guidelines on
      perioperative anti-thrombotic therapy associated TUR of bladder tumour (TURBT) with an
      increased risk of bleeding associated with anti-thrombotic therapy. Despite this,
      contemporary series of TURBT identify the rate of significant in-hospital postoperative
      bleeding at only 2-3.4%. Previous prospective work by our group demonstrated no increase in
      postoperative hemorrhagic complications with early initiation of Aspirin following TURBT.
      These findings are supported by a recent retrospective work on TURBT showing a similar
      complication profile between continued perioperative antiplatelet therapy and antiplatelet
      naive patients.

      The risk associated with Aspirin withdrawal prior to surgery, including increased
      thrombogenicity, has been extensively studied. Following cessation of Aspirin, full platelet
      recovery is expected within 12-14 days, however, hemostasis may be regained with as little as
      20% of normal platelet activity. Further, evidence supports a platelet rebound phenomenon in
      the setting of acute Aspirin withdrawal and a resultant clinical prothrombotic state, with
      thrombotic events peaking ten days following drug cessation. Finally, the acute stress
      response postoperatively is well known; one component being hypercoagulability which lasts at
      least seven days after major and uneventful abdominal surgery, predominantly caused by
      increased platelet activity.

      Whereas TURBT generally carries a low overall risk of cardiac morbidity, the general
      requirement to discontinue Aspirin pre-operatively potentially increases certain patients'
      cerebrovascular or cardiac risk (eg. post-coronary stent placement). As shown above, the risk
      of significant post-operative hematuria is minimal, and as such, Aspirin withdrawal may be
      unnecessary. We will perform a prospective, randomized controlled trial to address the safety
      and tolerability of continued Aspirin use during TURBT.
    
  