
    
      The research has demonstrated separately that phototherapy and osteopathic manipulative
      medicine (OMM) are effective in reducing chronic low back pain, However there has not been
      any research to evaluate whether the interaction of the two treatment approaches together can
      provide enhanced pain relief. In A Meta-analysis of the Efficacy of Phototherapy in Tissue
      Repair, Fulop et.al.(1) from the Department of Physical Therapy, School of Health
      Professions, New York Institute of Technology (NYIT) concluded that "phototherapy is a highly
      effective form of treatment for tissue repair, with stronger supporting evidence resulting
      from experimental animal studies than human studies" (Fulop, p. 695, 699). Further review of
      the literature by Fulop et. al. (2) focused on the question of pain relief in relation to
      phototherapy, and the conclusion was that pain from various etiologies can be effectively
      relieved by phototherapy. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has cleared biostimulation
      lasers (a.k.a. low level laser therapy [LLLT], cold lasers, soft lasers, or laser acupuncture
      devices) for marketing as "adjunctive devices for the temporary relief of pain" (3). Thus,
      both health practitioners and the lay public have access to and may potentially obtain and
      use phototherapy devices manufactured by various companies. Other research protocols by Gur,
      A et. al. (4) and Djavid, GE et. al. (5) evaluated patients with chronic low back pain in
      relation to the combined effectiveness of low level laser therapy and exercise. These studies
      showed positive results with the combined approaches.

      Osteopathic physicians utilize an approach to the treatment of patients called osteopathic
      manipulative medicine (OMM). The osteopathic physician will diagnose somatic dysfunction, and
      then treat the dysfunctions found with one or more of several OMM treatment approaches. The
      American Osteopathic Association (AOA) published in 2009 the "Guidelines for Osteopathic
      Manipulative Treatment (OMT) for Patients with Low Back Pain." These guidelines are available
      both through the AOA and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), National
      Guideline Clearinghouse (6). This guideline (6) specifically addresses the "efficacy of
      osteopathic manipulation treatment in reducing low back pain" (p. 2). A review of the
      literature was performed, and after selection a total of "six trials, involving eight
      osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT) vs control treatment comparisons, were included" in
      the meta-analysis (p. 2-3). The major recommendation stated in the guideline is that
      "osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT) be utilized by osteopathic physicians for
      musculoskeletal causes of back pain, i.e., to treat the diagnoses of somatic dysfunctions
      related to the low back pain" (p.4). In addition, the meta-analysis performed did show that
      OMT for patients with low back pain led to statistically significant reduction in pain (p.
      5). Thus, the potential for a complementary approach to patient care in cases of chronic low
      back pain exists. Yet, no studies to date have specifically evaluated this particular
      hypothesis regarding OMT and phototherapy for patients with chronic low back pain. The
      purpose of this research is to evaluate this question of enhanced combined efficacy for the
      overall benefit of patients.
    
  