
    
      The MyHealthTrends™ for Pain Tracking System is a revolutionary consumer-oriented pain
      monitoring system enabling individuals to record the pain participants experience with the
      click of a button. Developed by a doctor for the ultimate use within hospital and outpatient
      settings, MyHealthTrends™ for Pain enables anyone afflicted with pain to easily record their
      sensations - helping to acquire faster and superior diagnoses and treatment. Among the
      benefits of the MyHealthTrends™ for Pain Tracking System are that it enables patients to: i]
      easily record the pain experienced in real-time - capturing accurate information; ii] shift
      from memory-based descriptions of experienced pain to data-driven, time based recordings;
      iii] provide objective evidence of the pain experienced.

      It is extremely portable and convenient to carry, approximately the size of a modern
      automobile key. Since it can be uploaded to a confidential internet site by way of a
      computer, which site is then accessible to the physician, it provides various additional
      benefits. These include allowing the physician to: i] identify breakthrough pain episodes;
      ii] determine analgesic requirements with a real time detailed pain record; iii] prescribe
      the appropriate regimen with confidence; and iv] monitor pain levels experienced by the
      patient, free of distortion caused by memory biases and lapses.

      The purpose of this study is to provide detailed and quantitative comparisons of the device's
      performance during a demanding clinical inpatient surgery episode, where standard pain
      monitoring and therapy are in use. The device is extremely easy to use involving merely the
      press of a button; and so it would not distract from any standard communication of pain
      symptoms, which the subject were inclined to convey. The device stores all information (time
      and date stamped) for downloading through a USB plug to a computer when the study is
      completed and the patient discharged.

      Specifically, investigators will identify 40 post thoracotomy patients expected to receive a
      PCA or epidural for post op pain control at Tisch hospital. Patients will be given the device
      and asked to record their pain in the immediate post op period until discharge. The
      information obtained from the electronic diary will be correlated with pain records based on
      nurse's chart, administration of pain medication, VAS pain questionnaire instruments given
      daily to each patient, and call button utilization.
    
  