
    
      -  Treatment

             -  All patients will be treated with Abilify Maintena™ administered once monthly at
                the dose that is as per the treating physician's judgment.

             -  The assignment of the patients to be treated with Abilify Maintena™ is not decided
                in advance by the study protocol and is clearly separated from the decision to
                include the patients in the study. For all patients that will be included in the
                study, the decision to initiate treatment with Abilify Maintena™ must have been
                reached prior to and independently of enrolling the patient in the study.

             -  Any treatment is to be prescribed according to the recommendations given in the
                approved Canadian Product Monograph.

        -  Study Sites

           - Up to 30 sites planned in Canada: Patients will be recruited by community or hospital
           based psychiatrists. A random representative sample of Canadian psychiatrists will be
           identified as the sampled population of physicians that will be invited to participate
           in the study and will undergo a feasibility assessment. Those that satisfy the
           feasibility assessment, have adequate volume of patients and are willing to participate
           in the study will be enrolled.

        -  Data Collection and Handling

           - All patient data will be collected by the site investigator or designated staff and
           will be entered in an electronic data capture (EDC) system that will be developed for
           the study. Patient questionnaires will be completed during the visit using paper-based
           surveys. The questionnaire data will be transcribed into the study database by the CRO
           personnel using a double data entry system. There will be no patient identifying
           information recorded in any of the study data collection forms or databases. All
           patients will be identified using encrypted random study ID numbers. Data monitoring and
           source verification will be conducted on a sample of patients. Auditing of patient
           qualification will also be conducted on a sample of patients within each site.

        -  Missing data handling

           - There will be no imputation for missing data. General linear models with repeated
           measures and mixed effects will be used to compensate for unequal follow up intervals
           and missing data points. All analyses will be conducted on observed cases.

        -  Safety analyses - The safety population will comprise all patients included in the study
           that have had at least one treatment with Abilify Maintena™. Adverse events will be
           described with the MedDRA dictionary of terms classified by preferred term and system -
           organ class.
    
  