
    
      This will be prospective cross-sectional study. This research will be done in the period
      between 1 August and 31 December 2020 and will include 80 eyes from patients with following
      disorders:

      Group 1: Patients with diabetic retinopathy Group 2: Patients with myopia Group 3: patients
      with choroidal neovascularization Group 4: control eyes with no retinal disease. Inclusion
      criteria: Patients above 18 years in age with any of above retinal condition and clear media
      allowing for imaging will be included.

      Exclusion criteria will include; Maculopathies (hereditary or acquired), optic nerve head
      pathologies (tilted disc, drusen, optic disc edema, atrophy, etc.), optic neuropathies
      (demyelinating, infectious, ischemic, etc.), adjusted IOP for central corneal thickness more
      than 21 mmHg, surgery-induced corneal edema and dense cataracts that can disrupt images,
      history of vasoactive agents (calcium antagonists, nitric oxide, etc.) use, systemic diseases
      (vasculitis, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, etc.) and any previous ocular surgery, patients
      with bad quality images or complicated surgeries will be excluded.

      All patients will be subject to Full ophthalmologic examination and OCTA imaging.
      High-quality 3 x 3 mm and 6 x 6 mm OCTA macular scans and 4.5 × 4.5-mm papillary scan with
      strong signal-noise ratio and adequate centration on the fovea and optic nerve head
      respectively will be selected.

      For each patient 10 successive scans will be generated to allow for the analysis of
      repeatability. Patient will be imaged in the same day at two different OCTA devices Dri
      Triton (Topcon, Japan) and Cirrus OCT (Zeiss, USA) to investigate the reproducibility of the
      measurements.

      Automated segmentation will be used to evaluate superﬁcial and deep capillary retinal plexus
      projections. If errors in segmentation were detected, manual correction would be performed.
      The superﬁcial retinal capillary plexus (SCP) was delineated with an inner boundary at the
      internal limiting membrane (ILM) and an outer boundary 10 µm inside the inner plexiform layer
      (IPL). The deep retinal capillary plexus (DCP) was segmented with an inner boundary 10 µm
      inside the IPL and an outer boundary at 10 µm beneath the outer plexiform layer (OPL). In
      addition, the total retinal capillary plexus (TCP) was manually customized by selecting the
      inner boundary at the ILM and the outer boundary set at 40 µm above the retinal pigment
      epithelium (RPE) to avoid any ﬂow signals from choriocapillaries.

      We will evaluate the following metric from enface OCT angiogram; vessel density, vessel
      density, intercapillary area, fractal dimension and skeletonized vessel density.

      Every included patient in this study will have unique code number referring to the file where
      all his data will be kept confidential. Only macula and optic disc will be imaged.
      Additionally, patients' personal data will be hidden during using of these images. All
      patients' data will be used for scientific research only and will be kept totally
      confidential. Comprehensive explanation of all aspects of this study will be given to
      patients before their participation in it, an informed consent will be obtained from the
      patients before their enrolment in the study. Although no documented adverse effects from
      OCTA imaging on the patients to date, however, any unexpected risks appeared during the
      research will be cleared to the participants and the ethical committee on time.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS software (version 25; SPSS, Inc., Chicago,
      IL, USA). the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and coefficient of variation (CV) will
      be calculated. ICC is the correlation between two variables measured at the same time point,
      with values ranging from 0 to 1 (<0.40, poor; 0.40-0.59, fair; 0.60-0.74, good; 0.75-1.00,
      excellent). The CV (%) will be calculated as 100 × standard deviation/overall mean, and a
      value <10% represents good repeatability of the measurement.
    
  