
    
      This is a two arm, randomized non-inferiority clinical trial that will take place within the
      Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery division in the Women's Health Institute of the
      Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH.

      Population - The Investigators will recruit patients undergoing benign minimally invasive
      hysterectomy (laparoscopic, robotic, and vaginal). Inclusion criteria include patients >18
      years of age who are able to provide informed consent without assistance, speak English, and
      who have access to a phone or device equipped for virtual visits. Patients will be excluded
      if the staff surgeon determines they are inappropriate for virtual follow-up, if there is
      suspicion of malignancy, if they are unable to provide consent, or if they do not have access
      to technology that enables virtual visits.

      Recruitment - Enrolled participants will be randomized to either a two-week virtual
      postoperative visit with a certified nurse practitioner (CNP) or a two-week in-office
      postoperative visit with a certified nurse practitioner (CNP) in a 1:1 allocation ratio.
      Block randomizations with block size of 4 will be assigned to nurse providers independently.
      Randomization schedules will be implemented by Redcap.

      Data collection - The primary outcome of this study is patient satisfaction, as measured by
      the Press Ganey Medical Practice Survey and Medical Practice Telemedicine Survey. These
      questionnaires are currently sent to all patients by the Office of Patient Experience at our
      institution four days after their postoperative appointment. The investigators will provide
      verbal reminders about study participation and survey administration at the visit. Survey
      data will be obtained through the Office of Patient Experience and imported into RedCap. The
      secondary outcome is a new diagnosis of a postoperative complication requiring medical
      treatment (e.g. calling in of a prescription), an office visit with a CNP or MIGS surgeon, or
      an urgent care or ER visit. Complications include infection (urinary, pulmonary, wound,
      pelvic abscess, and bloodstream); thromboembolic events; bleeding; and issues with wound
      healing, such as dehiscence. Calvien-Dindo classification system for postoperative
      complications will be used. The Investigators will also look at no-show rates, visit times,
      and travel distance.

      The investigators will collect basic demographic information from the EMR, including age,
      BMI, parity, and prior surgical history. Surgical indication, procedure performed, length of
      hospital stay, and perioperative outcomes (reoperation, readmission, unscheduled office or
      virtual visits (i.e. earlier than the scheduled 2 week visit), ED/urgent care visits,
      infection rates) will also be obtained. No-show rates will be obtained through the EMR. The
      investigators will also note if a planned virtual visit is unable to be completed due to
      technical difficulties, or is converted to a telephone visit. Travel distance from home to
      clinic site will be calculated using average travel time with minimal traffic based on
      participant's zip code using Google Maps.

      The investigators will collect the reason for ineligibility for all patients deemed such by
      staff surgeons. All participants will be assigned a study number to facilitate
      de-identification of data. Data will be compiled in RedCap and securely stored on an
      encrypted server.

      Statistical analysis

      Power Calculation:

      The Investigators hypothesized that patient satisfaction would be non-inferior for patients
      randomized to the postoperative virtual visit compared to those randomized to in-person
      virtual visit. Sample size of 70 patients in each arm is needed to achieve 90% power to
      detect a non-inferiority margin of -0.20. Allowing for a dropout rate of 20%, 88 patients
      will be recruited in each arm.

      Analysis plan:

      For the primary outcome, the Farrington-Manning score test for non-inferiority will be
      performed, for both intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses. Approximately
      normally-distributed continuous measures will be summarized using means and standard
      deviations and will be compared using two-sample t-tests. Continuous measures that show
      departure from normality and ordinal measures will be summarized using medians and quartiles
      and will be compared using Wilcoxon rank sum tests. Categorical factors will be summarized
      using frequencies and percentages and will be compared using Pearson's chi-square tests or
      Fisher's exact tests.

      All analyses will be done using SAS (version 9.4, The SAS Institute, Cary, NC) and a p < 0.05
      will be considered statistically significant.

      Study Timeline:

      The MIGS division performs at least 20-30 hysterectomies per month. The Investigators
      estimate to achieve our target recruitment in 7-8 months.
    
  