
    
      Patients will be identified based on pre-screening the cardiothoracic surgery schedule. Study
      staff will visit potential study subjects in the pre-surgical testing clinic to discuss the
      study's objectives and to ascertain subjects' interest in participating in the study. After
      providing informed consent, subjects will be randomized using SAS into either the
      interventional group or standard care group after their surgical procedure is complete and
      the subject has been transferred to the CVICU. After completion of the surgical procedure,
      patients who had a major perioperative complication such as stroke, myocardial infarction,
      pulmonary embolism, hemorrhage requiring massive transfusion (>10 units of PRBCs),
      intraoperative cardiac arrest, or intraoperative pulmonary arrest, will be considered screen
      failures and will not be randomized, since the investigators consider the patient enrolled
      once randomized. Patients randomized to the interventional group will undergo the enhanced
      physical therapy protocol which includes mobilization from bed to chair on the day of surgery
      and more frequent ambulation on the subsequent five days.

      The main differences between the standard therapy (control) group and intervention group is
      the timing of post-operative mobilization and ambulation, as well as the point at which they
      receive gait and safe ambulation training. In the standard therapy group, the patients will
      receive a FitBit2 after their arrival on the ICU, withstanding any postoperative
      complications. On POD 1 the subjects routinely get up to the bedside chair with the help of
      an ICU nurse or physical therapist. The subjects will generally ambulate one-half the
      circumference of the ICU with assistance, though this is not enforced. On POD2 and onward,
      the standard therapy group typically will get up to the bedside chair at least once, as well
      as walk one-half circumference of the ICU, and will receive the standard physical therapy
      gait and ambulation training. The intervention group will have the FitBit2 watch placed on
      their wrist on POD 0, along with getting up to the bedside chair. On POD 1, the subjects will
      get up to the bedside chair twice (as tolerated by patient), and will be asked to walk
      one-half the ICU circumference. Additionally, the patient's physical therapy and
      gait/ambulation training will commence on POD 1. On POD 2, the subjects will get up to the
      bedside chair three times, and will be asked to attempt three walks with the goal of one full
      ICU circumference.
    
  