
    
      PTSD is a serious debilitating disorder that negatively impacts a person's daily life, and
      can result in diminished cognitive and psychosocial functioning, fractured relationships,
      inability to maintain employment, substance abuse, high-cost healthcare utilization,
      increased depression, and suicide risk. People who suffer from PTSD relive their traumatic
      experience(s) through nightmares and flashbacks, have difficulty sleeping, and feel detached
      or estranged. Symptoms can be severe and long lasting.

      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a drug that releases serotonin, norepinephrine
      and dopamine in the brain and indirectly increases levels of the neurohormones oxytocin,
      arginine vasopressin and cortisol. The combined neurobiological effects of MDMA increase
      compassion, reduce defenses and fear of emotional injury, and enhance communication and
      introspection. MDMA produces anxiolytic and prosocial effects, which counteract avoidance and
      hyperarousal in the context of therapy. A combined treatment of MDMA and psychotherapy may be
      especially useful for treating PTSD. The subjective effects of MDMA create a productive
      psychological state that enhances the therapeutic process.

      This is an open-labeled, expanded access protocol with the primary purpose of providing
      MDMA-assisted psychotherapy to patients with treatment-resistant PTSD, who are not eligible
      for participation in another ongoing MDMA-assisted psychotherapy clinical trial. In addition,
      this study will provide supportive data on safety and tolerability of MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy in treatment-resistant patients with PTSD. The study will enroll up to 50
      patients. A flexible dose of MDMA, followed by a supplemental half-dose unless
      contraindicated, is administered duringthe Treatment Period with manualized psychotherapy in
      up to three open-label Experimental Sessions. During the Treatment Period, each Experimental
      Session is preceded by three 90-minute Preparatory Sessions and followed by three
      90-minuteIntegrative Sessions of non-drug psychotherapy. Experimental Sessions will be
      followed by an overnight stay.
    
  