
    
      Clinical studies have shown that up to 62,8% of patients receiving EN have gastrointestinal
      complications like high gastric residuals (≥200ml), vomiting, abdominal distension and
      regurgitation. These complications lead to interruptions of the EN, which result in a low
      caloric intake of the patient.

      In order to avoid at least some of these complications the ACCP consensus statement
      recommends small bowel feeding if gastric residual volumes of 150ml or higher occur. The
      Canadian clinical practice guidelines recommend acceptance of gastric residual volumes up to
      250 ml, use of prokinetic agents and jejunal feeding for patients, who are at high risk for
      intolerance of EN (on inotropes, sedatives, paralytic agents). When gastric enteral nutrition
      is insufficient despite acceptance of high gastric residual volumes and use of prokinetic
      agents, small bowel feeding is the best method to nevertheless feed the patient enterally
      because it is associated with a significant decrease of reflux, a reduced risk of aspiration
      and an adequate caloric intake.

      For small bowel feeding the placement of a jejunal feeding tube is necessary. There are
      several possibilities to place the tube in the small bowel. An excellent method still is
      endoscopy, which has a success rate up to 98% and moreover allows an evaluation of the upper
      GI-tract concerning pathologies. However, it is a rather time consuming procedure, which is
      of limited availability and requires trained staff. As more simple alternatives unguided
      tubes and their placement in the small bowel were tested and showed success rates up to 75%
      only. One of these alternatives is a jejunal feeding tube, which is placed using an
      electromagnetic sensing technique to visualize the placement process on a bedside monitor
      (CORTRAK™). The aim of this study is the evaluation of the success rate of jejunal tube
      placement comparing the endoscopic versus the electromagnetic method in a comparative ICU
      patient population.
    
  