
    
      The study population will consist of adult asymptomatic women presenting for screening 2D
      mammography. One breast of each subject will be identified as the "breast of interest," which
      will undergo study-specific 3D imaging consisting of two-view (craniocaudal and mediolateral
      oblique) PA compression and image acquisition, followed by two-view technologist-controlled
      (TC) compression and image acquisition. The breast of interest will be randomly assigned to
      either the first breast imaged during the exam or the second breast imaged. TC compression
      and imaging, and procedures performed on the subject's other breast will be conducted per
      standard of care.

      Following image acquisition, 3D image quality evaluation will be conducted by Mammography
      Quality Standards Act-qualified readers. Prior to the reading session, images will be
      de-identified and the following information will be removed from the DICOM header to blind
      readers to the compression mode used during acquisition: time stamp, compression force, and
      breast thickness. The image sets will also be randomized for presentation during the image
      attribute reviews. Two (2) readers will evaluate each PAC and TC compression image set
      collected from each subject's breast of interest and assess the acceptability of image
      attributes, as defined in the Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Class II Special Controls
      Guidance Document: Full-Field Digital Mammography System (2012). A third reader will provide
      adjudication, if there is disagreement for a given image set's overall clinical image
      quality.

      Workflow data, including the incidence of technologist intervention during acquisition and
      need for repeat image acquisition, will also be collected.

      The proportion of PAC image sets that are of equal or higher acceptability than TC image sets
      will be calculated. A 95% confidence interval will be calculated using asymptotic method with
      continuity correction. The proportion of image sets indicated for repeated image acquisition
      when using PA mode or TC mode will be summarized. Other endpoint data will be summarized
      using descriptive statistics. No statistical hypothesis is being tested in this study.
    
  