
    
      Valproic acid (VPA) is a long-chain fatty acid frequently used as an antiepileptic agent in
      pediatric and adult seizure patients. Other adverse effects that have been associated with
      VPA use include hepatic steatosis, altered mitochondrial function and decreased
      concentrations of serum proteins. The exact mechanism or mechanisms by which VPA induces
      these associated adverse drug effects are not fully understood though multiple theories have
      been postulated including impaired vesicle transport within the hepatocyte, inhibition of
      hepatic synthetic metabolic pathways and renal protein loss. Decreased serum albumin
      concentrations with concomitant VPA use have been identified in multiple studies. Albumin
      synthesis is sensitive to tryptophan concentrations (other amino acids are also able to
      stimulate albumin synthesis), oncotic pressure near the synthetic site, and energy supply
      while albumin release from the hepatocyte is sensitive to intrahepatocellular potassium
      concentrations. Based on available literature, VPA appears to inhibit an enzyme(s) either
      directly or indirectly involved with albumin synthesis or albumin gene expression. VPA is
      known to inhibit the urea cycle, including patients with ornithine-transcarbamylase (OTC)
      deficiency, possibly by inhibiting mitochondrial carbamoyl-phosphate synthase. Oratz et al
      discussed the potential correlation between the urea cycle and albumin synthesis identified
      after the administration of various amino acids increased both albumin and urea synthesis.
      Ornithine is an intermediate amino acid within the urea cycle and it is also a precursor to
      polyamines which have been shown to increase the degree of aggregation of polysomes,
      responsible for protein synthesis, bound to the endoplasmic reticulum. Thus, VPA may
      indirectly inhibit protein synthesis by interfering with the urea cycle leading to decreased
      ornithine concentrations and subsequently a decrease in polyamine concentrations and a
      decrease in the number of bound polysomes resulting in alterations in albumin synthesis and
      release. The purpose of this study is to investigate potential mechanisms of VPA-associated
      hypoalbuminemia in medically fragile pediatric and young adult epileptic patients of a
      long-term care facility.
    
  