
    
      Treatment plan:

      A typical course of rituximab-CHOP chemotherapy is as follows:

      rituximab 375 mg/m2 i.v., day 1, cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2 i.v., day 1, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2
      i.v., day 1, vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 (maximal 2 mg) i.v., day 1, prednisolone 40 mg/m2/day
      p.o., day 1 to day 5.

      Typically the treatment will be repeated every 3 weeks. If the patients cannot recover from
      chemotherapy-induced toxicity at the schedule time of the next course of treatment,
      modification of chemotherapy dosage or delay of chemotherapy administration will be done
      according to local treatment standard and will be recorded.

      The use of component therapy or granulocyte colony-stimulating factor will be at the
      discretion of individual investigator.

      Auxiliary medication, such as anti-emetics, will be given according to local treatment
      guidelines.

      Statistical consideration:

        1. Database Management Procedures

           Standard module for description of standard operation procedures for data processing to
           ensure quality and validity of the data.

        2. Presentation of Efficacy and safety Endpoints

           2.1. The primary endpoint of this study is the incidence of HBV reactivation, defined by
           a greater than 10-fold increase, compared with previous nadir levels, of HBV DNA, during
           rituximab-CHOP chemotherapy and within 1 year after the last course of rituximab-CHOP
           chemotherapy.

           2.2. Secondary endpoints: Incidence of hepatitis , defined as a greater than 3 fold
           increase of serum ALT level that exceeded 100 IU/L.

           Incidence of severe hepatitis, defined as a hepatitis flare with an increase of ALT to
           more than 10 fold of ULN or bilirubin to more than 1.5 fold of ULN.

           Association between HBV reactivation and serological breakthrough (i.e., re-appearance
           of HBsAg) during follow-up Association between HBV reactivation and levels of anti-HBc
           antibodies during follow-up Association between HBV reactivation and HLA germline
           polymorphism (HLA-DPA1, HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DRB1) / IL28B genotype of the
           patients Progression-free survival and overall survival for patients who receive
           rituximab-CHOP chemotherapy.

        3. Hypotheses and Sample Size Determination

           It is estimated that in Taiwan the incidence of 'resolved' HBV infection in the general
           population is about 50%. A recent survey of HbsAg(-)blood donors indicated that 7% of
           the donors had detectable HBV DNA in serum. The incidence of diffuse large B-cell
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in Taiwan is 700-800 new patients/year (Taiwan Cancer Registry,
           http://crs.cph.ntu.edu.tw). We plan to enroll 150 patients in three years (50 new
           patients every year).

        4. General Statistical considerations

           4.1 Randomization and stratification

           This is a single-arm study. No randomization will be done.

           4.2 Analysis population

           This study will enroll NHL patients with evidence of 'resolved' HBV infection. Eligible
           subjects must be negative for serum HBV surface antigen (HBsAg) and positive for at
           least one of the following in the serum: anti-core antigen (anti-HBc), anti-surface
           antigen (anti-HBs), or HBV DNA. Patients who receive at least 1 dose of rituximab-CHOP
           chemotherapy will be enrolled in to the intent-to-treat population and safety
           population. Patients who complete at least 1 course of rituximab-CHOP chemotherapy will
           be enrolled into the per-protocol analysis. The primary and secondary endpoints
           described in Section 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 will be included in the per-protocol analysis.

           4.3 Dropout

           Taking into account 10% dropout rate, we need to enter 62 patients per year to the trial
           so that we may finish accrual of patients within 3 years.

           4.4 Baseline

           Before the first course of rituximab-CHOP chemotherapy, the baseline characteristics for
           each patient will be measured.

           4.5 Multicenter study

           This study will be conducted by all participating medical centers to the Lymphoma
           Disease Committee (14 centers in total). Since the rituximab-CHOP chemotherapy is the
           standard first-line treatment for patients with diffuse large B-cell NHL and follicular
           cell NHL, no center interaction on treatment is expected in this study.

           4.6 Adjustment for multiple testing

           Adjustment because of multiple testing is not needed in this study.

           4.7 Subgroup analysis

           Pre-specified subgroup analysis for the primary endpoint (HBV reactivation rate) will be
           done in the following sub-groups:

             1. baseline HBV DNA (+) vs. HBV DNA (-);

             2. baseline alanine transaminase (ALT) normal vs. abnormal.

           4.8 Patient Listings

           Individual patient listings should be also provided.

        5. Interim analysis and data monitoring

           No interim analysis is planned for this study.

        6. Final Analysis

      For the final statistical analysis, this section should state the specific statistical
      procedures described in item 6 of this section in the analysis of every primary and secondary
      efficacy and safety endpoint.
    
  