
    
      1. Objectives To collect background information of patients receiving a prescription for
           Relenza® and study risk factors etc. for adverse drug reactions collected through
           spontaneous reporting. In particular, to characterize the types and incidences of
           adverse events, serious adverse events, and adverse drug reactions and to investigate
           risk factors for them in patient populations that are regarded to be at high risk for
           novel influenza A (H1N1)and in which the use experience of Relenza® has not been enough
           (such as pregnant women, infants, elderly persons, and those with decreased physical
           function) in accordance with the PFSB/SD Notification 0904, No.2 of the Safety Division,
           Pharmaceutical and Food Safety Bureau, MHLW, dated 4th September 2009.

           To compare the data with the safety data collected in overseas sentinel site monitoring
           programs.

        2. Planned number of patients Planned number of patients: 1,600 cases (of which 90 shall be
           pregnant women)

        3. Target patients All patients who visit a sentinel site between the date of the contract
           and 31st March 2010 and are prescribed Relenza® for the purpose of either treatment or
           prophylaxis of influenza.

        4. Planned number of sentinel sites About 20 sites, mainly obstetrics, pediatrics, and
           internal medicine.

        5. Method 1)The sentinel sites to participate in the monitoring program will be selected
           from medical institutions which has adopted/purchased Relenza®. Physicians who are
           capable of fulfilling the objectives of the program satisfactorily will be given
           information concerning the purpose, target patients, data to be collected, method, etc.
           and asked for cooperation.

      2)Upon receiving consent of the physician for cooperation, a written contract will be
      concluded with the head of the site (e.g., hospital director) before collection of patient
      background information is started.

      3)All patients receiving a prescription of Relenza® during the contract term at the
      respective site (i.e., from the date of contract until 31st March 2010) will be included in
      the monitoring program. At sentinel sites with obstetrics service, all pregnant women
      receiving a prescription of Relenza® during the contract term at the respective site (i.e.,
      from the date of contract until 31st March 2010) will be included in the monitoring program
      in order to focus on collection of data in pregnant women.

      4)Physician in charge will enter the data such as the background information of the patients
      who have received prescription of Relenza® from the date of contract until 31st March 2010
      into the electronic data collection (EDC) system, check the data, and transmit them to
      GlaxoSmithKline K.K.

      5)The period of observation is 11 days after prescription of Relenza®. 6)Information about
      cases with adverse events and use of Relenza® during pregnancy shall be reported separately
      through spontaneous ADR reporting system.

      6.Planned monitoring period November 2009 to 31st March 2010 The data collection will be
      concluded before 31st March 2010 when the requisite number of patients is accrued ahead of
      schedule.

      7.Data to be collected

        1. Patient identification number to identify each patient.

        2. Reason for the use of Relenza® (prophylaxis or treatment); if Relenza® is used for the
           treatment: information whether or not influenza virus test was performed in the clinical
           laboratory; if yes, result of the influenza virus test (Pandemic Flu (H1N1) or Seasonal
           Flu).

        3. Patient background information : Birth year, sex (if female: pregnant or not pregnant,
           breastfeeding or not breastfeeding), body height, body weight, complications (if yes:
           bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, immune deficiency disease [if
           yes: HIV infection, organ transplant, congenital immunodeficiency, hematological
           malignancy, autoimmune disease, chemotherapy], others), route of infection (family
           infection or group infection), influenza vaccination status (if vaccinated: date of
           vaccination, generic name or brand name of the vaccine used).

        4. Prescription information for Relenza®: Relenza® dose, dosing frequency per day, Relenza®
           initiation date, last date of administration)

        5. Date of patient contact; was a contact with the patient established? (if yes, type of
           contact [telephone, e-mail, in person]).

        6. Adverse events information If adverse events are reported, information concerning the
           circumstance of the adverse event shall be reported separately in the form of
           spontaneous reporting.

        7. Concomitant medications during Relenza® treatment (generic name or trade name of the
           drug, reason for the use of the drug, dose, dosing frequency per day, unit, initiation
           date, last date of administration, still on the medication, use for the treatment of
           adverse event)

        8. Completion or discontinuation of data collection

        9. If Relenza® is used during pregnancy, the course of pregnancy and delivery, abortion,
           etc. adverse events observed in mother and/or infant shall be reported separa
    
  