
    
      This study aims to assess the acceptability of asynchronous telepsychiatry (ATP) and
      synchronous (STP) in rural, Northern California Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) population, in
      a 12-month randomized controlled trial.

      The study will be conducted at 5 SNFs in Northern California. SNF staff will place a formal
      order for psychiatric consultation to the study so that the participants can receive
      psychiatric care via ATP or STP. Research assistants will screen each referral by reviewing
      inclusion and exclusion criteria based on the psychiatric referral question. To closely match
      real-world practice settings, STP "clinic" will be pre-scheduled for 4 hours once per month
      for each site. ATP participants will be interviewed by SNF staff (and videotaped with
      assistance from research assistant within 5 days). The video will then by reviewed by
      research psychiatrist and a consultation report will be send to the PCP in <5 days. Follow-up
      will occur at 1-, 2-, 3-, 6- and 12-month time periods, in addition to the baseline (0-month)
      visit for a total of 6 consults.

      Aim 1: To assess whether ATP and STP models improve clinical outcomes: Hypotheses: Compared
      to STP, the ATP arm will: H1: show non-inferior clinical outcome trajectory, reflected in
      improvement from baseline, as measured by Clinical Global Impression (CGI).

      Aim 2: To assess the acceptability of ATP and STP by examining satisfaction surveys from SNF
      residents (who are able to complete the surveys). Hypothesis: Compared to STP, ATP
      participants will show: H1: Similar levels of satisfaction as measured by the Telemedicine
      Satisfaction Survey as completed by participants.

      Aim 3: To conduct healthcare economics and net benefit analysis of cost-effectiveness of ATP
      vs. STP in SNFs. H3: ATP, compared to STP, will be more cost effective with respect to SNF
      resident satisfaction and reduced wait times.
    
  