
    
      While the intravenous formulation of cidofovir has been approved for the treatment of CMV
      retinitis in HIV-infected individuals, information is limited regarding its safety and
      tolerance in HIV-infected children. Intravenous cidofovir requires less frequent
      administration for both induction and maintenance therapy of CMV retinitis than other
      currently available therapies. If found to be safe and well tolerated in HIV-infected
      children with CMV retinitis, intravenous cidofovir would add significantly to agents
      available to treat this debilitating opportunistic infection.

      In this two-part study, patients are stratified by age (3 months to < 2 years versus 2 years
      to < 13 years). In Part A, 8 patients (4 per cohort) receive a single intravenous dose of
      cidofovir with concurrent probenecid. If 1 patient in a cohort experiences life-threatening
      grade 3/4 toxicity, accrual for that cohort is stopped. If 1 patient in a cohort experiences
      non-life-threatening grade 3/4 toxicity, 2 additional patients are entered in that cohort. A
      second dose of cidofovir may be studied in Part A based on the pharmacokinetic and safety
      data obtained with the initial dose. Patients who complete Part A of the study without
      serious toxicity may be treated in Part B.

      In Part B, 12 patients (8 in the older cohort and 4 in the younger cohort) receive
      maintenance therapy with cidofovir at the dose established in Part A. Patients who complete 6
      months of treatment in Part B may continue therapy until all patients have completed the
      study. NOTE: For patients who require induction or reinduction, cidofovir is given weekly for
      2 weeks before initiating the Part B regimen.

      [AS PER AMENDMENT 1/7/98: Each subject receives sequential single doses of intravenous
      cidofovir, with a 2-week interval between doses and with concurrent probenecid. If the single
      doses prove safe and well tolerated and individual pharmacokinetic profiles are acceptable,
      subjects proceed to multi-dosing cidofovir given every 2 weeks for 6 months beginning 14-21
      days after the second single dose. Subjects remain on intravenous or oral ganciclovir for
      treatment of CMV retinitis until they enter the multi-dosing phase of the study. Subjects who
      require reinduction during the multi-dosing phase receive intravenous cidofovir once weekly
      for 2 weeks before resuming the every-2-weeks regimen. Patients are stratified by age (3
      months to < 2 years vs. 2 years to < 13 years), with 4 patients entered in the younger cohort
      and 8 in the older. In the younger age cohort, if 1 patient experiences life- or
      vision-threatening grade 3/4 toxicity or 2 experience non-life-threatening grade 3/4
      toxicity, the age cohort will stop. If 1 patient experiences non-life-threatening grade 3/4
      toxicity, 2 additional patients will be enrolled in this age cohort. In the older age cohort,
      if 1 patient experiences severe life- or vision-threatening toxicity or 2 experience serious,
      non-life-threatening toxicities, enrollment for both cohorts will be suspended while safety
      data are reviewed. If 2 of the 8 patients experience severe, non-life-threatening toxicity,
      enrollment may continue.]
    
  