
    
      Lamivudine (3TC) has been approved by regulatory authorities for the treatment of HIV
      infection and the current licensed dose is 300 mg once daily. Clinical and pharmacokinetic
      (how a drug is absorbed, distributed and eliminated from your body) data suggest that the
      licensing dose could be reduced without compromising effectiveness. Lower drug doses could
      reduce the side-effects from the medication and would make 3TC more affordable.

      This study will compare the pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of two different doses
      of 3TC in healthy volunteers. The study will take place at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital.
      Twenty four healthy HIV negative volunteers will be randomly allocated into two groups.
      Volunteers in Group 1 will start 300mg 3TC once daily for 10 days, followed by 10 days of not
      taking any 3TC (wash-out period). When the wash-out period ends, they will re-start 3TC at a
      dose of 150mg once daily for 10 days. Group 2 is similar except that they will start 150mg
      3TC at the beginning of the study and 300mg 3TC after the wash-out period. Blood samples will
      be taken over a 24-hour period at the end of each dosing phase to measure the levels of 3TC
      in the blood and inside blood cells. Safety and tolerability of 3TC will be assessed by
      questions, physical examination and laboratory parameters. These will be performed at regular
      intervals during the treatment phases.

      Healthy participants as determined by their medical history and physical examination will be
      eligible to participate in the study. HIV-positive participants will not be recruited because
      it is not yet clear if an experimentally reduced dose of 3TC will successfully treat
      HIV-infection. There is no reason to presume that there is any meaningful difference in the
      metabolic processing of 3TC between HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected people.
    
  