
    
      This study is a taste test to confirm the acceptability of lipid-based nutrient supplements
      (LNS), which are semi-solid pastes comprising groundnut paste, milk, sugar, vegetable oil and
      micronutrients, for home fortification of foods consumed by infants and by pregnant and
      lactating women. Two types of supplements will be evaluated, one for infants (LNS20gM) and
      one for pregnant and lactating women (LNS P&L). The LNS-20gM is similar to the Nutributter we
      used previously in Ghana and provides generally the Recommended Nutrient Intakes (RNI) for 18
      vitamins and minerals for infants from 6 to 18 mo of age. The LNS-P&L is modeled on the
      UNICEF/WHO/UNU international multiple micronutrient preparation (UNIMMAP) for pregnant and
      lactating women and similar products used in Guinea Bissau. Each supplement (20 g/day) will
      provide 118 kcal/day.

      Procedures:The study will be carried out in two phases. The first test trial will be
      conducted within the premises of the Maternal and Child Health Clinics, where study
      participants will be recruited.

      Potential study participants or their mothers (in the case of infants) will be asked verbally
      using a screening questionnaire at the time of recruitment if they are known to be intolerant
      to peanut or milk products, in which case they will be excluded. Because infants must have
      been receiving complementary foods at least 30 days prior to taking part in the study, this
      will not be too difficult to find out. For subjects unaware of whether they are intolerant to
      peanut or milk products, they will be asked not to go home immediately after finishing the
      experiment, but to continue to remain in (or around) the testing room for at least one hour
      whilst the study staff keep watch. Should there be any skin, respiratory or gastrointestinal
      symptoms in any subject during that time, they will be immediately referred to the hospital.
      When leaving the testing room for the home, those subjects (or their mothers) will be given
      the project's mobile phone number to call in case there are any symptoms during the next few
      hours.

      Potential subjects or their mothers (in the case of infants) will be asked if they feel ill
      using the screening questionnaire. Subjects who report any feeling of illness will be
      excluded. The Maternal and Child Health clinics (MCH) where subjects will be recruited
      provide mainly routine services for women (such as ante-natal services for pregnant women)
      and children (such as weight monitoring and promotion and vaccination). We expect that nearly
      all women and infants attending these clinics will be apparently in good health and not ill.

      Phase 1 - Test-feeding:

      Study participants will be women (n = 20) ≥ 18 y of age who are either pregnant (n = 10) or
      lactating (n = 10) and infants (n = 20 accompanied by their mothers) 6 - 12 mo of age
      randomly-selected from Maternal and Child Health clinics in Manya and Yiko Krobo districts of
      the Eastern Region of Ghana. All subjects must be apparently healthy and must not have eaten
      any food (including breast milk) during the previous one hour.

        1. Test-feeding of LNS P&L:

           After consent, pregnant (n=10) and lactating women (n=10) will be asked to come to the
           clinic the next day for an orientation session during which background data will be
           collected and the experimental procedures will be practiced including tasting of the
           food and completion of the tasting questionnaire. The second day will be Test Day 1,
           during which the actual tasting will be recorded. Women will be asked to consume 45 g of
           koko mixed with LNS P&L (prepared from mixing 150 g LNS-P&L with 600 g fresh koko with
           moisture content of about 90%). Time taken to consume the entire amount, or proportion
           of the amount consumed within 15 minutes, will be measured. Women will be asked to rate
           the mixture's appearance, aroma, flavor, consistency and overall degree of liking using
           a hedonic scale. On the third day (Test Day 2) of the trial, the above procedures will
           be repeated using koko mixed with Nutributter instead.

           Koko for the test feeding will be provided by the project. Project staff will purchase
           fermented dough (the main ingredient) from the local market to prepare the koko under
           good hygienic conditions in our project house. After preparation, the koko will be kept
           hot in a thermos flask prior to being served to study participants at the MCH clinic.
           Between the time the koko is prepared and the time the test feeding is completed, which
           will take 2-3 hours, the koko can be kept at a temperature of 70 - 90 °C inside the
           thermos flask to prevent bacterial contamination. The Nutributter and the LNS
           supplements will be commercially produced by Nutriset SAS (Malaunay, France) and
           provided to the Project for testing.

        2. Test-feeding of LNS20gM:

      After consent, the mother (or care-taker) of each participating infant will be asked to come
      to the clinic with the child the next day for an orientation session during which background
      data will be collected and the experimental procedures will be practiced including tasting of
      the food and completion of the tasting questionnaire. The second day will be Test Day 1,
      during which the actual tasting will be recorded. Mothers or caretakers will be given 50 g of
      koko mixed with LNS 20gM (prepared from mixing 150 g LNS-20gM with 600 g fresh koko with
      moisture content of about 90%). They will be asked to consume one teaspoon of the mixture (~
      5 g), and then feed the rest (~ 45 g) to their infants after it is re-weighed. During this
      time, the child should be awake and alert, and either calm or fussy - but not drowsy or
      crying. Time taken by the child to consume the remaining portion, or proportion consumed by
      the child within 15 minutes, will be measured. The mother or caretaker will then rate the
      mixture's appearance, aroma, flavor and consistency based on her own opinion, and her
      perception of the infant's degree of liking. Mothers will be asked to report to us if the
      child vomits in the next hour, or develops any new symptoms such as rash or wheezing. On the
      third day (Test Day 2) of the trial, the above procedures will be repeated using koko mixed
      with Nutributter instead.

      Phase 2 - Assessment under real-life conditions:

      Pregnant and lactating women who participated in the Phase 1 trial will be given a two-week
      supply of LNS P&L, which they will add to their prepared food daily during the two-week
      period. Mothers of children who participated in the Phase 1 trial will receive LNS20gM, which
      they will add to their infants' prepared food for 2 weeks. The dose for LNS P&L or LNS20gM is
      20 g/day. To ensure that subjects consume the entire daily dose, women will be instructed, as
      done previously in our study in Ghana, to mix their own or their infant's daily dose with 2-3
      tablespoons of the food, to be consumed before consuming the rest of the food.

      Dosage and directions for use will be as follows: 20 g (~4 teaspoons) per day divided into 2
      portions and consumed at two different times of the day (2 x 2 teaspoons). Mix the portion of
      the supplement to be consumed with 2-3 tablespoons of the already prepared food, and eat the
      mixture before eating the rest of the food. Do not cook food with the supplement. Store
      supplement at room temperature. There is no need for refrigeration.

      A structured questionnaire will be used to gather background information on socioeconomic
      status, and maternal and infant feeding behavior. The amount of LNS consumed by subjects will
      be monitored weekly, and the reactions to the products will be obtained at the end.
    
  