
    
      In Emergency Departments (ED) in Denmark and internationally, triage manuals are used to
      divide incoming patients according to their acute clinical severity, and thus assess who
      should be examined and treated first. However, the triage manuals are criticized for being
      imprecise in the intermediate categories. Furthermore, the triage manuals, nationally and
      internationally, are criticized for not adequately involving the patient's perspective and
      context. In addition, triage is not independent of personal factors and workload, which may
      contribute to interprofessional variation. Further, patients themselves express a desire to
      be even more involved. Also, the relationship between patient and healthcare professional has
      a direct impact on the quality of health services, however, there are divergent perceptions
      of what patient involvement entails. Patient-Reported Outcome (PRO) data is one way in which
      patient involvement can occur. PRO is data reported directly from the patient without
      interference from the healthcare professional and is thus self-reported data, typically
      generated through survey studies among patients. A strength of PRO data is that these are
      often more sensitive which may, for example, demonstrate a higher degree of severity of the
      patient's symptoms. Furthermore, it is considered a strength that PRO data can be used at
      both group level, for example in quality assurance, as well as at an individual level to
      support the decision making of healthcare professionals and thereby ensure efficient use of
      resources. Due to lack of evidence-based knowledge in the field and despite the potential of
      using PRO data, the information of patients and / or relatives is not used systematically in
      the Emergency Department. This also applies in the acute contact, where an imprecise initial
      evaluation of the patient's overall medical needs can cause both over- and under-triaging to
      the detriment of the overall patient course. The result is an inappropriate allocation of
      resources at the organizational level and a poorer quality in the treatment process. This
      points to the need to use relevant patient-reported measures (PROM), the tool for measuring
      PROs. One such instrument is Degree-of-Worry (DOW), which measures the patient's
      self-reported level of worry. DOW is a ten-point score of self-reported worry (from 1 =
      minimal concern to 10 = maximally concerned), reflecting the patient's own assessment of
      acute illness and own perception of concern. DOW has been scientifically tested in connection
      with telephone triage at the medical helpline 1813 (MH1813) as a five-point score. The
      patient's DOW, measured at the time the patient makes his first call to the MH1813, is
      strongly associated with the probability of acute hospitalization within 48 hours. However, a
      pilot test with DOW as a five-point score in the Emergency Department indicates a ceiling
      effect, by which DOW will be presented as a 10-point score in this setting. DOW has the
      potential to increase patient safety, create greater patient involvement and increase
      efficiency so that the lengths of stay reflects the triage level. A previous study suggests
      that DOW could also be used advantageously in other similar settings, such as Emergency
      Department, which, however, requires that potential implementation barriers is examined.
    
  