
    
      Hypothesis Conditions with acute systemic inflammation will correlate with changes in gut
      microbiome signatures, reduced cerebral oxygen saturation (StO2) and altered patterns of
      microvascular cerebral blood perfusion (as determined by near-infrared spectroscopy NIRS).

      Rationale The investigators are investigating the ability of near-infrared spectroscopy
      (NIRS) to detect altered brain function and oxygenation under a range of clinically relevant
      medical conditions.

      NIRS allows for non-invasive measurement of oxygenated (O2Hb) and deoxygenated hemoglobin
      (HHb) concentrations in cortical brain tissue. Therefore, NIRS can be used to quantify
      cortical tissue oxygen saturation (StO2), which reflects changing metabolic rate and
      perfusion. Furthermore, functional NIRS (fNIRS) can be used to probe brain activity in a
      similar fashion to functional MRI, by assuming that the measured changes in blood perfusion
      and oxygenation are due to functional hyperemia (i.e. hemodynamic changes caused by neural
      activity). Using NIRS in patients, altered patterns of brain blood perfusion and reduced
      brain oxygenation levels have been shown to correlate with fatigue and impaired cognition,
      linking reduced cortical perfusion to symptoms that have been reported to occur in patients
      with IBD.

      Tight regulation of cerebral blood flow is critical to ensure normal brain oxygenation and
      function. Cerebrovascular dysfunction and hypoxia have been implicated in a range of
      neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory disorders including Alzheimer's disease and multiple
      sclerosis (MS). In a recent study using fNIRS, the investigators found altered task
      associated hemodynamic responses and brain hypoxia in patients with the immune-mediated liver
      disease, primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). Moreover, the experimental work in mice suggests
      that these changes may be due to the actions of TNFα on the cerebral vasculature. It also
      showed that patients with multiple sclerosis had reduced inter-hemispheric coherence and
      hypoxia. These observations led to the question of whether general systemic inflammation or
      brain/gut interactions could link to abnormal brain function and hypoxia, as detectable by
      NIRS.

      Supporting this hypothesis is a recent NIRS study by Fujiwara T et al in patients with IBD.
      They showed that during performance of a task, mean oxygenated hemoglobin concentration was
      significantly lower in the frontal lobe in IBD patients compared to healthy controls.
      However, changes in brain oxygenation have not been previously examined during resting state
      or in the context of markers of peripheral inflammation, quality of life measures and symptom
      burden, or gut microbiome signatures in IBD patients.

      This currently proposed substudy is to examine patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
      for their level of hypoxia, fNIRS functional response and fNIRS coherence.

      IBD is increasing in incidence and prevalence worldwide. Several factors have been implicated
      in the development of IBD, including a dysregulated immune response to altered microbiota in
      a genetically susceptible host exposed to inciting environmental factors, but the specific
      cause of IBD remains unknown. Comorbid maladaptive behaviors and pain are prevalent in
      patients with IBD20-26. These mental health comorbidities complicate management of IBD,
      adversely impacting patient outcomes and health, and increasing the resource burden to the
      health care system. However, comorbid mental health issues and symptoms in IBD patients are
      poorly understood and under-treated, paralleling unmet mental health treatment needs in the
      general Canadian population. Therefore, an improved understanding of how brain changes occur
      in association with IBD, and their potential role in symptom development and link to systemic
      inflammation and gut microbiome signatures is of significant importance to improve management
      of these patients.

      The gastrointestinal tract serves as a dynamic and local ecosystem for gut microbiota.
      Dysbiosis, which is an alteration of the gut microbial composition that contributes to host
      disease, occurs in IBD patients. Specifically, IBD patients exhibit a lower microbial
      α-diversity and are enriched in several groups of bacteria compared with healthy controls.
      Recently, preclinical, translational, and clinical studies have indicated that alterations in
      the structural composition or function of the microbiome can contribute to the development of
      mental illness, including depression-like behavior, and thus, is a vital component linking
      the gut-brain axis. Consistent with this, strong correlations have been identified between
      alterations in gut microbiota and the development of chronic inflammatory disorders, such as
      IBD, suggesting that dysbiosis is an important factor in both gastrointestinal disorders and
      mental health. However, the precise mechanisms by which gut dysbiosis in IBD may alter
      behavior remains poorly understood.

      How peripheral inflammation, as occurs in IBD, leads to remote changes in brain function
      remains unclear and, as a result, there are limited therapeutic options available clinically
      to address this issue. A number of general pathways have been described that link systemic
      inflammation to changes occurring in the brain, which in turn give rise to altered behavior.
      These pathways traditionally have included signaling via neural pathways (mainly vagal nerve
      afferents) and immune signaling (mainly via circulating cytokines like TNFα, which either
      enter the brain directly or activate cerebral endothelium). Recently, University of Calgary
      researchers described a novel inflammation signaling pathway which involves increased
      peripheral TNF-α production driving increased microglial activation, followed by monocyte
      recruitment into brain vasculature and brain parenchyma, which in turn drives the development
      of sickness behaviors. TNFα is a multifunctional cytokine that mediates a range of effects
      that can directly impact brain function (via modulating neurotransmission) and the gut (e.g.
      affecting intestinal barrier permeability) and modulate tissue inflammation (e.g. activate
      macrophages to induce cytokine and chemokine expression). Increased circulating levels of
      TNFα and elevated production by circulating leukocytes are commonly documented in patients
      with chronic inflammatory conditions associated with a high prevalence of sickness behaviors
      and mood disorders, including IBD. Hence, blockade of TNFα signaling has been extensively
      evaluated in clinical studies of IBD. In addition, improvement in symptoms by TNFα signaling
      inhibition are often evident in treated patients with chronic inflammatory diseases, prior to
      overt changes in disease activity. In patients with IBD, anti-TNFα therapy was associated
      with significant improvements in sleep, depression, and anxiety early after initiation of
      therapy, and these improvements were sustained. Moreover, another study assessed the effect
      of anti-TNFα therapy on interoceptive signaling in patients with Crohn's disease and
      demonstrated reductions in visceral sensitivity and improved cognitive-affective processing
      after anti-TNFα administration, paralleled by improved sense of well being. Changes in
      cognition were linked to changes in neural activity in prefrontal and limbic brain areas.
      Moreover, the rapid behavioral and neural changes observed were not associated with
      significant changes in fecal calprotectin levels (marker of gut inflammation) suggesting they
      were unlikely related to a simultaneous reduction in intestinal inflammation. Anti-TNFα
      therapy also alters the gut microbiome in patients with IBD. Specifically, anti-TNFα therapy
      in IBD patients increased gut microbial species richness and phylodiversity to levels similar
      to healthy controls. In addition, anti-TNF therapy decreased the relative abundances of
      proinflammatory bacteria Escherichia and Enterococcus in IBD patients, and increasing genera
      that produce short-chain fatty acids, which have well-established anti-inflammatory effects
      in the gut.

      Healthy cerebral endothelial cells (CECs) are critically important for brain blood flow
      regulation, as well as the normal function of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Cytokines,
      including TNFα, originating from within the central nervous system or present in the
      peripheral blood circulation, can induce CEC dysfunction and increase BBB permeability, which
      is known to be associated with many neurological disorders including Alzheimer's and MS, as
      well as peripherally induced neuroinflammation. Indeed, CECs exposed to TNFα express fewer
      interendothelial proteins and have greater reactive oxygen species generation, leading to
      increased BBB permeability. Furthermore, CECs can be activated by cytokines that are either
      present in the blood or released by circulating immune cells in intimate contact with CECs,
      to produce secondary signaling molecules (e.g., additional cytokines, prostaglandin E2,
      nitric oxide) which interact with cells within the brain to alter NVC responses. Consistent
      with this suggestion, in a mouse model of peripheral inflammation, it was shown that
      activated monocytes within the cerebral circulation adhere to CECs and induce CEC activation
      through TNFα-TNF receptor-1 interactions. This immune cell and TNFα-driven CEC activation
      up-regulates inducible nitric oxide synthase expression within CECs and was directly linked
      to activation of microglia within the brain (especially those cells in close proximity to
      blood vessels), and ultimately to altered behavior. These previous findings from this group
      provide a mechanism by which peripheral inflammation can impact the function of CECs, thereby
      altering cerebrovascular function. Blocking activated immune cells within the circulation
      from adhering to CECs increases task-induced cortical blood flow (i.e., NVC)66, suggesting
      that immune cell-CEC adhesive interactions can lead to neurovascular uncoupling. CECs can
      also play an essential role in the regulation of cerebral blood flow by passively allowing
      vessel smooth muscle to relax and contract. Interestingly, activated leukocytes have been
      shown to promote endothelial cell-dependent vasospasticity and reduce arterial relaxation in
      vitro and in vivo. Further, endothelial cell-dependent vasospasticity is heightened in the
      presence of protein aggregates in the blood, which would effectively reduce the dynamic range
      of vasodilation. This is particularly interesting considering previous findings that
      peripheral inflammation leads to increased CEC presentation of the adhesion molecule
      P-selectin, which in turn promotes leukocyte and platelet adhesion to CECs. Taken together,
      these findings suggest that increased leukocyte-CEC interactions associated with peripheral
      inflammation may significantly contribute to altered cerebrovascular dynamics and potential
      neurovascular uncoupling in the setting of peripheral inflammatory disease, which is manifest
      as altered cerebral oxygenation.

      Considered in the context of neuroinflammation associated with chronic peripheral
      inflammation, alterations in cortical perfusion and oxygenation may contribute, at least in
      part, to the behavioral symptoms associated with IBD and disease-associated reductions in
      health related quality of life (QoL).

      The IBD clinic is routinely testing new treatments for IBD. They have agreed to integrate
      NIRS into a pilot protocol to determine if there is sufficient evidence to warrant a longer
      trial of NIRS as a biomarker of neurological involvement in IBD.

      The investigators propose the following series of experiments, using NIRS, to determine (A)
      whether patients with IBD exhibit reduced cortical oxygen saturation and altered patterns of
      microvascular cerebral blood perfusion; (B) whether NIRS findings of oxygen saturation and
      perfusion correlate with clinical disease activity markers, a disease-specific gut microbiome
      signature, and/or symptom and quality of life scores in patients with IBD; (C) the impact of
      anti-TNF therapy (administered as clinically indicated, as standard of practice) on NIRS
      changes, the fecal microbiome, markers of systemic inflammation, and symptom severity.
    
  