
    
      This study will train health care providers to guide unsuppressed HIV positive patients in
      the selection of a treatment partner. All health care providers at the intervention clinic
      (e.g., physicians, nurses, peer counselors) will be educated about effective characteristics
      of treatment partners, and provided with standard guidance about treatment partner selection
      to deliver to all patients initiating ART or who are not suppressed (however, for increased
      impact, the investigators will test the intervention only among those not suppressed). The
      standard guidance will incorporate Motivational Interviewing (MI) strategies, to acknowledge
      patients' difficulties and offer advice without trying to force the patient to select a
      treatment partner of a particular type.

      The intervention clinic will sponsor group sessions for treatment partners of unsuppressed
      patients, to educate treatment partners about HIV treatment, and train treatment partners on
      counseling skills to convey acceptance of and compassion, and to be non-judgmental and
      non-confrontational. The investigators will train treatment partners in core MI skills of
      open questions and reflective listening, to avoid confrontations and support patients in
      developing motivation for adherence. In the training, the investigators will use experiential
      learning methods to help partners to understand that confronting their partners about poor
      adherence, while born out of love and concern for patients' health, is ineffective. The
      investigators do not intend for treatment partners to be proficient in all MI counseling
      strategies, but the investigators will train treatment partners to use the two core MI
      skills. Patients and their treatment partners will be asked to attend at least 3 sessions
      over the 3-month intervention period. The investigators will survey patients and treatment
      partners at baseline and 3-months post-baseline and collect viral load from clinic records.
      Intervention feasibility and acceptability will be assessed via mixed methods (e.g., semi-
      structured interviews with patients, treatment partners, and clinic staff; refusal rates).
    
  