
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To estimate the participation rate, accrual, adherence, and retention to a
           community-based study of yoga vs an active control (wellness education) in women with
           stage I-III breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To obtain estimates of the variability of women's self-reported fatigue and depressive
           symptoms, sleep quality, and health-related quality of life from baseline to the end of
           the intervention at 10 weeks.

        -  To obtain estimates of the efficacy of a community-based yoga intervention in women with
           breast cancer.

        -  To standardize the yoga protocol for use in multiple community settings with breast
           cancer patients, and ascertain that yoga teachers can adhere to a uniform protocol.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to CCOP site and
      chemotherapy-treatment status (planning vs started). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      intervention arms.

      Patients must begin their class or group within 3 weeks of starting chemotherapy. All women
      enter their class or group on a rolling basis so that their class or group coincides with the
      weeks that they receive chemotherapy treatments.

        -  Arm I (Yoga intervention): In weeks 1-10, patients attend a community-based weekly
           75-minute Integral Yoga class led by an experienced yoga teacher specifically trained in
           adapting yoga for people with cancer. The yoga class includes postures, deep relaxation,
           breathing practices, and meditation to create a profound experience of peace and
           well-being. Women are asked to attend ≥ 8 of 10 classes over a 12-week period to allow
           for missed classes. Women are also provided with a yoga mat, associated yoga props
           (bolster, strap), and a 45-minute cancer-specific yoga DVD for home practice. Women are
           asked to practice yoga outside of the class at least twice per week, and are encouraged
           to practice more frequently than that.

        -  Arm II (Active control): Patients meet for a weekly 75-minute wellness education group
           in weeks 1-10 (women may make-up missed classes during weeks 11 and 12). The group
           focuses on issues that women with breast cancer face as they undergo treatment; topics
           include symptom management, financial and insurance issues, emotional issues/coping with
           cancer, communicating with healthcare providers/navigating the healthcare system,
           healthful eating/cooking demonstrations, sexual issues/fertility/body image, mobilizing
           social support/impact of cancer on family and friends, survivorship (advocacy)
           opportunities, and common concerns/fear of recurrence. Women are provided with reading
           materials relevant to the topics that will be covered in each group meeting and are
           asked to spend approximately 45 minutes twice weekly reading these materials and
           incorporating any relevant principles/ideas into their daily lives. Women may request
           additional reading materials in further topics of interest from the group facilitators.

      Patients complete questionnaires at baseline and at weeks 5, 10, and 14 to assess fatigue
      (FACIT-Fatigue), depressive symptoms (Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale
      [CES-D]), treatment-related symptoms (M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory [MDASI]), sleep
      disturbance (Medical Outcomes Study Sleep Measure [MOS-Sleep]), and health-related quality of
      life (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast [FACT-B]). Patients also track time
      spent on all home-yoga practice (arm I) or wellness-group homework (arm II). After the
      intervention (week 10), patients are asked to provide feedback on the program. Yoga/Wellness
      teachers will completion intervention feedback forms 6 months from the start of the first
      intervention and at completion of the study.
    
  