
    
      Study participants will be provided with a cramp diary in which they will record the date,
      time, duration and severity of any muscle cramps they experience. Severity will be measured
      using a Likert scale in which participants will be asked to mark along a 10 cm line the
      severity of the pain they have experienced with each muscle cramp (ranging from no pain to
      the worst pain possible). The distance between "no pain" and the participant's mark will then
      be measured in centimetres (to one decimal point) to provide a precise value for muscle cramp
      severity. Participants will also be asked to record the duration of each muscle cramp they
      experience to the nearest minute.

      Patients will be asked to record in their cramp diaries the nature of any unwanted skin
      changes they may have experienced during their participation in the study including when they
      first noticed these changes and the duration in which they were affected by them.

      Serum magnesium, calcium and potassium levels will be measured and recorded before
      commencement of the study, at the end of the first stage of the study, at the end of the
      washout out period and at the end of the second stage of the study.

      Patients will also be asked to describe their restless leg symptoms at different periods of
      the study from - no different to usual, better, much better, worse, much worse.

      Participants will be seen by the investigators at enrolment into the study and at the end of
      the run-in period, first treatment period and second treatment period. In addition,
      participants will be asked to fill in a Likert scale regarding their views on how effective
      they believe the treatments were after each treatment period.

      5.2 Study Plan

      During the run-in period patients will make no changes to their treatments for their muscle
      cramps. During the treatment periods patients will be asked to apply five sprays of the
      intervention or placebo to the two sites of the body most commonly affected by muscle cramps,
      twice daily. During the two-week wash-out period there will be no spray applied.
    
  