
    
      In this study, the study groups comprised MZ and DZ twin pairs, triplets and singletons
      between the ages of 2 and 17 who attended the Department of Pediatric Dentistry at Suleyman
      Demirel University between January 2018 and September 2020. Twins and triplets who had
      developmental anomalies such as cleft lip and palate, premature tooth loss, systemic diseases
      or syndromes that could influence oral health or had already undergone or were undergoing
      orthodontic therapy, as well as those whose family did not give consent, were excluded from
      the study.

      All children were assessed by the same experienced pedodontist (E.O.) to avoid interexaminer
      variability. The oral examination was performed using sterile mouth mirror and probe. The
      prevalence of dental caries was recorded using dmft index (decayed, missing and filled teeth)
      in primary dentition and DMFT index (Decayed, Missing and Filled teeth) in permanent
      dentition. When evaluating patients over 6 years old, the missing tooth component was not
      included in the primary dft scores. The depth of caries lesions in children of single and
      multiple births was estimated visually using the World Health Organization (WHO) periodontal
      probe (D1: clinical detectable enamel lesion with intact surfaces, D2: clinical detectable
      cavities limited to enamel, D3: clinically detectable lesions in dentin with or without
      cavitations of dentin, D4: lesion into pulp).

      Oral hygiene practices, such as tooth brushing frequency and the children's past or present
      oral habits (digit sucking, nail biting, tongue thrust, bruxism, lip biting, pencil biting,
      cheek biting and mouth breathing), were also recorded.

      The primary molar relationships were evaluated as flush terminal plane and mesial and distal
      step. The permanent molar relationships were recorded as Class I, Class II (Division 1 and 2)
      and Class III. Occlusal traits such as increased overjet, deep bite, open bite and anterior
      and posterior crossbite were recorded as present (1) or absent (0) with the help of a dental
      probe
    
  