
    
      The main purpose of CP rehabilitation is to ensure that the child gains maximum functional
      independence by obtaining the optimal development potential. Therefore, walking restrictions
      are one of the important problems in children with CP.

      The most common type in the CP classification is the spastic type. The types with the best
      functional independence level in this group are; hemiparetic and diparetic CP. They do not
      have a good motor coordination due to stability problems caused by deviations in the center
      during walking. This situation affects balance and walking performance. As children get
      older, impairments in their walking ability become more pronounced. In addition to all these
      problems, hypertonus, increased stretching reflex, muscle weakness, coactivation in
      antagonist muscles, posture disorders, loss of proprioception, muscle and joint deformities
      are other factors that cause gait disturbances in children with CP. Therefore, the walking
      problems of the child with CP should be examined more clearly. At this point, it assigns a
      different task to the child with the evaluation of backward walking, and provides observation
      of body perception, trunk stability provided by anterior-posterior co-contractions, balance,
      correction and protective reactions. This observation ensures that the problem that will
      guide the treatment is precisely determined.The only test that can be applied to evaluate the
      ability to walk back is the three meter backward walk test. This test has been found to be
      valid and reliable in both the elderly population and patients with total knee
      arthroplasty.In the literature, there is no study about the three-meter backwalk test in
      children with CP. In this study, it was aimed to evaluate the backward walking skills of
      children with CP with the three meter backward walk test and to examine the applicability and
      reliability of the three meter backward walk test in children with CP.
    
  