
    
      Treatments and Clinic Visits:

      The 36-week double-blind, randomized treatment phase of the trial is preceded by 2-week
      single-blind placebo period to assess eligibility into the active treatment period,
      compliance, and to confirm the baseline blood pressure values of the enrolled subjects. If at
      the end of the single-blind phase, inclusion criteria will not be met, the participants will
      not be allowed to continue on to the trial. If they are eligible they will undergo baseline
      MRI studies after being randomized to either placebo or Aliskiren 150 mg, with an escalation
      to 300 mg at 2 weeks into treatment. This dose will be maintained for the duration of the
      trial. After randomization and dose escalation visits (at 2 weeks), patients will return for
      scheduled clinic visits at weeks 12 and 36. Assessment of routine safety measures including
      serum creatinine and potassium will be performed at pre-designated visits (randomization,
      drug escalation and end-of trial). At each study visit, after having the patient in a sitting
      position for 5 minutes, SBP/diastolic blood pressure will be measured 3 times in accordance
      with the AHA Committee Report on blood pressure determination. The patient will be then asked
      to stand for 2 minutes, and a single blood pressure measurement will be measured in the
      standing position. Evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) will be determined using
      the Romhilt-Estes scoring system at baseline. Specialized measurements of plasma including
      insulin, glucose measures, adipokines (leptin and adiponectin) and high- sensitivity
      C-reactive protein (hsCRP) will be performed at randomization and 12 weeks into the trial.
      Central aortic blood pressure assessment will be performed at randomization and end of
      trial/exit visits (SphygmoCor CP, AtCor Medical, Itaska, Illinois, USA). Plasma direct renin
      measurements will be obtained at baseline and 12 weeks in part to assess compliance of
      patients with their therapy (Diasource, Belgium).
    
  