
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is a global public health threat, which is driven by social factors,
      including poverty, inadequate housing, malnutrition, and substance use. In the United States
      (US), TB disproportionately impacts homeless populations. When compared to the general
      population, homeless persons have a 10-fold increase in TB incidence. Lack of stable housing
      and living in congregate settings are predisposing factors for TB Infection (TBI). Homeless
      persons who develop active TB disease are also at higher risk of death during TB treatment
      due to mental illness and substance use. Even one TB case among a homeless person can easily
      lead to widespread TB transmission due to crowded, poorly ventilated, and congregate living
      situations. Therefore, an extensive public health response is needed for each case of
      infectious TB disease that develops among homeless persons.

      Given the significant public health impact of TB among homeless persons, development of
      effective interventions to prevent TB among homeless persons that are theoretically-based and
      advance science in the area of best adherence strategies to minimize these health disparities
      can lead to significant benefits for patients and further reduce the disparity in TB rates
      between homeless and housed persons. While adherence to traditional TBI treatment with 6 to 9
      months of isoniazid (INH) has been dismal, over the last few years, a promising treatment
      option in form of a 12-dose combination therapy (3HP; rifapentine [RPT] plus isoniazid
      [INH]), delivered once weekly as directly observed therapy (DOT), has achieved treatment
      completion rates of 82%. However, homeless populations who are at high risk for TBI have
      complex, multi-dimensional barriers to TBI treatment adherence. Thus, TBI treatment programs
      in this population have yielded marginal results of 65% completion to date. Among homeless
      persons, health disparities are accentuated by additional barriers to TBI treatment
      adherence, including substance use, mental disorders, and unstable housing.

      Given the complex factors that affect TBI treatment adherence among homeless persons, the
      research team developed a theoretically-based novel model of care that has been successfully
      investigated in other disadvantaged populations. This model involves understanding the
      behavioral, psychological, and environmental influences on health and developing
      culturally-tailored interventions to reduce health disparities, and promote health. By
      engaging nurses, physicians, and community health workers (CHW), the investigators have
      developed a team-based approach to better understand and support medication adherence by
      engaging individuals as active partners in managing their own health. This scientific
      contribution has the potential to be highly significant as new models of care are being
      proposed to improve timely entry, engagement and retention in care, and supportive services
      for homeless persons and other vulnerable populations affected by complex health disparities
      impacting treatment adherence. The pilot study builds on the investigators' extensive three
      decades of research with homeless persons in improving health, including TBI treatment
      adherence, HBV vaccination, and adherence to HIV therapy.

      This study will assess the impact of the TBI program that the investigators have developed,
      as a single arm intervention study, among 76 eligible TBI homeless adults on completion of
      3HP treatment, decrease in drug and alcohol use, improved access to care and mental health,
      and shelter stability. Completion of 3HP will be compared to a minimum standard completion
      rate of 65%. This small pilot will generate the effectiveness data for a future R01
      application to evaluate the intervention in a definitive randomized-controlled trial (RCT).
    
  