
    
      Patients in the trial will be given versions of an evidence-based mobile-health (mHealth)
      system (re-design based on A-CHESS) that is delivered using different implementation
      strategies according to study group. A-CHESS has more than 18 services designed to improve
      social relatedness, coping competence, and intrinsic motivation. The following describes key
      A-CHESS services that will be tested in the current study:

        -  Welcome message - patients write why they are choosing to reduce their drinking.

        -  Coping with Cravings - the system automatically notifies nearby pre-approved friends,
           family, and peers, who can respond to a request for support. The patient can also be
           linked to positive activities, such as suggested games to download and play and
           audio/video-based relaxation recordings.

        -  Monitoring functionality- self-assessment measures, record of A-CHESS use, and
           prediction of the patient's likelihood of having a heavy drinking episode in the next
           week. A-CHESS sends patients with worrisome responses suggestions of coping skills,
           online peer support, healthy events, etc. With patient permission, a prediction of
           high-risk can be shared with others in a position to provide support.

        -  Triage and feedback functionality is designed to derail a setback in goal attainment,
           giving the patient 'just in time,' tailored support by linking patients to relevant
           A-CHESS resources or individuals (depending on group assignment).

        -  The Specialist Report, harvests clinically relevant data from A-CHESS and presents it to
           a peer mentor (in the peer-supported group) or a health coach (in the clinically
           integrated group), at which point they may intervene with patients (e.g., through
           texting in A-CHESS).

        -  Facilitated discussion groups (in the clinically integrated group.) Discussions are
           monitored daily by an A-CHESS coach.

        -  Library - information about healthy lifestyle choices, calendar of healthy events in the
           area, etc.

        -  Drink tracker and report feature - patients to self-monitor their drinking and each week
           see a summary of how they did the past week.

        -  Profiles about why patients want to reduce their drinking.

      All patients enrolled in the study will participate in a 3-month intervention period followed
      by a 9-month follow-up period, for a total of 12 months. All patient will undergo a 72-hour
      run-in period. After 72 hours, patients who remain in the study will be randomized to one of
      the following groups and receive the appropriate access to features. One group will operate
      independently; one group will have help from a peer-mentor; one group will be connected to a
      healthcare system by a health coach.
    
  