
    
      Gatroesophageal reflux disease(GERD) is one of the most common diagnoses made by both primary
      care physicians and gastroenterologists . It is defined as a gastrointestinal motility
      disorder that results from the reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus or oral cavity,
      causing symptoms or complications .The prevalence of GERD is estimated to be between 20 and
      30% of adults in western countries.

      Some studies have found a correlation between GERD and certain diseases of the airway and a
      proposed association to others. Both asthma and laryngitis can be caused by GERD. Pepsin has
      been discovered in the middle ear of children with middle ear effusion and GERD has been
      implicated in the pathophysiology of otitis media with effusion. The authors conclude that
      there may be a role of antireflux therapy in patients with otitis media with effusion. The
      relationship between reflux and snoring/obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) has been
      studied, and it is known that OSAS patients have a high incidence of nocturnal
      gatroesophageal reflux (nGER).

      The coexistence of reflux and various respiratory disorders can be used to argue that there
      is probably a correlation between reflux and CRS. Though some data indicate an association
      between GERD and upper airway inflammatory disease, this remains a matter of controversy in
      today's medicine. It is suggested that, if an upper or lower respiratory tract disorder is
      causally related to GERD, certain criteria should be met:

        1. An increased coexistence of both disorders should exist compared to the general
           population.

        2. A biologically plausible pathophysological mechanism should explain how GERD can cause
           CRS.

        3. clinical manifestations of the suspected GERD-related CRS should respond to anti-reflux
           therapy.

      There are Some theories for the relation between gastric reflux and CRS. The first one is the
      direct exposure of the nasal and nasopharyngeal mucosa to gastric acid causing inflammation
      of the mucosa and impaired mucociliary clearance which could cause obstruction of sinus ostia
      and recurrent infections. It is known that pH variations affect ciliary motility and
      morphology in the respiratory mucosa.The second hypothesis is a relationship mediated by the
      vagus nerve; a mechanism already proven in the lower airway and in the nasal mucosa of
      patients with rhinitis but not in patients with CRS.

      Dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system can lead to reflex sinonasal swelling and
      inflammation, and consequent blockage of the ostia. Demonstrated that by infusing saline with
      hydrochloric acid in the lower esophagus of healthy volunteers, there was increased
      production of nasal mucus, increased score of nasal symptoms, and reduced peak nasal
      inspiratory flow.
    
  