
    
      Hypotheses:

      Hypothesis #1: The Investigators hypothesize that they can define the molecular mechanisms
      responsible for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and gastrointestinal (GI) acute GVHD and
      differentiate it from other inflammatory disorders by using advanced immunologic analysis
      including flow cytometry, TCR deep sequencing and transcriptomics.

      Hypothesis #2: The Investigators further hypothesize that longitudinal systems-based
      immunologic analysis will enable the patient-specific determination of the molecular
      evolution of IBD as well as acute and chronic GVHD as well post-transplant defects in
      protective immunity, and determine which pathways, when perturbed, can cause clinical
      disease. The discovery of these pathways will lead to improved diagnostic, prognostic and
      treatment approaches, and to personalized therapeutic decision-making for patients undergoing
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT).

      Hypothesis #3: We hypothesize that we can define the molecular mechanisms, phenotypic and
      functional immunologic characteristics involved in distinct determinants of adoptive cellular
      therapies, including the efficacy, longevity and toxicity associated with cellular therapy.
      Longitudinal characterization of cellular therapeutics and the endogenous immune response
      they elicit using advanced immunologic analysis including flow cytometry, mass spectrometry,
      TCR deep sequencing and single-cell transcriptomics will allow identification and distinction
      of pathways critical for efficacy and toxicity and enable subsequent therapeutic modulation.

      Aims:

      Specific Aim #1: To identify the mechanisms specific for IBD and GI acute GVHD and delineate
      it from other inflammatory disorders.

      Objective 1: Perform flow cytometry, TCR deep sequencing and whole transcriptome analysis on
      T cells purified from GI tissue samples taken from patients who undergo endoscopy for
      presumed GI GVHD, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and functional gastrointestinal disease
      (FGID).

      Objective 2: Perform flow cytometry, TCR deep sequencing and transcriptome analysis on T
      cells from the peripheral blood at the time of endoscopy in patients diagnosed with GI GVHD,
      IBD, and FGID.

      Specific Aim #2: Characterize the immunologic dysregulation responsible for IBD, acute GVHD,
      chronic GVHD and defects in protective immunity in patients undergoing HCT.

      Objective 1: Perform longitudinal immune analysis on T cells and B cells purified from
      patients with IBD and those undergoing allogeneic HCT. For transplant patients, we will
      compare T and B cell immunity in patients who develop acute and chronic GVHD, relapse, and
      infectious complications post-transplant and compare to patients without these complications.

      Objective 2: Perform microbiome analysis longitudinally in patients with IBD and those
      undergoing HCT to determine the impact of microbiome alterations in the development of
      post-transplant complications.

      Specific Aim #3: Identify the molecular and cellular immunologic mechanisms involved in
      determining the clinical response to cellular therapies and distinguish pathways critical to
      a successful anti-tumor response from those involved in adverse effects.

      Objective 1: Characterize the cellular product prior to administration and track its
      distribution, kinetics, persistence and function longitudinally in vivo in the patient's
      peripheral blood and when applicable bone marrow, CSF and other tissues, using qPCR-based
      transgene detection (if applicable), flow cytometry, mass cytometry, TCR deep sequencing and
      whole transcriptome analysis on T cells and other immune cells contained in the cellular
      product.

      Objective 2: Longitudinally interrogate the interplay of the cellular therapy with the
      endogenous immune system and delineate the role of the endogenous immune response in the
      efficacy, persistence and toxicity of cellular therapy, using flow cytometry, mass cytometry,
      TCR deep sequencing, whole transcriptome analysis on endogenous immune cells and analysis of
      soluble factors and antibodies.

      Background and Significance:

      IBD: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) which includes Crohn's Disease (CD) and Ulcerative
      Colitis (UC), is a chronic complex gastrointestinal (GI) autoimmune condition that inflicts
      1.4 million people in the united states1. The incidence and prevalence of both CD and UC are
      increasing over time and encompassing larger areas of the world1,2. In addition, pediatric
      IBD comprises 25% of all diagnosed IBD, relegating the child to a lifetime of
      gastrointestinal disease and exposure to immunosuppression especially during a period meant
      for growth and development. Despite ongoing research into the pathogenesis and genetic
      abnormalities, the mechanism behind IBD development and progression is not well understood.
      Standard therapies still rely on steroids, other non-specific immunosuppression (such as
      methotrexate and azathioprine), and anti-TNF biologics. Although newer therapies such as
      agents that block cytokines and leukocyte trafficking are emerging, no universally successful
      treatments have been identified. Thus, relapsing forms of IBD continue to lead to systemic
      compromise in nutritional absorptive capacity, anemia, and often, to the need for surgical
      interventions. Deciphering the mechanisms driving the unique subtypes of IBD (even within UC
      and CD) then optimizing treatment based on the underlying systemic dysregulation is a
      critical unmet need in the field. While the underlying immune mechanism of IBD remains
      undetermined, there is significant data to suggest that IBD may represent an inappropriate
      immune response towards self antigens and commensal microbiota in a genetically susceptible
      host3. Thus, murine colitis models suggest that mucosal inflammation results from pathologic
      T helper- (Th) cell responses, along with regulatory cell defects. These data have emerged
      from experiments in IL-2 deficient mice4, IL-10 deficient mice5, TGF-beta6, and TGF-betaGRII
      dominant negative transgenic mice7. The pathogenesis also includes an exaggeration in
      effector cell responses, which have emerged from experiments in Stat4 transgenic mice8 and
      TNFARE mutant mice9. More recently human cytokine analysis suggests that despite clinical
      similarities, each subtype of IBD show distinctive cytokine profiles10. Although initial
      studies have begun to target specific effector T cell pathways11, the application of target
      organ transcriptomics is in its infancy and individual targetable pathways are still elusive.

      HCT: Allogeneic HCT is an effective treatment for patients with malignant and non-malignant
      hematologic diseases. However, this treatment is complicated with high rates of morbidity and
      mortality limiting its broader application. The leading causes of post-transplant morbidity
      and mortality include acute and chronic GVHD, relapse and infectious disease. The goal of the
      PREDICT trial is to apply a systems approach to understanding the mechanisms driving these
      complications, such that evidence-based treatment strategies can be devised.

      Acute GVHD: Acute GVHD is mediated by donor-derived allo-reactive T cells becoming activated
      and resulting in cytotoxicity against host cells12,13 as well as cytokine-mediated tissue
      damage. Moderate to severe acute GVHD can occur in up to 60% of patients undergoing HCT and
      the more severe forms have been associated with mortality rates >50%14-17. The most common
      sites of the immune-mediated tissue damage are the liver, skin, and gastrointestinal (GI)
      tract. GI GVHD occurs in 40-50% of HCT patients and is the major cause of morbidity and
      mortality from this disease17.

      The diagnosis of GI GVHD is derived from clinical and histopathological findings. GVHD can
      occur in both the upper and lower GI tract leading to symptoms of diarrhea, abdominal pain,
      nausea, vomiting, and/or anorexia12. Histopathological diagnostic criteria for GI GVHD
      includes identification of crypt cell apoptosis, crypt destruction and/or mucosa
      denudation18. Unfortunately, the severity of GVHD on histology is poorly correlated with the
      clinical course of the disease.

      While GI GVHD is a common complication following HCT there remain many barriers to its
      consistent and accurate diagnosis. First, diagnosis is dependent on appropriate tissue
      sampling. Visible lesions are frequently absent19 and endoscopic findings can be diffuse and
      nonspecific. There is also no consensus on the optimal location of the GI tract for biopsies
      or number of biopsies needed to secure a diagnosis. There is also frequent discordance
      between biopsy specimens from the upper and lower GI tract20. Second, patients presenting
      early in the course of GVHD may have subtle histopathological findings that may be missed or
      not yet present. At the onset of GVHD few apoptotic cells may be seen and crypt loss and
      mucosal damage may yet to have occured18. Lastly, there are also confounding factors that can
      lead to the misdiagnosis of GVHD that include conditioning regimen related toxicity,
      concomitant infections, and medications which can all cause focal inflammation of the GI
      tract. In the first 20 days following a myeloablative conditioning regimen diffuse apoptosis
      can be seen mimicking acute GVHD21. Clostridium difficile and cytomegalovirus infections can
      also have similar clinical and histopathological presentations22. Use of mycophenolate
      mofetil23 and proton pump inhibitors24 have also been found associated with GI tract
      apoptosis that can be misdiagnosed as GVHD. All of these factors lead to the high degree of
      inter-observer variability in the histological diagnosis of GVHD18,25 and poor correlation
      with the clinical observations, illustrating the need for more sensitive and specific methods
      of diagnosis.

      There have been recent advances in the identification of biomarkers in GVHD that have
      diagnostic and prognostic significance. IL-8, IL-2 receptor-alpha, tumor necrosis factor
      receptor-1 (TNF-1), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), elafin, regenerating islet-derived
      3-alpha (reg-3alpha), TIM3, IL-6, ST2, B-cell activating factor (BAFF), IL-33, CXCL10, and
      CXCL11 have all been found to have utility in predicting the development of GVHD26-28. While
      these biomarkers have been identified they have not been extensively validated and are yet to
      be clinically adopted as a guide to alter treatment. Moreover, the biomarkers discovered thus
      far are often the result of downstream pathway perturbations and discovering the upstream
      dysregulation that occurs earlier in the course of the disease may be valuable in developing
      diagnostic or prognostic models that could lead to trials aimed at altering the natural
      course of the disease.

      Our group has previously shown that by using advanced immunologic analysis including flow
      cytometry, and whole transcriptome analysis, we can identify previously unrecognized
      molecular pathways active in GVHD29-31. We anticipate that by utilizing a systems immunology
      approach in patients with acute GVHD we will be able to identify pathways that have
      diagnostic and prognostic value. This may enhance our diagnostic capacity and most
      importantly, allow us to individualize management of patients based on their specific
      immunologic profiles.

      Chronic GVHD: CGVHD occurs in 40-60% of transplant patients32-35 with the incidence of this
      disease rising in the past 2 decades36 chronic GVHD causes significant mortality, and in
      those patients that survive, it can result in profound effects on quality of life37-40.
      Despite the increased frequency of chronic GVHD, accurate diagnosis and evidence-based
      therapy is still lacking. Thus, while chronic GVHD biomarkers have been identified there have
      yet to be any that qualify for clinical application41. Moreover, these biomarkers often
      represent end-stage pathway perturbations and may result from nonspecific inflammation and
      tissue damage as well as counter-regulatory mechanisms. In addition to the challenges in
      diagnosis, there are significant treatment challenges as well: Thus, treatment of chronic
      GVHD has not changed significantly over the past few decades. First line therapy remains
      corticosteroids with or without calcineurin inhibitiors (CNIs)42-44 and unfortunately,
      approximately 50% of patients will fail and require second line treatment45,46 with
      failure-free survival at 2 years following second-line therapy being only 25%47. These data
      underscore the significant unmet needs in this field, both for molecular diagnostics and
      evidence-based treatment paradigms.

      Protective Immunity: In addition to the challenges of acute and chronic GVHD, patients
      undergoing HCT and those with IBD face other toxicities as well, many of which are related to
      dysfunctional immune reconstitution after transplant. However, although the phenomenology of
      the many defects in protective immunity (both against infectious pathogens and against
      leukemia relapse) is well-documented, the causative molecular mechanisms remain unknown. To
      address these questions, our group and others have begun to perform detailed assessments of
      immunologic reconstitution after HCT including the application of new T Cell Receptor (TCR)
      and B cell Receptor (BCR) deep-sequencing technologies30,48-54. These technologies allow the
      investigation of the breadth and depth of post-transplant immune reconstitution at a level of
      molecular detail not previously possible and hold the promise of deepening our understanding
      of the impact of infectious pathogens on global immune health and immune reconstitution. The
      widespread application of these technologies, and their intersection with detailed assessment
      of immune phenotype and function can provide novel insights about the state of immune health
      in transplant patients, and holds the promise of identifying patients in need of novel
      interventions to improve their post-transplant immune reconstitution.

      The goal of the PREDICT trial is to apply a systems-biology approach to enable precision
      diagnostics for the key immunologic outcomes post-transplant. This approach will deepen our
      understanding of the molecular mechanisms driving the most deadly post-transplant
      complications, and serve as a critical platform upon which to design evidence-based treatment
      paradigms for transplant patients.

      Cellular Therapy: Novel adoptive cell therapies are increasingly entering clinical trials and
      are available as FDA approved biologics, thereby providing a therapeutic option for
      previously refractory patients. This broad and exciting field includes chimeric-antigen
      receptor (CAR) T cells directed against a variety of antigens55, T cells genetically modified
      to express TCRs56,57, cytokine-stimulated NK-cells58, as well as tumor vaccine approaches
      with endogenous, irradiated tumor samples59 or immune cells pulsed with tumor antigen.60
      Chimeric antigen-receptor T cells have led to dramatic responses, particularly in patients
      with CD19+ B-cell malignancies61-64, leading to FDA approval of several products. While
      unprecedented clinical remissions can be achieved initially, the approach is frequently
      limited by the durability of the response and CAR T cell persistence with an EFS of 50% at 12
      months after infusion61, tumor escape mechanisms65 and significant toxicity involving
      cytokine release syndrome, neurologic toxicity66. In the context of CAR T cell therapy, key
      factors for successful application have been identified and include incorporation of a
      costimulatory signaling mechanism67,68, association of in vivo CAR T cell expansion with
      response69 and contribution of T cell phenotypic subgroups with capacity to proliferate and
      persist long term70. Additionally, important insights into the roles of IL-6 and IL-1 in
      cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity71,72 and the contribution of a pan-T cell
      infiltrate and high cytokine levels in the CNS as mediators of neurotoxicity 73, have been
      gained by our group and others. However, there is a significant unmet need to apply a
      systematic approach interrogating the determinants of a successful response, toxicity,
      interaction with the endogenous immune system and short- and long-term effects of
      interventions aimed at reducing toxicity such as administration of the IL6R-antagonist
      Tocilizumab or IL-1 blockade74.

      In this study we aim to systematically interrogate the characteristics of cell therapy
      products, evolution after administration in vivo and behavior in different compartments such
      as peripheral blood, bone marrow, CNS and if applicable tissues and their interplay with the
      endogenous immune system. Single cell transcriptomics, coupled with TCR-sequencing (when
      applicable BCR sequencing) and phenotypic characterization of transferred and endogenous
      immune cells as well as analysis of secreted immune factors such as cytokines, chemokines and
      antibodies in the plasma will be employed and correlated with clinical responses. This
      unbiased, systematic precision-diagnostic approach will allow identification of critical
      pathways which are common or distinct depending on the nature of the cell therapeutic
      approach, target and disease entities and associated or segregable from undesired toxicities.
      This will critically inform future rational design of cellular therapeutics and inform
      possible therapeutic interventions after cell therapy administration.
    
  