
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of olaparib in two cohorts of patients with metastatic/advanced
      urothelial carcinoma (UC) pre-selected by DNA-repair defects as measured by overall response
      rate (ORR).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the effect of therapy on progression free survival (PFS). II. To describe the
      effect of therapy on overall survival (OS). III. To describe the safety/tolerability and
      drug-related toxicities of olaparib.

      IV. To follow patients without the pre-selected DNA-repair defects for survival.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the proportion of patients with DNA-repair pathway-mutated genes in
      metastatic UC (patient cohort referred for screening).

      II. To correlate levels of baseline circulating tumor cells (CTCs) with survival in untreated
      patients.

      III. To explore tumor-mutational profiles in metastatic tumor biopsies, saliva "normal" DNA,
      changes in tumor or peripheral immune characteristics, or tumor associated somatic mutation
      load in blood DNA in response to treatment.

      IV. To explore changes in plasma cytokines and correlate with clinical response.

      V. To correlate levels of circulating endothelial cells with clinical outcome. VI. To
      correlate levels of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) with clinical outcome.

      VII. To correlate peripheral immune and DNA damage response transcriptional signatures with
      clinical outcomes.

      VIII. To determine the effectiveness of using next-generation sequencing (NGS) to identify
      DNA-repair pathway gene defects in tumor samples and circulating DNA and identify patients
      with UC suitable for PARP inhibition.

      IX. To determine the expression of Schlafen 11 (SLFN11) in tumor versus (vs.) stroma cells,
      and the potential tumor heterogeneity based on SLFN11 expression.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients that have cancer-associated DNA-repair gene mutations receive olaparib
      orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II: Patients that do not have cancer-associated DNA-repair gene mutations undergo
      blood sample collection at baseline.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks, every 2 months for
      1 year, then every 3 months thereafter.
    
  