
    
      This is a two-cohort, open-label, randomized phase 2 study to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy (as assessed by PFS) of the NANT Pancreatic Cancer Vaccine regimen (experimental
      arms) vs SoC therapy (control arms) as first-line treatment for subjects with metastatic
      pancreatic cancer.

      Subjects will be enrolled into two independent cohorts based on ECOG status. Subjects with
      ECOG 0-1 will be randomized 1:1 to receive the NANT Pancreatic Cancer Vaccine regimen
      (experimental arm) or gemcitabine in combination with nab-paclitaxel (control arm), while
      subjects with ECOG 2 will be randomized 1:1 to receive the NANT Pancreatic Cancer Vaccine
      regimen (experimental arm) or gemcitabine monotherapy (control arm).

      The experimental arms will be administered in two phases, an induction and a subsequent
      maintenance phase. The treatment regimen administered in the experimental arms will be
      identical for all subjects, independent of ECOG status. Subjects may continue induction
      treatment for up to 1 year. Those who have a complete response (CR) in the induction phase
      will enter the maintenance phase of the study. Subjects who experience ongoing stable disease
      (SD) or an ongoing partial response (PR) after 1 year of induction phase treatment may enter
      the maintenance phase at the Investigator's discretion. Subjects may remain on the
      maintenance phase of the study for up to 1 year.

      Treatment in the study will be discontinued if the subject experiences confirmed PD or
      unacceptable toxicity, withdraws consent, or if the Investigator feels it is no longer in the
      subject's best interest to continue treatment. Subjects receiving treatment in the control
      arms may cross over to treatment in the induction phase of the experimental arms after
      experiencing PD. Subjects receiving treatment in the experimental arms with an initial
      assessment of PD per RECIST 1.1 may, at the discretion of the Investigator, continue to
      receive study treatment until PD is confirmed. The maximum time on study treatment is 2
      years.
    
  