
    
      This study will presented the cases of two groups of patients, in which the endo-perio
      lesions were reported. The study protocol was approved by the Institutional Ethics Commission
      of Pomeranian University (No: KB-0012/29/17). Each subject provided informed consent after
      explanation of the protocol, risk and benefits of study.The both groups counted the same
      amount of molar teeth - ten molars in investigated (n=10) and in control group (n=10). In the
      study there were 9 men and 11 women aged between 35 and 58 years.

      The study was performed according to split-teeth design, computerized randomly allocated to
      the control or the investigated group. At first group (investigated group) there were
      implemented periodontal and endodontic treatment with additional using diode laser wavelength
      940 nm. The same steps were made in control group, however without using diode laser in
      medical procedures.

      The first step was to do the clinical measurements (PD,CAL, tooth mobility, vitality test,
      occlusal condition) and analysis of pantomographic picture, the patients were diagnosed with
      third grade periodontitis The depth of periodontal pockets (PD) were checked by using manual
      periodontal probe (UNC 15, Hu-Friedy) on six sites. The classified teeth, which were
      diagnosed perio-endo lesions, were showed any vitality during testing faradic and ethyl
      chloride. The teeth did not respond properly. Also the tested teeth were checked with using
      Periotest M (Medizintechnik Gulden) in both groups before and after the treatment.

      Every enrolled patients were checked by using the T-scan Novus (Tekscan). T-scan system
      records patients bite force, dynamics, including occlusal force, location and timing.

      The treatment in EPL should be carried out in two ways- periodontal and endodontic. One of
      these ways there is mechanical non-surgical treatment of periodontium and endodontic way is
      eliminated the bacteria, which inside in root canals.
    
  