
    
      Aim and Hypothesis

      The aim of the study is:

        1. To find out how the modern rapid multiplex-PCR based respiratory virus detection method
           affects the patient care

        2. To examine does it shorten the length of admission and reduce antibiotic consumption

        3. Compare the seasonality of different viruses in children and adults

        4. Investigate the development and progress of an epidemic

        5. Study the differences in the prevalence and severity of infections between genders

        6. Describe clinical manifestations of different viral infections in adults

        7. View more closely certain subgroups such as patients with chest pain in respect to
           different viral epidemics and their effect on the hospital admission rates

        8. Evaluate the information provided by the bacterial detection

      Subjects Our hospital is both a regional and a university hospital at the same time. Patients
      come to our clinic from a quite large area surrounding the city of Oulu and they represent
      the general population of the area well. The study population will be recruited 2014-2015 in
      the emergency clinics for pediatric and internal medicine patients in the Oulu University
      Hospital. Participants are patients with respiratory infection symptoms, chest pain or fever.
      Fever is determined as body temperature of 38 degrees centigrade or more measured either in
      the hospital or at home.

      Study design This is a randomized clinical trial evaluating the impact of modern multiplex
      PCR based respiratory virus diagnostics on treatment and outcome of adult patients.
      Participants are randomized in two groups with results being reported either immediately or
      after a week (Picture 1). In children the viral PCR diagnostics is already routinely used and
      collection of nasal and pharyngeal samples continues normally. All pediatric results are
      reported immediately. Approval of the ethical review board of the Northern Ostrobothnia
      Hospital District has been acquired.

      Course of the study Data collection All patients entering the internal medicine emergency
      clinics because of respiratory infection symptoms (cough, rhinitis, shortness of breath, sore
      throat), chest pain or fever will be given the opportunity to participate in the study. After
      signing an informed consent a nasal and a pharyngeal swab will be taken for viral
      examination. Adult patients are randomized in two different groups. In one group the results
      of the viral detection are reported immediately and in the other group they are reported 7
      days after sampling.

      Samples will be analyzed in the microbiological laboratory by real time PCR method Anyplex
      TMII to detect genome of 16 different respiratory viruses and of 5 different bacterial
      pathogen (Table 1). Results in the delayed group will be given earlier in the case the
      clinician is requesting them. The results of the bacterial findings will be analyzed after
      completion of the study since the clinical relevance of them is not clear yet. The
      bacteriological diagnostic of the patients during the study relies on the routinely used
      methods.

      The attending clinician decides the treatment and care of the patient independently.
      Patient's chart will be reviewed for the course of disease, antibiotic use, ICU care and
      length of hospital stay. The results of key laboratory tests and microbiological findings
      will be collected. Radiological findings will be registered. At discharge, the participants
      are asked to report the duration of the symptoms, absence from work and the date of a
      possible doctors follow up. The population register centre will be used at the end of the
      study to find out the number of deceased, and their time and cause of the death will be
      recorded

      . Table 1. Microbes detected from the study samples Viruses (AnyplexTMII RV16 Detection)
      Adenovirus Influenza A/B virus Parainfluenza virus1/2/3/4 Rhinovirus A/B/C Respiratory
      syncytial virus A/B Bocavirus 1/2/3/4 Metapneumovirus Coronavirus 229E/NL63/OC43 Enterovirus

      Data analysis The length of hospital admission and the use of bacterial antibiotics is
      compared between the randomized groups. Viral findings of children and adults will be
      evaluated. The emergence of viruses in different areas of the district as well as in
      different age groups is examined. The differences in clinical picture and in microbiological
      findings between genders are viewed. The symptoms and clinical findings in adults with
      detected RSV or metapneumovirus are described. The bacterial findings are evaluated and
      compared with clinical data to determine the significance of the information provided by the
      test.

      Impact of the study In our hospital major part of the viral respiratory infection diagnostics
      in adults has been accomplished by influenza virus antigen detection. Now a more sensitive
      measure for detecting 16 different respiratory pathogens from nasopharyngeal sample is
      available. We will determine whether more specific identification of the etiological agent
      affects the patient care. If the accurate diagnostics diminishes inappropriate antibiotic use
      it saves the patient from potential side effects and the society from unnecessary costs.
      Importantly it also saves the microbial flora from the antibiotic selection pressure which is
      considered to facilitate the emergence of antibiotic resistance. In children the benefits of
      accurate diagnostics have been recognized but in adults this is still under progress. This
      study is designed to demonstrate these advantages in adults.
    
  