
    
      This was a randomized, single-blinded, clinical study carried out at the Julio Muller
      University Hospital (Mato Grosso State, Brazil). This study was conducted according to the
      guidelines laid down in the Declaration of Helsinki and all procedures involving human
      subjects/patients were approved by the hospital Research Ethics Committee registered under
      number 697/CEP-HUJM/09. Written informed consent was obtained from all patients.

      Except for the preoperative counseling which was received only by the intervention group, all
      patients received the same protocol of perioperative care.

      The main endpoint of the study was the presence and the intensity of postoperative symptoms
      such as nausea, vomiting and pain. A questionnaire containing a visual analogue scale (VAS)
      was applied 24h after the operation to measure the intensity of postoperative pain, nausea
      and the well-being. The VAS consisted of a horizontal line, 100 mm in length, anchored by
      word descriptors at each end to represent the lowest and the highest intensity of all the
      symptoms analyzed. The patient was asked to mark in the straight line the point that most
      likely represents the symptom at the moment. The VAS score of each individual was determined
      by measuring in millimeters from the left end of the line to the point marked. The questions
      were: "how severe was your pain during this period of 24h after the operation?", "how severe
      was the intensity of your nausea during this period of 24h after the operation? ", and "how
      great is your well-being at the present moment". For the first two questions the words at
      each end of the line were "no pain" and "severe pain", and "no nausea" and "severe nausea".
      For the well-being question the words were "no well-being" and "greatest well-being". The
      Vomiting was also recorded as a categorical variable (yes or no). The length of stay and
      postoperative complications were also collected.
    
  