
    
      This is a phase II, randomized, double-blind, placebo and active controlled dose-ranging, 6
      arm incomplete block cross-over study to identify the optimal dose of CHF 1531 with respect
      to lung function and other clinical efficacy and safety outcomes.

      After a 2 week run-in period under rescue albuterol as needed and background inhaled
      corticosteroid (ICS), qualifying subjects will be required to complete 4 treatment periods of
      2 weeks each separated by a 2 week wash-out intervals. During each treatment period, the
      subject will be randomly assigned to take one of 5 double-blind study treatments twice daily
      (one of 4 doses of CHF 1531 or a matching placebo) or the open-label active control treatment
      also twice daily. All subjects will concomitantly receive ICS treatment with QVAR® inhaler
      (beclomethasone dipropionate 40 or 80 µg /actuation) twice daily at a dose that matches their
      pre-enrollment ICS, and an albuterol inhaler to use as needed as asthma rescue medication,
      during the entire study. The subjects will visit the study center every 2 weeks to undergo
      study procedures, and will receive a safety follow-up phone call one week after their last
      visit. In total, the study will last 18 weeks and will require 10 visits to the study center.

      During the study, daily asthma symptoms, peak expiratory flow, rescue and background
      medication use, and compliance with the study medication will be recorded via subject diary.
      Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) will be assessed and recorded throughout the study.
      A full physical exam, routine hematology, blood chemistry, spirometry, vital signs
      measurement, 12-lead ECG and pregnancy testing will be performed before enrollment and at end
      of study. Furthermore on Day 1 and 14 of each treatment period, serial spirometry, 12-lead
      ECGs, BP, and serum potassium and glucose will also be measured at the study center up to 12
      hours post-dosing.
    
  