
    
      Neonatal mortality is common in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa with rates as high as 40 to
      50 per 1,000 live births in some countries compared to rates as low as 2 per 1,000 live
      births in Scandinavia. Worldwide, at least 2.6 million neonatal deaths occur annually, with
      more than one-third attributed directly to preterm birth. Globally, the risk of death from
      preterm birth is highest in south Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. Although the mortality rates
      are often higher in Africa, numerically, more infants die in south Asia. Preterm neonates die
      from prematurity-related complications such as respiratory distress syndrome (RDS),
      necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), and conditions not
      specifically caused by prematurity such as asphyxia, infection, and congenital anomalies.
      However, few cause of death studies-especially in low-resource settings in low and
      middle-income countries (LMIC)-have determined the specific causes of preterm death, instead
      attributing all neonatal deaths of infants <37 weeks to prematurity. Furthermore, little is
      known about the causes of death among stillbirths in preterm births in LMIC and especially
      the specific types of infections associated with stillbirth.

      One of the important goals of international organizations is to reduce neonatal mortality in
      LMIC, with recent efforts highlighting the importance of reducing neonatal mortality in
      preterm infants. One impeding factor is lack of knowledge about the medical conditions that
      cause neonatal mortality in preterm infants and the circumstances under which these babies
      die. It is crucial not only to know the major medical, infectious and pathological causes,
      but also the sequence of events that led to the death. Answers to these questions are
      important not only to understand the cause of death in preterm infants, but also to propose
      effective treatments to reduce the neonatal deaths in live-born preterm infants.

      Less is known about the causes of stillbirth than neonatal mortality in LMIC and Asia
      specifically. Stillbirth rates are also highest in south Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, with
      rates as high as 40-50/1,000 births compared to 2-3/1,000 in Scandinavia. The highest
      reported rates of stillbirth occur in Pakistan. In most countries, the stillbirth rates are
      equivalent to or greater than the neonatal mortality rates with about 3 million third
      trimester stillbirths occurring yearly. In high-income countries (HIC), 50% of the
      stillbirths occur prior to 28 weeks and fully 80% occur prior to term. The percent of
      stillbirths occurring in the preterm period in LMIC is unknown, but probably lower than the
      HIC rate of 80%, likely in the range of 50%. Thus, the researchers estimate that most the
      perinatal mortality in LMIC occurs in infants born preterm.

      Stillbirths are caused by a variety of maternal and fetal conditions, including placental
      abruption, obstructed labor, preeclampsia, placental malfunction, infection, congenital
      anomalies and cord complications, conditions that also contribute to neonatal mortality. The
      distribution of these causes and the sequence of events leading to the stillbirth in LMIC are
      generally unknown. One study suggests that when assessing preterm birth, the true picture of
      preterm birth may be obscured if stillbirth is excluded. In this cross-sectional study of 29
      countries, researchers found that inclusion of stillbirths substantially increased the
      preterm birth rate in all countries. The degree of change was particularly large in LMIC,
      with the preterm birth rate increasing by 18% when stillbirths were included. Thus, because
      of the substantial overlap in etiology between preterm neonatal deaths and preterm
      stillbirths, and the large contribution of stillbirths to the preterm birth rate, the
      researchers believe that it would be appropriate to evaluate cause of death in all preterm
      deaths whether live- or stillborn.

      For both neonatal deaths and stillbirths, infectious causes of death are often not identified
      and have largely been under-reported in low-resource settings where both logistics and
      technology may limit investigations into infections. From a literature review of
      epidemiological studies and case reports, the list of pathogens potentially causing a
      stillbirth or neonatal death likely extends to over 100 organisms. Since the identification
      of pathogens responsible for fetal or neonatal death may not be obtained from blood cultures
      alone, the identification process becomes more complicated with testing required of specific
      tissues such as the placenta, and fetal or neonatal organs, often with molecular assays.

      In many areas in Asia, most deliveries now occur in health facilities. Despite the dramatic
      increase in hospital deliveries in the last decade in this region, little reduction in
      neonatal mortality or stillbirth has been realized. Thus, the Asian study will augment other
      efforts through examination of the specific causes of preterm neonatal deaths in Asia, and
      expand understanding of the contribution of preterm birth to perinatal mortality through
      inclusion of stillbirths. Determining the main causes and risk factors for perinatal
      mortality will ultimately inform potential strategies to reduce the high neonatal mortality
      and stillbirth rates currently seen in south Asia. This is a prospective, observational study
      aimed to better understand causes of stillbirths and neonatal deaths among preterm livebirths
      in Karachi, Pakistan, and Davengere, India.
    
  