
    
      In critically ill patients Candida spp. are frequently isolated from respiratory tract
      secretions such as endotracheal aspirates and bronchoalveolar lavages (BAL) and are most
      often considered as colonizers of the respiratory tract. In contrast, pneumonia due to
      infection with Candida spp. is rare and is diagnosed by histological demonstration of the
      yeast in lung tissue with associated inflammation. In spite of this, preemptive antifungal
      therapy based on isolation of Candida spp. from the respiratory tract is often initiated in
      critically ill patients. The disadvantages of this approach include increased selective
      pressure for the development of antimicrobial resistance, potential risks of adverse drug
      reactions and high treatment costs. On the other hand, immediate administration of
      appropriate antifungal therapy has been shown to be an important predictor of favorable
      outcome for patients with invasive fungal infections. Therefore, the development of reliable
      diagnostic measures for the detection of invasive pulmonary candidiasis is crucial. The
      overall objective of the proposed research project is to identify diagnostic strategies to
      differentiate between Candida colonization and Candida infection of the lower respiratory
      tract in critically ill patients. The proposed projects intends to test the hypothesis that
      1.) invasive Candida strains from the lower respiratory tract differ from colonizing Candida
      strains with regard to production and expression of putative virulence factors and/or that
      2.) patients suffering from pulmonary invasive candidiasis differ from patients colonized by
      Candida spp. with regard to inflammatory markers, other serum markers (fungal antigen) and
      composition of indigenous pulmonary bacterial flora. For this purpose, pathogen related
      factors such as Candida prevalence, Candida quantity, phospholipases, secreted aspartyl
      proteinases, chromosome length polymorphism, transcriptional profiles, DFG16, SAP1-3, and
      SAP5 mRNA as well as human cellular and serum markers such as Dectin-1, TLR-2, TLR-4, TNF-α,
      IL-2, IL-10, IL-12, procalcitonin and (1→3) ß-D-Glucan, the indigenous pulmonary bacterial
      flora and underlying risk factors will be investigated in 6 different patient groups in this
      project. The results of this study should contribute to a better understanding of Candida
      colonization and Candida infections in the lower respiratory tract in critically ill
      patients. This should prospectively lead to a more targeted antifungal therapy and to a
      better outcome as well as to a reduction of unnecessary antifungal treatments and to a
      reduction of treatment costs in the future.
    
  