
    
      While most studies on inflammation in heart failure (HF) have focused on down-stream
      mediators of inflammation and tissue damage, the present study will focus on alterations of
      the gut microbiota as a potential upstream arm in the activation of inflammatory responses.
      The gut microbiota may play a central role not only in the inflammatory arm of the
      pathogenesis of HF, but could also be involved in the induction of metabolic disturbances
      that contribute to the progression of this disorder. Decompensated HF is characterized by
      decreased cardiac output and congestion, contributing to edema and ischemia of the gut wall.
      Consequently, structural and functional changes occur, causing increased gut permeability.

      Several studies have shown that low grade leakage of microbial products such as
      lipopolysaccharides (LPS), occurs across the gut wall, potentially causing systemic
      inflammation by activation of Toll like receptors (TLRs). Very small amounts of LPS have been
      shown to effectively induce release of TNFα 6, which acts as a cardiosuppressor via several
      pathways, including reduced mitochondrial activity, altered calcium homeostasis and impaired
      β-adrenergic signaling in cardiomyocytes. Furthermore, the investigators have recently shown
      that the microbiota-dependent marker TMAO is associated with clinical outcome in chronic HF.
      Interestingly, gut decontamination with antibiotics have been shown to reduce intestinal
      LPS-levels, monocyte expression of the LPS-receptor CD14 and production of TNFα. In addition,
      selective gut decontamination has improved postoperative outcome in cardiac surgery patients.
      However, at present there are no studies that have fully characterized the gut microbiota in
      HF patients and our knowledge of the interaction between gut microbiota, systemic
      inflammatory, metabolic disturbances and myocardial dysfunction in these patients are scarce.

      This project will focus on the gut microbiota as a potential therapeutic target in HF,
      through an open label randomized controlled trial (RCT) of probiotics, antibiotics and
      controls, with improved heart function as primary end point.
    
  