
    
      Background: Our previous RR&D funded study demonstrated significantly better vocational
      outcomes for people with schizophrenia when cognitive training supplemented their
      participation in Incentive Therapy. We have found in a subsequent NIMH funded study involving
      cognitive training and supported employment that competitive employment outcomes were better
      for those who received cognitive training. Moreover, we found that patients with the poorest
      community function at intake were very unlikely to obtain competitive employment unless they
      received the cognitive training. The current study will test the effectiveness of cognitive
      training by extending it to a broader range of VA patients with psychotic disorders
      participating in all types of VA work services currently available, including Incentive
      Therapy, Compensated Work Therapy, and Supported Employment. We plan to offer it to any
      patient with a psychotic disorder who is unlikely to obtain competitive employment without
      additional services. We will also compare two types of cognitive training to determine
      whether cognitive game software works as well narrowly focused cognitive exercises.

      Design and Method: This is a randomized clinical trial in which 80 VA patients referred for
      VA work services and who meet criteria for psychotic disorder and impaired community function
      will be randomized to one of two types of cognitive training. There will be two conditions
      with approximately 40 subjects per condition. Intake procedures will include psychosocial,
      neuropsychological, and psychiatric assessments. These assessments will be repeated at
      6-months and 12 month follow-up. Cognitive training will consist of computer-based cognitive
      exercises of attention, memory and problem-solving and a weekly group that focuses on
      improving work behaviors. One of the computer-based systems employs engaging cognitive game
      software and the other uses specially designed exercises that narrowly focus on discrete
      cognitive processes. Work services will be provided as usual to both conditions. Primary
      endpoints are measures of productive activity including obtaining competitive employment,
      total hours worked, and money earned. Secondary endpoints include neuropsychological, quality
      of life and health status changes. The study will be for three years.
    
  