
    
      There are many studies about beneficial effect of extra virgin olive oil on atherosclerosis
      biomarkers. Our study investigates the same, but in population of HIV-infected patients
      receiving antiretroviral treatment. The main health benefit of EVOO can be attributed to high
      content of phenolic compounds, that have a favorable effect on blood pressure, LDL oxidation,
      platelet aggregation, endothelial function, oxidative stress. We analyzed the total phenolic
      compounds (PC) in different types of olive oils and decided to use EVOO with four times
      higher levels of PC than refined olive oil (ROO) which we would use as placebo.

      A randomized crossover controlled trial will be performed on 40 participants with signed
      informed consent. They will be randomly divided in two groups. Each group will consume two
      types of olive oils (EVOO and ROO) in two intervention periods, but in different order. That
      means that group "A" will consume EVOO in the first and ROO in the second intervention
      period. Group "B" has inversed order of olive oil administration. Two intervention periods of
      20 days will be interrupted with wash-out period of 14 days. During intervention periods
      participants will consume daily doses of 50 mL of particular olive oil. During wash-out
      periods participants should avoid olives and olive oil consumption. Before the first and
      after each of the two intervention periods, blood will be taken. Some of the tests will be
      done immediately after blood sample collection (glucose, hsCRP, triglycerides, total
      cholesterol, HDL and LDL cholesterol, CBC, ESR). For some of the tests (IL-6, von Willebrand
      factor, factor VII, oxidated LDL, glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase) the specimens
      will be collected and stored at -80°C until the analysis.

      As many studies showed improvement of these parameters in population affected with
      atherosclerosis, we could also expect the similar effect in HIV-infected patients who are
      more likely to develop atherosclerosis, partly because of HIV-infection itself and partly
      because of side effects of antiretroviral therapy.
    
  