
    
      Cerebral infarction, or ischemic stroke, is a common yet challenged illness with four
      telltale signs (high occurrence rate, high incapacitate rate, high mortality rate, and high
      recurrence rate), posing not only a threat to a man's health and life, but also imposing a
      burden to the society and his loved ones. As such, seeking a cure has always been the hot
      topic in this field of research. With regard to the illness' high incapacitate and recurrence
      rates, it has become apparent that the treatment methods used in the recuperating stages of
      stroke are very significant to the patient, allowing him the chance to regain his health and
      increase his quality of life. In Chinese medical terms, the pathogenesis key of stroke is a
      deficiency in the vitals of the body coupled with superficiality extremities. As such, in the
      recuperating stage of the stroke, a lack of Qi accompanied with blood stasis syndrome is
      often observed. Hence, improving Qi and promoting blood circulation is essential during
      treatment. Research further supports that this treatment method is highly effective in
      treating cerebral infarction, but the mechanism involved is still incomprehensible, largely
      due to the fact that the pathology of cerebral infraction is highly complicated, and that
      Chinese medicine is multi-leveled, multi-channeled, with multi-targets. To further study the
      relationship of Qi and blood in cerebral infraction, patients in the recuperating stages with
      deficiency in Qi and blood stasis underwent observation in a double blind clinical research.
      The patients were sorted in random into groups: improving Qi group, promoting blood
      circulation group, improving Qi and promoting blood circulation group, and the control group.
      Each group of patients was given the standard Western medicine treatment, coupled with
      Chinese medicine treatments with respect to their sorted groupings. The treatment lasts for
      12 weeks and 360 clinical cases were studied. Testing methods used include enzyme linked
      immunosorbent assay, Western Blot, FQ RT-PCR, LC-MS, and radiology. Through the relations
      between Neurotransmitter - endocrine hormone - immune cytokine network, blood rheology,
      vascular structure and endothelial function, interactions involving vasoactive substances
      with vascular endothelium and blood cells, it is hoped that the biological basis of cerebral
      infraction's deficiency in Qi and blood stasis syndrome can be deciphered. This will aid in
      the understanding of the whole process of causing the syndrome, deciphering the therapeutic
      mechanism involved during treatment, as well as determining the relationship between Qi,
      blood and blood vessels.
    
  