
    
      There is no brief, home visiting, evidence-based intervention designed for and evaluated with
      Child Welfare System (CWS) birth parents and their children under six, once they are
      reunified. Why is this important? Because reunified birth parents represent one of the
      highest risk subpopulations of parents whose challenges contribute both to their child's
      exposure to stress and trauma and to the intergenerational transmission of impaired
      parenting, maltreatment, and foster care placement.

      Reunified birth parents are more likely than other parents to have been foster children and
      survivors of childhood maltreatment. They have higher rates of co-morbid mental health
      disorders, substance abuse, poverty, low education, and homelessness. When their children are
      placed in out-of-home care as infants or toddlers, they are more likely to have longer stays
      in foster care than any other age group. Foster children are at risk for serious emotional,
      behavioral, neurological, and physiological health problems, and for continued relationship
      disruptions, maltreatment, and foster care placements throughout their life course. Birth
      parents need intervention services when they reunite with their child to support the already
      fragile parent-child relationship. Even when birth parents work hard to fulfill court
      requirements to regain custody of their child, they are often left without the skills
      necessary to establish a strong and lasting connection with their child. This failure of
      service, we believe, leads reunified families to experience a high rate of maltreatment
      reoccurrence and reentry into foster care.

      In this application we will evaluate the effectiveness of a community based, home visiting
      intervention program with a population of birth parents recently reunified with their child
      under the age of six after a foster care placement. In order to do this, we first adapt the
      program by adding material relevant to reunified birth families and adapt the material for
      older children. We will evaluate the effectiveness of Promoting First Relationships ® (PFR;
      Kelly et al., 2008) to meet the parenting needs of this vulnerable population. Promoting
      First Relationships was originally designed for children birth to three, and we will expand
      the curriculum to meet the needs of children through age six. Through a strong, established
      community partnership between the state, a community mental health agency, and the University
      of Washington, we will 1) adapt Promoting First Relationships ® (PFR) for reunified birth
      families and older children; 2) test the effectiveness of PFR to improve parental quality and
      parent-child interaction as compared to a Resource and Referral service; 3) test the
      effectiveness of PFR on reducing social, emotional, and behavioral problems in a population
      of children at risk for elevated emotional and behavioral disorders; 4) test the
      effectiveness of PFR in reducing referrals to Child Protective Services (CPS) and re-entry
      into foster care; and 5) test a proposed PFR theoretical model, linking the PFR intervention
      to improved parental insightfulness and emotional competence, which then contributes to
      parental sensitivity and improved child outcomes.
    
  