
    
      Background:

      ACC is an extremely rare disease. About 30% of patients are diagnosed with locally/advanced
      metastatic disease and about 50-80% of patients who undergo radical resection are destined to
      relapse often with distant metastases. Approximately 50% of ACC in adults are functioning
      leading to hormonal and metabolic syndromes. Cortisol hypersecretion (Cushing's syndrome) is
      the most common endocrine derangement at presentation. Control of the syndrome is mainly
      obtained by mitotane therapy, however this drug requires several weeks to months for
      attaining a therapeutic range of serum concentrations. Hypercortisolism is one of the factors
      that negatively influence the outcome of patients with metastatic ACC.

      Abiraterone acetate (AA) is a prodrug of abiraterone, an irreversible inhibitor of 17α
      hydroxylase/C17, 20-lyase (cytochrome P450c17 [CYP17]), that are key enzymes required for
      testosterone synthesis. These enzymes are found in the testes, adrenals and prostate tumors.
      The inhibition of CYP17A1 blocks androgen and cortisol synthesis. Abiraterone has
      demonstrated to be able to suppress dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), androstenedione and
      testosterone production in both adrenal and testes and to reduce adrenal cortisol production.
      For these reasons Abiraterone is registered for clinical use in castrate-resistant prostate
      cancer (CRPC). The maximum inhibition of CYP17A1 is achieved within 28 days of continuous
      dosing.

      Rationale:

        -  A rapid control of the Cushing's syndrome is important in patients with ACC.

        -  AA has a pharmacodynamic potential to reduce cortisol excess and it has never been
           tested before in Cushing's syndrome.

      Statistical considerations:

      The sample size in Cohort 1 according to an Intent To Treat (ITT) procedure is calculated
      under the following considerations:

      H0: current therapies can normalize UFC in 40% of patients in 1 month of therapy; H1:
      Abiraterone can normalize UFC in at least 70% of patients in 1 month of therapy.

      Therefore, the sample size calculation is based on the comparison between the response
      observed with traditional therapies (R0 = 0.4) and the response expected with the
      experimental drug (R1 = 0.7). With a two-sided Chi-square test, twenty consecutive patients
      should be enrolled to detect a 30% absolute difference with an alpha error 5% and a power of
      80%.

      Considering the exploratory purpose of Cohort 2 substudy, no sample size has been determined
      and a total of 10 patients will be enrolled.

      Abiraterone administration and dose modifications:

      Abiraterone Acetate will be administered per os at the standard dose of four 250 mg capsules
      (1000 mg total dose) daily on an empty stomach in 28-day cycles.

      In case of an adverse event (AE) where according to investigator judgement a dose-reduction
      is required, 1 dose reduction is allowed to 500 mg Abiraterone (4→2 tablets). Any return to
      protocol dose level (4 tablets) after dose reduction must follow documentation of adverse
      event resolution.

      Safety and management of AEs:

      The evaluation period for safety will start from signing of the informed consent form to at
      least 30 days after the last dose of study drug or recovery from all acute toxicities
      associated with study drug administration. Adverse events including laboratory AEs will be
      graded and summarized according to the NCI-CTCAE, Version 4.0. The study will include
      evaluations of safety according to the time points provided in the Time and Events Schedule.
    
  