
    
      This study is a pilot open label treatment trial with SF (sulforaphane) in 10 individuals
      that have completed with moderate to severe autism, age 13-30 years that have completed
      participation in ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02677051. This study will measure digital
      biomarkers of the nervous systems. Digital biomarkers are obtained by using non-invasive
      wireless (wearable, like wearing a watch) biosensors that co-register in tandem multiple
      biorhythms self-generated by the person's nervous systems. These sensors gather a very large
      amount of data from measures such as EEG (electroencephalogram), EKG (electrocardiogram),
      kinematics and others. These measures are done at the same time as the clinical evaluations
      and so results can be compared. Because the data are based on the unique fingerprint-like
      signatures of the person's nervous systems, it is possible to ascertain the person's
      progression in response to treatment and compare it to baseline states. The project will also
      compare these self-emerging clusters between subjects, possibly identifying patterns that
      correlate with sub-phenotypes or with similarities in response to treatment. Changes in
      things such as natural behaviors, an individual's ability or desire to interact socially and
      ability or desire to communicate will alter the signature profiles from baseline. Since these
      changes are dynamic in nature, trends of the evolving patterns and separate changes that are
      a consequence of the treatment vs. changes that are part of the natural neurodevelopment can
      be detected. This may be a valuable tool in future studies of underlying etiology. The
      technology used to perform these measures and the software to analyze the data are evolving
      rapidly. Last, with the characterized signatures and possibly overlapping patterns generated
      in this and in other projects it is foreseeable that a clinically relevant tool for measures
      in autism will follow.
    
  