
    
      BACKGROUND The inability to conceive children can be one of the most devastating and
      traumatic situations to arise in the life of an individual or couple. While assisted
      reproductive technologies have been developed that help overcome many causes of infertility,
      uterine factor infertility has remained an intractable condition. Absolute uterine factor
      infertility (AUFI) occurs when the uterus is either not present (congenitally absent or
      surgically removed) or is present but is not capable of sustaining a pregnancy. AUFI can
      result from either congenital absence of a uterus (Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser [MRKH]
      syndrome) or other Müllerian anomalies. MRKH occurs in 1:4000 of females. It is difficult to
      determine the exact number of women that suffer from AUFI, however estimates are as high as 7
      million women between the ages of 15-34 may suffer from this condition in the United States.

      Existing options for individuals with AUFI to achieve parenthood are adoption and gestational
      surrogacy. Gestational surrogacy is the only alternative that allows an individual or couple
      to have a child genetically related to the intended parent(s). These options are considered
      acceptable to many women with AUFI; however, there are a number of significant limitations to
      these alternatives. Gestational surrogacy is fraught with ethical, legal, and social
      controversy because it shifts the burden of gestation from one woman to another, usually for
      payment. Additionally, adoption and/or surrogacy may not be permissible to a couple due to
      social, ethical, moral or religious considerations. If these alternatives are acceptable to a
      couple, they may not be affordable. Finally, these alternatives may not be accessible as
      barriers to domestic and international adoption have increased and compensated surrogacy is
      not legally protected in most states (and is illegal in some states). The limitations of
      these alternatives may account for the extraordinary interest in UTx by women with AUFI, as
      92% of women with AUFI would undergo UTx as first line management for their AUFI, above
      adoption and surrogacy.

      Understanding the limitations of these alternatives, uterine transplantation (UTx) began to
      be explored as a concept in animal studies in the 1970s. In 2012, a Swedish team led by Dr.
      Mats Brannstrom started the first human uterine transplantation trial. The first live birth
      after successful UTx occurred in Sweden in 2014. Since 2014, in total eight children have
      been born to women who underwent uterine transplantation in Sweden.

      Unlike all other transplants, uterine transplantation is "ephemeral". This means that a
      uterine transplant is only maintained during the individual's child-bearing period which, in
      the case of uterine transplantation, will be the time necessary to produce one or two
      children (<10 years). Although pregnancy after transplant is considered high risk, more than
      15,000 babies have been born to female recipients of solid organ transplants that were
      immunosuppressed with no reported increased risk of fetal malformations.

      Several centers in the world are either embarking on or are considering the development of
      uterine transplantation protocols. Although multiple centers have had successful organ
      engraftment occur following uterine transplants from both living and deceased donors, as of
      September 2017, no live births have occurred outside of Sweden.

      STUDY DESIGN Recognizing that the University of Pennsylvania has been a leader in all of the
      domains required to build a successful uterus transplant program, planning for the Penn UNTIL
      trial began in October 2016. The UNTIL trial is is a nonrandomized, interventional human
      study whose goal is to achieve live birth after deceased donor uterus transplantation
      (DDUTx). There are two phases to the trial. In Phase 1, the investigators plan to evaluate
      approximately 40 women with AUFI. From this cohort, the investigators will select five
      candidates who fulfill the inclusion criteria and are deemed the most suitable candidates for
      uterine transplant. Prior to being listed for transplant, the women will need to create
      embryos through ovarian stimulation, oocyte retrieval and in vitro fertilization that will be
      cryopreserved. After undergoing deceased donor uterus transplantation, participants will be
      monitored for rejection, infection and other complications for twelve months.

      If the graft is clinically stable and any complications that arise are successfully treated
      12 months after transplantation, the women will enter Phase 2 of the trial. In Phase 2, the
      embryos created prior to transplantation will be directly placed into the uterus in order for
      the women to achieve pregnancy. If pregnancy is achieved the participant will be monitored by
      a Maternal Fetal Medicine specialist (high-risk obstetrician) with goal to deliver at 37-39
      weeks unless otherwise indicated. All deliveries will occur via cesarean delivery. If the
      participant and partner wish to attempt an additional pregnancy and the medical team feel it
      is safe to proceed, attempts at a second pregnancy will be undertaken. Again, if pregnancy is
      achieved following embryo transfer the participant will be monitored for the duration of her
      pregnancy by a Maternal Fetal Medicine specialist with goal to deliver at 37-39 weeks through
      repeat cesarean delivery unless otherwise indicated. Two months after the second cesarean
      delivery when the uterus has returned to its normal size, a hysterectomy will be performed
      and immunosuppression withdrawn.

      For more information please visit:
      https://clinicalresearch.itmat.upenn.edu/clinicaltrial/4821/congenital-abnormalitiesfemale-in
      fertility-penn-ut/
    
  