
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) occurs in 30-50% of hospitalized patients admitted to the intensive
      care unit (ICU). Dialysis - also known as renal replacement therapy (RRT) - is the only FDA
      approved treatment for AKI and continuous RRT (CRRT) is generally the preferred method of RRT
      in the ICU. The in-hospital mortality of patients with AKI requiring dialysis in the ICU is
      over 50% which is much greater than other serious illnesses.Unfortunately, the quality of
      care delivered to patients with AKI receiving CRRT is poor due to practice variability and
      lack of quality indicators to assess CRRT performance. Since one of the fundamental purposes
      of CRRT is to remove the build-up of metabolites that accumulate during AKI, accurate methods
      to assess solute clearance would be especially valuable. Indeed, development of methods to
      assess solute clearance during CRRT has been identified as a research priority. Although
      changes in plasma creatinine has been suggested as a potential quality indicator of solute
      removal during CRRT, no study has assessed how reductions of plasma creatinine over time
      compare to the reductions of other plasma metabolites. Thus, the duration of CRRT necessary
      to achieve adequate solute removal is unknown - in fact, there is not yet even an agreed-upon
      working definition of what adequate solute removal during CRRT should be. The investigators
      propose to conduct a prospective, single center study of 112 CRRT patients to determine the
      effect of CRRT duration on solute removal in order to identify the time at which solute
      removal has reached steady state. To assess solute removal, 102 metabolites will be
      determined in the plasma and effluent via untargeted ultra high pressure liquid
      chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS). Metabolites will be assessed on
      plasma collected immediately prior to CRRT initiation, and on plasma and effluent collected
      on days 1, 2, and 3 post-CRRT initiation. Steady state is defined as the time point at which
      a plasma metabolite is not significantly reduced during CRRT - as assessed over a 24 hour
      time period. Based on preliminary data, the investigators hypothesize that >90% of
      metabolites will reach steady state by day 2 of CRRT, and that >95% of metabolites will reach
      steady state by day 3 of CRRT.
    
  