
    
      Worldwide, over 2 billion people suffer from worm infections (hookworm, Ascaris and
      Trichuris, collectively referred to as soil-transmitted helminths (STHs)) in developing
      countries. STHs contribute to the overwhelming burden of poverty and deprivation in areas
      where adverse health, social, economic, education and other related factors predominate. STH
      infection in childhood results in short-term and lifelong disability, including malnutrition
      (e.g. underweight, stunting and wasting), cognitive impairment and increased susceptibility
      to other infection, among others. Mass deworming programs in school-age children are
      recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO). WHO also recommends deworming of
      preschool children (as of 12 months of age) in endemic areas; however, the benefits of
      deworming on improving growth and development, especially in the 12-24 month age group, have
      been inadequately studied. This knowledge is crucial because, with appropriate nutrition and
      health interventions, all children have a similar potential for healthy growth and
      development, provided that such interventions occur in the critical window of opportunity
      before the age of two.

      Therefore, this double-blind randomized controlled trial will assess the benefit of deworming
      (mebendazole), integrated into routine child health care visits in a highly STH-endemic area
      (Iquitos, Peru), on the primary outcome of weight gain. Timing, frequency and impact of
      deworming will be considered. A total of 1760 children will be recruited at their routine
      12-month check-up visit and randomly assigned to one of four intervention groups: Group 1
      will receive usual care and mebendazole (single dose 500 mg) at their 12-month visit and
      usual care and a placebo tablet at their 18-month visit; Group 2 will receive usual care and
      a placebo tablet at their 12-month visit and usual care and mebendazole at their 18-month
      visit; Group 3 will receive usual care and mebendazole at both their 12-month and 18-month
      visit; and Group 4 will receive usual care and placebo at both their 12-month and 18-month
      visit. Usual care will consist of age-appropriate immunizations, supplements and other
      Peruvian Ministry of Health-recommended interventions. All children will be followed up to
      their 24-month visit and all will be given mebendazole at that time.

      Additional secondary outcomes include length gain, motor and cognitive development and STH
      prevalence and intensity.

      Improving child health is a priority area in global health research and a focus of the
      Millennium Development Goals. Early preschool-age children are at the most critical stage of
      growth and development and have been neglected in deworming programs. It is anticipated that
      the results will inform evidence-based policy on the provision of an integrated health
      package for young children in endemic areas and ultimately contribute to the reduction of
      health inequities in this vulnerable group.
    
  