
    
      Patients undergoing various surgical treatments of the cornea often suffer from a neural
      deficit, due to nerves being severed or removed completely during surgery. This can result in
      pain, impaired epithelial wound healing, reduced tear production, symptoms of dry eye, and
      loss of ocular surface sensitivity/blink reflex. In addition, surgical wound healing can be
      accompanied by undesirable formation of scar tissue, which can limit postoperative visual
      acuity. The investigators' prior clinical experience with patients having undergone surgery
      of the anterior cornea is that neural recovery is slow and incomplete, while in certain
      situations scar tissue can form and limit the visual recovery.

      In this context, CACICOL20®, a regenerative agent approved for use in healing corneal wounds,
      presents an interesting opportunity for improving postoperative corneal nerve regeneration
      and a potentially more rapid restoration of the extracellular matrix environment
      postoperatively, which can lead to improved neural and visual outcomes.

      The investigators will therefore evaluate the efficacy of CACICOL20® in a randomized,
      double-blinded clinical study, to evaluate its ability to promote corneal nerve regeneration,
      epithelial wound healing, and ocular surface recovery postoperatively.

      Upon inclusion and signing of informed consent, patients undergo preoperative examination.
      Upon satisfying study criteria, patients are randomized to either treatment or placebo group.
      Group identity is masked to subjects and to investigators (double-blind). Subjects then
      undergo therapeutic laser treatment of the cornea in a single clinic, followed by
      instillation of treatment or placebo in the form of 3 eye drops total (to be given once
      immediately after surgery, once 2 days after surgery, and a final time 4 days after surgery).

      Postoperative eye examinations are conducted on days 2 and 7 and at month 6 and 12.
      Examinations include clinical measurement of various eye and corneal wound healing
      parameters.
    
  