
    
      This is a pilot study to collect the relevant information for planning a larger and more
      definitive investigation. A total of thirty subjects will be evaluated in this study to be
      conducted at the Boston Medical Center. The study population will consist of obese patients
      who meet the criteria and have been scheduled by their surgeon for GBS. We plan to enroll a
      total of 30 subjects scheduled for GBS. Patients will be assigned according to standard
      surgical care to either open or laparoscopic surgery. We plan to enroll 20 subjects who
      undergo laparoscopic GBS (LAP) and 10 subjects who undergo open GBS (OPEN). All potential
      subjects will have undergone baseline screening as a part of their routine medical evaluation
      performed by Dr. Apovian or Dr. McDonnell in the Nutrition Center at BMC. This standard
      testing includes medical history, physical examination, complete blood count, serum
      electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin. If patients
      are identified as having type 2 diabetes or glucose intolerance, they will be provided
      informed consent. If consented subjects meet all the inclusion and exclusion criteria, each
      will undergo a baseline oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) approximately one week before
      surgery. Plasma concentrations of insulin, GIP, glucagon, and GLP-1 will also be measured
      along with glucose levels and other peptides (CCK, ghrelin, c-peptide) at the same intervals,
      using commercially available assay kits. Post-operatively, subjects in the LAP group will
      undergo 2 OGTTs, while subjects in the OPEN group will undergo 2 OGTTs and one glucose
      tolerance test through the gastrostomy tube (GGTT). The results of the postoperative OGTTs
      will be compared with baseline OGTTs. In a separate analysis, the results of the GGTTs will
      be compared with the baseline and postoperative OGTTs.

      Inclusion criteria Patients 21-64 y ears of age with obesity (defined as a body mass index,
      BMI, > or = 30) and type 2 diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance, who have been selected and
      scheduled for gastric bypass surgery.

      Exclusion criteria Substance abuse, consumption of more than two alcoholic drinks per day,
      use of more than 20 units of insulin (any brand or type) per day, and having a fasting blood
      glucose >180mg/dl on screening bloodwork.

      F2. Procedure

      All subjects will undergo a total of 3 OGTTs, 1 before surgery and 2 after. The OPEN group
      will also have a glucose tolerance test via a gastrostomy tube (GGTT) placed in the duodenum
      (per routine surgical procedure) as described below. The OGTT consists of a 12-hour overnight
      fast followed by drinking a 225 ml of solution containing 75 grams of a glucose (Glucola),
      over 30 minutes. 30 minutes is the average time a patient requires in order to drink a 225ml
      Glucola drink after gastric bypass surgery. In order to be able to make a valid comparison of
      the three OGTTs, each OGTT will require that the subject drink over 30 minutes. Blood samples
      are obtained from an intravenous catheter at various time intervals: 5 minutes and
      immediately before drinking the Glucola, and 5, 10, 15, 30, 60, 90, 120, and 180 minutes
      afterwards. Blood levels of glucose, insulin, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide
      (GIP), glucagon, and Glucagon-Like Peptide (GLP-1), CCK, ghrelin and c-peptide will be
      determined from the samples obtained. In addition, at hour 2 during the OGTT (when glucose
      peaks) we will obtain a real-time glucose level with a drop of blood from the indwelling
      line. The GGTT follows that same protocol as the OGTT, but the Glucola is administered via a
      gastrostomy tube, placed per routine surgical procedure in patients undergoing open GBS.
      Approximately 1 week before surgery, all subjects will undergo an OGTT in the GCRC. Between
      day 6 and 10 after their surgery, when subjects are tolerating their standard 240cc liquid
      meals 3-4 times daily, subjects will undergo the third OGTT. Although most subjects are
      discharged on day 3 or 4 after surgery, and will be asked to return to the GCRC, those
      subjects who remain in the hospital through day 5 will have the option to remain in the
      hospital for an additional time (1-2 days) or to go home and return to the GCRC within 5 days
      (no later than POD 10) The additional hospital days will be paid for by the GCRC. After
      surgery, subjects in LAP group will have one OGTT. Subjects in the OPEN group will have a
      GGTT on one day and an OGTT on the following day. Subjects will be weighed before surgery and
      every day during the first week after surgery and before each glucose tolerance test. All
      subjects will undergo a final OGTT approximately 3 -4 weeks after surgery. This will take
      place in the GCRC on the same day as a routine follow up visit to their surgeon.

      Patients will be contacted by telephone for assessment approximately 24 hours before and
      after each GTT.

      There are 2 primary outcomes: 1) Change in plasma GIP response to glucose after GBS and 2)
      change in insulin sensitivity after GBS, as measured by an area-under-the-curve equation for
      a standardized 180-minute oral glucose tolerance test. Secondary outcomes include 1) Change
      in plasma GLP-1 response to glucose after GBS and 2) change in plasma glucagon response to
      glucose after GBS, as measured by the equation used for the primary outcome.

      We expect that our enrollment period will be 18 months to 24 months. The estimated duration
      of the entire study is 28 months
    
  