
    
      Thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer are common and frequently occurring diseases in China;
      Relevant researches reveal that the increase in the incidence of thyroid cancer is more
      prominent in China than that of overseas, the incidence of thyroid cancer in urban residents
      of Beijing increased from 1.55/100,000 in 1995 to 9.9/100,000 in 2010 (5.38 fold).

      The rapid development of imaging techniques including ultrasound, CT and MRI had
      substantially increased the accuracy in the diagnosis of thyroid nodules, however the
      accuracy is still not up to 100% and a further aspiration biopsy is required. Therefore,
      ultrasound-guided percutaneous biopsy plays a critical role in the diagnosis of pathological
      lesions. Many guidelines deem fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy to be the most accurate and
      cost-effective examination method in the evaluation of thyroid nodules as it helps to reduce
      unnecessary thyroid nodule surgeries and it also helps the clinicians to determine the
      appropriate surgical treatment plan[1-4]. However according to literature reports, samples
      with insufficient quantity of cells can occur up to 10-15% of the cases, sometimes a second
      biopsy or a diagnostic operation needs to be performed[1,4].False negative results of FNA
      biopsy or a mismatch between ultrasound diagnosis and clinical diagnosis can occur due to a
      number of reasons such as the tumor being too big or too small, a poor location, presence of
      degenerative necrosis, inappropriate position of biopsy or be affected by the operator's
      experience etc.

      Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) is a new technology which is recently introduced into
      China, it has the ability to display the microvascular perfusion of the tissue under a low
      mechanical index. The serial real-time images obtained can be digitalized and dynamically
      stored. And this allows for retrospective analysis and also enables comparison to be made
      with other imaging techniques. CEUS can sensitively reflect the characteristics of blood
      supply and microcirculation at the site of the lesion.

      Although CEUS-guided FNA of thyroid nodules has not yet been reported, a large number of
      studies have reported liver biopsy performed under the guidance of CEUS. Its efficacy in
      obtaining accurate diagnosis and in reducing the number of biopsies is clear when samples are
      taken from the area of rich blood supply.

      Metabolic-active areas within the malignant tumor, or areas of degeneration or necrosis and
      also the detection of small tumors can be confirmed through the use of CEUS. Aspiration
      biopsy when performed under the guidance of CEUS is expected to yield decreased
      non-diagnostic result. The investigators intent to create a randomized controlled study to
      investigate the application value of CEUS in the diagnosis of space-occupying lesions of the
      thyroid using FNA.

      Data collection Collect and sort out the general data of patients, record the conventional US
      findings and the contrast-enhanced ultrasound (group CEUS) findings of the two groups, and
      also the results from aspiration biopsy and pathology, fill in the case report form (CRF),
      establish a database. Carry out analysis using specialized statistical software. Four
      parameters of efficacy (inadequacy, indeterminacy, malignancy, and benign) rates) were
      evaluated in the series of thyroid FNA and compared with the two groups. The inadequacy rate
      refers to the proportion of cases with a non-diagnostic result. The indeterminate rate refers
      to the proportion of cases with an atypia of undetermined significance/follicular lesion of
      undetermined significance (AUS or FLUS) category. The malignancy rate refers to the
      proportion of cases that were malignant. The benign rate refers to the proportion of cases
      that were benign. The number of obtained cells in the specimens with diagnostic result was
      classified into two classes according the cytopathologist's experience: intermediate
      (diagnosed possible), and abundant (diagnosed easily). The comparison of cell amount between
      the two groups is secondary aim.

      Statistical analysis Statistical analysis is carried out using SPSS 22.0, all statistical
      data will be analyzed using the Chi square test. Differences were considered statistically
      significant at p<0.05.
    
  