
    
      Participants will be divided into two groups for the treatment of photoaging of hands:

      (A) Group 20% TCM + PBM: Application of chemical peel of 20% trichloroacetic acid solution in
      association with photobiomodulation with red spectrum LED (660nm) on the back of the hands.

      (B) Group 20% TCM + PBM placebo: Application of chemical peel of 20% trichloroacetic acid
      solution in association with simulated photobiomodulation on the back of the hands.

      It is observed that all participants included in the study will receive treatment recommended
      for photoaging on the back of the hands. The chemical peel (20% TCM solution) will be
      performed monthly, totaling 04 sessions with an average time of 40 minutes (guidelines,
      photos, skin exfoliation) with intervals of 04 weeks between applications. Biweekly
      assessments (guidelines and photos) will be carried out with an average time of 20 minutes
      during the study period. In addition, a group will also be subjected to photobiomodulation
      with 660nm LED during the sessions for the analysis of the association of therapies and
      comparison with exfoliation monotherapy.

      It is noteworthy that both hands will be treated and control will be maintained in another
      randomized and uniform group, with no possibility of ethical compromise of different
      therapies with asymmetric results in the participants. Another important benefit provided by
      the separation of the control group will be the impossibility of light to influence the
      non-irradiated tissue. This case would occur if the hand subjected to photobiomodulation plus
      exfoliation was in the same individual as the hand subjected to exfoliation monotherapy. This
      influence is defended by countless scientists who research on the systemic effects of
      phototherapy.

      In addition, both groups will prepare the skin properly before the treatments in order to
      enhance the effects of the exfoliation, allow the uniform penetration of the chemical
      solution in the back of the hands, decrease the healing time after the procedure and
      significantly reduce the risks of major complications such as post-inflammatory
      hyperpigmentation. Throughout the period, the participants will also be instructed on the
      importance of photoprotection with the daily use of factor 30 sunscreen. If there is a
      patient with severe hypersensitivity or major complications, the intervention will be
      discontinued immediately and properly treated according to its severity.

      It should be noted that regardless of the results obtained at the end of the research, even
      if photobiomodulation improves or accelerates the benefits of chemical peeling, participants
      will not be submitted to new treatment sessions, as both groups will already receive
      treatment recommended for photoaging of hands. Furthermore, the application of
      photobiomodulation without the association of previous skin exfoliation is unlikely to bring
      better results, because early application after tissue injury is the most important factor
      for this purpose.
    
  