
    
      Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is a term used to describe inherited forms of hypopigmentation
      associated with 1) variable levels of cutaneous hypopigmentation, ocular hypopigmentation,
      and visual deficits, and 2) involvement of both of the major developmental types of pigmented
      cells, i.e., melanocytes and retinal pigment epithelium. OCA that affects

      only usually-pigmented tissues is termed isolated OCA. There are currently seven albinism

      types (OCA-1 to OCA-7). With the exception of OCA-5, eash is associated with a specific

      gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner (see Table 1). OCA-5 is a proposed

      type of albinism associated with the chromosomal location 4q24. OCA-1 results from defects

      in the enzyme tyrosinase, which catalyzes the rate-limiting step in melanin synthesis. The

      precise functions of the remaining genes are not yet fully understood, but several may be

      associated with the regulation of pH in the subcellular organelle where melanin in

      manufactured the melanosome. The majority of persons with OCA have two pathogenic

      mutations identified in a known OCA-causing gene, but a substantial minority to not. Ocular

      albinism (OA) is an X-linked disorder caused by mutations in the GPR143 gene. It affects the

      eye in a manner similar to OCA, but has minimal or no skin manifestations.

      In this protocol, we have four major goals:

        1. To clinically and comprehensively characterize OCA types 1 7, and OA, with respect

           to the degree of hypopigmentation, genetic mutations, extent of ocular involvement,

           and longitudinal variation.

        2. To use study participants cultured melanocytes to study pigment biology, variability

           in pigment formation related to genotype, and response to proposed treatments. Some

           of this work will be performed collaboratively

        3. To recruit study participants with hypopigmentation not due to known albinismcausing

           genes.

        4. To evaluate methods of quantifying eye pigmentation, skin pigmentation and other

      clinical parameters that may be usable as outcome measures in future treatment studies.

      To achieve those goals, we will perform clinical evaluations of persons with OCA and OA at

      the NIH Clinical Center; obtain cultured cells, plasma, serum and urine for future studies;
      and,

      perform mutation analysis on known OCA and/or OA genes and search for other genes

      responsible for albinism. Routine admissions will last 3 - 4 days and occur every 2 - 3
      years.
    
  