
    
      Patient Population and Clinical Measurements:

      The Frankel Cardiovascular Center at the University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) is a
      regional center with expertise in managing a large variety of aortic diseases. Only adult
      patients (age between 18-99 years) will be included. Patients will be included regardless of
      race or ethnicity. The patient population consists of:

        1. Patients with a descending thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA). TAA is defined by a
           balloon-like dilatation of the thoracic aorta. Such a dilatation may grow and eventually
           rupture, associated with high mortality. In the United States, more than 10,000 patients
           die every year due to a ruptured aneurysm. Current United States guidelines state that
           when the diameter of a TAA in patients with no connective tissue disorder is larger than
           55-60 mm, aortic repair is recommended. To date, TEVAR is the first choice of therapy
           unless the anatomy is unsuitable or the patient has a connective tissue disorder.

        2. Patients with a penetrating aortic ulcer (PAU). PAU is a chronic aortic condition,
           defined by an ulcer-like disruption of the inner aortic wall. Up to 28% of patients with
           a PAU may have or may develop an aortic aneurysm. Treatment with TEVAR is recommended
           for these patients, especially when patients are complicated by aortic growth or
           rupture.

      Study Design:

      TEVAR Group. In this study, the investigators target both TAA and PAU treated with TEVAR.
      Patients are to be identified in the clinic setting. Patients who are planned for treatment
      TEVAR for TAA and PAU (based on their treating physician's decision) will be given
      information about this observational study. Results for the standard work-up examinations for
      TEVAR, which consist of computed tomography (CT), echocardiography, blood (BP) and heart (HR)
      measurements, and electrocardiogram (ECG) will be collected. Once patient consent is
      confirmed, and prior to the TEVAR procedure, this study will include a non-invasive MRI scan
      and a blood collection for the biomarker data, in addition to the standard of care. In this
      study, during the TEVAR procedure, intraluminal pressure measurements will be conducted using
      the catheters and guidewires that will be already in place for the deployment of the
      endograft. This study will neither delay or modify their endovascular procedure. One year
      (between a window of 275 - 455 days) following the TEVAR procedure, the subject will undergo
      and a second non-invasive MRI study in addition to the standard clinical imaging follow-up.
      During this follow-up imaging, the patients will also undergo BP and HR measurements, ECG and
      blood tests.

      Control Group. Patients with a stable TAA or PAU who do not require surgery are monitored in
      the outpatient clinic as standard of care. In this study, these patients will be given
      information about our study and will be asked to be included in our investigation. Once
      consent of the patients is confirmed, participants will undergo BP and HR measurements, ECG,
      blood tests, and one non-invasive MRI scan, at baseline. One year (between a window of 275 -
      455 days) after baseline, the participants will undergo additional observations; non-invasive
      MRI study, BP and HR measurements, ECG and blood tests.

      Clinical Measurements:

      BP, HR, ECG, and blood- tests will be collected by trained personnel on all at baseline, and
      at one year (between a window of 275 - 455 days) follow-up.

        -  BP and HR will be measured per standard protocol.

        -  ECG will consist of a standard 12 lead ECG.

        -  Standard blood tests include complete blood count with platelets (including white blood
           cells, hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cells), a basic metabolic panel (including
           sodium, potassium, glucose, and calcium. Cardiac biomarkers tests include natriuretic
           peptide (BNP), amino-terminal pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP) and Troponin T.

      Echocardiography - Preoperative echocardiography is standard of care in all patients
      requiring TEVAR. The obtained echocardiographic measurements in these patients will be
      collected and compared to the preoperative MRI data.

      Intraluminal pressures - During TEVAR, an angiography will be performed as standard of care.
      In this study, intraluminal pressure measurements will be conducted in the TEVAR group, using
      the catheters and guidewires that will be already in place for the deployment of the
      endograft, as is commonly done at the UMHS.

      MRI - This study will employ the following clinical and (FDA/IRB approved) research MRI
      sequences to assess multiple signs of cardiovascular remodeling:

      Clinical sequences:

        1. Phase-contrast MRI measurements will be acquired on different cross-sections of the
           aorta (through-plane velocity-encoding). Images will also be captured in an oblique
           sagittal view (in-plane velocity-encoding) to estimate the aortic vessel wall stiffness
           via pulse wave velocity measurements. Velocity-encoded phase-contrast MRI images will be
           acquired across the mitral valve to evaluate the left ventricular (LV) diastolic
           function through the measurement of early-to-atrial ratios. Myocardial perfusion images
           will be acquired after administration of gadolinium based contrast agent under
           pharmacological stress.

        2. Cine measurements will include LV volume, LV wall volume and left atrial volume.

        3. Tag-MRI will measure different components of myocardial strain in standard short-axis
           and four-chamber views.

      Research sequences:

        1. Strain encoding sequences will measure cardiac- and aortic strain. This sequence is IRB
           approved: IRBMED # 2004-0452.

        2. Steady state free precession sequences will measure strain of the thoracic aorta through
           cine measurements in the ascending aorta just distal to the coronary branches and just
           proximal to the celiac trunk. The sequence is obtained in accordance within FDA safety
           guidelines and with FDA approved MRI machines. It is easily reproducible and
           quantifiable and confirms to all MRI safety parameters in the United States.

      All these measurements are non-invasive and therefore do not impose additional risk or burden
      to the patient. Contrast will be administered, except for those patients with poor renal
      function (eGFR<60). The total anticipated scan time is approximately 1 hour.

      Computational Modeling - Using the imaging and clinical data, simulations of blood flow and
      pressure will be performed using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) techniques and the
      High-Performance Computer cluster "Flux" at the University of Michigan. Highly detailed
      descriptions of velocity, flow, pressure, wall shear stress and other hemodynamically
      significant quantities will be obtained. The results of these non-invasive simulations will
      be compared against the clinical measurements (BP, HR, echocardiography, MRI, and
      intraluminal pressures) to calibrate this tool. Once calibrated, computational analyses will
      be performed to virtually assess the impact of more compliant endografts on cardiac and
      aortic hemodynamics.

      Statistical Analysis - Statistical analysis will include descriptive and comparative analysis
      of both clinical measurements and data acquired from computational modeling. In analysis,
      participants will be grouped by TEVAR or Control group. Sub-analysis will include grouping by
      endograft length, gender, and age. The patients identifying information and protected health
      data will be dealt with based on HIPAA guidelines.

      Preliminary echocardiographic data of TAA patients treated with TEVAR at the University of
      Michigan Health System revealed an average LV mass increase of 39% (P = 0.047) at 1-year
      follow-up. Power analysis for a Mann-Whitney U test, based on these preliminary data,
      calculated that for a significant threshold of 5% (P < 0.05, two-sided test) a total sample
      size of 20 patients (α = 0.05, power = 97%) would be needed to observe a significant effect
      of TEVAR on LV mass increase. To ensure a margin of error, the investigators aim to include
      12 TEVAR patients and 12 control patients.

      To sum up, the end-goal of this study is to assess the impact of TEVAR on adverse
      cardiovascular remodeling through imaging and computation. This impact remains unclear and
      may carry important implications for patient management and future endograft design. The
      additional measurements required for this study are almost risk-free for all included
      participants. Although there are no direct benefits for the enrolled subjects, future aortic
      patients might benefit from better patient management with improved aortic endograft designs
      and long-term outcomes.
    
  