
    
      In the present longitudinal study, four main research questions will be investigated.

        1. How does identity develop in cancer survivors? Based on previous findings from studies
           in identity development, it seems that young adults with a chronic disease like type 1
           diabetes show less exploration or consider less identity possibilities from which they
           can choose, e.g. they dwell less upon the choice of education. Does this finding also
           apply to survivors of childhood cancer or are these youth more similar to a community
           sample? This research question may provide an answer to the question whether or not
           there is a continued (psychological) impact of childhood cancer on the later identity
           development of survivors. For this purpose the investigators shall make use of an
           identity model which was developed at their research department and which has gained
           much international research attention. In addition, the investigators want to look at
           illness-identity, which comprises the amount to which the earlier cancer experience is
           integrated into one's identity. Does the youngster feel still engulfed by the earlier
           cancer experience, or has he/she integrated this experience as part of his/her
           self-concept? Or does the youngster feel even enriched by the earlier cancer experience,
           thus did he/she end up even stronger through the experience?

        2. How do survivors of pediatric cancer and/or their parents function on the psychological
           level, more specific on the level of life satisfaction and depressive symptoms, and what
           is the role of identity and personality variables herein? This question examines, among
           other factors, concepts like benefit-finding, post-traumatic growth, resilience,...
           Thereby it would be interesting to examine whether different subgroups can be
           identified, for example, which groups of persons display less adaptive functioning and
           why?

        3. Are there certain parenting dimensions (e.g. overprotection, responsiveness,
           psychological control,...) which are more prevalent in families that were confronted
           with pediatric cancer and are these dimensions differently related to the psychosocial
           adaptation of survivors? Does this relate to certain aspects of survivor functioning,
           like depressive symptoms and quality of life? Thereby, transactional processes between
           survivor and parental functioning will be investigated, e.g. does identity development
           of survivors have an impact on parental well-being, and has parental well-being in turn
           an impact on survivor functioning? Taken together, the investigators want to investigate
           to what extent these contextual variables determine the functioning of adolescents and
           emerging adults.

        4. What is the impact for siblings of cancer survivors? How do they go through their
           identity process? Do they experience the same parenting as the survivors experience
           themselves? E.g if survivors would experience more parental overprotection, would
           siblings experience overprotection to the same extent?
    
  