
    
      Just under 200,000 American women will be diagnosed with breast cancer this year. Standard
      breast cancer therapies have long included surgical resection, chemotherapy, radiation
      therapy, and hormonal therapy. However, other immune therapies are now being explored for the
      treatment of breast cancer, including peptide-based vaccines. In support of directed T cell
      therapies for breast cancer, antigenic epitopes from breast cancer-associated proteins such
      as Her-2/neu and the MAGE gene family have been identified, and vaccines containing peptides
      derived from these proteins have been shown to be safe and immunogenic in breast cancer
      patients.

      Results from successful immune therapy approaches, for various human and murine cancers, have
      shown that antitumor effects can be mediated by T cells, which is proof-of-principle that the
      immune system, and in particular, T cells, can reject tumor. Overall, however, the complete
      clinical response rate for T cell mediated immunotherapies has been low. There are at least
      two possibilities to explain why this may be the case. First, tumor reactive T cells may not
      traffic to tumors. Second, tumor reactive T cells may not have adequate effector function
      within the tumor microenvironment. Neither of these hypotheses has been adequately explored,
      though there are data suggesting that either or both may represent obstacles to successful
      immune therapy. In order to improve upon the clinical response rate with vaccines, we need to
      address the questions of whether vaccine-induced T cells traffic to tumor and exhibit
      effector function within the tumor.

      Specifically for breast cancer, there are opportunities for targeting T cells against primary
      tumors with the intent of providing immune protection early in the disease course. In the
      proposed clinical trial we will be administering a peptide-based vaccine and monitoring
      responses to the vaccine at the site of primary tumor. Peptide vaccines are unique in that
      they provide an opportunity to monitor directly the T cell response to defined antigens,
      enabling dissection of the immune response pre- and post-vaccination. The proposed analyses
      are designed to test the hypotheses that vaccination 1) enhances T cell infiltration into
      tumor and 2) induces T cells to become activated and fully differentiate into effector cells.
      The goals of this proposal are to define the extent to which these two processes occur
      following vaccination and to identify opportunities for improving tumor targeting and T cell
      effector function in human breast cancer.
    
  