
    
      Paracetamol, NSAIDs, or a combination of the two molecules are usually prescribed. Patients
      even use these medications without a prescription. It is not known, however, whether or not
      NSAIDs have an additional value relative to paracetamol for the treatment of pain.

      All patients were assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio. Randomization of subjects was performed
      centrally according to a computer-generated random code provided by one of investigators who
      was not involved in any other part of the trial. The patients included were divided into 3
      groups: Paracetamol group who received paracetamol 1000 mg orally every 8th hour for 7 days;
      NSAID group who received piroxicam 20 mg orally twice a day for 7 days, and Paracetamol-NSAID
      combination who received both treatments at the same doses for 7 days. All protocol
      treatments were administered in opaque packets with code number according to the
      randomization list by an independent nurse who was not involved in monitoring or follow-up of
      the individuals. Data were collected for each patient, including demographics, medical
      history, and findings of the clinical examination. Injury Severity Score (ISS) whose values
      range from 0 to 75 was also assessed. Each patient was re-evaluated on the 3rd and 7th day
      post-trauma (D7) using a telephone contact by a clinical research associates who was blinded
      to the details of the study to note the following clinical data: pain VNS, ED readmissions
      for residual pain, need for other analgesics other than those of the protocol, other
      treatment modalities the patient might have used (adherence to the treatment prescribed), and
      side effects. In addition patients were asked about their satisfaction with pain control
      following ED using five point Likert scale: very dissatisfied, not satisfied, neutral,
      satisfied and very satisfied and about the degree to which they adhered to medication
      schedule. The principal investigator who was aware of the allocation was not involved in
      monitoring or recording of the outcomes until the data collection was completed.
    
  