
    
      Injection Drug Use (IDU) is a chronic, relapsing condition with grave individual and public
      health consequences.19-21 A majority (53%) of all past-year IDUs prefer heroin, as do 39% of
      single-drug injectors, second only to Methamphetamine.22,23 Non-injection heroin use (NIDU)
      is increasing, due to growing awareness of IDU risks, particularly HIV/AIDS;21,24-26
      increased purity of street heroin;27-29 greater regulation of other opiates;30,31 and opioid
      abusers switching to heroin for its lower cost.32 Many NIDUs transition to IDU, incurring
      greater risks.2,21,33,34 Drug cravings are intense urges to use drugs35,36 and they
      contribute to drug use37, relapse38, and transitioning from NIDU to IDU.39 Cravings are
      triggered by environmental factors and due to the significance of craving in drug use and
      relapse they will be part of the proposed criteria for DSM5.40,41

      HIV, Hepatitis C (HCV), and Sexually-Transmitted Infections (STIs) continue to be associated
      with both IDU and NIDU.33,42-44 Hispanics are over-represented among both IDU and NIDU heroin
      users.21,23,45,46 Mexican American IDUs have very low rates of HIV.10,47 However, their HCV
      rates are very high and continue to increase, further compromising their health.10,48,49 They
      also have elevated rates of high-risk sex behaviors 33,50 and they are less likely to
      decrease these high-risk sex behaviors than they are to decrease their injection- behavior
      risks, especially as they age.10,51 Furthermore, HIV/HCV/STI prevention interventions can
      lead to fatigue52-54 so they must continue to be delivered to at-risk populations across all
      relevant settings. Young Texans ages 15-24 are becoming HIV infected at high rates, with
      Hispanics disproportionately impacted and diagnosed later: 42% of infected Texan Hispanics
      receive an HIV-positive and an AIDS diagnosis within the same year, compared to 32% of Anglos
      and 31% of Blacks.55 Thus, early detection of high-risk Hispanics is vital, making this
      proposal timely and critical.

      Greatly needed are novel interventions that address drug cravings (DCs), take into account
      environmental context, and incorporate HIV/HCV prevention components. Developing these
      interventions and adapting them to the many diverse at-risk populations, however, can be
      costly and challenging. Cue exposure therapy (CET)56,57 may be a viable approach. CET is a
      promising intervention that can decrease DCs by repeatedly exposing an individual to a
      craving inducing stimulus (e.g., a shooting gallery scenario) while simultaneously preventing
      the conditioned behavioral response (e.g., drug use). The individual can be trained in vitro
      (in the lab) to use coping skills in direct response to activated cravings, then use these
      skills in vivo (in the natural environment). A challenge associated with CET, for both
      ethical and logistical reasons, is the ability to expose individuals to realistic simulated
      cues of the natural environment in a secure laboratory or therapeutic setting. Virtual
      Reality (VR) is an innovative, cutting-edge tool that can enable researchers to overcome
      these obstacles. VR scenarios integrate elements from the individual's various
      contexts-culture, neighborhood, family, networks, and individual characteristics-into the
      clinical or lab setting, and provide complex multi-sensory cues through an immersive
      human-computer interaction.58

      The public health significance of this primary project is high. Drug use in general and
      injection drug use (IDU) in particular are serious public health concerns, as are the rates
      of HCV and STIs in IDUs. Interventions that decrease craving, increase coping skills, and
      incorporate HIV/HCV/STI prevention components can be critical tools in treating drug use
      disorders and their serious health consequences. In addition, it is critical to train diverse
      researchers who possess intimate knowledge of the populations impacted by drug use and who
      understand the cultural and contextual elements of those populations, to conduct this
      innovative research.

      The specific research hypotheses and objectives are as follows:

        1. Refine and develop a Virtual Reality Heroin Scenario (VRHS) using qualitative data
           (i.e., photos and descriptions of heroin using sites and contexts) from our current
           UHDARDP's Primary Project.

        2. Measure the effects of exposure to virtual reality heroin cues on craving and
           physiological reactivity.

           Hypothesis 1a: VR cues will increase subjective heroin craving and physiological
           reactivity.

           Hypothesis 1b: Heroin craving and physiological reactivity will decrease as a result of
           repeated exposure to virtual cues.

        3. Compare Virtual Reality-Based Cue Exposure Therapy (VRCET) and Relapse Prevention Drug
           Education (RPDE) on extinction of heroin craving and physiological reactivity across cue
           trials.

           Hypothesis 2: VRCET will attenuate cue-elicited subjective heroin craving and
           physiological reactivity relative to RPDE.

        4. Examine the in vivo effects of VRCET on heroin craving, craving coping skills, and
           actual heroin use, compared to RPDE.

           Hypothesis 3: VRCET will lead to a decrease in heroin craving, an increase in craving
           coping skills use, and decreased heroin use, in the natural environment, compared to
           RPDE.

        5. Deliver an HIV/HCV prevention intervention to this high-risk population. Hypothesis 4:
           The prevention intervention will increase prevention knowledge and intention to use the
           skills learned.

        6. Determine if medication assisted therapies, such as methadone or buprenorphine, have an
           impact on cue reactivity for former heroin IDU when immersed in the virtual
           environments, as compared to current users.

      Hypothesis 5: Participants on medication assisted therapies will exhibit lower levels of cue
      reactivity within the VR environment than participants who are currently still using heroin.
    
  