
    
      Background:

      There are 65 million Americans and over 8.5 million veterans who have been diagnosed with
      hypertension, yet only 31% have their blood pressure (BP) under effective control.
      Uncontrolled hypertension greatly increases the risk of stroke, CAD, renal failure, CHF, and
      mortality.

      Objectives:

      This four year study evaluated simultaneously both a patient and a provider intervention in a
      primary care setting among diagnosed hypertensive veterans. The two primary hypotheses were:
      1) the proportion of veterans with BP control who receive either the provider-directed
      decision support or the patient behavioral/education intervention will be increased by 10% as
      compared to usual care; and 2) the proportion of veterans with BP control who receive both
      the provider-directed decision support and the patient health education and behavioral
      intervention will be increased by 25% as compared to usual care.

      Methods:

      This was a randomized controlled trial with a split-plot design. Thirty primary care
      providers in the Durham VAMC Primary Care Clinic were randomly assigned to receive either the
      provider intervention or basic patient information; 588 of their hypertensive patients were
      randomized to the patient intervention or usual care. The provider intervention (ATHENA study
      (IIR 99-275) included an electronically generated hypertension decision support system (DSS)
      delivered to the provider at each hypertensive patient's visit. The provider intervention was
      designed to improve guideline concordant therapy. The patient intervention was a tailored
      behavioral/education intervention administered at periodic telephone contacts. The
      intervention included support and reminders, information on hypertension and on health
      behaviors. Patients received feedback about their recent BP values, continuous patient
      education, and were monitored and supported to enhance adherence. The control group was usual
      care.

      Status:

      Complete. Major activities completed in the past 12 months include submission of a manuscript
      describing the study, the interventions, and baseline and follow-up analyses. Secondary
      analyses are being completed which will be included in additional manuscripts.
    
  