
    
      Finding effective strategies to reach out to young men and mobilize them to reduce their HIV
      risk is critical, given men's control over the terms and conditions of most sexual
      partnerships. Unequal power distribution in relationships has a devastating impact on women,
      leading to HIV prevalence among young women in some sub-Saharan African countries four to
      seven times higher than among young men the same age. Gender power differentials have
      negative consequences for men as well, leading to increased risk of physical and mental
      health problems, substance use, and low uptake of health-related services. We need innovative
      approaches to address the structural and social determinant of young men's risk. Lack of
      economic opportunity is a key structural determinant of risk that has negative consequences
      for men, and has been linked to poor health outcomes. The influence of social network members
      is a social determinant of risk for both HIV and gender-based violence that can be addressed
      through interventions designed to change network norms. For the past 12 years our group has
      conducted research in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania on HIV and gender-based violence. With support
      from the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) we identified networks of young men who
      socialize in what are called "camps" and we successfully piloted a microfinance and health
      leadership intervention with men in camps like the one proposed in this application (R21
      MH080577). Camps are enduring social groups of mostly men that have elected leadership, paid
      membership fees, and physical space to meet. The equivalent of a camp in US culture may be a
      cross between a club and a gang. Camps appear to be an urban phenomenon in Tanzania and our
      group is the first to have published data describing them. Men in camps engage in HIV risk
      behavior and in gender-based violence that put them and their partners at risk for HIV.
      Research suggests that microfinance combined with health promotion can lead to improvement in
      health outcomes, including reductions in HIV risk and gender-based violence. However, few, if
      any well designed evaluations of microfinance and health programs with young men have been
      reported.
    
  