
    
      Prospective, single center, open label study on the pharmacokinetics, -dynamics and safety of
      intravenous paracetamol in preterm and term neonates admitted in the neonatal intensive care
      unit, University Hospitals Leuven, Belgium. Patients will be included in this study after
      formal written informed consent of the parent(s). If a painful procedure is anticipated (e.g.
      surgery), parents should be informed preferably at least 24 h before the clinical indication
      will appear. Sixty neonates (i.e. < 29 days of postnatal age), either preterm (< 37 weeks
      gestational age) or term neonates will be included. At least 24 will be preterm neonates in
      order to ensure that the evaluated population reflects the typical population taken care for
      at the unit and in order to comply with the suggestions of EMEA (EMEA/CHMP/18922/05). The
      decision to prescribe paracetamol will be made by the attending neonatologist and in line
      with the current standing orders in the unit, i.e. either as a monotherapy for mild to
      moderate pain, independent of the cause (either postoperative, traumatic or medical) of pain
      or as part of multimodal analgesia for severe pain.

      Before initiation of treatment and during any analgesic treatment, prospective evaluation of
      pain based on a validated and implemented pain scale (Leuven Neonatal Pain Scale, LNPS, Eur J
      Clin Pharmacol, 2003) is performed to further titrate treatment as needed. Additional
      administration or adaptation of any other analgesics as well as other concomitant medications
      will be recorded.

      Paracetamol will be administered by either peripheral venous access or by deep venous
      catheter, ensuring that the study drug will always be administered alone and will be followed
      by an appropriate flush of normal saline, in line with the current guidelines at the unit. As
      soon as clinically feasible, the route of administration will be changed from intravenous to
      either oral (preferred) or rectal administration in line with the guidelines in the unit
      Plasma samples will be collected through an arterial line if present for clinical needs. In
      neonates without arterial access, plasma samples will only be collected when venipuncture is
      performed for clinical indications. The assessment of plasma pharmacokinetics will be based
      on a population pharmacokinetic approach in line with the EMEA guidelines on pharmacokinetic
      study in preterm and term neonates. The Leuven unit has published experience with such an
      approach (Eur J Clin Pharmacol, 2004) in the assessment of propacetamol pharmacokinetics.

      Based on this population PK approach, we will focus on both early sampling (distribution
      volume, loading dose) and late sampling (clearance) while the total blood volume collected
      will not exceed 1.8 mL/kg for the complete study in line with the guidelines of EMEA on
      clinical research in children (EMEA website). It is a standing order at the unit that the
      procedural pain related to venous puncture is routinely treated with oral glucose (30 %).

      When feasible, urine collections will be simultaneously performed (urinary bladder catheter
      in place for clinical indications, or by Uricol collection bag) in order to document aspects
      of paracetamol metabolism in neonates based on renal clearance in line with earlier studies
      reported on the assessment of paracetamol metabolism in early life (Acta Pediatric 2005). We
      anticipate urine collection in at least 20 neonates, of whom at least 8 preterm neonates.

      We hereby have the intention to collect data on both pharmacokinetics, metabolism and
      pharmacodynamics of this drug in neonates.
    
  