
    
      Participants in The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society (LLS) National Research Registry will be
      invited to participate in the LLS Covid-19 Registry to evaluate medical outcomes for people
      with blood cancer, who have been diagnosed with COVID-19, have received, or are planning to
      receive, a COVID-19 vaccination. Because of the health emergency created by the COVID-19
      virus, COVID-19 vaccinations have been approved by FDA for Emergency Use Administration
      (EUA). Clinical trials were streamlined and excluded people with a diagnosis of cancer.
      Therefore, how people with blood cancer respond to the COVID-19 virus and/or COVID-19
      vaccinations is unknown. This registry data will provide more specific information about how
      people with blood cancer respond to COVID-19 virus and/or a COVID-19 vaccination.

      The patient process will be as follows:

        -  Log in to the patient registration Website at https://www.ciitizen.com/LLS

        -  Using the same password for the LLS National Research Registry patient's select the
           COVID-19 Registry. Note: If a patient forgets their password at any time they can click
           on "forgot my password" and the Ciitizen Website will enable a password change process.

        -  Patients will be advised to read the entire Consent Form and, if satisfied, then check
           the box indicating agreement with Consent. Patients will be asked to re-enter their
           email address and password as confirmation to participate in the COVID-19 Registry.

        -  Patients can print the Consent Form from the web page. Or each electronically-signed
           Consent Form will also be maintained in the secure Ciitizen database and a Patient can
           retrieve a copy at any time.

        -  And, at any time, should Patients have any questions, LLS contact information is on the
           front page of the Informed Consent document.
    
  