
    
      Microvascular reconstructive free flap surgery is an important part of the recommended
      treatment for extensive head and neck tumors. However, the procedure includes risks of
      perioperative coagulation related complications, such as bleeding, but also thrombosis in the
      flap blood vessels. In about 10% of cases this requires reoperation, but, in spite of intense
      efforts, about 5% of all patients suffer from flap failure, i.e. necrosis of the free flap.
      This results in significant suffering for the patients who must undergo further surgery and
      oftentimes considerable prolonged hospital stay etc. This in turn leads to increased health
      care costs. There are several indications that tendency towards thrombosis can increase the
      risk of flap failure.

      Previous studies have indicated that increased levels of fibrinogen and inherited
      thrombophilia, such as APC resistance, are associated with thrombotic free flap
      complications, but more conventional coagulation parameters, such as PK/INR and aPTT have not
      shown the same connection. Low fibrinogen levels have also been associated with bleeding
      complications.

      Most patients undergoing the above mentioned surgery receive anticoagulant therapy. However,
      there is no international consensus on any specific pharmacological regime. Many different
      prophylactic therapies are used, including low molecular weight heparin, dextran and
      acetylsalicylic acid. Still coagulation-related complications are difficult to prevent.

      Defective coagulation apparently seems to be associated with bleeding and thrombotic
      perioperative complications. It would therefore be desirable to increase the knowledge about
      factors influencing the development of these complications, and the patients at risk for
      them. ROTEM, rotational thromboelastometry, is a viscoelastic essay that provides a more
      global view of the hemostatic potential in whole blood, and it is also one of few more
      advanced assays that can be analyzed around the clock in many Swedish hospitals.

      The aim of this project is to study perioperative coagulation and vitamin K status, and
      thereby further on hopefully be able to prevent, and improve the treatment of, bleeding and
      thrombosis related complications in patients undergoing head and neck microvascular free flap
      surgery.
    
  