
    
      Subject groups:

      32 subjects will be enrolled in this study, 16 in each arm. They will be randomized to
      receive either 1.5 mg/ 0.03 mL of adalimumab by intravitreal injection or 40 mg of adalimumab
      subcutaneously at their first treatment visit and at the 2 weeks visit if eligible for a
      repeat injection. Follow up will be every 2 days the first week then one week later and after
      that every 4-week intervals for total of 26 weeks.

      Intervention Details:

        -  Systemic adalimumab: Subcutaneous injection of 40 mg adalimumab (Humira) given every 2
           weeks.

        -  Local adalimumab: Intravitreal injection of 1.5mg/0.03ml adalimumab given at zero, 2
           weeks, and then every 4 weeks.

      Pre-treatment work up

      Patients will undergo a comprehensive eye exam:

        -  Visual acuity, slit-lamp examination of the anterior segment, dilated fundus
           examination, electroretinography (ERG) and fluorescein angiography (FA).

        -  Central macular thickness of all eyes will be measured with ocular coherence tomography
           before treatment.

        -  Purified Protein Derivative (PPD), Complete blood count (CBC) and SGPT.

      Post-injection follow-up

        -  Patients will be followed up every 2 days during the first week then one week later and
           after that every 4-week intervals.

        -  On follow up visits, if deterioration in vision of two or more ETDRS lines or worsening
           of ocular inflammation by more than 1+ cells/haze is detected at any visit, patients
           will be removed from the study and receive appropriate treatment. Otherwise, if vision
           was stable or improved and/or inflammation is same or better, patients will be
           re-injected.

        -  Follow up is for 26 weeks.

        -  OCT and fluorescein angiography each visit.

        -  ERG will be performed at baseline and 26 weeks.

        -  Blood studies (CBC and SGPT) will be performed at baseline, 14 weeks and at 26 weeks.

        -  Injections would be delayed if a patient has an acute infection and would be given when
           it subsides.
    
  