
    
      The Vitality HealthyFood benefit is a three-tiered incentive program designed to encourage
      healthier food choices amongst members of Discovery Health's Vitality program. Once enrolled
      in the benefit, participating members can receive 10%, 15%, or 25% cash-back on the healthy
      foods they purchase at selected grocers. And, while overall enrolment in the program is high,
      there was been difficulty documenting change in purchasing behaviors; healthy foods have
      remained a consistent 25-30% of food spend, and unhealthy foods at around 15%. In the current
      study we would like to test whether differing types of messages and financial incentive
      structures may be more salient and motivating and have a greater impact on food-purchasing
      decisions. The proposed study will be a collaboration between Discovery Health/Vitality and
      researchers at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. In the
      proposed RCT, Vitality members currently enrolled in the lowest tier (10% level) of the
      HealthyFood will be randomized to various messaging and financial incentive structures. We
      will then compare the effectiveness of these different interventions at increasing healthy
      food purchases among enrolled members.

      This study will be a randomized field trial of the combination of several
      theoretically-motivated interventions: varying weekly messaging, financial incentives, and
      monthly messaging.

      Messaging and financial incentives

      Weekly Messaging strategies There are three weekly messaging strategies we want to test. The
      goal of the messages is to increase the salience of the HealthyFood programme for enrolled
      members. The three strategies were chosen to enable us to compare the impact of no weekly
      message vs. a general weekly message vs. a tailored weekly message. The messages will be sent
      via SMS to all subjects and will be delivered on the same day of the week.

      No weekly message-A subset of study subjects will receive no weekly SMS message. This is
      consistent with the current benefit structure.

      General weekly message-A subset of study subjects will receive a weekly SMS that provides
      general information on the HealthyFood programme and on eating a healthier diet.

      Personalized (tailored) weekly message-A subset of study subjects will receive a weekly SMS
      that includes details about their individual purchasing behavior over the past week. This
      message will highlight both the percentage and item breakdown of their purchases that were
      healthy vs. unhealthy.

      Financial Incentive Structures

      There are three different incentive structures we will test in this study. The goal of the
      financial incentives is to increase members' motivation to purchase healthy foods. Two of the
      strategies are currently part of the HealthyFood programme, the third is a new structure
      which introduces a economic disincentive on the purchase of unhealthy foods.

      10% cash-back: This is the current cash-back level for all subjects at the start of on the
      study. This group is included as a comparison for the other incentive structures.

      25% cash back: A subset of study subjects will experience an increase in their cash-back
      percentage from 10% to 25% of healthy food purchases. The purpose of this group is to assess
      whether the increase from a 10% level to a 25% level of cash-back is sufficiently large to
      influence purchasing behaviors.

      10% + 15% (healthy-unhealthy): A subset of study subjects will become eligible for additional
      15% cash-back above their current 10% level. This additional 15% cash-back will be based on
      the net monetary amount between their healthy and unhealthy purchases. With this structure,
      an individual will only receive additional cash-back (above the 10%) if they spend more on
      healthy foods than on unhealthy foods, and will be able to maximize their cash-back rewards
      by purchasing only healthy foods.

      Monthly Messaging Strategies

      Currently all Vitality members enrolled in the HealthyFood programme receive a monthly SMS
      message informing them of their cash-back deposit.

      Bundled deposit SMS (standard)-This message will be the same message that Vitality currently
      sends to members enrolled in the program me.

      Unbundled deposit SMS-Given the introduction of a new incentive structure which includes a
      penalty for unhealthy purchases, we wanted to test a message strategy which increases the
      salience of these potential financial losses.

      By combining these different weekly messages, incentive structures, and monthly message, the
      study team determined the aforementioned 6 study arms of interest.
    
  