
    
      Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic malignancy in the United States. Risk
      factors for development of endometrial cancer include increasing age, early menarche, late
      menopause, nulliparity, obesity, use of unopposed estrogen, and Lynch syndrome. The most
      common histology is endometrioid type adenocarcinoma, but less common, high-risk histologies
      include serous carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma, and carcinosarcoma. High risk stage I-II
      disease includes those with high risk histologies or any histology with multiple high risk
      features including deep myometrial invasion, high grade, and presence of extensive
      lymphovascular invasion. Locally advanced risk disease is routinely classified as Stage
      III-IVA. Despite treatment with adjuvant radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or combination
      radiotherapy and chemotherapy, relapse-free survival rates are 58-75% in modern series of GOG
      258 and PORTEC-3. Therefore, there is significant need for improved therapies and
      optimization of combination therapy to improve these outcomes.

      Standard initial management of endometrial cancer is total hysterectomy, bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy, and peritoneal washings with or without pelvic and paraaortic lymph
      node dissection. Endometrial cancer is surgically staged according the International
      Federation of Gynecologic Oncology (FIGO). Endometrioid type carcinomas most commonly present
      in an early stage, and several studies have established risk factors for recurrence including
      increasing depth of myometrial invasion, high grade, lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI),
      older age, greater tumor size, and increasing stage.

      Historically, the rationale behind including adjuvant chemotherapy, either simultaneously
      with radiation therapy or sequentially, was the high rate of distant metastases despite lower
      pelvic failure rates with adjuvant radiation. The combination of chemotherapy and radiation
      therapy has additionally been shown to have greater survival compared either modality as
      monotherapy.

      This study is designed to test the safety of adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy with a
      novel regimen that addresses several of the hypotheses regarding the differing rate of
      distant metastases in GOG 258 while still using radiotherapy due to the locoregional control
      benefit from PORTEC-3.

      To the knowledge of the investigators, no prospective study has reported on sequential and
      concurrent carboplatin and paclitaxel with EBRT for surgically managed endometrial cancer
      patients. With expeditious initiation of high dose systemic therapy and use of
      platinum/taxane combination chemotherapy concurrent with radiotherapy, we can address several
      potential hypotheses regarding the role that chemotherapy has to decrease the risk of distant
      metastases. Our primary objective is to assess the acute toxicities associated with
      sequential and concurrent carboplatin and paclitaxel with EBRT in the adjuvant management of
      endometrial cancer patients. If this regimen is safe, then its efficacy can be studied in a
      Phase III study.

      This study will include high risk early stage and locally advanced endometrial cancer
      patients who are surgically managed with total or radical hysterectomy. Patients will be
      included if combination radiation therapy and chemotherapy is recommended. The most common
      patients to be enrolled Endometrioid type FIGO Stage I-II with high risk features, IIIC1 &
      IVA OR Serous Carcinoma, Clear Cell Carcinoma, Carcinosarcoma Stage I-IIIC1 & IVA
    
  