
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of motor impairment acquired after 40 years. Of the affected
      patients, 50% do not recover active finger extension and there is no satisfactory solution
      for functional recovery of the grip in these patients. The use of wearable exoskeletons to
      improve the grip is limited by their size and cost. An alternative is the use of functional
      electrical stimulation of the grasping muscles, named prehension neuroprosthesis, well
      developed in the spinal cord injured patient. In the adult hemiplegic patient, only about ten
      studies concerned the functional impact of a prehension neuroprosthesis, which have shown
      potential to perform a correct hand opening linked with a significant functional gain.
      Nevertheless, one of the major problems concerns the definition of the optimal modalities to
      control the prehension neuroprosthesis, modalities which until now have proved unsuitable for
      post-stroke patients: an open-loop control with manual triggering of the neuroprosthesis
      (press-button type) is not suitable with daily living use; control with the contralateral
      upper-limb is also not suitable for everyday use where bimanual tasks are required; and
      finally, the use of the residual voluntary electromyographic activity of the targeted muscle
      limits the opening of the fingers and the reliability of the control by promoting the
      occurrence of spastic cocontractions of the flexors of the fingers.

      In this context, the present project proposes to evaluate the functional contribution of a
      closed-loop controlled prehension neuroprosthesis that will restore an extension of the
      fingers and the thumb in order to improve the grip function.

      Each patient is evaluated 5 times during visits lasting between 1h30 and 2 hours. Patients
      are already admitted to standard care for a period of at least 5 consecutive days in the
      Rehabilitation Center. The visit (Day 1) will include the patient and collect the Action Arm
      Research Test (ARAT) and Upper Limb Performance Assessment (ULPA) scores achieved with the
      inactive prehension neuroprosthesis. The visit T1 (day 2) will select the preferred control
      mode of the neuroprosthesis. The visit T2 (day 3) and T3 (day 4) will allow learning and
      training in the use of the neuroprosthesis. The visit T4 (day 5) will evaluate the functional
      impact of the neuroprosthesis: the patients will perform the standardized primary and
      secondary gripping tasks with the activated or inactivated neuroprosthesis, then the ARAT and
      ULPA with activated neuroprosthesis, and finally the Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices
      Scale and the Device subscale of the Quebec User Assessment of Satisfaction with Assistive
      Technology questionnaire will be completed. The end of the visit T4 corresponds to the end of
      the patient's inclusion in the research protocol.
    
  