
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate the feasibility of delivering an enhanced quitline-based smoking cessation
      intervention to lung cancer patients in the outpatient oncology setting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To gather preliminary outcome data for an enhanced quitline-based smoking cessation
      intervention adapted to the outpatient oncology setting to support future grant applications.

      II. To evaluate change in primary patient reported outcomes, including quality of life
      (quantified by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung [FACT-L] and the European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Lung Cancer
      Module [EORTC QLQ LC13]), perceived life stress (quantified by the Perceived Stress Scale),
      and depression (quantified by the Center for Epidemiological Studies Short Depression Scale
      [CESD-10]), in lung cancer patients in the intervention and control conditions (control arm
      closed to accrual as of 3/6/2012) from baseline to 3-months following randomization.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (closed to accrual as of 3/6/2012): Patients receive a personalized letter from their
      physician with advice to quit smoking and a copy of the National Cancer Institute's "Cleaning
      the Air" smoking cessation booklet.

      ARM II: Patients receive a personalized letter and a smoking cessation booklet. Patients also
      receive an 8-week supply of nicotine replacement patches and undergo a counseling session
      over 30-45 minutes with a trained nurse or midlevel provider that focuses on the benefits of
      quitting smoking for cancer patients and addresses cancer-specific concerns about smoking
      cessation. Patients also undergo a quitline-based smoking cessation intervention comprising 5
      individual 25- to 30-minute telephone counseling sessions and unlimited inbound phone-based
      access to Quit Coaches over 8-11 weeks, mailed written materials, and an interactive online
      program.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months.
    
  