
    
      In the VA system, hearing loss is the second-most common service-connected condition
      affecting 933,182 Veterans, exceeded only by tinnitus which affects 1,121,709 Veterans (data
      from Veterans Benefit Report for Fiscal Year 2016). In FY 2016, the VA dispensed 750,075
      hearing aids at a net procurement of nearly $270 million (report generated from VA Denver
      Acquisition and Logistics Center [DALC] Remote Order Entry System [ROES]). Half of the
      hearing aids dispensed were to experienced hearing aid users receiving replacement hearing
      aids (Dennis, 2014). VA Audiology caseload is significant and Veterans can experience long
      wait-times for fitting appointments to obtain new hearing aids (Office of the Inspector
      General, 2014).

      The purpose of the fitting appointment is to program and verify the hearing aids and orient
      the patient to hearing aid use/care. For patients obtaining replacement hearing aids, the
      orientation typically is unnecessary, and the programming is simplified; consisting mainly of
      matching the individual's real-ear aided response (REAR) and hearing aid output to
      appropriate target values. In contrast to adults, REAR measurements are not well-tolerated by
      children due to the requirement for placement of a probe tube in the ear canal. Therefore, a
      hearing aid fitting procedure that circumvents the need for in situ REAR measurements (real
      ear coupler difference or RECD) is the standard-of-care (SoC) for children. Considerable
      research clearly has shown the equivalency of in situ REAR and RECD fitting procedures (e.g.,
      Moodie et al., 1994). RECD fitting procedures rarely are used with adults; however, such an
      approach could preclude the need for direct physical contact with the patient at the time of
      the hearing aid fitting. Three experiments are proposed. The purpose of the first study is to
      evaluate coupler-based fitting approach for groups of experienced users obtaining replacement
      hearing aids and compare the accuracy of those fittings to the prescription and their
      outcomes to norms. The second study aims to develop correction factors for venting of
      open-fit hearing aids. The third study will focus on comparing coupler-based fittings of
      open-fit hearing aids (using correction factors developed from study two results) to an SoC
      (active control) group who will have their open-fit hearing aids fitted in face-to-face
      appointment via standard in situ REAR procedures. In Study 1 and 3, both groups will return
      for in situ REARs and self-report outcomes assessment one month after the hearing-aid
      fitting. The results of this study should determine the efficacy of a RECD-based, hearing-aid
      fitting approach for experienced hearing-aid users who are receiving replacement hearing aids
      consisting of a variety of styles. If the approaches are equivalent, then this study will
      provide an evidence-based, RECD fitting approach that should result in greater patient
      satisfaction and reduced costs.
    
  