
    
      CORE is a phase II/III, multi-centre, non-blinded, parallel group randomised controlled trial
      in patients with breast, prostate or NSCLC primary cancer comparing standard of care (SOC)
      with or without SBRT for extra-cranial metastases. The aim of the phase II study is to
      demonstrate 1) feasibility of recruitment, 2) deliverability of the study in a multi-centre
      setting and 3) activity of SBRT, based on progression free survival, across the three tumour
      types. If all three aims are achieved the trial will be amended to roll into parallel
      tumour-site specific phase III trials.

      Eligible patients are those with either primary breast, prostate or NSCLC who have presented
      with ≤3 extra-cranial, metachronous, oligometastases, all suitable for SBRT. Patients will be
      randomised in a 1:1 ratio to either SOC or SOC with the addition of SBRT. Choice of SOC
      treatment is at the discretion of the local oncologist and defined per patient prior to
      randomisation (see section 8). Patients randomised to SBRT+SOC will receive a dose and
      fractionation regimen dependent on the metastatic site and proximity to dose limiting organs
      and normal tissues. Treatment will take place within 6 weeks of randomisation. The average
      scheme would be 3 treatments over 5 days but the maximum period of SBRT duration could be 8
      treatments over 19 days.

      All patients will be reviewed every 3 months with a clinical examination and tumour markers
      (where applicable) during years 1 and 2, and 6 monthly thereafter to 5 years. Staging and
      follow up imaging protocols will be tumour type dependent:

        -  Breast: 3 monthly CT scans for years 1 and 2, and 6 monthly thereafter to 5 years.

        -  NSCLC: 3 monthly CT scans for years 1 and 2, 6 monthly to year 3, then annually to 5
           years.

        -  Prostate: CT scans will be performed at 6, 12 and 24 months with imaging triggered by
           appropriate PSA rises. A rising PSA defined as 2 successive PSA rises from nadir,
           measured a minimum of 4 weeks apart. If the overall PSA rise has a doubling time of ≥ 3
           months or the PSA level has doubled the original PSA value at trial entry or if
           clinically indicated, then restaging should be considered.

      All patients will have a toxicity assessment at each clinic visit and patient reported
      quality of life (QOL) assessment at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months.
    
  