
    
      Office Visit screening visit:

        1. The patient will be informed concerning the study and sign the Informed Consent Form
           (ICF) prior to conduct of any study procedures

        2. The following data will be collected for each study subject:

           a .Subject's DOB (if allowed) or age b. Gender c .Race d. Ethnicity

        3. BCVA on both eyes on the day of the visit

        4. Both eyes of the subject will be scanned, non-dilated, with either a commercial Zeiss
           Cirrus or Heidelberg Engineering Spectralis OCT device with one (1) acceptable volume
           scan of each eye being obtained

        5. Both eyes of the subject that meet all screening criteria will be enrolled

        6. The following data will be collected for the study eye(s):

             1. Qualifying diagnosis for the study eye from the subject's medical record

             2. From the subject's medical record, the presence of other ophthalmic conditions
                including but not limited to:

           i. Cataract ii. Glaucoma iii. Dry Eye iv. Other macula findings

        7. The subject will receive a general overview of the self-operation of the Notal Home OCT
           at the investigational clinic facility by trained study personnel. A Notal Home OCT
           device is then assigned to the subject.

        8. The subject will be reminded that the Notal Home OCT will be delivered to their home and
           instructed to self-image the study eye(s) daily using a Notal Home OCT device at home
           for 90 days.

      Home Set-up with Remote Assistance (Day 0)

      Following confirmation of subject eligibility at the Enrollment visit and the subject is
      enrolled in the study:

        1. The subject will be contacted by the NVDC to verify their delivery address.

        2. The device will be delivered to the subject's home, with confirmation sent back to the
           NVDC.

        3. Remote support is available by the NVDC via phone during standard business hours of 8am
           - 6pm EST, if needed.

        4. The subject will follow the steps detailed in the Set-up Guide included in the box

      In-Home Phase (Day 0 to Day 90) Following set-up of the Notal Home OCT,

        1. Day 0: The subject will review the tutorial and will perform one calibration session for
           each eye.

        2. Day 1: The subject will perform the first self-imaging session with the Notal Home OCT
           on both eyes followed by automated transmission of the scans. This first session will be
           considered a practice session.

        3. Days 2-90: The patient will perform one self-imaging session followed by automated
           transmission on both eyes at home with the Notal Home OCT each day.

      If an eye cannot calibrate during 5 separate attempts or fails to test 5 consecutive times,
      the subject will be notified by the NVDC to discontinue self-imaging this eye. If there is a
      fellow eye also enrolled in the study, the fellow eye will continue

      Weekly Review of Notal Home OCT Images by the PI:

      The physician will review patient images on a weekly basis to perform an assessment of daily
      fluid status and document their observations in the CRF.

      Routine Care Visits:

      Routine care visits may be conducted at the investigator's discretion. The following
      procedures will be performed at the routine care visits: BCVA, Spectralis or Cirrus OCT, 3.
      Initiate treatment, if necessary, and document which anti-VEGF drug is used.

      At Office Exit Visit (approximately 90 days after Day 0)

      Subjects will return to the clinic for an office visit approximately ninety (90) days after
      the Day 0 (Home Set-up) Visit. At this visit, the exams will be conducted in the following
      order:

        1. BCVA will be performed on both eyes.

        2. Both eyes of the subject will be imaged, using a Cirrus or Spectralis OCT, and reviewed
           by the PI to determine fluid status.

        3. Initiate standard of care and treatment, if necessary.

        4. Collect AEs, if applicable.

        5. Subject completes the Notal Home OCT Subject User Questionnaire.

        6. Exit subject from the study.
    
  