
    
      I. BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE Trunk stability and mobility are essential to engage in
      everyday life. In general, adults in the United State have weak "core" or trunk strength,
      resulting from weak abdominal and back musculature as well as weak muscles that assist in
      moving the trunk. After a spinal cord injury (SCI), the trunk becomes even less stable as
      there are fewer innervated muscles available to support trunk control and movement. In the
      absence of strong or innervated trunk-stabilizing muscles, adults with paraplegia may use
      compensatory patterns of maintaining an upright posture during balance challenges, which
      could lead to pain and musculoskeletal injury.

      For these adults with paraplegia, dynamic seated postural control is greatly needed during
      wheelchair mobility, transfers, and safe performance of activities of daily living. This
      trunk control enables the individual to bend down, lean from side to side, and recover from
      these positions without fear of falling. Additionally, increasing trunk strength and posture
      and control may result in enhanced functional independence, with greater range of motion and
      ability to efficiently mobilize the upper extremities.

      Evidence clearly indicates that strength and function declines in adults with chronic SCI can
      be mitigated by regular exercise, and the ability to stabilize the trunk has been thought to
      increase during upper body resistance training among adults with chronic paraplegia.
      Effective interventions that enhance trunk control and strength in this population are
      lacking, with preliminary studies including trunk strengthening as a preparatory activity for
      assisted ambulation. Furthermore, trunk strengthening is not addressed as a preventive
      intervention in rehabilitation for adults with paraplegia, though it is important to train
      whichever trunk muscles are available to support functional independence and safety.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of an 8- week resistance training
      routine to improve functional trunk strength, muscle activation, and physical functioning in
      exercise in 30 adults with paraplegic SCI. This study will also examine outcomes of
      confidence in one's ability to avoid falling during balance challenges, and self-efficacy for
      participating in exercise activity. Participants will serve as their own control in this
      pre-post design.

      II. SPECIFIC AIMS

        1. To determine the effect of resistance training on functional postural strength, and
           muscle strength and activation among adults with paraplegia.

           Hypothesis: Participants who complete an 8-week resistance training program will score
           higher on measures of functional postural strength and muscle strength and activation.

        2. To determine whether participation in an 8-week trunk resistance exercise program
           increases self-reported physical functioning during self-care, and basic and wheeled
           mobility.

           Hypothesis: Upon completing the resistance program, participants will report gains in
           physical functioning during activities of daily living.

        3. To determine whether participation in an 8-week trunk resistance exercise program
           increases confidence in ability to maintain balance during daily activities and
           self-efficacy to participate in exercise activity.

      Hypothesis: Upon completing the resistance program, participants will report declines in fear
      of falling, and gains in self-efficacy to participate in exercise activity.

      V. STUDY PROCEDURES Methods of data collection: The proposed project is a randomized
      controlled study in which participants will complete a baseline assessment session. During
      the baseline session (Week 0 of the resistance training program), demographic and clinical
      data will be collected, including detailed health history. Further assessments will take
      place at 4-week and 8-week time points of the resistance training program. The assessments
      will take place in-person at Spaulding Hospital Cambridge (ExPD). Please see Study
      Assessments section for schedule of testing participants in either condition.

      Based on their reported medical history participants may also be asked to provide additional
      medical records or may need further testing or physician clearance to determine their
      eligibility and the safety of their participation in this program which includes regular
      vigorous exercise (i.e. cardiology clearance, orthopedic evaluation, ASIA exam).These
      additional tests or medical visits may or may not be covered by insurance. The participant
      will be responsible for obtaining any additional testing or clearance and providing the
      program with medical records or results.

      The duration of the entire study including recruitment, data analyses, and manuscript
      preparation is anticipated to be approximately 2-3 years.

      Training Protocols

      1) Resistance Training Group Participants will be provided up to a week (Week 0) of training
      to attain proficiency in using the resistance equipment, and to determine need for external
      assistance for safety or to adjust resistance levels and cables. Participants will engage in
      strengthening exercises using a cable tower while seated. These movements will include trunk
      flexion and extension, diagonal trunk rotation, and lateral trunk flexion. The goal for
      resistance training frequency (Weeks 1-8) will be three times per week, lasting about 30-45
      minutes per session including warm-up/cool-down, for a duration of eight weeks. Performance
      during exercise sessions will be monitored by study staff that will progress the participant
      to exercises of greater intensity (increasing number of repetitions, sets, or resistance
      load; on an individual basis over the 8-week intervention period according to the
      participant's level of readiness). This progression will also be guided by a strength
      training protocol, as each participant indicates s/he are doing well with the exercises, are
      not experiencing pain, and specify a decrease in the challenge level of particular exercises.
      Resistance intensity of each exercise will also be determined based on the initial maximal
      strength performing that exercise: Weeks 1-4 will be 50-60% of the baseline calculated 1
      repetition maximum (RM) values; Weeks 5-8 will use resistive loads equivalent to 50-60% of
      Week 4 1RM calculations; the final session during Week 8 will be used to determine final
      strength values (see Measurement and Testing Protocols below for further details).

      There is no limit or specific requirement for training sessions that must be attended to
      continue participating in this protocol. Subjects will be encouraged by study staff to attend
      three training sessions per week. Un-reported missed training session will be followed up
      with a phone call to document why the training session was missed and to encourage prompt
      return to training sessions as soon as possible.
    
  