
    
      This is a multi-centre registry study in Norwegian medical and surgical hospitals. The
      project is focusing on patients aged 60+, receiving an intervention for alcohol-related
      health problems in somatic hospital wards in one year, and without a previous history of
      referral or treatment in specialized health care for an alcohol or drug problem. Other age
      groups of adults will be used as control groups. The included patients will also be their own
      control group, where we compare registry data on the trajectories three years following the
      alcohol intervention with registry data from the three years preceding the intervention.

      The recruited hospitals will have different strategies for identification of and
      interventions for alcohol-related health problems, and the choice of methods is thus outside
      of our control. All inhabitants in Norway are registered with a personal identification
      number. This individual identifier makes the linkage between the participants and the
      different registries possible. Data from these registries will enable the study of serious
      incidents, as well as of diagnoses, medications and other treatments, welfare and benefits,
      and causes of death. Data will be gathered three years retrospectively and 3 years
      prospectively, related to the index hospital stay where alcohol is addressed and a brief
      intervention is delivered.

      Inclusion criteria for patients are age 21+, no previous treatment history for drug or
      alcohol problems in specialized health care, admitted to medical or surgical hospital ward,
      identified risky or harmful alcohol consumption, accepting an alcohol intervention and
      accepting study participation. Baseline data collected are AUDIT C, question no 10 from the
      full AUDIT and classification of alcohol consumption (risky or harmful). All other variables
      are extracted from the national health registries (reimbursement data from primary health
      care and secondary health care, prescription database, Cause of death registry, Norwegian
      Trauma Registry and social security data, marital status, professional status).
    
  