
    
      The use of antiretroviral (ARV) medications has greatly improved morbidity and mortality of
      HIV-infected patients but long-term use of these agents has been associated with significant
      toxicities and medication fatigue that can lead to problems with adherence and eventual
      development of virologic resistance. The spectrum of ARV toxicities is broad including the
      development of lipodystrophy syndrome with lipid abnormalities and glucose intolerance or
      diabetes, while increasing evidence suggests an increased risk of cardiovascular
      complications in ARV-treated HIV-infected individuals. Current PHHS treatment guidelines
      recommend deferring ARV treatment initiation in asymptomatic HIV-infected individuals with
      CD4 count greater than or equal to 350 cells/micro liter, and treatment initiation after the
      CD4 count is less than 350 cells/micro liter. Several patients who started antiretroviral
      therapy at higher CD4 counts (based on older treatment initiation guidelines) or have
      experienced significant immunologic reconstitution after ARV initiation, elect to interrupt
      antiretroviral therapy until their CD4 count reaches the level of current recommendations for
      therapy initiation (less than 350 cells/micro liter).

      Studies to date suggest that baseline and nadir CD4 count are the best predictors of a longer
      duration of treatment interruption that may be more beneficial with respect to reversal or
      delay of long-term ARV-associated toxicity and improved quality of life. It is known that
      intermittent cycles of IL-2 administration can lead to expansion of the CD4 pool and prolong
      survival of CD4 T cells. In this study the hypothesis tested is that IL-2 given prior to ARV
      treatment interruption could significantly prolong the period of ARV treatment interruption
      with preservation of CD4 counts above 350 cells/micro liter, and that this prolongation will
      be beneficial with respect to antiretroviral related toxicity and quality of life.

      The study will have two parts: during the first part (24 weeks) patients will be randomized
      1:1 to either receive three cycles or IL-2 with their ARV therapy or ARV therapy alone. In
      the second part (week 24 to week 120), all participants will interrupt therapy and restart
      when CD4 is less than 350 cells/micro liter. The main comparison will be at week 72, when the
      proportion of patients from the two groups who remain off drugs and have a CD4 greater than
      350 cells/micro liter will be compared. At regular intervals (every 24 weeks) lipodystrophy
      measurements and quality of life questionnaires will be evaluated.
    
  