
    
      Stroke is a serious, life-threatening medical condition that happens when the blood supply to
      a part of the brain is cut off, usually due to a blood clot (ischemic) or hemorrhage.
      Symptoms vary according to how much of the brain is affected and where in the brain the
      stroke occurs but includes paralysis, muscle weakness and speech problems.

      A stroke can also have an impact on the sufferers emotions and can lead to anxiety,
      depression and personality changes. Fluoxetine (otherwise known as Prozac) has been used for
      many years to treat depression. However, there is evidence to suggest that it may also have
      other effects of the brain and enhance brain plasticity (the reorganisation of neural
      pathways in the brain) in a number of different ways.

      One small study, for example, has shown that, if taken soon after a stroke, fluoxetine might
      improve the recovery of arm strength and lead to greater restoration of movement of the
      limbs.

      Adult participants (at least 18 years old) who have had a stroke (either ischemic or
      hemorrhagic) within the last 2-15 days and still have some residual problems caused by the
      stroke e.g. weakness, or problems with their speech (speech impairment).

      Participants are randomly allocated into one of two groups. Those in group 1 are given
      fluoxetine capsules for 6 months. Those in group 2 are given a placebo capsules for 6 months.

      The participants are contacted after one week of starting their treatment, and then again
      after one month, to check on their well-being and that they are still taking their allocated
      caplets. Each participant is asked about any side effects and how much training they have had
      with e.g. a physiotherapist, occupational- or speech-therapist.

      The research team contacts each participant at 3 months to check whether they are still
      taking the capsules, ask about bad side effects, and about how they are feeling (mood). If
      all is well, the participant is given enough medication to cover the rest of the study
      period.

      The participant is asked to stop the study medication after 6 months and repeat assessments
      that they did before they started the study at the local hospital. They are also asked to
      fill in questionnaires together with their next of kin or carer. These questionnaires are
      sent to the trial main centre. If needed, they can also be filled in with the help of a trial
      nurse over the telephone.

      The participants are contacted again one month after they have stopped the medication to see
      how they have progressed.

      At 12 months after recruitment, participants are asked to complete the same questionnaires
      again about how well they have recovered from their stroke and what problems they now have
      after the stroke e.g. weakness in limbs, memory problems, problems with speech, low mood.
      These questionnaires can again be completed on paper or by telephone. The researchers then
      collect data on long-term recovery through national statistics.
    
  