
    
      The investigators will perform a pragmatic multicentre open label pilot randomized controlled
      trial in Canada (London, Hamilton, Ottawa, Halifax, Winnipeg ) to assess the feasibility of a
      full RCT to compare the efficacy and safety of Rivaroxaban or ASA in preventing venous or
      arterial thromboembolic events in patients with myeloma on Len-Dex based therapy. For the
      data collection the research team will use REDCap which is a Research Electronic Data Capture
      web-based tool for creating and managing online database applications and surveys. System
      will allow performing the randomization as well. Patients will be randomized to ASA 81 mg
      daily or Rivaroxaban 10 mg daily. Patients will enter the study at the time of commencement
      of anticoagulants (Rvaroxaban or ASA) and be followed for 6 months, or until 4 weeks after
      stopping Len-Dex, or they withdraw from the study, or they leave the province, or die,
      whichever comes first. Patients will be randomly assigned, in a 1: 1 ratio, to receive either
      Rivaroxaban 10 mg daily for 6 months or ASA 81 mg daily for 6 months. A web-based
      randomization system will ensure allocation concealment. Randomization will be stratified by
      site and by line of therapy (first line or other) in blocks of 4. Using a vanguard design,
      the research team intends to rollover the participants of our feasibility study into a full
      randomized control trial comparing the efficacy and safety of Rivaroxaban or ASA in
      preventing venous or arterial thromboembolic events (ATE) in myeloma patients receiving
      Len-Dex therapy. For the full RCT, the investigators plan to externally validate the IMWG
      criteria model for thromboembolic risk. The investigators will also evaluate the impact of
      adding myeloma bio-markers to the IMWG criteria to assess their association with TE risk and
      potentially improve the utility and generalizability of the IMWG criteria. The bio-markers
      are: D-dimer, LDH, B2 microglobulin and C-reactive protein (CRP). All of the IMWG criteria
      risk factors and the bio-markers will be collected for the participants of the feasibility
      study for potential future enrollment into the full RCT.
    
  