
    
      Comprehensive follow up of low-income families. A cluster-randomised study. Start 1.1 2016,
      Finnish 31.5 2019 Funding: Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration

      Collaboration:

      Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration

      Labour and Welfare offices:

      NAV Alna, NAV Asker, NAV Bergenhus, NAV Bjerke, NAV Bodø, NAV Bærum, NAV Elverum, NAV Fana,
      NAV Frogner, NAV Gamle Oslo, NAV Gjøvik, NAV Grunerløkka, NAV Halden, NAV Harstad, NAV
      Haugesund, NAV Horten, NAV Larvik, NAV Lerkendal, NAV Lillehammer, NAV Malda, NAV Moss, NAV
      Nordstrand, NAV Rana, NAV Ringsaker, NAV Sandefjord, NAV Sandnes, NAV Skedsmo, NAV
      St.Hanshaugen, NAV Værnes

      International collaborators:

      Professor Jukka Vuori, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Finland Professor Richard
      Price, University of Michigan, US Senior researcher Gayle Hamilton, MDRC New York, US
      Professor Bruce Thyer, Florida State University, US

      The Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration has developed a comprehensive model in order
      to improve the follow-up of low income families, and thereby decrease poverty and its
      consequences. By close follow up and better coordination of existing services the model aims
      to improve the financial and housing situation of the family, labour market attachment among
      the parents and the social inclusion of children.

      Oslo and Akershus University College has been commissioned to evaluate the effects of the
      model between 2016 to 2019, with long-term follow-ups until 2021. The evaluation is conducted
      as a cluster-randomized controlled trial, where 29 labor and welfare offices have been
      randomly assigned to the experimental and control group. All 29 offices receive funding two
      family coordinators each in order to work with low-income families. While the experimental
      group offices implement the HOLF-model for the follow-up of low income families, the control
      group offices implement locally developed models.

      Prior to randomization, a baseline questionnaire was collected from office leaders and
      family-coordinators, while baseline information on families is collected based on
      administrative data prior to randomization and questionnaire data after randomization, but
      prior taking part in family projects. Shorter-term effects will be measured + 12 months after
      baseline for families, and long-term effects will be measured based on administrative data
      fup to four years after baseline.

      Researchers at Oslo and Akershus University College analyses the implementation processes and
      effects of the implementation through questionnaires, administrative data, observational
      data, qualitative interviews with leaders, family coordinators and families.

      The project will contribute to increased knowledge about measures to improve the follow up of
      low income families. It will generate knowledge of whether the HOLF-model is more effective
      than locally developed follow-up models, knowledge important for the discussion of
      evidence-informed vs practice-based interventions.

      The project is financed by Labor and Welfare Administration and led by Ira Malmberg-Heimonen,
      Faculty of Social Sciences.

      Participants in the project are: Ira Malmberg-Heimonen (project leader), Anne Grete Tøge,
      Krisztina Gyüre, Knut Fossestøl, Marianne Rugkåsa, Berit Bergheim and Tone Liodden.
    
  