
    
      This is a randomized, parallel, multicenter, 12-week study in adolescent and adult patients
      with mild-to-moderate asthma, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Armstrong's
      Albuterol-HFA MDI, in comparison to a Placebo Control and an Active Control of Proventil-HFA.
      While Albuterol-HFA (Treatment T) and Placebo (Treatment P) will be double-blinded to both
      the subjects and investigational staff, the active comparator drug, Proventil-HFA (Treatment
      R), can only be evaluator-blinded, due to: (1) its physical appearance differing from that of
      the T and P devices; and (2) unavailability of a Proventil-HFA placebo which would otherwise
      be used for a double-dummy design. All study medications will have the canisters and all
      product-identifying text or graphics (e.g., molded text on actuator) masked so that the
      treatments cannot be identified. No subject in any study arm will be given any information
      that could reveal the nature of the treatment given. All study subjects will be instructed
      not to reveal or discuss the study medications to the study staff or other subjects. The
      designated study evaluator(s), who conduct the clinical visits and safety and efficacy
      evaluations and perform the data recording and transcription, will be blinded to the study
      medications.

      All subjects will be screened for enrollment, and will be randomized into the following three
      treatment groups in a double-blinded (for Treatments T and P) or evaluator-blinded (for
      Treatment R) manner:

      Treatment T (Albuterol-HFA, N=200): 216 mcg albuterol sulfate (equivalent to 180 mcg
      albuterol base), QID; Treatment R (Proventil-HFA, N=50): 216 mcg albuterol sulfate
      (equivalent to 180 mcg albuterol base), QID; Treatment P (Placebo-HFA, N=50): two actuations
      of placebo, QID.

      Randomization is achieved with blocks of six (6), with four (4) patients receiving
      Albuterol-HFA for every one (1) patient receiving Proventil-HFA and every one (1) receiving
      the Placebo-HFA. At each Clinical Visit that takes place every 3 weeks, the double-blinded
      (T, P) or evaluator-blinded (R) study drugs will be distributed in resealable masking pouches
      to the subjects of each arm.

      An additional aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of weekly cleaning on the
      Albuterol-HFA MDI device clinical performance throughout the four, 3-week life-of-device
      treatment cycles, in conformance with the FDA's specific requirements.

      Arms:

      All subjects will be screened for enrollment, and will be randomized into the following three
      treatment groups in a double-blinded (for Treatments T and P) or evaluator-blinded (for
      Treatment R) manner:

      Treatment T (Albuterol-HFA, N=200): 216 mcg albuterol sulfate (equivalent to 180 mcg
      albuterol base), QID; Treatment R (Proventil-HFA, N=50): 216 mcg albuterol sulfate
      (equivalent to 180 mcg albuterol base), QID; Treatment P (Placebo-HFA, N=50): two actuations
      of placebo, QID.
    
  