
    
      Background

      Lifespans are increasing and the proportion of elderly persons undergoing surgery is
      increasing[1]. As clinicians we need to accurately communicate the risks of major surgery to
      our patients. Traditional risk prediction tools such as Physiologic and operative Severity
      Score for the enumeration of Mortality and Morbidity (POSSUM) estimate short-term
      outcomes[2]. Patients have the right to know the likely outcomes beyond the 30-day
      perioperative period, including life expectancy, long-term complications, level of
      independence and quality of life[3].

      Based on a systematic review of the literature we have previously reported on the paucity of
      studies evaluating longer-term outcomes in persons of advanced age undergoing major
      surgery[4].

      Our group has previously reported, from analysis performed on an English administrative
      dataset, that patients face comparatively high mortality of 29% at one year following
      colorectal surgery when performed as an emergency[5]. Furthermore, we have published
      findings, again from national datasets, that patients 75-80 years of age undergoing
      colorectal resection in the elective setting also face substantial mortality of 16% at
      one-year, and over a third of patients aged >89 years who underwent surgery did not survive
      one-year[6].

      Frailty, a distinct entity from co-morbidity, is recognized as an independent contributor to
      mortality in elderly surgical patients[7-10]. Thus we need to improve preoperative risk
      stratification for geriatric patients. Such systems may include frailty assessment and
      relevant predictive biomarkers. Thus we can then target additional healthcare resources
      towards the most frail and vulnerable elderly patients to mitigate against the risks of
      postoperative complications and death[11].

      Preoperative optimisation strategies [12-14], careful intraoperative monitoring and
      postoperative care within the high dependency setting may reduce the frequency of
      postoperative complications, accelerate recovery and improve short-term outcomes.
      Furthermore, we need a collaborative research with elderly care and community physicians to
      determine whether ongoing postoperative community rehabilitation can offset the late risk of
      death associated with major surgery and further improve long-term survival.

      Rationale for Current Study: Research Question

      What preoperative parameters can be used to predict patient centered outcomes (survival,
      complications, functional independence, quality of life) in older persons undergoing major
      gastrointestinal elective surgery in the intermediate term?

      Hypotheses

      Traditional POSSUM scoring systems will not reliably predict outcomes at 1 year in elderly
      persons.

      Patients determined to be frail preoperatively will have worse outcomes at 1 year, in terms
      of survival, postoperative complications, level of independence and quality of life.

      Study Objectives

      To identify the preoperative parameters that will predict 1 year outcomes in patients aged
      ≥60 years undergoing major gastrointestinal elective surgery.

      Parameters include comprehensive geriatric assessment (i.e. a preoperative questionnaire of
      validated instruments assessing the dimensions of co-morbidities, activities of daily living,
      nutrition, cognitive function, emotional status, fatigue and performance status).

      Furthermore patients will be asked to undergo a series of simple physical exercises (hand
      grip strength, timing up and go, 15 feet timing walking test, and 6 minute walking test).

      Preoperative serum results will also be incorporated. Additional blood and urine samples will
      be obtained preoperative for later metabolic profiling.

      Questionnaire, physical tests and biological sampling with be assessed at the time of the
      preoperative assessment process, or at another time preoperatively at the patients
      convenience.

      Serum samples will be only obtained preoperatively. Urine samples may be collected following
      surgery.
    
  