
    
      Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is caused by the destruction of pancreatic islet cells through an
      autoimmune attack against insulin-producing beta cells in the endocrine pancreas. This in
      turn impairs glucose control causing multi-organ failure, morbidity and mortality which are
      also associated with high economic costs. While strict glucose control with insulin
      replacement therapy is the standard-of-care, achieving controlled glucose homeostasis remains
      a major challenge. Replacement of the insulin-producing beta cells through pancreatic islet
      transplantation has emerged as a promising therapy for T1D. Thus far, hundreds of islet
      transplantations have been performed in ongoing clinical trials worldwide. Islet
      transplantation is on the verge of obtaining FDA approval as a standard therapy in T1D. While
      ongoing clinical trials have focused on islet transplantation into the hepatic portal system,
      the search for alternative islet transplantation sites remains a priority for funding
      agencies and an active area of research. Studies have explored islet transplantation into
      different locations. One location of interest is the anterior chamber of the eye (ACE).

      Importantly, these studies have shown several advantages offered by islet transplantation
      into the anterior chamber of the eye compared to other sites, which include:

        -  Local/topical immunosuppression and intervention potentially feasible.

        -  No IBMIR (Instant Blood Mediated Inflammatory Reaction) as when islets are injected to
           the portal vein with a major loss of islets.

        -  Good survival of transplanted islets due to limited anoxia time (fewer islets required
           to improve glycaemic control compared to other islet transplantation sites (i.e.,
           liver)).

        -  Non-invasive monitoring/assessment of grafted islets with potential cellular resolution.

        -  Intraocular islets may function as "reporters" of native islets or islets transplanted
           elsewhere.

        -  Simpler surgical procedure as compared to other islet transplantation sites (i.e.,
           liver).

      Access to the ACE is a safe procedure routinely used by ophthalmic surgeons for the anterior
      segment surgery (e.g. cataract operations) and extraction of intraocular fluid for diagnostic
      purposes. Importantly, the ACE has unique immunological properties which regulate the immune
      system in such a way that allogeneic tissue placed in this compartment may be protected from
      immune rejection and this correlates with the generation of systemic immune tolerance through
      anterior chamber-associated immune deviation (ACAID) (Niederkorn and Streilein, 1982;
      Streilein and Niederkorn, 1985). Hence, the potential of inducing systemic immune tolerance
      and eliminating severe side-effects associated with systemic immunosuppression through
      local/topical drug application further highlight the significance and clinical relevance of
      this approach. Moreover, this introduces the possibility of transplanting additional islets
      elsewhere in the body without risk of rejection. Importantly, it was recently shown that
      islet grafts in the ACE also serve as "reporters" for the status of the pancreatic islets
      (Ilegems et al., 2013). This essentially demonstrates that islets in the ACE are reliable,
      easily accessible reporters for the overall health and islet function during interventions
      regimens aimed at regulating different aspects of the pancreatic islets.

      INTERVENTION AND INDICATION

      We intend to transplant six T1D participants with reduced vision in one or both eyes due to
      diabetes or other complications. Transplantation of allogeneic pancreatic human islets will
      be performed into the anterior chamber of a single eye with the poorest visual acuity (see
      inclusion/exclusion criteria below). Up to 40 000 IEQ of islets in a maximum volume of 350µl
      will be transplanted.

      RATIONALE FOR THE INTENDED INTERVENTION

      Improvement in glycaemic control is expected with the intended intervention, as measured with
      change in C-peptide, insulin, proinsulin and glucose levels during the MMTT, change in
      insulin requirements, change in HbA1c levels and in fasting glucose from baseline, change in
      total number of hypoglycaemic events, change of hypoglycaemia awareness, change in glycaemia
      fluctuations after transplant at Day 90, 180 and 365 post-operatively.

      RISKS / BENEFITS

      Successful islet transplantation reduces the risk to people with T1D of life-threatening
      hypoglycaemia and psychosocially debilitating glycaemic lability. While the long-term
      durability of these responses is at present uncertain, they persist for as long as some graft
      function is maintained, despite the eventual return to insulin therapy in the majority of
      islet transplant recipients in clinical trials of islet transplant in other sites. This
      partial function, as indicated by continued c-peptide production, may be present in as many
      as 80% of recipients after 5 years. Given our preliminary studies, however, a "marginal"
      islet mass in the anterior chamber of the eye may prove superior in conveying better
      function. Nonetheless, as long as graft function is maintained, fear of hypoglycaemia and
      anxiety are significantly lower after islet transplantation. Indeed, T1D participants with
      persistent c-peptide production have a significantly reduced risk of severe hypoglycaemia.
      Additionally, while most transplant recipients experience only a temporary reprieve from
      exogenous insulin therapy, a few have maintained insulin-independent graft function for more
      than 3 years. Shorter engraftment period in the anterior chamber of the eye may promote
      better survival of transplanted islets and lead to improved long-term graft function and
      further the duration of insulin-independence after transplantation, potentially leading to
      reductions in the secondary complications of T1D. At present, systemic immunosuppression is
      needed in all types of allogeneic organ- or cell transplantations. Due to the well-known side
      effects and risks involved with this medication the benefit from the procedure must out-weigh
      the risks. The benefit from the proposed treatment is unknown and therefore we have chosen
      participants that are already treated with immunosuppression not to lay this additional
      burden upon them.

      Ophthalmic complications may include: elevated intraocular pressure, infection, corneal
      edema, severe inflammation, progression of diabetic retinopathy, or anterior segment
      neovascularization.

      Only people with reduced VA in the treated eye and equal or better VA in the fellow eye will
      be included. Systemic complications due to the intervention are not expected. Nevertheless,
      systemic effects will be carefully monitored including possible immunization against the
      donor cells.

      The proposed pilot study will mainly focus on the safety of islet transplantation to the ACE
      in a narrowly selected group of participants. However, if the study is successful we intend
      to treat participants with less severe disease and with broader systemic inclusion criteria.
      Ultimately, islet transplantation to the ACE may become an alternative route for cell therapy
      and disease monitoring in insulin-treated diabetes.

      The islets will be transplanted into the eye with reduced vision to minimise any side-effects
      affecting your vision. The primary aim of the study is to evaulaute safety of the
      transplanting islets in the eye and regular eye examinations will be carried out throughout
      the study to identify any potential potential post-surgical risks caused by the transplanted
      islets which may include increased pressure in the eye, infection, swelling of the cornea,
      severe inflammation, progression of pre-existing diabetic retinopathy, or the formation of
      new blood vessels in the eye. To prevent these complications eye drops and antibiotics will
      be given. If needed a steroid injection can be administered to help with any issues and if
      necessary the transplanted islets will be removed.

      JUSTIFICATION OF CHOICE OF STUDY POPULATION

      Six people with T1D with reduced vision in one or both eyes due to diabetes or other
      complications, will be included in the study. Within this population we expect to identify
      participants with preserved anterior segment integrity which in turn reduces the risk of
      treatment-related complication. The choice of T1D participants facilitates evaluation of
      change in C-peptide and insulin levels. Islets may be surgically removed if uncontrolled
      complications cannot be managed non-surgically.

      HYPOTHESIS

      In this study, we aim to demonstrate safety and feasibility of pancreatic islet cell
      transplantation in the human eye. Also, its efficacy in restoring/improving glycaemic control
      should be demonstrated.
    
  