
    
      Randomized trial to investigate the impact of different stent designs on the target lesion
      restenosis rate in femoro-popliteal arteries. Immediately after stent implantation, sets of
      three orthogonal angiographic views (separated by an angle of > 25째) of the stented region
      (TL) will be obtained with the leg in supine position. This will be followed by
      intra-arterial imaging using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). OCT images (one pullback if
      the lesion length is < 75 mm, 2 pullbacks otherwise) of the TL will be acquired using the
      Dragonfly catheter. In addition, duplex ultrasound (DU) of the TL will be performed,
      including the arterial segments 10cm at proximal and distal edge of the TL. Thereafter, a
      bending cast will be used to obtain a knee/hip flexion of approximately 70째/20째. In this
      position the angiographic, OCT, and DU measurements will be repeated.

      The OCT images will provide the shapes of the arterial lumen which will be used to generate
      3D surface models (in .stl format). The X-ray images will be utilized to construct the 3D
      arterial centerline for the supine and flexed leg positions. These arterial centerlines will
      be used to quantify the axial deformation (in mm), twisting (in 째), and curvature changes (in
      mm-1) along the length of the investigated segment. Additionally, the lumen profiles obtained
      from OCT images will be used to accurately estimate the radial deformations (in mm) in the
      lumen and define instances of arterial pinching during leg flexion (as the difference in
      lumen diameters between straight and flexed leg positions).

      The geometries of the arterial lumens will be combined with their corresponding 3D arterial
      centerlines to generate patient-specific arterial models. Along with patient-specific
      boundary conditions obtained from DU measurements, these models will be transferred to a
      commercial software, to perform Computational Fluid Dynamics analyses. The changes in these
      parameters due to leg flexion, as well as due to different stent designs, will be quantified.
    
  