
    
      The La Red Network clinical sites will enroll individuals presenting with ILI symptoms. A
      systematic sample will be chosen across all sites, with the goal of choosing 3 subjects who
      are outpatients and 3 subjects who are hospitalized every week at each site. It is recognized
      that, during seasons of low ILI activity, this enrollment goal may not be achieved. To be
      eligible for selection, subjects must be willing to sign informed consent, or provide
      informed consent/assent in the case of minors.

      Subjects will be followed for a period of 28 days after enrollment to assess vital status. It
      is estimated that this study will enroll a maximum of 1872 subjects per year for an
      approximate 7488 subjects in the four years that the study proposes to enroll, depending upon
      the extent of ILI occurring during the period of this study.

      Nasopharyngeal swabs, sputum samples, and blood samples will be obtained at enrollment. The
      nasopharyngeal swabs and, in adults > 18 years of age, portion of the blood for serum and
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be obtained for storage and shipped to the
      central repository located at the Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición Salvador
      Zubirán for respiratory pathogen testing including real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
      and multiplex techniques.

      All enrolled subjects will be assessed at enrollment, at 7 days (+3 days) and at 28 days (+/-
      5 days) after enrollment to assess disease resolution and vital status.

      The purpose of the study is to provide information regarding the pathogens causing ILI among
      patients seeking care at the La Red Network sites. The systematic collection of data over
      time will allow for the determination of seasonal patterns of different etiologic agents and
      the ability for early identification of the emergence of particular viruses, as well as the
      ability to identify changes in severity of disease signaled by an increase of severity,
      hospitalization and/or death attributable to a specific pathogen.

      One important aspect of influenza infection is to the need to identify genetic factors
      associated with severity among patients who present with influenza and develop severe
      disease. Subjects will be given the option to opt out of the genetic testing by noting it on
      the informed consent form. This testing will be limited to studies related to respiratory
      viruses and influenza, and any study designed to use genetic testing. These studies will be
      submitted for review by the institutional review boards (IRBs) of the sites participating in
      the La Red Network.
    
  