
    
      Background:

      Trabectedin (ET-743) is a natural product derived from the marine tunicate Ecteinascidia
      turbinata. It binds to the minor groove of DNA and interacts with various transcription
      factors resulting in cell cycle arrest. It also inhibits transcription coupled nucleotide
      excision repair system inducing lethal DNA strand breaks.

      In preclinical and clinical studies, trabectedin has been found to be active in many soft
      tissue sarcomas including leiomyosarcoma, synovial cell sarcoma, neuroblastoma,
      rhabdomyosarcoma, melanoma, breast, ovarian, non-small cell lung, renal and prostate
      carcinoma.

      In adult phase I and phase II studies, trabectedin has been well-tolerated up to dose levels
      of 1.9mg/m(2)/dose with the most common toxicities being fatigue, neutropenia, and reversible
      transaminase elevations. Objective responses were seen at doses equal to or greater than
      1.5mg/m(2)/dose. Trabectedin 1.5mg/m(2) administered as a 24-hour continuous intravenous
      infusion is the recommended dose and schedule in adults.

      A pediatric phase I study of trabectedin administered as a 3-hour infusion has been completed
      in the Children's Oncology Group. The maximum tolerated dose was 1.1 mg/m(2). Dose limiting
      toxicity was reversible elevation of hepatic transaminases.

      Objectives:

      Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of trabectedin administered as a 24-hour
      continuous infusion in children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory solid tumors.

      Define the toxicity profile of trabectedin administered as a 24-hr infusion in children and
      adolescents.

      Describe the pharmacokinetics of trabectedin administered as a 24-hr infusion in children and
      adolescents.

      Quantify double strand DNA breaks in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients receiving
      trabectedin.

      Evaluate archival formalin fixed paraffin embedded tumor tissue, when available from prior
      biopsies or surgical procedures, for the expression of the nucleotide excision repair
      proteins and genomic instability markers (histone gamma-H2AX, phospho-ATM, phospho-Chk2) by
      immunohistochemistry

      Molecular characterization of DNA repair genes and correlation to outcome using mRNA isolated
      from microdissected archival formalin fixed, paraffin embedded tumor sections.

      Study the pharmacogenetics of host DNA repair proteins and drug metabolizing enzymes to
      explore the impact of host factors on trabectedin toxicity.

      Eligibility:

      Children greater than or equal to 4 years and less than 17 years of age with relapsed or
      refractory solid tumors.

      Design:

      Patients will receive trabectedin as a 24-hour continuous infusion repeated every 21 days.
      The starting dose level is 1.1mg/m(2)/dose with escalations to 1.5mg/m(2)/dose and
      1.7mg/m(2)/dose.

      All patients will receive dexamethasone pretreatment and growth factor support with
      filgrastim or pegfilgrastim.

      The definition of dose-limiting hepatic toxicity will be identical to the definition used in
      phase I trials in adults on the same dosing schedule.

      Pharmacokinetic analysis will be performed on days 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 of the first treatment
      cycle.

      Three to six patients will be enrolled at the first dose level and up to 6 patients will be
      enrolled on subsequent dose levels. Dose escalation will be based on tolerability of
      trabectedin at the prior dose level. For patients enrolled at dose level 1 (1.1mg/m(2)),
      intrapatient dose escalation to dose level 2 (1.5mg/m(2)) will be allowed with subsequent
      cycles if no dose limiting toxicities occurred at the lower dose level. Total accrual will be
      up to 24 patients.
    
  