
    
      Individuals of African descent have a much higher risk for glomerular diseases. Specifically,
      there are two risk variants in the chromosome 22 APOL1 gene (G1/G2) and persons possessing 2
      copies of these risk variants (G1/G1, G1/G2, or G2/G2), referred to as the high-risk (HR)
      genotype, are at high risk for non-diabetic kidney disease. Kopp et al. have shown that the
      APOL1 high-risk genotype confers sizeable odds ratios (OR) for FSGS (OR = 17), HIVAN (OR = 29
      in the US; 89 in S. Africa), and hypertension-attributed end stage kidney disease (OR = 7).
      The presence of these risk variants is highest in West Africa, and specifically in Nigeria
      among persons of Hausa, Fulani, and Igbo descent. In the setting of untreated HIV infection,
      we have estimated that ~50% of individuals carrying the APOL1 HR genotype will develop
      chronic kidney disease (CKD). However, there is limited availability of dialysis and kidney
      transplantation in Nigeria, and most individuals will die soon after developing ESKD. Markers
      of kidney disease include microalbuminuria, proteinuria, and/or reduced estimated glomerular
      filtration rate (eGFR). All 3 have been associated with increased mortality in HIV+ adults.
      Increased urinary albumin excretion has diagnostic and prognostic value in the identification
      and confirmation of renal disease, and changes in albuminuria can be useful in assessing
      treatment efficacy as well as disease progression. Microalbuminuria, i.e., urine albumin to
      creatinine ratio (uACR) in the 30-300 mg/g range, is likely the earliest stage of CKD,
      analogous to diabetic microalbuminuria. The renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) is
      the central player in the pathophysiology of CKD and blocking RAAS with angiotensin
      converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) is a well-recognized strategy to slow or halt renal
      disease progression in diabetics with CKD. To determine whether the presence of APOL1 HR
      genotype alters or predicts responsiveness to conventional therapy and if the addition of an
      ACEi to standard antiretroviral therapy (ART) reduces the risk for renal complications among
      West African adults, we will screen 2,600 HIV+ ART-experienced adults; to conduct the
      following Specific Aims:

        1. To determine the prevalence of APOL1 renal risk variants and assess whether APOL1 HR
           status correlates with prevalent albuminuria, eGFR, and/or prevalent CKD in a West
           African population.

        2. To assess whether RAAS inhibition (with the ACEi lisinopril) in addition to ART,
           compared to the existing standard-of-care (SOC), will significantly reduce the incidence
           of additional kidney disease manifestations. We will randomize ART-experienced (6+
           months) adults with prevalent microalbuminuria (uACR 30-300 mg/g) and an eGFR of > 30
           ml/min/1.73m2 to lisinopril (n=140) vs. SOC (n=140); and

        3. To determine whether the APOL1 HR genotype is associated with worse longitudinal renal
           outcomes in Nigerians with prevalent albuminuria.
    
  