
    
      Fistulizing disease remains a frequent and severe problem for patients with Crohn's disease
      (CD). Life-time prevalence of fistula for patients with CD has been estimated to be 17 - 50%
      [1-5] with a cumulative incidence of 33% and 50% after 10 years and 20 years disease
      duration, respectively. These numbers have been confirmed by population-based studies [6, 7].

      Patients with CD and fistula have a decreased quality of life. Reasons include perianal pain,
      discharge from the vagina, abdominal wall, perianal region and urinary tract infections.
      Fistula are frequently associated with abscess formation [8]. Unfortunately, surgical and
      medical treatment options for fistula for CD patients remain limited. Treatment with the
      tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) antibody infliximab remains the best medical treatment option
      available: At least temporary fistula closure is observed for 55% of treated fistula
      (compared to 12% for placebo). However, treatment success is frequently limited to a short
      time period of 3 month [9, 10]: 34% of all fistula patients experience recurrent fistula
      despite therapy [6] and successful treatment is limited to one third patients. For these
      reasons, up to 82% of all fistula need surgical treatment. Surgical options include
      non-cutting setons, application of fibrin glue as a "fistula plug", ligation of the
      intersphincteric fistula tract (LIFT) and reparative surgery including mucosal advancement
      flaps. However, surgical therapy for fistula patients can be complicated by slow wound
      healing, recurrent disease and additional problems [11].

      Combined medical and surgical treatment for patients with fistula and CD can significantly
      improve clinical outcomes [12-15]. However, the best combination of clinical and surgical
      methods has yet to be determined [16]. Open questions include timing of seton removal and
      outcomes of the various surgical procedures for different patient groups.

      At the University Hospital Zurich (USZ) the investigators recently started a combined
      surgical and gastroenterological clinic for patients with fistula. In the new clinic patients
      are seen by gastroenterologists and surgeons and the investigators are aiming for joint
      treatment decisions. Due to this combination of expertise and improved access to
      gastroenterological and surgical resources the investigators are expecting better treatment
      results for the patients and improved satisfaction for patients and referring physicians.

      With the current study the investigators want to achieve the following objectives:

        -  Continuous monitoring of the quality of medical and surgical treatment

        -  Determining the outcome of various fistula therapies and calculating risk factors for a
           favorable and unfavorable outcome

        -  Understanding the natural history of perianal fistula and calculate risk factors for a
           favorable and unfavorable outcome.

      The investigators are therefore proposing a pro- and retrospective database containing data
      regarding the clinical history, patient symptoms, examinations, lab values as well as other
      parameters. The database will be used for quality management regarding the daily work at USZ
      and to improve understanding regarding treatment options and the natural history of fistula.
      The investigators expect significant benefits for future patients from their analysis.
    
  