
    
      Drug-related problems are common in elderly patients. These problems can not only be regarded
      from a medical or economical point of view (i.e. hospitalization, drug related deaths, longer
      hospital stays and increased healthcare costs) but also from a patient centered perspective:
      Drug therapy may not be sufficiently explained by health care practitioners, patients might
      suffer from side effects, the number of different medications could be too large and their
      intake schedule too difficult, all of this leading to a reduced adherence. In addition,
      medication histories are rarely accurate in older patients and doctor's letters do not always
      meet the requirements of a complex drug therapy. At the transition from inpatient to
      outpatient treatment this can lead to a significant loss of information and subsequently
      cause patient harm.

      In Germany, clinical, ward-based pharmacists are not yet established in contrast to other
      countries (i.e. Great Britain, Canada and Australia). However, the implementation of a
      clinical pharmacist may particularly address the problems described above. The present study
      therefore describes the implementation of a comprehensive pharmaceutical assessment in an
      acute care geriatric hospital.

      The above mentioned pharmaceutical assessment consists of the following steps:

      First, the pharmacist will obtain the patient's medication history following the protocol of
      "best possible medication history" (WHO). Furthermore, he will ascertain the patient's
      adherence to his/her drug regime. With the information obtained, he will then carry out a
      thorough medication review (regarding interactions, contraindications, suitability for the
      elderly, dosage regimes, etc.) in order to develop a suggestion for the best possible drug
      regime, which is discussed with the treating physician. In addition, he will also observe
      possible side effects and provide information on the background and significance of every
      single drug to the patient and/or his/her care-giver. Furthermore, the handling of difficult
      devices (i.e. insulin pens, inhalators and transdermal therapeutic systems) will be
      individually explained. Finally, the pharmacist will prepare a distinctive paragraph in the
      medical discharge report in which he explains the changes in the medication regime during the
      inpatient period to the general practitioner and will also elaborate possible interactions
      and problems concerning the patient's medication (pharmaceutical council).

      The main outcome to be evaluated will be the number of hospital readmissions and drug related
      hospital readmissions within six months after discharge (recorded at one, three and six
      months). The secondary outcome will be the days spent at home (also recorded at one, three
      and six months), time to readmission, changes in medication within six months and the
      acceptance of the supposed medication regime by the general practitioner (GP).

      The study will be conducted as a before and after comparison in which the steps described
      above will be implemented successively: In the first phase (140 patients planned for an
      observation period of eight months), patients will receive standard care and the pharmacist
      will only obtain the medication history shortly after admission. Results and discrepancies
      will be discussed with the attending physician of the hospital. After discharge, described
      outcomes will be documented. In the second phase (140 patients planned for an observation
      period of eight months), the pharmacist will conduct all of the activities described above.
      The outcomes will be documented as in phase one.

      We expect that the comprehensive pharmaceutical assessment in the second phase will lead to a
      better coordination regarding the medication regime, enhance the patient's knowledge of their
      medication, thus improving their adherence to the therapy and that the pharmaceutical council
      will ensure a better trans-sectoral communication to the GP with a higher acceptance of the
      supposed drug regime in the doctor's letter. All these improvements combined might reduce
      hospital readmissions and increase the patient's days spent at home.
    
  