
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a chronic, debilitating condition with a broad
      negative impact on physical and mental health functioning. Excellent, empirically-supported
      interventions for PTSD are readily available to Veterans, but the majority of patients who
      receive the best available treatments continue to have a diagnosable disorder after
      treatment. This suggests that complementary interventions may be useful to fully restore
      functioning. In addition, many patients seek alternatives to psychotherapy or
      pharmacotherapy. This is evident in the increasing numbers of individuals with PTSD are
      turning to alternative approaches. At present, however, the investigators lack a good
      evidence base from which to make recommendations about the use of complementary and
      alternative approaches.

      Yoga is very popular practice, touted to enhance physical, mental and spiritual well-being.
      Many Veterans with PTSD have turned to yoga as a part of their recovery plan, often seeking
      care outside the specialty mental health system. Initial evidence suggests that the practice
      leads to clinically significant change in symptoms, but results are yet inconclusive,
      particularly in Veterans. Thus, this project will provide additional data as to efficacy of
      yoga for Veterans PTSD.

      One reason that the yoga literature is yet inconclusive may be the tremendous heterogeneity
      in the way in which the yoga is implemented. By understanding the mechanisms by which yoga
      affects PTSD symptoms, universal change processes can be identified. This project, therefore,
      will examine a set of candidate processes, which are known important determinants of PTSD
      symptomatology and potentially modifiable by yoga practice, in order to understand which are
      contributing to symptom change. With 30 million Americans practicing yoga, dissemination of a
      specific protocol would not be practicable. Nonetheless, guidelines for trauma-sensitive
      yoga, which focus primarily on acceptability of the practice for traumatized individuals,
      appear to be associated with better outcomes for those with PTSD. This work would facilitate
      the extension of such guidelines to include practice features that maximize the impact of
      yoga on PTSD symptoms.

      The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial involving 192 Veterans with PTSD from the
      San Diego area. These Veterans will be randomized to receive a manualized hatha yoga
      intervention or a supportive physical activity control condition. Both interventions will be
      delivered by trained instructors in a group setting over a 12-week period. Assessment of
      clinical outcomes and methodological variables will take place before, during, immediately
      after, and 3-months after the intervention. Analyses will focus on change in the intervention
      groups over time and the degree to which change is associated with the candidate mechanisms.

      Results of this study have the potential to inform the way in which yoga is delivered to
      Veterans as well as to increase knowledge about the underlying processes by which PTSD can be
      ameliorated. Given the high demand for yoga demand by individuals with PTSD and the degree to
      which the practice is already being provided in many clinical settings, findings from this
      study will be immediately relevant. Findings may also guide future research in complementary
      and alternative approaches by demonstrating the principle of targeting different processes of
      change to create an integrative care plan.
    
  