
    
      Despite antiretroviral therapy (ART), chronic immune activation persists and is a major
      driver of HIV disease progression and mortality among HIV-infected individuals. Importantly,
      persistent inflammation is strongly associated with increased cardiovascular events,
      accelerated liver disease, impaired immunologic recovery (e.g. low CD4 count, low CD4 to CD8
      ratio), and mortality. Therefore, addressing persistent inflammation remains a major goal to
      restoring health in HIV-infected individuals.

      Novel therapeutic strategies to decrease immune activation in treated HIV infection are
      needed. Marked disruption of the gut microbial composition, or dysbiosis, is characteristic
      of HIV-infected individuals and persists despite long-term ART. Recent studies demonstrate
      that the relative degree of gut microbiome disruption positively correlates with inflammatory
      markers (IL-6, kynurenine to tryptophan ratio). Microbial dysbiosis and its inflammatory
      consequences may be an attractive target for interventions to decrease immune activation in
      HIV+ individuals.

      Fecal microbiome transplantation (FMT) has proven durable and successful as a therapeutic
      strategy against gut dysbiosis, such as in the treatment of recurrent Clostridium difficile
      infection, by restructuring the composition of the gut microbiome to resemble that of the
      healthy donor. FMT has an established record of safety with limited adverse effects, even in
      the context of immunocompromised and HIV-infected subjects. Donor selection and screening
      will be conducted by OpenBiome.

      The objective of this phase I clinical trial is to establish the safety and durability of FMT
      in HIV+ individuals. The microbiome of recipients will be analyzed up to 8 weeks post FMT for
      evidence of engraftment from the donor microbiome. We will further examine the effect of FMT
      on markers of immune activation and inflammation in ART treated HIV-infected individuals.
    
  