
    
      Primary varicella infection, or chickenpox, can be devastating to HIV-infected children
      because complications occur at higher rates in immunocompromised hosts. Current passive
      prophylaxis measures with varicella-zoster immune globulin are suboptimal because
      administration must be repeated for each exposure during the child's lifetime and timely
      notification of exposure is not always possible. Since Varivax has been licensed for routine
      vaccination of healthy individuals, it must be determined whether this vaccine can be safely
      administered to HIV-infected children.

      Thirty-six children who are varicella zoster virus (VZV)-naive (treatment group) receive
      Varivax at Weeks 0 and 12, with a possible boost at Week 52 if the patient is still
      seronegative for VZV and cytomegalovirus infection. Twenty children who have a history of
      wild-type varicella exposure within the past year (control group) receive no study treatment.
      All patients are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic for HIV infection. Patients make
      12-14 visits to the clinic. [AS PER AMENDMENT 9/9/99: This study has been reorganized into
      two cohorts (asymptomatic and symptomatic). In the asymptomatic cohort, accrual has been
      completed with 40 patients in Treatment Group I and 19 in the control group. This phase of
      the study demonstrated that Varivax was well tolerated in 48 HIV-infected children with
      asymptomatic disease. The symptomatic cohort includes Treatment Groups II and III, each with
      30 patients. The first 10 patients from Group II are monitored for 42 days following the
      first dose of vaccine before the remaining 20 are accrued. Once the first 10 patients in
      Group II have been evaluated with acceptable toxicity and immunologic profiles, the remaining
      20 Group II and the first 10 Group III patients are enrolled. The first 10 Group III patients
      are also followed for acceptable toxicity and immunologic response before accrual of the
      remaining 20 Group III patients.]
    
  