
    
      Patients with either acute coronary syndrome(ACS) or acute heart failure (AHF) achieving an
      estimated risk of mortality within 12 months of 20% or greater (GRACE score for ACS and
      EFFECT score for AHF) will be assigned to early or delayed intervention using a web-based
      randomisation system.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Age > 18 years Unscheduled hospital admission due to congestive heart failure and or acute
      coronary syndrome 12 month estimated mortality risk of 20% or greater Optimal tolerated
      medical and device therapy

      Exclusion criteria:

      Expected survival < 28 days Other life limiting non-cardiac condition likely to cause death
      within 12 months Moderate or severe dementia Moderate or severe cognitive impairment

      Supportive & Palliative Care Planning Intervention The planned intervention will follow the
      core principles of holistic palliative care. The detailed content may be adapted following
      the baseline qualitative interviews and focus group study outlined above and may evolve
      during the pilot phase (see below).

      The first component of the intervention will consist of an interview with the patient and
      carer within 7 days of enrolment This will be undertaken by the trial consultant cardiologist
      and the trial nurse in a quiet room either in the hospital or in the patients home. This
      baseline consultation will explore the clinical and social needs of the patient and their
      carer, previous and current clinical status and treatment, goals of treatment and care now
      and in event of a future clinical deterioration, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
      status. The aim will be to develop a patient-centred Future Care Plan (FCP). This interview
      will also establish whether the patient and carer are happy to share the FCP with the
      community-based care team and out-of-hours emergency care services.

      Two further scheduled patient/carer consultations with the nurse specialist will take place
      at 6 and 12 weeks following enrolment and will explore issues around cardiac care, physical,
      social, psychological, spiritual, cultural and information needs. At each of these meetings
      the FCP will be reviewed in detail and any changes will be made to a new document which will
      be shared with other organisations as outlined above with the patient's permission.

      The second component of the intervention is continuous supportive care delivered by the trial
      nurse specialist who will act as professional carer and advocate for the patient during the
      12 week intervention phase. Specifically, the nurse will be available on a mobile phone
      Monday to Friday, 0900 to 1700 for the patient or carer to call for advice or support. This
      trial nurse will ensure that the patient is placed on the primary care palliative care
      register. They will also provide opportunities for the patient and their family to ask for
      information about their condition and care, and that their current FCP is available to
      primary care, out-of-hours services and on the hospital patient information systems and
      updated at no less than 6 weekly intervals. The nurse will review the details of the FCP with
      the patient at each follow-up interview focusing on changes in the patient's symptoms,
      treatment goals, cardiopulmonary resuscitation status and preferences for place of care
      should they deteriorate.

      The trial nurse will work closely with the palliative care team, the trial cardiologist and
      the patient's general practitioner. In order to document the success of this interface
      process, the nurse will document the number, duration and content of each communication with
      these healthcare professionals as they arise during the study.

      The trial nurse specialist will use an established tool to monitor and document patient and
      carer needs at each visit using a Needs Assessment Tool for Palliative Care. The patient's
      secondary and primary care teams will be informed of the patient's involvement in the trial.
      Since some patients may choose not to take-up the services defined within the intervention we
      will carefully document their utilisation of the interventional services offered. Use of
      primary care services will be carefully monitored during the study period. All clinical data
      including comorbidities will be documented at the time of enrolment in the study.

      Summary of the intervention: patients will be randomised while in hospital to either early
      intervention for 12 weeks or delayed intervention which will start 12 weeks after discharge,
      this too will last for 12 weeks.

      INTERVENTION

      Baseline interview with trial cardiologist and trial nurse lasting for up to 1 hour Creation
      of a Future Care Plan (FCP) document following this baseline interview Sharing of FCP
      document with primary care and unscheduled care organisations 6 week interview with trial
      nurse lasting for up to 1 hour to review FCP 12 week interview with trial nurse lasting for
      up to 1 hour to review FCP Continuous access to trial nurse by mobile telephone 9am - 5pm
      Monday-Friday for 12 weeks Trial nurse will - ensure FCP is appropriately shared with primary
      and secondary care, patient is registered on primary care palliative care register and will
      liaise with specialist PC services and the general practitioner as needed.

      During the first 12 weeks of the study, patients randomised to usual care will not
      specifically receive these services. Recent audit from our centre suggests that delivery of
      such services to Heart Failure patients is inconsistent and generally poor while delivery of
      these services to people with coronary heart disease is non-existent.

      Outcome-measures of the Phase 2 trial

      Since this study is not powered to assess clinical outcomes, we plan to explore a number of
      outcomes that could be used in a later phase 3 trial. The following outcomes will be
      explored:

        1. Patient and carer-centred outcomes:

           Outcomes will be assessed using the following questionnaire tools for both patients and
           their informer carers: ESAS - Edmonton symptom assessment scale, EQ5D - European Quality
           of Health Status, KDS - Kessler Distress Scale, Zarit 6 - caregiver burden questionnaire
           All patients will complete a series of questionnaires, addressing symptoms (Edmonton
           symptom assessment scale), quality of life (EQ5D) and distress (Kessler Distress scale)
           [20] immediately prior to discharge and at 6, 12, 18 and 24 weeks (see figure) and
           ideally within 7 days of each contact with the trial professionals. Since the
           intervention may have some impact on the carers we also plan to assess quality of life
           (EQ5D), distress (Kessler) and caregiver burden (Zarit 6) [21] using validated
           questionnaires at similar time points. Questionnaires will be mailed to the patient and
           carer approximately 2 days after each trial time point and the respondent will be
           encouraged to complete it within a further 3 days. The RA will offer telephone support
           to assist completion of these questionnaires in all cases to ensure consistency of
           response [22]. The RA will be responsible for the mailing, collection and collation of
           the outcome measures of the phase 2 trial and will be blinded to the randomisation
           status of the patient.

        2. System outcomes All-cause unscheduled hospitalisation (including number of days in
           hospital), cardiovascular unscheduled hospitalisation, hospice admissions and use of
           other specialist palliative care services, achievement of primary care palliative care
           Quality Outcomes Framework criteria (placed on PC register, care plan in place and out
           of hours handover documented) by 6, 12 and 24 weeks after enrolment, whether the
           secondary and primary care case records contain documentation of care planning
           discussion and a formal record of CPR status at 6, 12, 18 and 24 weeks after enrolment.
           All patients will be followed up for 12 months after enrolment for hospitalisation
           outcomes.

        3. After -death outcome measures These ill include assessment of time to death from study
           enrolment, cause of death, preferred place of care, actual place of death, Carer
           experience (VOICES questionnaire [22]). All patients will be followed up for 12 months
           following enrolment for mortality.

      Data analysis and statistical issues Descriptive statistics (continuous variables: mean,
      standard deviation, median, range; categorical variables: number and percentage of
      participants) will be presented for the clinical and demographic features of the patients
      screened and those finally enrolled in the study. One of the main outcomes of our study which
      we will assess carefully is quality of life. The mean differences in EQ-5D health-related
      quality of life (QoL) utility between early and delayed intervention groups will firstly be
      analysed at the 12 week time point using analysis of covariance, adjusting for baseline
      utility score. We will then explore differences in QoL between groups at 24 weeks (t5) by the
      same method. The multiple measures at baseline, mid-point and end of intervention will allow
      analysis of trends in intervention effects on QoL and other parameters addressed by the
      distress and symptom assessment tools using repeated measures analysis of variance. The
      distribution and variability in EQ-5D values in this cohort of patients identified as having
      a poor prognosis will be used to inform the design and sample size of the future phase 3
      trial. An economic evaluation in the phase 3 trial will consider, using a discrete choice
      experiment, patient preferences, values and willingness to pay for end of life care and the
      components which they value for quality of life. This approach complements the
      patient-centred nature of the intervention. Information to guide the design of the economic
      evaluation will be gathered using feedback from the qualitative component of this study.
    
  