
    
      Aim of the study: to examine dimensional alveolar ridge alterations and prevent buccal plate
      resorption and soft tissue recession following immediate implant placement in extraction
      sockets in the maxillary esthetic zone using different socket morphology-guided treatment
      modalities.

      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate extraction socket buccal plate resorption rate among patients groups with
           immediate implant placement simultaneously with guided bone regeneration (GBR) methods
           using different types of bone graft materials.

        -  To evaluate esthetic outcome using Complex Esthetic Index (CEI) (Appendix 3) and
           correlate this to the initial buccal plate thickness and soft tissue biotype assessed
           during immediate implant placement simultaneously with GBR.

        -  To recommend the most appropriate method for prevention of buccal plate resorption, soft
           tissue recession and esthetic result achievement following immediate implant placement
           in extraction sockets in the maxillary esthetic zone.

      Methods

      Patients sampling:

        -  Selection of patients with sufficient extraction sockets for immediate dental implant
           installation with guided bone regeneration (GBR) procedure.

        -  Assessment of the extraction socket should be done using classification of extraction
           socket based upon soft and hard tissue components before the treatment (Appendix 2).

      Result analysis

      Size of the research:

      Sixty patients referred to an oral implantologist in Kaunas, Vilnius, Granada, Ankara cities
      that need immediate implants in the esthetic zone. There will be 2 groups of patients:

        1. Group I patients (n = 30) treated with immediate implant and GBR using xenogenic bone
           graft material;

        2. Group II patients (n = 30) treated with immediate implant and GBR using allogenic bone
           graft material.

      Expected result:

      After the study, we hope to have found the optimal materials and GBR procedures modalities
      for buccal plate resorption degree reduction, soft tissue recession and best esthetic result
      achievement. There will be possibilities to study socket morphology influence on final
      esthetic result achievement.

      Funds:

      Private sponsorship, companies sponsorship (Straumann and Botiss Dental). Detailed Protocol

      After patient selection there will be few steps in present study (you can press Ctrl-Enter
      and go directly to the selected step):

      Step 1. Clinical examination and documentation Conventional clinical examination will be
      done. Orthopantomograph and standardized periapical radiograph will be registered for every
      patient. Informed consent should be signed. Additionally an acrylic stent will be fabricated
      for each subject. This stent will be fixed on the incisal edges of the adjacent teeth taking
      into consideration planned acrylic temporary tooth space. The stent will provide three
      buccal/lingual pairs of consistent measurement points for each implant site located 4, 7, and
      10 mm from the summit of the alveolar soft tissue. One aperture 1 will be above soft tissue
      margin. We should insert into aperture 1 cylinder with constant length until it contact most
      prominent implant transfer part. Then assistant should add acrylic or composite resin into
      aperture and fix cylinder strongly into template by this way. Thus we will have constant
      distance from point 1 to the implant collar (5 or 6mm according to the need).

      Step 2. Tooth extraction Following local anesthesia, the teeth should be gently extracted,
      using 15c blades, periotomes, elevators and forceps, minimizing any fractures of the socket
      walls. Sites are thoroughly degranulated for proper visualization and clinical assessment of
      the socket morphology.

      Step 3. Socket assessments and classification Below is an overview of extraction socket
      classification (Appendix 2 and Figure 1). As stated before, this classification is derived
      from present soft and hard tissue variables.

        1. Soft tissue contour variations;

        2. Vertical soft tissue deficiency;

        3. The keratinized gingival (KG) width on the mid-buccal side of the socket;

        4. Mesial and distal papillae appearance

        5. Gingival tissue biotype;

        6. Soft tissue quality;

        7. The height of alveolar process;

        8. Available bone beyond the apex of extraction socket;

        9. Extraction socket labial plate vertical position;

       10. Extraction socket facial bone thickness;

       11. Presence of extraction socket bone lesions;

       12. Intra-dental bone peak height (interproximal bone height);

       13. The mesio-distal (M-D) distance between adjacent;

       14. Palatal angulation.

      All linear measurements will be performed to the closest 1 mm with the use of a periodontal
      probe. All measurements will be done by two surgeons and mean will be calculated.

      Step 4. Dental implant placement. All implants should be placed in the optimal three
      dimensional position. Dental implant should be placed in the cingulum position (in line with
      adjacent teeth) and planned implant tooth incisal edge position should be in line with
      adjacent teeth incisal edge. In this ideal position, the implant collar should be 2 mm below
      the cementoenamel junction of the adjacent teeth apicocoronally or 3-4 mm bellow planned soft
      tissue margin, and at least 1.5 mm away from adjacent teeth mesiodistally.

      After placement of optimal dental implant the remaining gap between the implant and the
      surrounding bony walls should be at least 2 mm or should be need for GBR of buccal plate
      outside the socket.

      Step 5. Implant position and alveolar bone assessment:

        1. Bone in front to the implant width;

        2. Bucco-lingual ridge width;

        3. Vertical residual gap;

        4. Implant apico-coronal position. Step 6. The remaining defects augmentation based on the
           proposed scheme. Flapless surgery will be applied consequently GBR application place
           will be inside the socket. The remaining defects and dehiscences after implant placement
           will be filled up, using two types of bone graft materials: Group I - natural bovine
           bone grafting material + resorbable natural soft tissue membrane and Group II -
           processed human allograft + resorbable natural soft tissue membrane. In future we will
           call Group II control group. Resorbable membrane should be condensed on bone graft
           without pressure and fixed by provisional crown. Conventional medicament treatment
           including Chlorhexidine 0.2% oral rinses twice daily for 2 weeks will be applied.

      Step 7. The provisional crown fixation. Individualized provisional acrylic crown will be
      fabricated before operation and will be adapted and fixed on temporary abutment after implant
      insertion if there is initial implant stability under 35 Ncm insertion torque. The
      provisional crown will be cemented with temporary cement. If the implant fails to achieve
      initial stability under 35 Ncm insertion torque, the provisional acrylic crown would be
      bonded to the neighboring teeth. In all cases, the provisional crowns are excluded from
      occlusion. After 6 months, the provisional restorations will be replaced by a permanent
      cemented or screw-retained zirconia crown.

      Step 8. Final prosthetic treatment After 6 months, the provisional restorations will be
      replaced by a permanent cemented zirconia crown fixed on zirconia abutment. Patients follow
      up: Patients will be rechecked two times: 6 months and 1 year after implant treatment.

      Step 10. Complex Esthetic Index (CEI) for anterior maxillary implant supported restorations
      This complex esthetic index is composed of three components: the soft tissue index (S),
      predictive index (P) and implant supported restoration index (R) (Appendix 1).

      Appendix 1. Clinical documentation sequence:

        1. Preoperative picture of mouth area of patient, including smile line

        2. Clinical preoperative picture of defect area (approximately 4 teeth in picture)

        3. Preoperative orthopantomography and periapical X-ray

        4. Extraction of the tooth

        5. Socket measurements with caliper and probe

        6. Operation area ready for implantation

        7. Implant placement

        8. Bone substitute application

        9. Resorbable membrane application

       10. Clinical situation right after surgery with the provisional crown

       11. Clinical situation postoperative 1 week (if available)

       12. Clinical situation postoperative 6 months without provisional crown (incisal edges and
           frontal view projections)

       13. Clinical situation postoperative 6 months with permanent crown (incisal edges and
           frontal view projections)

       14. Follow-up after 6 months periapical X-ray

       15. Alveolar process measurements with caliper and probe

       16. Clinical situation postoperative 1 year after treatment (incisal edges and frontal view
           projections)

       17. Follow-up after 1 year periapical X-ray

       18. Alveolar process measurements with caliper and probe

      Appendix 2. Extraction socket soft and hard tissue assessments and socket types questionnaire
      Observer:_________________ Assessment series No □

      Date:

      Cause for tooth loss:

      Patients name and family name:

      Gender: Male □ Female □

      Tooth No: 15 14 13 12 11 21 22 23 24 25

      Soft and hard tissues assessment

      Extraction socket types: Adequate Compromised Deficient

      Soft tissue Quantity

      Soft tissue contour variations No □ <2 mm □ ≥2 mm □

      Soft tissue vertical deficiency (probe) No □ 1 to 2 mm □ >2 mm □

      Keratinized gingival width (probe) >2 mm □ 1 to 2 mm □ <1 mm □

      Mesial and distal papillae appearance (Nordland & Tarnow) I □ II □ III □

      Soft tissue color, consistency, and contour Pink, firm and smooth □ Slightly red, soft sponge
      and uneven contour □ Red/Bluish, red, soft oedematous and boggy or craterlike soft tissue
      appearance □

      Biotype of gingival tissue (probe) Thick □ Moderate □ Thin □ 2.0 mm □ ≥1.0 to <2.0 mm □ <1.0
      mm □

      Hard tissue Height of alveolar process (orthopantomograph) >10 mm □ >8 to ≤10 mm □ ≤8 mm □

      Available bone beyond the apex of extraction socket (orthopantomograph) ≥4 mm □ ≥3 to <4 mm □
      <3 mm □

      Extraction socket labial plate vertical position; (probe) ≤3 mm □ >3 to <7 mm □ ≥7 mm □

      Extraction socket facial bone thickness (caliper) ≥2 mm □ ≥1 to <2 mm □ <1 mm □

      Presence of socket bone lesions No □ Yes □ Yes □

      Mesial and distal intra-dental bone peak height (periapical X-ray) 3 to 4 mm □ ≥1 to <3 mm □
      <1 mm □

      Mesio-distal distance between adjacent teeth (probe) ≥7 mm □ >5 to <7 mm □ ≤5 mm □

      The need for palatal angulation (diagnostic wax-up) <5° □ 5-30° □ >30° □

      Extraction socket type:

      Appendix 3. Complex Esthetic Index (CEI) questionnaire Observer:_________________ Assessment
      series No □

      Date:

      Patients name and family name:

      Index and parameters Rating and evaluation grades of parameters variations Adequate 20%
      Compromised 10% Deficient 0%

      S index

        1. Soft tissue contour variations (probe) No □ <2mm □ ≥2mm □

        2. Soft tissue vertical deficiency (probe) No □ 1 to 2 mm □ >2 mm □

        3. Soft tissue color and texture variations No □ Moderate □ Obvious □

        4. Mesial papillae appearance Complete fill □ Partial fill □ None □

        5. Distal papillae appearance Complete fill □ Partial fill □ None □

      S index general rating and evaluation grade 100% 60-90% <50%

      P index

        1. Mesial interproximal bone height (periapical X-ray) <5 mm □ 5 to 7 mm □ >7 mm □

        2. Distal interproximal bone height (periapical X-ray) <5 mm □ 5 to 7 mm □ >7 mm □

        3. Gingival tissue biotype (probe) >2 mm □ 1 to 2 mm □ <1 mm □ 4

      Implant apico-coronal position (probe) 1.5 to 3 mm □ >3 to5 mm □ >5 mm □ 5

      Horizontal contour deficiency (probe) No □ 1 to 3 mm □ >3 mm □

      P index general rating and evaluation grade 100% 60-90% <50%

      R index

        1. Color and translucency No □ Moderate □ Obvious □

        2. Labial convexity in the abutment/implant junction No □ <1 mm □ <2 mm □

        3. Implant/crown incisal edge position No □ ±1mm □ ±2 mm □

        4. Crown width/length ratio <0.85 □ 0.85 to 1.0 □ >1.0 □

        5. Surface roughness and ridges No □ Moderate □ Obvious □

      R index general rating and evaluation grade 100% 60-90% <50%

      Gender: Male □ Female □

      Tooth No: 15 14 13 12 11 21 22 23 24 25

      Complex Esthetic Index: S¬____% P____% R____%.
    
  