
    
      One of the main aims when carrying out surgery for rectal cancer is to avoid patients ending
      up with a permanent stoma. The current standard operation for resection of the rectum is an
      anterior resection. A large proportion of the patients undergoing this procedure develop
      anterior resection syndrome, with significant alteration of their bowel habit, including
      urgency, incontinence and unpredictability. Many definitions for this problem have been used
      and until recently there was no specifically designed tool for measuring it. There has never
      been a large scale study in the UK to tell us how common the problem is. A meta-analysis
      combining results from small studies show marked variation in the frequency of symptoms
      ranging from 285%, mainly because of the different methods of assessment used in the studies.

      The LARS score was recently developed by a research group in Denmark. Their results show that
      45.9% of patients had major LARS at 12 months following surgery. This is nearly half of all
      patients in their sample and clearly represents an important problem.

      Anterior resection syndrome is known to have a negative effect on quality of life. It is a
      multifactorial condition and is increased in patients have chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
      There are treatments available and also in development which may help patients. However in
      clinical practice, patients are not routinely asked about their functional outcome and the
      effect that these symptoms can have on patients' lives is often not discussed. The urgent
      need for further research into the longterm functional effects of treatments for cancer has
      been acknowledged by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) and the
      National Cancer Survivorship Initiative.

      Determining baseline prevalence in the UK and validating the LARS score will allow accurate
      preoperative counselling of patients about functional outcomes following surgery for rectal
      cancer. It will facilitate comparison between populations, further helping to determine risk
      factors and aiding in development of therapeutic interventions. An appreciation of the impact
      of anterior resection syndrome on postoperative quality of life will encourage routine
      assessment of functional outcomes in clinical practice, allowing identification of patients
      who may benefit from treatment.
    
  