
    
      This is an open-label, dose-escalating, non randomized, single-center, phase I/II study of
      mesothelin-targeted T cells administered intrapleurally as an infusion in patients with a
      diagnosis (histologically or cytologically documented) of MPD from mesothelioma, lung cancer,
      or breast cancer. Patients receiving pembrolizumab in cohort 9 only includes patients with a
      diagnosis of mesothelioma. The total number of patients studied will depend on the number of
      dose levels tested, up to a maximum dose of 6×10^7 mesothelin-targeted T cells/kg or until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached. In Phase I of this study, we anticipate infusing
      a minimum of 4 and a maximum of 54 evaluable patients. The total number of enrolled patients
      in Phase II of this study depends on the number of observed responses and ranges from 13-21
      evaluable patients, including 6 patients treated at the final dose in Phase I.

      For patients who were treated and were removed from study, duplicate enrollment is permitted
      if it is determined the patients could receive benefit. If the patients meet all eligibility
      criteria, they may receive treatment in a higher dose level cohort. Patients who are
      re-treated with CAR T cell therapy will not be considered new accruals. Outcomes of
      re-treated patients will be analyzed separately.

      Patients may receive palliative radiotherapy for symptom management prior to or following the
      CAR T cell infusion. If a patient receives palliative radiotherapy, the study PI, treating
      Radiation Oncologist, and treating Medical Oncologist will decide whether to proceed with the
      infusion. Palliative radiotherapy must be completed at least 2 days prior to the
      administration of cyclophosphamide.

      Patients in cohort 9 and in the Phase II portion of the study will begin treatment with
      pembrolizumab 4 weeks (+3/-1 week window) after completing CAR T cell administration.
      Patients will receive 3 doses of pembrolizumab given on a recurring schedule followed by
      reassessment. Patients responding or deriving clinical benefit, without unacceptable
      toxicity, will be followed for up to 6 months after the first dose of pembrolizumab and may
      continue pembrolizumab. Patients who cannot receive all 6 doses of pembrolizumab at MSK will
      be followed and medical records including images will be obtained from the treating
      physician.
    
  