
    
      Topotecan is currently the only drug approved in Europe and the United States for the
      treatment of second line of SCLC when the recovery first line of treatment is considered
      inappropriate. This raises the problem of knowing when the recovery first line of treatment
      should be considered appropriate. Secondly, the effectiveness of response to chemotherapy can
      be predicted based on the response to initial chemotherapy and the time interval after
      stopping first line treatment. A complete response after initial treatment and a long
      disease-free interval are predictors of better response to a second-line treatment. There are
      two groups: the said patients 'sensitive', which correspond to the first-line chemotherapy
      and who have relapsed at least 90 days after the first-line treatment and a group of
      so-called patients "Refractory" refers patients who progress in 90 days or patients who have
      not responded or progressed during first-line treatment. Median survival is very different
      depending on whether patients with so-called "sensitive" or "refractory".

      When relapse occurs six months after the end of the first line chemotherapy, the usual
      practice is to reintroduce the first-line treatment. This is based on old studies where the
      number of patients included was low. If the interval of time after the first line of
      treatment is ≥ three months, two second-line treatment strategies are possible resumption of
      initial chemotherapy or topotecan. The combination of cisplatin with etoposide have shown
      high response rate, whatever the time of relapse. There are, however, no randomized study in
      the literature comparing topotecan to the reintroduction of a platinum salt associated
      etoposide.

      This study is Randomized, multicenter, controlled, open-label, second line, 2 arms.

      Arm A : Carboplatin Auc 5 J1 Etoposide 100 mg / m² / J J1 to J3 IV Arm B : topotecan 2.3 mg /
      m²J1 to J5 po

      1 line by Etoposide Cisplatin or carboplatin etoposide Time interval between the first-line
      chemotherapy and relapse ≥ 90 days (the date is set at J1 of the last cycle) J-28: TDM
      thoracoabdominal, brain CT or MRI brain, J 7: Biology, quality of life questionnaire (Lung
      Cancer Symptom Scale). Assessment of tumor response every 6 weeks during chemotherapy
      post-chemotherapy followed 2nd line: TDM every 8 weeks until progression or death.

      The duration of the participation of each patient included in the trial will be from
      inclusion through 12 months.

      The planned total duration of the trial will be 5 years including 4 years of patient
      inclusion
    
  