
    
      Visit 1 for all participants will consist of going over the Informed Consent form and talking
      with the patient about the study. If the patient agrees to participate, he/she will be asked
      to sign the form, and a copy will be given to him/her for his/her records. This will be
      conducted during the day of the endoscopic procedure before the participant is under
      anesthesia.

      Consented participants will have 20ml of blood collected via venipuncture of peripheral vein
      drawn by the endoscopy unit staff during their endoscopy procedure. The blood will be
      collected into heparinized vacutainers and immediately labeled with study specific code
      identifier and placed at 4⁰C until processed (within 24hr).

      For clinical purposes, tissue may be removed during the endoscopic procedures. This tissue
      will be given to the Diagnostic Pathology (DP) personnel associated with the case for
      analysis. The diagnostic sample will be processed for DP use and stored in the DP active
      archives. No additional tissue will be taken solely for the purposes of this research study.
      However, if DP approves the use of the remaining clinical diagnostic, small cores or slides
      will be taken after the diagnostic use from the approved paraffin-embedded tissue blocks for
      use in comparison/confirmatory analyses to the bile and blood analyses done for this research
      project.

      During the endoscopic procedures a 5ml aspiration of bile fluid will be collected for this
      study with the endoscopic instrument. The fluid will be transferred to a sterile tube,
      sealed, and placed at 4⁰C until processed (within 24hr). Both blood and fluids samples will
      be transferred to Translational Research Institute (TRI) R&D for analysis.

      Follow Up (follow up will take place for all groups listed on page 7 of the protocol under
      "Study Design" with the exception of group B) 2 weeks post procedure- A member of the
      research staff will call the participant to assess for any complications Periodic medical
      record auditing for outcome data will be collected every three months for up to 1 year after
      enrollment.

      One year post procedure- A member of the research staff will call the participant to assess
      for any complications
    
  