
    
      In this study of patients suffering an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) we would like
      to validate former results from CSF studies through microRNA profiling investigate the
      pathophysiological mechanisms that lead to systemic complications such as cardiac
      dysfunction, acute lung injury (ALI) and systemic inflammatory response syndrome(SIRS).

      We will accomplish this through analyzing the profile of microRNA expression in blood and
      cerebrospinal fluid from SAH patients.

      Validation:

      As in our earlier study we wish to compare the expression of 20 specific microRNA between 12
      patients developing DCI (group 1) and 12 patients without DCI (group 2) in cerebrospinal
      fluid drawn on day 5 after ictus. In addition, some of the patients will have established
      invasive neuromonitoring including microdialysis in which we will study changes of certain
      microRNAs.

      DCI as defined by Vergouwen et al in Stroke 2010;41(10):2391-2395:

      "The occurrence of focal neurological impairment (such as hemiparesis, aphasia, apraxia,
      hemianopia, or neglect), or a decrease of at least 2 points on the Glasgow Coma Scale (either
      on the total score or on one of its individual components [eye, motor on either side,
      verbal]). This should last for at least 1 hour, is not apparent immediately after aneurysm
      occlusion, and cannot be attributed to other causes by means of clinical assessment, CT or
      MRI scanning of the brain, and appropriate laboratory studies."

      Systemic complications:

      Furthermore, we wish to compare the expression of 754 specific microRNA in blood drawn on day
      3 after ictus between patients with ALI (as described Kahn et al, Crit Care Med. 2006; 34:
      196-202) and patients without ALI. Of at least 36 patients expected to be included 12 should
      statistically develop ALI according to the referred definition.

      Additionally, we wish to compare the expression of 754 specific microRNA between 12 patients
      developing DCI (group 1) and 12 patients without DCI (group 2) in blood drawn on day 3 after
      ictus.

      Moreover, we wish to compare the expression of 754 specific microRNA in blood between 36
      patients (group 1-3) to that of healthy controls. The specific microRNAs of interest in which
      the expression in blood between patients with systemic complication are analyzed daily to
      investigate the dynamic changes in expression and compared to the clinical course.
    
  