
    
      DESCRIPTION: Spatial neglect, pathologically asymmetric spatial behavior resulting from a
      brain injury (Heilman, 1979) and causing functional disability (Barrett and Burkholder, 2006)
      may occur in 20-50% of strokes, up to 350,000 Americans annually (Ringman et al., 2004;
      American Stroke Assoc., 2007). Difficulty eating, dressing, and navigating in complex
      environments occurs acutely in this disorder, but even if symptoms improve in chronic
      recovery, people with spatial neglect are more likely to lose functional independence (Katz
      et al., 1999). Current standard clinical approaches are not theory driven, and
      widely-employed therapies may be only marginally effective. In this proposal, we suggest two
      means by which scientific acute spatial neglect treatment can be implemented. In available
      studies, subject heterogeneity may have obscured treatment effects. Across methods, studies
      used single subject, case series, and group analytic designs, but did not attempt to
      reconcile the distinct advantages offered by individual versus group analytic approaches.
      Different treatments might affect different spatial cognitive recovery functions, but simple,
      global outcome measures may not reflect these changes. Modeling both subject-specific and
      group effects is also an extremely useful method of examining targeted treatment effects. We
      will collect spatial neglect treatment response data over four years, for two promising and
      feasible spatial neglect treatments: prism adaptation training and dopaminergic medication.
      With mechanism-specific outcome assessment and hierarchical linear modeling, we will examine
      whether treatments result in predictable response. We will also examine whether controlling
      for subject-specific predictors models group recovery trajectory. Lastly, we will examine
      current standard global outcome measures instruments which have not been fully
      psychometrically developed, and attempt to predict subject- and group-specific recovery
      profiles for these variables. We hope this research will improve our ability to design
      cognitive rehabilitation treatment studies. It may also, however, improve our ability to
      translate cognitive neuroscience models of action, spatial knowledge, and attention, to
      treatments to optimize adaptive movement in complex environments. PUBLIC HEALTH RELEVANCE:
      This study investigates novel methods of outcome analysis for comparing two treatments for
      hidden disabilities in functional vision after stroke. We hope this research will improve our
      ability to design cognitive rehabilitation treatment studies. It may also, however, improve
      our ability to bring basic brain science to the bedside, to optimize stroke survivors'
      adaptive movement and balanced visual-spatial function in complex environments.

      Although subjects are assigned to treatments in this study, we classified the study as
      observational because there are no quasi-experimental options fitting its hierarchical design
      under the interventional study description. At no point do we examine the independent effect
      of treatments; rather, we assign subjects to treatments in order to learn if treatment exerts
      an additional effect IN COMBINATION WITH 1) individual differences and 2) performance
      characterization of spatial bias type immediately after stroke. We are lastly making separate
      examination of the predictive effect of brain lesion location in combination with variables
      1) and 2). NO traditional efficacy comparisons between the two treatments to which subjects
      are assigned, are made. Neither treatment is considered "control" or "placebo," and there is
      no attempt to match severity or other relevant variables between the two treatment
      assignments.
    
  