
    
      The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has specifically targeted COPD hospital
      readmissions as a meaningful quality outcome that could result in financial penalties
      highlighting the significant impact of COPD on our overall health system. The growing
      availability of efficacious medication, stands in stark contrast to the poor health outcomes
      experienced by COPD patients. One possible explanation for this gap is low rates of
      medication adherence; some studies report that only 25% of COPD patients take at least 80% of
      their prescribed medications. Pharmacy refill records indicate that adherence to COPD
      medications is significantly lower than adherence rates seen in other chronic illnesses
      including hypertension, diabetes, and congestive heart failure. Significant negative long
      term health outcomes may be magnified by non-adherence to prescribed medications in COPD.

      This study proposes to systematically identify modifiable determinants of adherence in COPD
      based on the Theory of Self-Regulation in 360 patients with COPD. A novel and significant
      innovation of this study is the use of mobile health (mhealth) technology to objectively
      assess medication use. No previous study of self-regulation theory has utilized objective
      measure of adherence. A further innovation of the study is the use of ecological momentary
      assessment (EMA) of patient reported symptoms and beliefs to evaluate longitudinal
      associations between observation (patient symptoms) judgements (medication use to relieve
      symptoms), and reactions (self-efficacy, outcome expectancy, and medication beliefs) in real
      time. This study will be the first to objectively evaluate the application of the
      Self-Regulation Theory in COPD and to examine the long-term longitudinal impact of medication
      adherence on disease progression in a diverse sample.
    
  