
    
      In Israel, the percentage of professional drivers involved in lethal car accidents is high in
      relation to their number on the roads. Every car accident involving a bus driver could
      potentially put at risk the lives of tens of passengers, and cause damages both direct and
      indirect at high costs. Due to the high risk of the bus drivers and their passengers, it is
      highly important to identify and improve the driving characteristics which are necessary for
      safer driving of said drivers. Many studies have assessed and identified the risk factors of
      safe driving, but there is relatively little research-based evidence concerning the ability
      to improve the driving skills of drivers in general and in particular of bus drivers, which
      are considered a high risk group.

      According to the National Road Safety Authority, 88% of road accidents are caused by driver
      errors. Therefore, the real challenge is to provide a better understanding in the role of
      human factors in causing road accidents to try and develop a variety of effective
      interventions to reduce these risk factors. This understanding can contribute both to a
      better assessment of professional drivers' driving fitness and to intervene accordingly. In
      this study, we have focused on main aspects that exist in relevant literature and are human
      risk factors: Cognitive-perceptual, ergonomic and personality risk factors, and checked the
      connection between these risk factors and actual monitored driving scores as recorder by an
      In-Vehicle Data Recorder (IVDR). In addition, we examined the effectiveness of a
      functional-meta-cognitive intervention program designed to increase drivers' awareness to
      their way of driving. The research model is based on previous driving models and the guiding
      occupational therapy practice framework model in Israel, while adjusting the model to the
      professional driving in public transportation line of work and its particular risk factors.
    
  