
    
      To evaluate the performance of interaction devices was used a computer game proposed by the
      Department of Information Systems, University of São Paulo. Chosen due to its low cognitive
      demands, ease and adaptability for use in people with DMD. The program, offers a task
      designed to measure various neuropsychological aspects of planning, execution, spatial
      organization, which involves the operation of the intention to move to achieve a virtual
      object and the planning of this action.

      Considering different interfaces, opted for three interfaces. Two of theme without physical
      contact, represented by (1) Kinect for Windows Microsoft - which consists of a sensor that
      captures body movements (including upper limbs). And (2) the Leap Motion (LMCH, Leap Motion,
      Inc., San Francisco, CA, USA) - virtual interface by means of a sensor, in which there is
      also no need to touch or physical contact , but its catchment area is focused only on hands
      and fingers. In addition, an interface that required physical contact -Touch Screen - a
      sensitive monitor to touch the computer screen itself. The use of interfaces with and without
      physical contact are interesting to identify the functionality of the devices.

      Therefore, the game presented 126 bubbles arranged in rows and columns . The goal was that
      the participant could achieve (changing color) the largest number of bubbles during 10
      seconds, thereby defining a range zone for the specified time.

      After defining the scope zone, the therapist established a red target bubble, which was
      chosen in the center of bottom of range line. The participant should play this target bubble
      using one of the devices, Touch Screen, Kinect and Leap Motion. After touch of target bubble,
      the game had another red bubble in a random position, within range of area. After reaching
      the random bubble, the bubble target was displayed again, and so on. The game features red
      bubbles within the range area, and sometimes out of range, thus creating a higher degree of
      difficulty and to encourage participants to challenge their limits.

      The Participants were divided into groups which performed the tasks with different
      interaction devices, more virtual feature (not touch the computer using Kinect or leap
      motion) or real (to touch the computer screen).
    
  