
    
      The Overlap Syndrome is defined by the coexistence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD) and an apnea - hypopnea syndrome obstructive sleep (SAHS). The interaction between
      these two diseases is responsible for deepest nocturnal desaturation, decreased sensitivity
      to CO2, more pronounced sleep alterations, more frequent daytime hypercapnia, a higher risk
      of hypertension pulmonary and increased cardiovascular risk, compared to subjects with COPD
      or isolated SAHS.

      The Overlap Syndrome treatments are continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or
      non-invasive ventilation (NIV), associated complemented or not by oxygen therapy during
      sleep. The criteria for choosing the type of treatment are not well defined. Quality and
      compliance of the NIV are very important in all diseases leading to chronic respiratory
      failure whose Overlap Syndrome. The increase in the number of patients treated with NIV is
      estimated at over 12% per year. The NIV startup is usually performed in a conventional
      hospitalization but congestion healthcare pathways lead to increase waiting time before
      treatment. Thus, to date, no study has validated a supported alternative to meet the increase
      in the number of patients on NIV while maintaining quality service.

      The HAS has defined good candidates for a NIV home based startup, on the following criteria:
      patients with a recognized indication of NIV in the long term , with stable respiratory
      failure, requiring only nocturnal ventilation, surrounded by caregivers mastering the use of
      equipment and whose location allows rapid intervention. The study is based on the assumption
      that in the Overlap Syndrome, the introduction at home of the NIV is as effective in terms of
      compliance and clinical and gazometric improvement, and life quality, that setting hospital
      start up. The investigators will study the initiation of NIV at home versus in hospital in
      two randomized Overlap Syndrome patient groups. The main objective of the study is to
      demonstrate the non-inferiority of the initiation of the NIV at home versus hospital in terms
      of compliance.
    
  