
    
      Study Objectives: The current study will assess the effect of tranexamic acid on
      intraoperative bleeding and surgical outcomes during functional endoscopic sinus surgery.

      Background: Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic that prevents the activation of
      plasminogen to plasmin. Plasmin is responsible for the degradation of fibrin clots. This is
      the mechanism by which tranexamic acid prevents blood clot breakdown and reduces operative
      bleeding. Functional endoscopic sinus surgery, or FESS, is a widely used surgical technique
      to treat sinusitis and other diseases of the nose and nasal cavities. Bleeding during FESS
      can hinder surgical progress and has been associated with an increase in complications.

      Methods: The current study is randomized, double-blind and placebo- controlled. Study sample
      size will be calculated based on a previous study of topical intranasal TA. Participants
      undergoing functional endoscopic sinus surgery will be recruited for the study during a
      preoperative outpatient clinic visit. Each participant will be randomized to a group
      receiving either tranexamic acid or normal saline bolus immediately prior to the operation.
      Inclusion criteria for the study are as follows: patients must be diagnosed with either 1.
      Chronic rhinosinusitis with polyposis (CRSwP) or 2. Chronic hyperplastic sinusitis. Patients
      must have an ASA classification of I or II and must be undergoing bilateral FESS as treatment
      for one of the above diagnoses. Exclusion criteria include patients with hypertension
      (treated or untreated), thrombotic diathesis, vascular disease, risk factors for vascular
      disease, colorblindness, renal failure, and those who may be pregnant. These exclusion
      criteria are based on the potential risks of using tranexamic acid in these patients (see
      safety data information section below). The exclusion criteria for hypertension will include
      anyone who has been diagnosed previously with hypertension or has been on anti-hypertensive
      medications for this diagnosis. The hypertensive patients will be excluded due to the
      difficulties maintaining standardized anesthesia protocol (such as mean arterial pressure) in
      these patients. The authors of the current study will not be testing for pregnancy. Patients
      will be asked the date of their last menstrual period as per the standard pre-operative
      questionnaire, any patients who may be pregnant would not only be excluded from the trial but
      would not undergo a general anesthetic for an elective procedure due to the risk of preterm
      labour. The diagnosis of renal failure will be determined by patient history, the current
      study will not require systematic lab diagnosis to calculate renal function. The study will
      keep a record of the surgeon(s) and residents present during surgery to evaluate potential
      differences during the data analysis. The study will blind both the surgeon(s) and
      anesthesiologist as to what each patient received. The day before a scheduled operation of a
      patient enrolled in the study, the pharmacy will determine if the patient is to receive TA or
      placebo based on the randomization table. The bolus of TA is prepared according to patient
      weight (15mg/kg loading dose). The patients receiving placebo will receive an infusion of
      normal saline of the same volume. Patients will receive the TA or saline infusion on call to
      the operating room, approximately 30 minutes before onset of the operation. The patients
      would also receive a continuous infusion of 1mg/kg per hour or TA preparation or normal
      saline for the duration of the operation. The current study will use a standardized
      anesthesia protocol using universally accepted parameters. The operation will be carried out
      using primarily inhalational anesthetic. End- tidal CO2 will be maintained between the target
      ranges of 30-35 mmHg. The head of the bed will be elevated to 15 degrees. The target range
      for the mean arterial pressure will be 60-70 mmHg.

      Outcome Measures: The outcome measures for the current study are as follows: 1. The Wormald
      grading scale, this is a validated instrument used to assess intraoperative bleeding during
      video endoscopy sinus surgery. Dr. Wright will apply the Wormald grading scale
      intraoperatively. 2. Perioperative Sinus Endoscopy (POSE) scoring system, a systematic
      visualization evaluation of the sinuses. 3. Lund- Kennedy endoscopic reporting system, a
      validated staging system for sinus disease. 4. Lund- MacKay CT score, used for radiologic
      evaluation of sinus disease, 5. Number of sinuses and which sinuses were involved in the
      operative procedure. 6. Surgical time. 7. Total blood loss (monitoring of suctioned blood and
      monitoring of sponges and throat packs used during the operation. 8. Completeness of the
      surgical procedure as affected by bleeding.
    
  