
    
      OBJECTIVE: The PRolongation of the INTerval between prothrombin time tests in stable patients
      (PRINT) is a single center, randomized, double-blind study to demonstrate that testing the
      prothrombin time every 12 weeks provides the same level of anticoagulant control as
      conventional testing every 4 weeks in this subset of stable patients. This study will enroll
      patients who have been treated with vitamin K antagonists (VKA) for at least 6 months and
      have not had any change to the maintenance dose for the most recent 6 months.

      HYPOTHESIS: Our hypothesis is that by extending the interval between tests to 12 weeks in
      these stable patients, the same level of anticoagulant control, can be maintained. With the
      large and constantly increasing number of patients on warfarin, a reduced frequency of
      testing would yield considerable savings for the health care system and a decreased burden
      for the patient. A review of our anticoagulant clinic revealed that one third of the patients
      would be eligible for such a prolongation of the test interval.

      STUDY DESIGN: The proposal is a randomized, double-blind, controlled single centre trial
      performed at Hamilton Health Sciences - General Hospital. Main inclusion criteria are:
      long-term anticoagulant therapy, managed by our clinic for at least 6 months and with
      unchanged maintenance dose for at least 6 months. Eligible and consenting patients identified
      at annual review visits or from the register of patients monitored by the clinic, will be
      randomized to dosing of warfarin every 4 weeks (control) or every 12 weeks (experimental).
      All patients will, however, have blood drawn every 4 weeks. Randomization will be performed
      using a computer-generated randomization sequence. Stratification is done for the two
      laboratories performing the analysis and for the two therapeutic ranges that patients are to
      be maintained within, depending on the indication for anticoagulation. Patients with
      mechanical mitral valve prosthesis are maintained between 2.5 and 3.5, others between 2.0 and
      3.0.The randomization sequence will guide the Coordinating and Methods Center to the correct
      reporting procedure for each patient, and to provide sham INR-values for two out of each set
      of three 4-weekly tests in the patients allocated to 12-weekly monitoring. Extreme INR
      results (<1.5 or >4.4) will always be reported as true results. The investigator and the
      patient are blind to the procedure and are only aware of the sequence order number.The
      patients are carefully instructed about risk factors that can change the effect of VKA. They
      are contacted by telephone after each test for information on the result, the dosing and for
      questioning of adverse events. After 12 months in the study there is a final visit scheduled
      at the anticoagulation clinic for review of the patient.

      ANALYSIS: After the last patient has concluded the study, all clinical data will be
      transferred to the study statistician for analysis. The primary outcome measure is "the time
      in therapeutic range" (TTR). The secondary outcome measures are "proportion of patients with
      extreme INR results", "proportion of INR results that are extreme" and "number of changes of
      the maintenance dose". These are well-recognized tools for evaluation of the level of
      anticoagulant control. Major bleeding and objectively verified thromboembolic events will
      also be registered, but the expected number is very small and not sufficient for any
      statistical analyses.

      SAMPLE SIZE: Sample size calculations are based on 77% TTR for a population with very stable
      VKA-dose and a maximum tolerable deviation of 7.5 percentage points; one-sided alpha of 2.5%
      and power of 90%. The sample will accordingly be 107 patients per group. After interim
      analysis the DSMB recommended to expand the sample size to 125 patients per group (July 16,
      2008).
    
  