
    
      Traditional paraclinical measures of disease severity in multiple sclerosis (MS), such as T2
      lesion load as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), are poorly correlated with
      long-term disability accumulation. Other surrogate markers of the current and future disease
      burden are therefore needed. The permeability of the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) seems to
      better reflect the substantial, subclinical disease activity underlying MS progression. Its
      useful role as a prognostic marker in MS has been clearly established by the recent
      observation that BBB permeability increase in optic neuritis patients is associated with
      conversion to definite MS. BBB permeability can be quantified, in a convenient manner to the
      patient, using Dynamic-Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) by modelling
      the change in intrinsic MRI parameters of the human brain in response to the administration
      of a bolus contrast agent. Alemtuzumab is a disease modifying drug that depletes T- and
      B-cells. It is administered in two series separated by 12 months, as explained in the section
      "Groups and Interventions." The number of relapses are significantly reduced as compared to
      other efficacious treatments in MS, as demonstrated recently (study referred to by its
      ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT00050778). The efficacy of alemtuzumab in resolving the
      inflammatory burden underlying relapses is, thus, well-established. Its influence on
      subclinical inflammation, however, remains unknown. It is the aim of the present study to
      investigate whether or not the latter influence is of importance, and, consequently, can be
      used to evaluate the need for an intensified treatment, in the form of an additional series
      of alemtuzumab administration.

      BBB permeability changes, as surrogate markers of subclinical inflammation, are measured
      every 6 months just prior to and during the course of alemtuzumab treatment. In order to
      elucidate other potential mechanisms involved in disability accumulation, biomarkers and
      MRI-derived parameters are evaluated concomitantly. Specifically, the role of metabolic
      changes are investigated using MRI methods that measures blood perfusion and oxygen
      consumption. Secondarily, the BBB permeability and metabolic changes are correlated to novel
      biomarkers of inflammation and neurodegeneration in serum and urine, as well as conventional
      measures of MS severity: annual relapse rate, Expanded Disability Severity Score, MRI-derived
      estimates of disease activity and brain atrophy.

      35 patients are included in the study in order to achieve enough statistical power and
      accommodate drop-outs. Patients are MRI scanned at baseline, 6 months after alemtuzumab
      treatment, and, finally, prior to administration of the second series of alemtuzumab 12
      months after the baseline MRI scanning. At each time point, the patient's disease status is
      evaluated by an experienced neurologist, and urine and serum samples are obtained. Repeated
      Measures Analysis Of Variance (ANOVA) will be used to evaluate changes of permeability of the
      BBB and metabolic parameters at different time points, and baseline characteristics, such as
      prednisolone treatment will be implemented as between-subjects covariates. Logistic
      regression will be applied to estimate the ability of BBB permeability changes to predict the
      need for additional series of alemtuzumab administration.
    
  