
    
      Pain due to traumatic rib fractures may be associated with increased morbidity and mortality.
      Fracture ribs cause severe pain that adversely affects patients' ability to cough and breathe
      deeply, that may lead to decreased ventilator efforts, atelectasis, pneumonia and finally
      respiratory failure. That further results in longer intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital
      length of stay and higher mortality. Effective pain relief, chest physiotherapy and
      respiratory care are the points of management. Effective analgesia enables the patient to
      breathe deeply, cough out the secretions and comply with chest physiotherapy. Multiple pain
      relief treatment options are available, such as oral analgesics, intravenous opioids,
      patient-controlled opioid analgesia, interpleural blocks, intercostals blocks, para vertebral
      blocks, and epidural analgesia Recent studies reported that epidural analgesia reduces
      morbidity after major thoracic, abdominal and vascular surgeries, but in patients with rib
      fractures, Successful treatment for rib fracture pain usually requires both pharmacologic and
      interventional approaches .Single modality treatment, which may incite respiratory
      depression, is suboptimal in these patients, many of whom already manifest a compromised
      respiratory system. Interventional procedures, while opioid sparing, carry their own inherent
      risks. Intercostals nerve blocks may not be feasible in the setting of multiple rib
      fractures, because of patient discomfort and the risk of local aesthetic toxicity. Use of an
      epidural catheter with continuous infusion of local anaesthetics and opioids may pose
      challenges in a community hospital setting, as 24 hours in-house coverage is often
      unavailable. While single-shot thoracic epidural steroid injections have been used for
      herniated intervertebral discs, herpes zoster pain, and post herpetic neuralgia (PHN), their
      use in patients with rib fracture pain has not been previously reported in the literature. An
      epidural steroid injection delivers steroids directly into the epidural space in the spine.
      Sometimes additional fluid (local aesthetic and/or a normal saline solution) is used to help
      'flush out' inflammatory mediators from around the area that may be a source of pain
      ..Typically, a solution containing cortisone (steroid) with local aesthetic (lidocaine or
      bupivacaine), and/or saline is used.A steroid, or cortisone, is usually injected as an
      anti-inflammatory agent. Inflammation is a common component of many low back conditions and
      reducing inflammation helps reduce pain. Triamcinolone acetonide, Dexamethasone, and Methyl
      prednisolone acetate are commonly used steroids.
    
  