
    
      3436/5000 Urinary tract infections are a real public health issue. The frequency of these
      infections in France is estimated between 6 and 8 million in primary care (1) which
      represents 15% of antibiotics prescribed in primary care. Approximately 40-50% of women have
      had at least one UTI during their lifetime. (4) There is also an ecological issue by
      increasing the resistance of bacteria to antibiotics. (6) The goal is to assess patients'
      knowledge and understandings to improve primary prevention.

      The secondary objective will be to identify the demographic, sociological and ethiologic
      factors that may influence the knowledge and behavior of patients consulting in general
      medicine concerning means of prevention of cystitis.

      This exploratory descriptive study is carried out on the basis of an anonymous questionnaire
      distributed in waiting rooms of GP offices after drawing lots in the former Auvergne region
      with prior approval of doctors. The inclusion criterion is to be a woman aged 18 to 65,
      consultant in general medicine.

      24 general practitioners will be drawn in proportion to the distribution by department of the
      former region of Auvergne.

      The primary outcome measure is to assess patients' knowledge and behaviors about how to
      prevent cystitis from responses to questionnaire items

      . The duration of the study will be 6 weeks. The questionnaire consists of a section on the
      characteristics of patients including age, BMI, socio-professional category, current
      treatments, medico-surgical antecedents of interest and the other part consisting of 16
      questions. on preventative measures to avoid cystitis with simple answers divided into "did
      you know" and "do it yourself", two questions about ecology and two other questions about
      lifestyle and other preventive practices.

      It will also be collected data on the selected doctors: age, location, gynecological acts
      associated with general medicine.

      The statistical analysis will be carried out with the software Stata All statistical tests
      will be carried out at the risk of error of the first kind α of 5%. Patients will be
      described according to the variables: compliance with eligibility criteria, epidemiological
      characteristics, clinical characteristics and treatments. These analyzes will be complemented
      by the usual statistical tests, for example Chi2 test or Fisher-exact test for the comparison
      of categorical and anova variables or Kruskal-Wallis test if necessary for the quantitative
      variables. It seems difficult to propose for this exploratory observational study an estimate
      of the number of necessary subjects sufficiently robust and relevant. Nevertheless, it has
      been agreed to include at least 800 patients to establish possible specific profiles
      associated with patient knowledge and behavior The protocol, the information and consent form
      and the questionnaire were submitted for opinion to the Protection to Persons Committee.
    
  