
    
      PROTOCOL TITLE A prospective trial of nonconvulsive electrographic seizure detection by
      nurses in the adult Neuro ICU using a panel of quantitative EEG trends

      PURPOSE OF STUDY The primary objective of this prospective study is to determine the
      sensitivity and specificity of quantitative EEG (qEEG) trends in the identification of
      recurrent nonconvulsive electrographic seizures by non-neurophysiologists in adult patients
      admitted to the Duke Neuro Intensive Care Unit (Neuro ICU). Our hypothesis is that bedside
      Neuro ICU nurses using a panel of qEEG trends can identify recurrent nonconvulsive seizures
      (NCS) with adequate sensitivity and specificity.

      Secondary objectives include identifying seizure and EEG characteristics that make NCS more
      or less likely to be detected on qEEG. These characteristics include average seizure
      duration, spatial extent of the seizure (focal, hemispheric or bilateral/generalized) and the
      EEG background (periodic vs. non-periodic and epileptiform vs. non-epileptiform).

      PRINCIPLE INVESTIGATOR Dr. Saurabh R. Sinha MD, will be the principal investigator (PI) on
      this project and is responsible for the study design, generation and analysis of data,
      presentation of reports, and protection of human subjects in the performance of the clinical
      investigation. His contact information is provided below.

      Saurabh R. Sinha, M.D. 295 Hanes House, 330 Trent Drive. Box 102350 Duke University Medical
      Center. Durham, NC 27710. Phone: 919-684-8485. Fax: 919-684-8955. Email:
      saurabh.sinha@duke.edu

      BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE

      Due to the increased awareness of nonconvulsive seizures (NCS) and nonconvulsive status
      epilepticus (NCSE) in patients admitted to the NICU, the utilization of continuous EEG (cEEG)
      monitoring in the NICU is rising. qEEG is a potential tool that can aid in the interpretation
      of large volumes of EEG data. qEEG is the application of mathematical and analytical
      techniques to characterize and analyze EEG signals. Several hours of data can be displayed on
      a single screen in several graphical panels. Routine evaluation of EEG data consists of
      manual inspection of each page of EEG data and can be quite time-consuming. Since continuous
      review of EEG data is not possible, EEG data is always relayed to the primary clinical team
      in a post-hoc manner which is not ideal. Theoretically, qEEG graphical displays can provide a
      simplified view of complex EEG data that could possibly be used by non-neurophysiologists,
      such as Neuro ICU nurses.

      There have been no studies in the adult or pediatric population that have prospectively
      evaluated the use of qEEG by non-neurophysiologists to identify recurrent NCS. Given that our
      retrospective data show that neurophysiologists and non-neurophysiologists have similar
      sensitivity and specificity in identifying the presence of NCS on qEEG panels, our hypothesis
      is that Neuro-ICU nurses will have an acceptable sensitivity and specificity in prospectively
      identifying recurrent NCS.

      DESIGN AND PROCEDURES

      This is an observational, prospective evaluation of Neuro ICU nurses' ability to detect NCS
      via qEEG running at the bedside. The study will not affect clinical management decisions or
      patient care. It will utilize DUHS Neuro ICU nurses that will serve as qEEG readers.

      The goal of this study is to compare the accuracy of Neuro-ICU nurses' ability to detect NCS
      on bedside qEEG and post hoc review of the corresponding raw EEG by blinded, board-certified
      neurophysiologists. The neurophysiologists are blinded to the Neuro ICU nurses prospective
      seizure identification.

      We plan to enroll a sample of 40 nurses and 30 adult patients who are already on continuous
      video electroencephalogram (EEG) monitoring during their admission to the Duke Neuroscience
      ICU. In this prospective study we will include adults who are clinically suspected to have
      NCS, defined by the fact that the treatment team physician has requested cEEG monitoring. The
      treating physician will make the decision to initiate cEEG monitoring and determine the
      duration of monitoring. We will exclude subjects with convulsive seizures without concern for
      NCS.

      All eligible subjects will be consented for enrollment after the clinical team has decided
      that the patient will be placed on cEEG monitoring. Subsequently, the neurophysiology fellow
      will review the raw EEG intermittently as this is the standard of care. Once the
      neurophysiology fellow has detected NCS, the research team will be contacted by either the
      clinical Neuro ICU team or the neurophysiology team if the patient is deemed appropriate to
      continue participation in the study.

      Nurses will be consented for their participation in the trial as it involves their ability to
      detect NCS with the use of bedside qEEG trends. Neuro ICU nurses who consent will receive
      training on qEEG monitoring by the research team via a 15 minute online PowerPoint
      presentation. In addition, a binder containing printouts of the training PowerPoint
      presentation will be attached to each EEG machine.

      A single printout of a qEEG panel, containing the sentinel seizure captured on cEEG
      monitoring will be displayed next to the cEEG machine. The NCS will be clearly marked by the
      research team. All patients undergoing cEEG monitoring at Duke have qEEG running
      simultaneously in addition to the raw EEG. The program that creates the qEEG display is Magic
      Marker developed by Persyt, Inc. Neuro ICU nurses will be asked to check the qEEG screen
      hourly and record the number of seizures (similar in appearance to the sentinel seizure qEEG
      print out) seen on the qEEG display. A 24 hour log will be attached to the EEG machine. If a
      patient and a nurse are enrolled in the study, but the second nurse on the later shift has
      not agreed to participate in the trial then we will either end the study or ask the second
      nurse if he/she would like to participate. There are nurses from the float pool that may be
      interested, and if so, we will provide a one-on-one training session at the beginning of
      their shift and consent them. At one hour intervals the nurse will mark one of the following
      options: no seizures, 1-2 seizures, 3-5 seizures, 6-10 seizures or >10 seizures. The absolute
      times that the nurse should evaluate the qEEG display will be determined by the study team at
      the time of enrollment and clearly marked on the log sheet. The standard of practice of the
      neurophysiology fellow independently reviewing the raw EEG intermittently will continue
      unchanged. Treatment of recurrent NCS will be at the discretion of the Neuro ICU team in
      conjunction with the neurophysiology team. The nurse's review of the qEEG will have no impact
      on patient care or treatment decisions.

      The nurse will review the subject's qEEG for the duration of their shift (12 hours) or for
      only part of their shift. The total duration of the study will be for 24 hours or when the
      treating physician discontinues continuous EEG monitoring, whichever is shorter. If the first
      nurse participates in the study, but the nurse on the second shift has not agreed to
      participate, then the study will stopped.

      After completing enrollment, the qEEG data and raw EEG data will be de-identified by study
      author (CW). Board-certified neurophysiologists and study authors (SS and CS) will review the
      raw EEG data independently to identify seizures. Electrographic seizures will be identified
      using published criteria [15]. In the case of discrepancy in the identification of seizures
      the two authors will review the studies together and establish a consensus. Each hour of raw
      EEG will be placed into the follow categories: no seizures, 1-2 seizure, 3-5 seizures, 6-10
      seizures or >10 seizures. In addition, the average seizure duration, the spatial extent of
      each seizures (focal, hemispheric or generalized/bilateral), and primary background EEG
      abnormalities will be determined by the author and board-certified neurophysiologist, CS,
      from the raw EEG.

      SELECTION OF SUBJECTS

      Neuroscience ICU Nurses:

      All Neuroscience ICU nurses will be asked to participate.

      Subjects:

      The responsible treating team in the Adult Neuro ICU will identify subjects after the
      treating physician has decided to initiate cEEG monitoring. No restrictions are made with
      regard to gender, race, religion or underlying cause for hospitalization, including prior
      history of seizure disorder.

      SUBJECT RECRUITMENT AND COMPENSATION Appropriate subjects will be identified by the treating
      team in the Adult Neuro ICU. It will be at the sole discretion of the treating team in the
      Adult Neuro ICU or the clinical neurophysiology team to notify a research coordinator to
      approach the patient for recruitment into the study. Subject demographics will mirror that of
      the patient demographics of the Duke Adult Neuro ICU. No compensation will be provided.

      CONSENT PROCESS

      Neuroscience ICU Nurses:

      The study will be introduced to all Neuro ICU nurses via an email request to participate in
      the study. The consent form will be reviewed with all nurses willing to participate in the
      trial. The study physicians will review the consent forms individually with each nurse in the
      Duke Medical Pavilion conference room and answer any questions individually at that time.
      Those that agree to participate in the study and sign the consent form will attend a brief,
      15 minute training session on qEEG monitoring presented by the study authors (SS, CS and CW).
      Their participation is completely voluntary and their recorded responses of qEEG
      interpretation will be used as part of the project data. No identifying information will be
      recorded. It will be made explicitly clear that there will be no penalty for not
      participating and that no incentives will be provided.

      Subjects and Subjects Legal Representative:

      The study will be introduced to the patient or Legally Authorized Representative (LAR) by a
      member of the clinical team. If the patient or LAR is willing to participate, the study team
      will approach them. Informed consent will be obtained by the PI, Study Coordinator, or other
      Key personnel for all subjects in the study. Consent will be obtained from the patient or
      LAR, as defined by Duke guidelines, if the patient is unable to provide consent. The patient
      will be assessed for impaired decision-making at the time of consent. All patients requiring
      cEEG monitoring will require involvement of a neurologist who will determine the ability to
      consent if that determination has not already been made either by the PI or other
      investigators on the trial. All investigator personnel on this trial are neurologists.
      Consent will be obtained in a quiet, private location to protect the privacy of the
      prospective participant. Potential participants will be identified by bedside evaluation at
      DUHS Neuro ICU. Once the participant is identified, the patient and/or family will be
      notified of the opportunity to participate in the project, and the purpose of the study will
      be reviewed in addition to all of the risks and benefits of participation. The entire consent
      form will be reviewed and all questions will be addressed. It will be made explicitly clear
      to all participants and LARs that no additional procedures will be performed as part of this
      trial and that no incentives will be provided.

      SUBJECT'S CAPACITY TO GIVE LEGALLY EFFECTIVE CONSENT Many subjects will not have the capacity
      to provide consent given the nature of the study and acuity of the disease. Consent will be
      obtained from the subject's legal representative. Periodic assessment of capacity will be
      assessed by the research coordinator, and if deemed to have capacity the subject will be
      presented with the opportunity to be consented.

      STUDY INTERVENTIONS The standard of care will continue unchanged, and this consists of
      intermittent raw EEG review by the neurophysiology team. No interventions will come to the
      participating subject based on qEEG data review by the Neuro ICU nurses, but rather will
      continue to rely on the current standard of care with the existing infrastructure using raw
      EEG. All decisions to treat NCS will be at the sole discretion of the treating team and
      responsible care physicians. The duration of continuous EEG monitoring will be determined
      solely by the treating team or responsible care physician.

      RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT

      Subjects and Subjects Legal Representative:

      There are no physical, psychological, legal, or economic risks identified. Social risks
      include the decision to choose to participate or not participate. Cognitively impaired adults
      may be recruited as subjects given the acuity and sequela of NCS. Special precautions include
      the deferring to the subjects legal representative for consent in this situation. Should the
      subject or subjects LAR choose not to participate there will be no repercussions and medical
      care will continue per the treating team. There will be no direct benefit to the patients
      enrolled in the study.

      Neuroscience ICU Nurses:

      There are no physical or psychological risks identified. The nurse's decision to participate
      or not will not have repercussions. The decision to participate will have no ramifications on
      employment status with Duke University Hospital (job classification, pay, etc.). The
      neuroscience ICU nurses will benefit from the study by receiving training on qEEG
      interpretation.

      COSTS TO THE SUBJECTS

      Subjects and Subjects Legal Representative:

      There will be no additional costs that the patient's will incur as a result of participation.

      Neuroscience ICU Nurses:

      There will be no costs that the Neuro ICU nurses will incur as a result of participation.

      DATA ANALYSIS AND STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS We will determine the sensitivity and
      specificity of the use of qEEG trends by Neuro ICU nurses in identifying recurrent
      nonconvulsive seizures in critically ill patients with acute or chronic neurologic injuries.
      This will be calculated by comparing the number of suspected seizures marked by Neuro ICU
      nurses via qEEG displays to the number of seizures identified by the gold standard analysis
      of the raw EEG.

      Standard test characteristics (sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and
      negative predictive value, positive likelihood ratio and negative likelihood ratio) will be
      calculated for the ability to detect the presence or absence of seizures. Contingency
      analysis will be used to make several comparisons of the mean diagnostic accuracy of the
      Neuro ICU nurses: 1. short (< 25th percentile) vs. long (> 75th percentile) seizures; 2.
      spatial extent of seizures (generalized vs. hemispheric vs. focal); 3. Background EEG pattern
      (epileptiform vs. non-epileptiform and periodic vs. non-periodic). The chi-square statistic
      will be calculated for each these analyses. For all calculations, a p-value < 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.

      DATA AND SAFETY MONITORING Raw and qEEG data will be obtained and stored (as it is
      currently). The qEEG and raw EEG data will be anonymized after the subject has completed
      participation in the study. Although all EEG data in the Neuro ICU is recorded with video for
      clinical purposes, no video will be retained during this project. The anonymized data will be
      used solely by research investigators.

      Standard clinical practice will not be altered during this study. There should be no impact
      on patient care.

      PRIVACY, DATA STORAGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY

      Data to be collected will include the digital EEG portion of our cEEG monitoring records and
      their corresponding qEEG panels. Although all EEG data in the Neuro ICU is recorded with
      video for clinical purposes, no video will be retained during this project. After extracting
      the relevant data from the complete cEEG file, all identifying information will be removed
      and the EEG will be numerically indexed in the data set. All cEEG and qEEG data is currently
      collected locally (bedside PC) on the monitoring system and automatically copied to the
      central server for remote review. Once the data is collected, the files are centrally
      reviewed, and at that point can be copied to the project computer for indexing, extraction of
      segments and de-identification of the data. All PHI data will be removed leaving no record of
      the origin of the data. Clinical data will be stored on the Duke IT maintained network
      server. The de-identified cEEG and qEEG data will be stored on the Isilon storage server
      behind Duke's firewall. The de-identified cEEG or qEEG data will not be shared with any
      parties outside Duke.

      Clinical data will be collected from the Duke electronic medical record system. This includes
      age, race, gender, primary diagnosis, and reason of cEEG monitoring. As part of the study
      protocol, no PHI will be recorded at any time. PHI will only be reviewed to extract relevant
      study information, such as patient demographics and official interpretation of the cEEG by
      the neurophysiology team. This review process will occur less than 24 hours after study
      initiation. After the relevant information is extracted, the demographic data, cEEG data and
      qEEG data will be anonymized.

      Research data will be stored on a Duke IT maintained network server. Confidentiality will be
      ensured as no PHI or video data will be retained on this server. The de-identified cEEG and
      qEEG data will be used solely by research investigators.
    
  