
    
      Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) of the undifferentiated histology is endemic in southern China
      and southeast Asia including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia, with a peak annual
      incidence of up to 30 per 100,000 persons. According to global cancer registry, NPC ranked
      11th most common among all malignancies in China in 2008 with an incidence of 2.8/100,000
      person-years in men and 1.9/100,000 person-years in females. It is highly associated with
      prior infection with Epstein-Barr virus and thus it is a highly immune-related malignancy.
      Treatment strategy is mainly based on the disease stage according to the American Joint
      Committee on Cancer (AJCC)/Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) staging system. In
      general, stage I-II diseases are treated with radiation therapy alone while stage III-IV
      diseases are treated with concurrent chemoradiation with or without adjunct chemotherapy
      (induction or adjuvant). Intensive pretreatment workup including blood hematology and
      biochemistry, dedicated head and neck imaging with computed tomography and magnetic resonance
      imaging and positron-emission tomography with integrated computed tomography (PET-CT) and
      plasma Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) are essential in high-risk
      locoregionally advanced diseases to confirm non-metastatic diseases, since the treatment
      protocol and overall prognosis between locoregionally advanced (stage III-IVA) disease differ
      significantly from metastatic disease.

      Despite intensive radical treatment in the contemporary radiotherapy era with concurrent
      chemoradiation with or without adjunct chemotherapy, between 15% and 30% of these patients
      with stage III-IVA disease develop metastatic diseases at distant sites. Further systemic
      chemotherapy following radical concurrent chemoradiation may not bring survival benefits,
      attributed by the compromised physique following intensive radical concurrent chemoradiation
      and the prolonged treatment-related toxicities brought by adjuvant chemotherapy. The recent
      Hong Kong NPC Study Group NPC-0502 study failed to show survival benefit in patients with
      post-treatment detectable plasma EBV DNA after a further 6 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy
      compared to those who just observed after radical concurrent chemoradiation. On the other
      hand, induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiation may be the more preferred
      regimen due to the perceived efficacy of eradication of tumor micro-metastasis and early
      shrinkage of primary tumor and bulky neck nodes, which allow a more radical radiotherapy dose
      and better coverage of both the primary tumor and neck nodes. Very recently, a China
      multi-centre phase III randomised-controlled trial demonstrated an improvement in
      recurrence-free survival and overall survival (OS) with induction chemotherapy gemcitabine
      plus cisplatin followed by concurrent chemoradiation versus concurrent chemoradiation alone.
      Nevertheless, new treatment strategies must be developed to improve treatment outcomes of
      these high-risk patients with stage III-IVA disease, which has become the major research
      focus in the past decade. A recent meta-analysis demonstrated that induction chemotherapy
      followed by concurrent chemoradiation improved overall survival compared to concurrent
      chemoradiation in the era of modern radiotherapy with intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      (IMRT).

      Immune checkpoint inhibitors are now comprehensively and extensively tested in combination
      with radiotherapy (RT) as well (NCT01935921, NCT01860430). It has been recently known that RT
      increases the expression of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). In turn, the MHC
      class-I restricted tumor antigen-specific cells elicited by RT will upregulate interferons in
      the tumors. This radiation-induced local inflammation and tumor-specific effector T cells
      will provide an additional mechanism for tumor control by modification of the tumor
      vasculature. In addition, RT will increase dendritic cell surface antigen presentation to T
      cells and production of cytokines leading to recruitment and activation of leucocytes from
      peripheral blood and extravasation to tumor parenchyma. These are part of the mechanisms of
      abscopal effect, a phenomenon where the tumors at the sites far away from the irradiated
      sites also regress after localized radiotherapy. Having learnt from the pivotal PACIFIC trial
      on the use of consolidation therapy with durvalumab (anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody) which
      confirmed the efficacy and safety of combination of chemoradiation and immunotherapy for
      stage III non-small-cell lung cancer, it is prime time to consider incorporation of immune
      checkpoint inhibitors into concurrent chemoradiation for other solid tumors like head and
      neck squamous cell carcinoma and NPC. In concurrent +/- adjuvant setting for locoregionally
      advanced NPC, there are at least two clinical trials on immune checkpoint inhibitors for
      locoregionally advanced disease. The first one is a phase II single-arm study using nivolumab
      in combination with concurrent chemoradiation with or without by adjuvant nivolumab for up to
      3 months at different dose schedules (NCT03267498). A phase III multi-center
      randomized-controlled trial (RCT) in China on the use of a locally-manufactured PD-1
      monoclonal antibody (SHR-1210) every 4 weeks for 12 cycles starting at 4-6 weeks after
      concurrent chemoradiation for stage III-IVA NPC versus no adjuvant therapy is currently under
      way (NCT03427827). It is highly expected and eagerly awaited that immunotherapy with immune
      checkpoint inhibitors will bring a new insight on the adjuvant treatment for NPC.

      In view of the above with promising synergy between radiation therapy and immune checkpoint
      inhibitors, the investigators propose a phase II RCT on adding durvalumab in combination with
      induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiation and adjuvant durvalumab for
      previously untreated locoregionally advanced NPC. In parallel, the investigators will also
      perform collateral tumor and serum biomarker studies which will be correlated with the
      treatment response. The investigators will collect fresh tumour biopsies at pretreatment,
      then serially after induction chemotherapy and after concurrent chemoradiation to investigate
      the change in microenvironment of the tumour and the surrounding inflammatory cells before
      and after durvalumab. In addition, the investigators will also measure the change in number
      and intensity of PD-L1-positive circulating tumour cells before and after durvalumab and
      evaluate their correlation with treatment response.
    
  