
    
      Quality of life in the elderly and their families is severely affected by stroke and
      cognitive dysfunction caused by atherosclerosis of the brain supplying arteries. Nutrition,
      namely a Mediterranean-style diet, nuts, soybean products, whole grain products, dark
      chocolate, fish oil and avoidance of salt, and regular physical activity play a major role in
      the prevention of these diseases. Data are available on cardiac patients, however little is
      known on cerebrovascular patients. The role of red wine in the protection of cerebrovascular
      disease is discussed; it may be simply an epiphenomenon of otherwise healthy lifestyle in the
      population with a regularly low alcohol consumption not properly corrected for in
      epidemiological studies. No prospective randomised data is available.

      We intend to perform a prospective randomised study on nutrition and physical activity in 100
      patients with chronic cerebrovascular disease (i.e. patients with atherosclerotic stenosis,
      at least 20% of a brain supplying artery as demonstrated by carotid ultrasound and without an
      acute stroke/TIA). The study consists of three parts:

      (1) Assessment of eating and physical activity habits in these patients and correlation with
      indicators of cerebrocardiovascular disease (cerebral perfusion as measured by transcranial
      Doppler sonography, pulsatility of the transcranial and extracranial Doppler signal,
      elasticity of the carotid artery, ankle-brachial index, cognitive functioning) and risk
      factors of cerebrovascular disease (blood pressure and blood pressure amplitude assessed by
      24 h ambulatory blood pressure measurement; HDL, LDL, triglycerides, Lp(a), glucose, HbA1c,
      homocysteine, and fibrinogen; waist-hip ratio and BMI).

      2) Half of these patients will be randomised to intensive counselling concerning healthy
      eating and physical activity habits during the first month once a week. All the 100 patients
      will be reassessed after one month and after 4 months with the above mentioned parameters.

      3) In a double cross-over design half of the patients allocated to intensive counselling
      (i.e. n=25) and half of the patients without intensive counselling (n=25) will be allocated
      to 0,2 l of red wine daily (men) or 0,1l of red wine daily (women), respectively. The
      remaining 50 patients will be advised to avoid red wine for the time of the study.
    
  