
    
      The study will use state-of-the-art technologies, including two systems that use a
      telephone-based platform called TLC (Telephone-Linked Care). The two TLC applications have
      been developed for patients with hypertension (TLC-HTN) as well as patients who have
      difficulty adhering to their medication regimen (TLC-MED). The investigators will also use
      state-of-the-art medication monitoring technology (electronic pill trays) that monitor
      patients' medication-taking behaviors in the intervention and control arms.

      The TLC-HTN system was designed for patients with hypertension (HTN) whose blood pressure
      (BP) was out of control and who were given a home blood pressure monitor. All study subjects
      (intervention and control) were asked to take their blood pressure at home on a weekly basis.
      The system gave them feedback on how the reported blood pressure compared to their previous
      blood pressure values and goals set by their physician. Using self-reported medication-taking
      behavior provided to the TLC-MED module, TLC-HTN gave the patient additional feedback that
      linked their adherence to their blood pressure control. At the end of each weekly TLC-HTN
      conversation, the system sent a report to the patient's physician that displayed recent and
      previous blood pressure values, identified trends, compared the blood pressures to the
      physician's goal for the patient and accepted norms, and displayed anti-hypertensive
      medication use/adherence levels in a similar manner so that the physician could relate
      adherence to blood pressure control.

      TLC-Medication Adherence (TLC-MED): TLC-MED is an additional module that is added to the TLC
      chronic disease systems including TLC-HTN, with the purpose of promoting medication regimen
      adherence. In each TLC conversation, TLC-MED will assess the patient's adherence to the
      medications prescribed for that disease. In this project, the investigators will evaluate two
      versions of TLC-MED, one which uses an electronic medication event monitoring system to
      determine medication taking, and the other which uses patient self-report information for
      determining the same information. The investigators will compare both the self-report method
      of obtaining medication-taking behavior/adherence and the electronic pill trays to usual
      care.

      Commercially available electronic pill trays for oral, solid medications (e.g., tablets and
      capsules) will be used by both arms to assess patient medication adherence along with subject
      self-report of medication-taking. There are a number of methods for conducting medication
      event monitoring for solid medications. The investigators will use electronic pill trays,
      consisting of a pillbox containing 28 cups arranged in a 7x4 matrix. Each cup has a sensor
      that registers when the cup is opened.
    
  