
    
      AIMS OF THE PROJECT:

      The aim of this project is to map the effect of the thromboprophylactic dose of LMWH on
      coagulation of women at the end of pregnancy, using recently available methods and laboratory
      tests, and simultaneously to evaluate the possible influence of LMWH on incidence of spinal
      hematoma. The methodology is based primarily on a complex examination of coagulation by
      thrombelastography (TEG), including comparative tests with heparinase, and on the monitoring
      effect of LMWH by measuring thrombin generation time (TGT) and levels of AntiXa. At the same
      time and, in cooperation with the Thrombotic Centre, standard and special laboratory
      hematology tests will be performed (INR, APTT, TT, fibrinogen, AT III, D-dimer, protein S,
      protein C, APC resistance, PFA, F VII, F VIII, PFA 100, TAT micro, vWf, APA, t-PA, PAI-1,
      blood count) together with genetic tests for FV Leiden and prothrombin II mutations.

      HYPOTHESIS AND EXPECTED RESULTS:

      We assume that with hypercoagulation and other influencing factors in pregnancy, the effect
      of LMWH on coagulation, compared to the population of non-pregnant women, will be
      significantly lower. Thus significantly lower will be also the effect of TED prophylaxis. For
      the same reason we assume that the current thromboprophylactic dosage of LMWH could not
      affect coagulation of pregnant women enough to increase the risk of spinal hematoma with
      neuraxial analgesia/anaesthesia administration.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

      Primary aims: To map the coagulation effect of standard prophylactic dose of LMWH in pregnant
      women at the end of pregnancy. Based on these results, to evaluate the possible prophylactic
      effect of LMWH on TED prevention in pregnant compared to non-pregnant women and to evaluate
      the possible influence of LMWH on the potential risk of spinal hematoma development during
      neuraxial blockade in pregnancy.

      Secondary aims: To propose a change of the thromboprophylactic regimen in pregnancy. To
      suggest a change of the recommended time interval between LMWH application and administration
      of neuraxial blockade in pregnant women.

      METHODS AND RESEARCH SAMPLE CHARACTERISTICS:

      Study design: prospective, monitoring

      Size and type of study group: a total of 50 pregnant women with physiological ongoing
      pregnancy and undergoing planned caesarean section, without known coagulation disorders, will
      be included in to the study

      Inclusion criteria: pregnant women undergoing planned caesarean section, 39th-40th week of
      pregnancy, age 18-40 years, informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria: disapproval or non-cooperation of the mother, allergy to LMWH,
      coagulation disorders or the risk of, anticoagulant therapy in the last 3 months, signs of
      infection, history of cancer, signs of thrombosis or a history of thrombosis, the ongoing
      non-physiological pregnancy, significant obesity, or other severe comorbidity.

      Withdrawal criteria: development of obstetric complications in the mother or foetus during
      the study following, finding of prothrombotic state.

      Control group: 50 healthy women in fertility age (18-40 years) undergoing elective surgery
      for other than oncology or inflammatory indication, without known risk factors for
      coagulation disorders, not using hormonal contraception, informed consent.

      LMWH applications: a standard thromboprophylactic dose of LMWH (4000 IU of enoxaparin
      subcutaneously) will be given to pregnant woman/patient in control group.

      Monitoring of coagulation: To evaluate coagulation changes after administration of LMWH dose
      we will perform thrombelastographic examination (TEG; Haemascope Corp., USA.) of venous blood
      (including examination with heparinase) and specific laboratory tests to measure the effect
      of LMWH activity - antiXa and TGT (thrombin generation time). Coagulation system will be also
      be examined by other available laboratory tests (INR, APTT, TT, fibrinogen, AT III, D-dimer,
      protein S, protein C, APC resistance, PFA, F VII, F VIII, PFA 100, TAT micro, vWf, APA, t-PA,
      PAI-1, blood count) including genetic testing for FV Leiden and prothrombin II mutation.

      Monitoring of coagulation takes place in four phases:

        1. Basal level - before LMWH application

        2. The maximum effect of LMWH - 4 hours after application

        3. Low efficiency of LMWH - 8 hours after application

        4. Control level of LMWH effectiveness - 24 hours after application

      Samplings for laboratory testing will be performed in the same way as a sample for TEG
      examination - venous blood will be in planned times taken by one-time blood draw to prevent
      premature coagulation activation and dilution of the sample. Blood samples will be collected
      according to standard guidelines (for coagulation tests and TEG in a test tubes with sodium
      citrate) - and subsequently processed in Central haematology laboratory.

      For TEG examination 1 ml of whole blood will be activated by 1% celite and then 360 μl of
      sample (340 μl blood + 20 μl CaCl2) will be analyzed in a standard cuvette and 360 μl of
      sample (340 μl blood + 20 μl CaCl2) in the cuvette with heparinase. Following parameters will
      be recorded: time r, time K, angle alpha, maximum amplitude MA and LY30 as a factor of
      fibrinolysis. From the measured values coagulation index (CI) will be calculated.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      Demographic, obstetric and clinical data - age, height, weight, BMI, gestational age,
      previous pregnancy, associated medical conditions. Standard pre-operative assessment and
      pharmacological history. Fluid intake and output during the surveillance. Any bleeding and /
      or thromboembolic complications from beginning of the study to the end of hospitalization
      after Cesarean section.

      DATA PROCESSING:

      All data will be stored at electronic database with safety back up. Statistical analysis will
      be performed in cooperation with Biomedical Statistics Dept. of the Institute of Biophysics
      and Informatics, Charles University in Prague, 1st Faculty of Medicine. Based on preliminary
      analysis the overall number of subjects was determined as 50 in both study groups.

      DATA EVALUATION:

      Based on study results the relationship between the potential risk of spinal hematoma and the
      LMWH application will be evaluated by the Expert Committee for Obstetric Anaesthesia of the
      Czech Society of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine (ČCSARIM). The conclusions and
      the resulting recommendations will be submitted to the Executive Committee of ČSARIM.

      TIME SCHEDULE:

      Based on the feasibility test and pilot study we consider as real inclusion 3 patients into
      the study per month. This number is based on the number of anticipated elective caesarean
      operations and the possibility of recruiting appropriate subjects satisfying all the
      criteria, and also on organizational difficulties when samples at study hour 8 and 24 will be
      taken at the place of subject's residence.

        1. st year - creating a study database, patient recruitment, inclusion of 15 pregnant women
           + 15 controls; samples processing.

        2. nd year - recruiting patients, inclusion of 25 pregnant women + 15 controls, processing
           and analysis of samples, evaluation and presentation of preliminary study data.

        3. rd year - recruiting patients, inclusion 10 pregnant women + 20 controls, processing and
           analysis of samples. The evaluation of all study data, statistical evaluation,
           presentation and publication the final results.

      DEPARTMENTS INVOLVED, PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR´S READINESS:

      Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Institute of Clinical Biochemistry and
      Laboratory Diagnostics, Central Hematology Laboratory, Thrombotic Centre Department of
      Gynaecology and Obstetrics

      EXPECTED RESULTS AND PROJECT IMPORTANCE:

      The expected project outcome is the detailed evaluation of the influence of LMWH on
      coagulation in pregnant women and suggested modification of dosing schemes for
      thromboprophylaxis before Caesarean operation, which would better reflect physiological
      hypercoagulation in pregnancy. Due to improved TED prophylaxis the main long-term outcome
      then should be the reduction of maternal mortality in connection to thromboembolic diseases.
      At the same time we want to prove that the current dosage of LMWH in pregnant women cannot
      increase the risk of epidural hematoma during neuraxial blockades and we would recommend
      changes of time relationships between administration of LMWH and neuraxial blockade.

      COOPERATION ON THE PROJECT:

      The project will be performed in cooperation between the Dept. of Anaesthesiology and
      Intensive Care, Thrombotic Centre of Institute of Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory
      Diagnostics and Dept. of Gynaecology and Obstetrics.

      The relationship between the risk of spinal hematoma and the LMWH applications will be
      evaluated by the Expert Committee for Obstetric Anaesthesia and Executive Committee of the
      Czech Society of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine.

      DISCUSSION:

      So far, no studies have been published dealing with the influence of thromboprophylactic LMWH
      dose on coagulation in pregnant women. The only study, showing a reduced effect of LMWH
      during pregnancy, was only evaluating its effect on antiXa activity. Our project differs in
      complexity and range of other available methods used such as thrombin generation time and
      especially thrombelastography. Thus our project also builds on the results of previous grant
      project IGA No. NR8157 "The use of thrombelastography in evaluating coagulation in women with
      physiologically and pathologically ongoing pregnancy, during birth and beyond".

      EXPECTED PROJECT BENEFITS AND IMPACTS OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT The project aims to clarify the
      effect of LMWH on coagulation in pregnant women just before birth, at a period of maximal
      physiological hypercoagulable state and with high risk of thromboembolism, the most common
      cause of maternal mortality in developed countries. Although LMWH are now routinely
      administered as prevention of thromboembolism in all women undergoing Caesarean operation,
      their effect on coagulation in pregnant women was not yet studied. Research of
      haemocoagulation in pregnant women worldwide is rather difficult, so the results of such a
      project are highly awaited and are then a great opportunity to present Czech research on
      European and World forums.

      The main expected benefit of this project will be the evaluation of the adequacy of current
      LMWH thromboprophylaxis in pregnant women (which is recently only derived from surgical
      patients). The next important study outcome will be the evaluation of possible influence of
      the LMWH thromboprophylaxis on risk of spinal hematoma in connection to neuraxial
      anaesthesiology techniques in pregnant women. In both situations the targeted outcome is to
      change present recommendations to increase the safety of pregnant women undergoing Caesarean
      operation. Just in Czechia this issue affects about 30 000 women/year.
    
  