
    
      Introduction Pitted keratolysis is a common skin disease, caused by various gram-positive
      bacteria including Corynebacterium species, Kytococcus sedentarius, Dermatophilus congolensis
      and Actinomyces species. These bacteria create small tunnels in the stratum corneum, causing
      pitted lesions at plantar areas. This condition is frequent accompanied by feet malodor and
      is commonly found in young male adults, especially in soldiers, miners and athletes. The
      reported prevalence of pitted keratolysis among naval cadets in Thailand was 38.7%.
      Predisposing factors related to pitted keratolysis are pedal hyperhidrosis and prolonged feet
      occlusion. Although this condition is generally not painful, our previous study in 2018
      revealed adversely affects patients' quality of life.

      Regarding treatment modalities of pitted keratolysis, various medications and life-style
      modification have been recommended. Previous studies revealed efficacy of topical choices,
      including benzoyl peroxide gel, clindamycin-benzoyl peroxide gel, glycopyrrolate cream,
      erythromycin gel, clindamycin solution, chlorhexidine scrub4 and mupirocin ointment. Oral
      antibiotics and botulinum toxin injection were also beneficial in pitted keratolysis. As to
      life-style modification, wearing cotton socks and opened footwear, and proper hygiene, have
      also been suggested.

      Previous studies demonstrated efficacy of zinc oxide in broad-spectrum antibacterial
      properties. Thus, zinc oxide has been used in various medical and apparel industrial
      products. Moreover, Commander Choopong Chailark invented socks coated with zinc oxide
      nanoparticles and reported antibacterial property of those socks.

      Objective The present study aimed to study the efficacy of zinc oxide nanoparticles coated
      socks in prevention of unpleasant foot odor

      Material and Methods First-year naval rating cadets, who had no pedal malodor were invited to
      enroll in this study. Consent was informed and obtained from all participants. Participants
      were assessed for behavioral risk factors and level of foot odor measured by a self-assessed
      visual analogue scale (VAS), using questionnaires. Subjects were randomly assigned either
      zinc oxide nanoparticles coated socks or ordinary socks.During the study, using of other
      topical treatment such as topical antibiotics, antiperspirant or aluminum chloride was not
      allowed. Participants were advised to wear those socks every day and regularly washed thier
      socks. All were able to regularly participate in physical military training during the study.
      Two weeks after the study clinical examinations by dermatologists and the cadets'
      self-assessment questionnaires, including feet odor by using VAS, treatment satisfaction and
      adverse effects, were used to evaluate the effectiveness. Pitted lesions improvement at
      plantar areas, evaluated by dermatologists, was divided into no improvement, slight
      improvement (decrease of pitted lesions at feet for 1 level) and much improvement (decrease
      of pitted lesions at feet for at least 2 level). Data were analyzed using Predictive
      Analytics SoftWare Statistics version 18 (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, USA).

      Duration of study: 4 months

      Study design: Randomized control trial
    
  