
    
      Pain is multidimensional. It is more than simply a physiologic or sensory response. Pain
      management programs are best developed by selecting interventions based on the individual's
      pain experience. Strategies with several mechanisms of action that complement each other
      might be selected to work together, thereby maximizing pain relief. The goal of palliative
      care is to achieve the highest possible quality of life for patients and their families
      through symptom control and attention to the whole patient, where physical, psychosocial,
      emotional, and spiritual dimensions are addressed. Provision of relief from pain and
      distressing symptoms is best served by a specialized interdisciplinary team with a
      comprehensive approach. The continuity of care for the patient and family is supported by
      communication and a strong partnership with the primary biomedical research team and the
      palliative care team.

      Despite a number of descriptive studies exploring the effectiveness of specialized pain and
      palliative care teams, the paucity of good evaluations, with any comparative design, urgently
      needs to be addressed. This is a randomized, repeated measures, evaluation study to explore
      the effectiveness of the inpatient Pain and Palliative Care Service intervention. The data
      collected during this study will not only include outcomes of the intervention, but also
      patient and family perceptions of the care delivery process including issues surrounding
      communication with health care providers. Patients with advanced malignancies who are
      currently participating in NCI Surgery Branch protocols will be asked to participate in a
      pain and symptoms management evaluation study. Each patient and a designated family member
      will be asked to complete a series of questionnaires over time exploring physical,
      psychosocial and emotional correlates of pain and symptom management. Data will be analyzed
      using multivariate statistics.
    
  