
    
      Pedicled nasoseptal flaps are used to repair skull base defects following endoscopic
      transphenoidal surgery. The superior incision is placed in close proximity to olfactory
      mucosa. Currently, these flaps are raised either with the use of electrocautery or scalpel.
      While it is hypothesized that the olfactory mucosa is at greater risk of thermal injury with
      the use of electrocautery, no prospective multi-center studies have examined the impact of
      these two different techniques on postoperative olfactory function.

      Patients will be recruited through the Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery clinics. Based on
      previous studies in a North American population, a 10% change in UPSIT score was considered
      to be significant. With an alpha error set to 0.05, a beta of 0.8 and an effect size of 1
      standard deviation, a sample size of 20 was calculated.

      After obtaining consent for enrolment into the study, each patient will undergo either: (1)
      electrocautery or (2) scalpel in the elevation of nasoseptal flaps based on primary surgeon
      preference. The University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) will be used for
      baseline testing of olfactory function in all enrolled patients. Postoperatively, all
      enrolled patients will be seen in follow-up at 1, 3 and 6 months' time, at which point the
      UPSIT will be administered for testing of postoperative olfactory function.

      The Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to determine differences between UPSIT scores pre-
      and postoperatively. Results of p<0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Linear
      regression will be used to examine relationships between UPSIT scores and other variables
      collected (e.g., demographic data, size/type of pituitary tumour, length of nasoseptal flap).

      Given that approximately 23% of all patients who undergo endoscopic transphenoidal surgery
      note some degree of worsening in their sense of smell following surgery, a prospective
      multi-center study comparing the two techniques would provide impetus to pursue one strategy
      over another in order to maintain an important sense, olfaction. Through optimizing
      preservation of olfactory mucosa during endoscopic skull base surgeries, patients' likelihood
      of not detecting environmental hazards (e.g., smoke, gas, other poisonous materials) will be
      reduced and, equally as important, their quality of life would be improved.
    
  