
    
      Growing evidence suggests an association of environmental stress with the development of
      hypertension and there is strong evidence in normotensive subjects that a greater pressor
      response to sympathoexcitatory stress is a harbinger of future hypertension. Pharmacological
      studies have shown that individuals with HTN have a blunted baroreflex sensitivity, and
      display a greater increase in blood pressure during administration of an alpha-agonist.
      Furthermore, exaggerated 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure variability (BPV) is proposed to
      be a risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease. Finally, Beta-2 adrenergic
      receptor-mediated forearm vasodilator responses to mental stress are blunted in Caucasian
      subjects at increased risk for hypertension, in African Americans, and in mild hypertension.
      We postulate that a relationship exists between these variables, even in normotensive healthy
      individuals. We also believe that signs of subclinical metabolic dysfunction exist in healthy
      individuals and that they may either contribute to or be affected by BPV. There is also
      evidence the prematurity at birth and low birth weight are associated with hypertension.
      Finally, arterial stiffness may also be related to blood pressure variability and the pressor
      response. Therefore the specific aims of this study are:

        1. To examine the relationship between 24-hour ambulatory BPV and baroreflex sensitivity.
           By measuring the baroreflex control of heart rate during sequential boluses of
           nitroprusside and phenylephrine, we hypothesize that baroreflex sensitivity will be
           inversely related to the degree of 24-hour BPV.

        2. To examine the relationship between 24-hour ambulatory BPV and the pressor response to
           four sympathoexcitatory maneuvers: head-up tilt testing, mental stress, cold pressor
           test, and isometric handgrip to fatigue. We hypothesize that greater BPV will predict
           the pressor response to stress.

        3. To examine the relationship between baroreflex sensitivity and the pressor
           response/forearm vasodilator response to the three sympathoexcitatory maneuvers. We
           hypothesize that individuals with higher baroreflex sensitivity will have a lower
           pressor response and a lower forearm vasodilator response to sympathoexcitatory stress.

        4. To draw a venous blood sample for future screening of genetic polymorphisms of interest,
           which may include nitric oxide synthase (NOS), alpha-adrenergic and beta-adrenergic
           receptor polymorphisms. We hypothesize that genetic variation in these key regulatory
           systems might explain some of the differences in baroreflex sensitivity, BPV, the
           pressor response and forearm vasodilator response to sympathoexcitation.

        5. To examine the relationship between 24-hour ambulatory BPV and the pressor response to
           sympathoexcitatory maneuvers and insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and body fat
           distribution. We hypothesize that greater BPV will be associated with insulin
           resistance, dyslipidemia, and increase waist-hip ratio.

        6. To examine the relationship between 24-hour ambulatory BPV and arterial stiffness using
           measurements of pulse wave velocity. We hypothesize that greater BPV will be associated
           with increased pulse wave velocity, an index of arterial stiffness.

        7. To examine the relationship between 24-hour ambulatory BPV and the pressor response to
           sympathoexcitatory maneuvers with birth weight and post-conceptual age at birth. We will
           ask each subject to provide this data based on their birth certificate and/or knowledge
           of their medical history.
    
  