
    
      According to the American Diabetes Association (ADA), there are approximately 20.8 million
      people in the US with diabetes or 7% of the population (1). A significant number of the
      diabetic population is prone to pedal ulceration and estimates reveal that 15-20% of this
      population will develop a foot ulcer in their lifetime.

      Treatment of diabetic foot ulcerations have posed a problem to healthcare providers for many
      years. The literature describes many different modalities for direct wound treatment
      strategies. Most of these treatments rely on the timely application of biological dressings,
      offloading of the wound, regular (and often inconvenient) visits to the doctor, and most
      important, compliance by the patient. It is not uncommon for such wounds to be present for
      greater than six months, despite use of debridement, off-loading and other basic wound care
      techniques, before presenting for advanced therapy.

      Provant has been selected for study because:

        -  It is already indicated for the adjunctive palliative treatment of postoperative pain
           and edema in superficial soft tissue.

        -  It is a non-invasive wound treatment system which utilizes a proprietary PRFE signal
           which is hypothesized to trigger the release of endogenous growth factors that induce
           mitosis through accelerating the cell cycle, using a Ca+2 mediated pathway. The result
           is a significant increase in the rate of cell replication.

        -  It has also been shown that PRFE triggers a genetic sequence or cascade of 'wound
           repair' genes critical for the four stages of wound healing: inflammation, granulation,
           epithelialization, and remodeling.

        -  It has been utilized in the VA Health System since 2004 with no serious adverse events
           attributable to the device.

      This study will assess as an endpoints:

        -  Primary - the incidence of wounds reaching complete closure, and

        -  Secondary - the time to complete wound closure percentage reduction in wound area,
           percentage reduction in wound volume, and rate of healing mm2/day and mm3/day.
    
  