
    
      We propose a sample collection registry protocol for use in obtaining biologic and
      environmental samples anonymously from adult volunteers for use in laboratory assay
      evaluation. The samples will be used to determine if new tests are sufficiently valid and
      precise to be used in research studies and for quality control purposes. In studies involving
      the storage and analysis of laboratory specimens, it is essential to evaluate the performance
      of available assays and to actively assess the impact of storage and handling on the quality
      of samples and laboratory analyses. Specifically, it is essential to 1) demonstrate that an
      assay is sufficiently reproducible and stable over time such that differences in levels among
      individuals in the population can be detected; 2) evaluate assay reliability by sending
      blinded anonymous samples along with study samples to testing labs for quality control
      purposes; 3) test proposed laboratories or methods by using replicate samples from the
      population in order to choose the laboratory or method with the greater precision, and; 4)
      assess how sample collection, handling, and storage procedures affect measured levels of
      specific analytes to allow for informed decisions about whether to proceed with a specific
      analysis. Under this protocol, assays could include evaluation of immunologic parameters,
      genes and gene products, peptides, proteins, hormones, lipids, viability of cells,
      evaporation and dilution effects, chemical toxins and their metabolites, micronutrients,
      metals and more. For some samples, lymphocytes will be extracted for use in studies of
      lymphocytes and/or immortalized cells. Samples to be collected will include blood, urine,
      saliva, household dust, cheek cells, hair, nasal cells, stool, nail clippings, exhaled breath
      condensate, sperm samples, skin cells, and/or sputum. In addition, a pulmonary function test
      (PFT) may be conducted to collect lung function information. Since it is important to collect
      samples from the general population, this protocol covers collection of samples from
      non-pregnant adults (male and female, age 18+). Specimens may be collected during a one-time
      sample collection, or participants may be asked to provide specimens on several occasions
      over a specified period, not to exceed one year.
    
  