
    
      Closed-loop control of oxygen therapy is described in the literature used for preterm
      infants, trauma patients, medical emergency use, and for patients with Chronic Obstructive
      Pulmonary Disease (COPD). O2matic is a closed-loop system that is based on continuous and
      non-invasive measurement of pulse rate and oxygen-saturation (SpO2). The algorithm in O2matic
      controls oxygen delivery with the aim of keeping the SpO2 within the desired interval, which
      could be 88-92 % for patients at risk of hypercapnia or 94-98 % for patients with pneumonia,
      asthma exacerbation, heart failure and other medical emergencies, according to guidelines
      from British Thoracic Society (BTS). SpO2-interval can be set for the individual patients, as
      can the range of acceptable oxygen-flow. If SpO2 or oxygen-flow cannot be maintained within
      the desired intervals an alarm will sound.

      All studies on closed-loop systems have shown that this method is better than manually
      control by nurse to maintain saturation within the desired interval. Furthermore, some
      studies have indicated that closed-loop has the possibility to reduce admission time and to
      reduce time spent with oxygen therapy, due to more efficient and faster withdrawal from
      oxygen supplementation.

      In the present study O2matic will be tested versus manual control, for patients admitted to
      the emergency department with acute hypoxemia due to any reason, except for carbon monoxide
      (CO) poisoning and other conditions where SpO2 is not a reliable measure of hypoxemia. During
      the study the patients will either have oxygen controlled with O2matic or manually by nursing
      staff for 24 hours or until discharge or weaning from oxygen supply. All patients will have
      continuous logging of pulse rate, oxygen-saturation and oxygen-flow with O2matic, but only in
      the O2matic active group, the algorithm will control oxygen-delivery.

      The primary hypothesis is that O2matic compared to manual control allows for faster weaning
      from oxygen supplementation, and that more patients will be weaned from oxygen
      supplementation within a time frame of 24 hours. Furthermore it will be tested if O2matic
      compared to manual control allows for earlier hospital discharge. It will be tested if
      O2matic is better than manual control in maintaining oxygen-saturation within the desired
      interval and reducing time with unintended hypoxia and hyperoxia.

      No safety issues has been reported in the literature. O2matic is approved in Europe with
      "Conformité Européenne" (CE) mark, and approved for clinical testing by The Danish Medicines
      Agency, The Ethics Committee in the Capital Region of Denmark and by the regional Data
      Protection Board. The study will be conducted according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      standards with independent monitoring. All adverse events and serious adverse events will be
      monitored and serious adverse events will be reported to Danish Medicines Agency.
    
  