
    
      The investigators aim to evaluate the effectiveness and feasibility of using a fluorescent
      dye, Indocyanine Green (ICG), in endoscopic sinus, skullbase, sinus tumor resection, or
      posterior epistaxis surgery.

      Adults 19 years or older, seen in the Principal Investigator and Sub investigator's offices
      presenting with either CRS, benign or malignant sinonasal, skull base tumors, or posterior
      epistaxis will be identified by the Principal Investigators and invited to participate in
      this prospective study. Patients will be recruited into the study in a consecutive manner.
      After providing consent, baseline characteristics will be collected. The investigators aim to
      recruit 10 patients in each study group respectively given the patients diagnosis.

      Sinus tumor resection - Initially margins will be estimated with the naked eye. Then they
      will be compared to the margins that are fluorescing with the dye.

      Skull base tumor resection - The investigators will use a part of the participant's septum
      for the reconstruction. The investigators will measure the time it takes for the flap to
      fluoresce and ensure that it is still lighting up at the end of the surgery. This means that
      it is still receiving a good supply and ensures longevity of the flap.

      Sinus Surgery - During the participant's surgery, the investigator will come across important
      vessels that will be preserved. The investigator will see if the ICG is able to light up
      those vessels and if it does, then measure the time it takes to light up will be measured.

      Posterior epistaxis - If a participant experiences a nose bleed that requires going into the
      operating room, the investigator will use ICG to locate the vessel that needs to be
      cauterized. The investigators will measure the time it takes for that vessel to light up.

      The investigator will see the participants back on their day of surgery. During surgery,
      Indocyanine Green (ICG) will be injected through their intravenous line. The investigator
      will start with the smallest dose and increase to a dose that allows us to see the structures
      of interest such as vessels or tumor margins. The time it takes for a vessel or margins of a
      tumor to light up will be measured. Intra-operative data specific to each type of surgery
      being performed will be collected.

      Dose-Escalation Protocol Intravenous injection

        -  1.25mg (0.5mL)

        -  2.5mg (1mL)

        -  3.75mg (1.5mL)

        -  5mg (2mL)

        -  6.25mg (2.5mL) [at discretion of surgeon]

        -  7.5mg (3mL) [at discretion of surgeon]

      Intralesional injection

        -  1.25mg (0.5mL)

        -  2.5mg (1mL)

        -  3.75mg (1.5mL)

        -  5mg (2mL)

        -  6.25mg (2.5mL) [at discretion of surgeon]

        -  7.5mg (3mL) [at discretion of surgeon]

      Descriptive statistics (count, absolute frequency, and 95% confidence interval) will be used
      to analyze the baseline characteristic data.
    
  