
    
      This is a retrospective registration of a RCT carried out in 1988-90, with a IRB approved
      follow-up at skeletal maturity carried out in 2007-09. Both the RCT and the follow-up study
      were carried out in the same institution, by the same PI (Prof. Karen Rosendahl) and her
      co-workers.

      Detailed information is published in the following paper:

      Rosendahl K, Markestad T, Lie RT. Ultrasound screening for developmental dysplasia of the hip
      in the neonate: the effect on treatment rate and prevalence of late cases. Pediatrics
      1994;94:47-52.

      A sample of the initial RCT was invited for a maturity review/follow-up at skeletal maturity.

      The follow-up at skeletal maturity is called:

      Radiological indices of hip dysplasia and osteoarthritis at skeletal maturity in the Bergen
      Birth Cohort. Associations with neonatal hip dysplasia, childhood growth and genetic
      predisposition

      and is included in the approval by the Regional Ethical Committee for Medical and Health
      Research (No 3.2006.144). All participants of the follow-up study gave written informed
      consent according to the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki.

      The follow-up had the following main aims:

      1) estimate the prevalence of radiologically defined hip dysplasia, femoroacetabular
      impingement and osteoarthritis assessed at skeletal maturity 2)report the frequency of 4
      longitudinal dysplasia phenotypes based on sonographic assessments in the newborn and
      radiological assessments at skeletal maturity 3)investigate associations of dysplasia as
      defined in 1 and 2 above in univariate and multivariate models with clinically assessed hip
      joint mobility/joint hypermobility, weight, height and body mass index (BMI) at age 18/19
      years, prepubertal weight, height and BMI trajectories using data from child health records,
      first degree family history of hip dysplasia with or without hip arthroplasty, perinatal
      factors, measures of OA including minimum joint space, acetabular depth ratio and reported
      hip pain 5) establish a genetic resource by obtaining and archiving salivary DNA samples.
    
  