
    
      Each subject will undergo a screening period of up to 5 weeks, a treatment period of 2 weeks
      with PK sample collection, and an extension treatment period of 48 weeks, to allow subjects
      access to apremilast treatment if medically appropriate (following the completion of the 2
      week PK portion). Regardless of when they stop treatment, subjects should complete two post
      treatment follow-up visits at approximately 4 and 8 weeks after the last dose. All subjects
      should complete the final follow-up visit at Week 102 or at a timepoint 52 weeks after the
      last dose of apremilast was taken in subjects who have withdrawn at any time prior to Week
      50. At least 32 subjects will be enrolled into this study to provide an adequate PK profile
      and safety assessment in subjects of different ages and body weight ranges. Subjects will be
      divided into 2 age groups (adolescents [ages 12 to 17 years, inclusive] and children [ages 6
      to 11 years, inclusive]), with at least 16 subjects in each group. Apremilast treatment will
      start in older and heavier subjects.

      Group 1 (ages 12 to 17 years, inclusive; weight ≥ 35 kg)

        -  The data collected from the first 8 subjects will be reviewed by an independent data
           monitoring committee (DMC) to determine if it is appropriate to proceed with dosing the
           balance of Group 1 subjects and to proceed with dosing in the Group 2 subjects.

      and an evaluation of these data by the DMC has been completed.

      Group 2 (ages 6 to 11 years, inclusive; weight ≥ 15 kg)

        -  The dose regimens (dose strength and/or dose frequency) for these first 8 subjects will
           be based upon the PK and safety assessments from the first 8 subjects in Group 1.

        -  For the remaining subjects in Group 2, the dose (dose strength and/or dose frequency)
           will be based upon the subject weight as determined by the PK and safety assessments.
           The dose strength and/or dose frequency will be adjusted for any safety concerns or for
           unexpected changes in exposure. In the event of a dose regimen adjustment after the
           second PK and safety assessment, the first 8 subjects in Group 2 will return to the site
           for the appropriate dosing adjustment.
    
  