
    
      This was a single-centre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. The
      duration of subject participation was 9 weeks. There was an initial screening period of up to
      2 weeks. The first screening visit consisted of medical history, clinical assessment, chronic
      dyspnea evaluation, complete pulmonary function testing, and a symptom-limited maximal
      incremental cycle exercise test. A second visit during the screening period was intended as a
      training of the subject to the procedures to be performed in the study, with specific focus
      on familiarisation with the constant work rate exercise test. The screening period was
      followed by 2 x 7 day treatment periods (1 x tiotropium and 1 x placebo), separated by a 4
      week washout period. On the last day of each treatment period, the subject visited the clinic
      to complete a series of trial related procedures, including lung function measurements and a
      constant work rate exercise test at 75% Wcap to symptom limitation. Testing consisted of
      pulmonary function testing, dyspnea evaluation, and symptom-limited constant-load cycle
      exercise tests with measurements of cardiopulmonary parameters, symptom intensity and
      pulmonary mechanics. \

      Study Hypothesis:

      Dynamic hyperinflation restricts volume expansion during exercise and is suspected as a
      primary mechanism of dyspnea. The dissociation between drive or muscular effort to breathe
      and the mechanical response to increased volume (as reflected by an increased Pes/PImax:
      VT/predicted VC ratio) correlates well with the intensity of inspiratory difficulty during
      exercise in COPD. It was hypothesised that reduced Borg ratings at a standardized exercise
      level after tiotropium would correlate strongly with reduced restricted volume expansion
      during exercise (i.e., increased VT/IC and EILV/TLC ratios, and decreased IC and IRV). In
      other words, dyspnea and its predominant qualitative dimensions (i.e., inspiratory
      difficulty) result from patients being forced by DH to breathe at a high lung volume, at or
      above predicted TLC.

      Comparison(s):

      tiotropium bromide (Spiriva) vs. placebo
    
  