
    
      Adults immune thrombocytopenic purpura has an evolution which is generally chronic defined by
      the persistence of the thrombocytopenia 6 months after the diagnosis. The treatment is then
      based on the splenectomy which is proposed by the majority of the teams when the platelets
      are lower than 30x109/L. The splenectomy is effective at 70 to 80 % of the patients whereas
      no medicamentous treatment makes it possible to obtain a comparable result. Nevertheless, it
      exposes to immediate post-operative complications and to a risk of mortal fulminant
      infections by encapsulated germs, in particular the pneumococcus. However, its long-term
      effectiveness is discussed with a risk of relapse which would reach 50 % for certain teams.

      The rituximab could be an alternative to the splenectomy because of its great frequency of
      effectiveness and its good tolerance in the short and medium term. None the medicamentous
      treatments usually suggested in alternative to the splenectomy (disulone, danazol,
      immunosuppressors) indeed makes it possible to obtain an answer prolonged after the stop of
      therapeutic in a significant number of cases. Moreover, the use of the immunosuppressors such
      as the cyclophosphamide, the azathioprine or the ciclosporine appears contestable at this
      stage of the disease because of potential severity their side effects.The primary endpoint is
      satisfactory response to one year, defined by a figure of plates >=50x109/L and at least 2
      times superior in the initial, and persistent figure without treatment during one year after
      the stop of the treatment by rituximab. Secondary objectives are incomplete response to one
      year, defined by a figure of platelets >= 30x109/L and < 50x109/L and at least twice the
      figure initial or > 50x109/L but lower than twice the persistent initial figure without
      treatment during one year after the end of the treatment by rituximab. Splenectomy at one
      year satisfactory Response to 2 years incomplete Response to 2 years Splenectomies at 2 years
      Tolerance of the treatment.
    
  