
    
      The objective of this study is to develop rapid and effective diagnostic methods for these
      diseases by the identification of biological markers present in blood, urine or stool of
      patient in order to develop a rapid and efficient diagnostic method. To this end,
      investigators are building a collection of biological samples derived from blood (plasma,
      serum, cells and DNA) as well as urine and stool to perform biological assays and multiple
      analyses so-called "omics": genomics (on the entire genome), proteomics (on all proteins)
      etc...This will make it possible to identify the genetic mutations or biological markers
      present or absent in these diseases, making it possible to confirm a diagnosis or to
      eliminate differential diagnoses.

      To better understand and identify the abnormalities leading to the onset of auto-inflammatory
      diseases, four groups will be constituted:

        -  a group of patients with auto-inflammatory diseases for which a genetic mutation has
           been identified.

        -  a group of subjects free from any auto-inflammatory disease.

        -  a group of patients suffering from an auto-inflammatory disease, poorly characterized;
           i.e. auto-inflammatory diseases for which clinicians are not certain on mechanisms
           leading to the onset of the disease.

        -  a group of parents of patients suffering from an auto-inflammatory disease, poorly
           characterized.

      At a routine follow-up visit, the investigator will inform the participant about the nature
      and purpose of the study research.

      If the participant agree, the participant will sign the consent to participate in this study
      and the tests investigators will administer for this study will take place during a
      consultation of approximately 2 hours.

      In order to carry out the biological assays as well as the multiple "omics" analyses
      (genomics (on the whole genome), proteomics (on all proteins)), a blood sample will be taken
      depending on your weight and age and according to the recommendation in force (maximum of 11
      × 7 mL).

      The participant will also be asked to collect urine and stool using a kit designed for this
      purpose.

      This research requires collecting from participant medical file the personal demographic
      data, medical data, medical imaging results and biological and genetic analyses. All these
      analyses will have been carried out as part of the diagnosis and management of participant
      disease.

      Investigators will collect participant laboratory test results (immunology, serology,
      biochemistry, genetics...) in order to describe the characteristics of their disease.

      During patient participation and in order to assess your quality of life, particiapnts will
      be asked to complete a specific questionnaire (SF-36, about 15 minutes). During this
      consultation you will also be asked to complete (i) a simple questionnaire that describes
      your functional abilities (HAQ, about 10 minutes), (ii) the AIDAI (Auto-inflammatory Disease
      Activity Index) score that allows you to evaluate the activity of your auto-inflammatory
      disease and (iii) a questionnaire focusing on your diet and gut function.

      Depending on the case, a follow-up consultation at 3 months may be offered by the
      investigator. This visit will last a maximum of one hour and will be combined with a new
      blood test, a urine and stool collection and the completion of a questionnaire on diet and
      gut function .

      Finally, a 12-month follow-up survey may be conducted by the investigator (by telephone or by
      medical file) to ensure your health status, for the sole purpose of the research.
    
  