
    
      All aspects of life were significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic
      created heavy burdens on all countries affecting all foundations of the country. Global
      measures aimed to limit spread of COVID- 19 infection and a series of restriction were
      announced by serial countries including the suspension of schools, organized sports
      activities and gatherings. On March, 2020 Egypt started to take a series of lockdown
      regulation to control the spread of infection.

      The restriction and lockdown will impact the whole population especially populations with
      chronic disease. It is known that the lockdown will render access to outpatient clinics and
      services,beside the possible limitation of access to care, the restrictions may affect
      glycemic control patients with diabetes.

      The negative impact of limiting physical exercise, behavioral changes, dietary changes and
      fear of shortage of medical supplies could have an influence on diabetes control.

      Study procedure:

      All included patients / caregivers will complete an online questionnaire. For patients with
      limited internet access, the questionnaire will be carried out through phone calls according
      to patients' convenience.

      Perceived stress scale-10 (Arabic Validated version) will be used to measure patients'/
      caregivers' level of stress in response to the extraordinary status of the pandemic and its
      consequences. The scale is a 10 questions scale that will be circulated among the patients as
      an Arabic validated electronic form .

      Medical reports and files of included patients will be reviewed and last visit before the
      lock down will be thoroughly evaluated to identify:

        -  Patients' body weight, body mass index.

        -  Insulin regimen with special emphasis on total daily dose and percentage of basal
           insulin.

        -  Glycemic control of patients by evaluating the last HbA1C After completing the
           questionnaire, patients' insulin dosage and glycemic control during the quarantine
           period will be re-evaluated.

      Evaluation of glycemic control at the end of the study:

        -  For patients on self- monitoring of blood glucose, a rapid Hba1c test will be done
           according to patients' convenience, patterns and frequency of hypoglycemia and
           hyperglycemia will be evaluated.

        -  For those on continous glucose monitoring ( if available), the data will be extracted
           from the ambulatory glucose profile(AGP).
    
  