
    
      Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is common in Cameroon, and hepatitis B-related hepatocellular
      carcinoma is a leading cause of cancer death throughout West and Central Africa. Little is
      known about the natural history of CHB in sub-Saharan Africa and the long term response to
      antiviral therapy. The study hypothesis is that these can be determined by prospective
      follow-up of a population-based cohort.

      Aims, purpose, or objectives:

        1. To determine the characteristics of a population of asymptomatic Cameroonian adults who
           work for the Cameroon Baptist Convention Health Board (CBCHB) who have chronic hepatitis
           B infection.

        2. To determine the phase of infection into which these Hepatitis B carriers fall.

        3. To determine the incidence and risk factors for cirrhosis, decompensated cirrhosis, and
           hepatocellular carcinoma in this cohort over time.

        4. To offer treatment according to a standardized protocol, and to determine the outcome of
           treatment.

        5. To archive serum samples from patients for potential future studies of specific markers
           associated with hepatitis B and liver disease outcomes.

      Methods: Adult employees of the Cameroon Baptist Convention Health Board (CBCHB) and their
      spouses who are known to be positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg+) will be offered
      the enrollment in a cohort study for CHB. Following enrollment, their stage of disease will
      be determined using clinical, laboratory and imaging studies. Patients will then be followed
      at regular intervals for 5 years. Antiviral therapy will be offered to patients who qualify
      according to current World Health Organization guidelines.

      Significance: This protocol will prospectively determine the scope of CHB-related illness in
      an initially asymptomatic, population-based cohort and the outcomes of current WHO treatment
      guidelines in this African cohort.
    
  