
    
      The patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) present high mortality and morbidity
      rate, and also have malignant prognosis even if they could survive. The mortality and
      prognosis has been improved markedly because of the treatment with primary percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PPCI). However, the issue of no-reflow after revascularization has not
      been solved yet. The mechanisms of no-reflow in human being were regarded mainly as
      micro-embolism in coronary micro-circulation with thrombus or debris from atherosclerotic
      plaque, coronary micro-vasculature spasm and other conditions.

      Therefore, an agent with potent antithrombotic and micro-vasculature dilation function would
      be more effective on prevention of no-reflow after coronary revascularization. Ticagrelor was
      demonstrated to be a potent platelet inhibitor and a potent micro-vessel dilator which can
      influence metabolism of adenosine.

      Ticagrelor can inhibit adenosine uptake in vitro and subsequently augments cardiac blood flow
      in a canine model of reactive hypoxia- or adenosine-induced blood flow increases. In a dog
      coronary thrombosis model, ticagrelor blocks ADP-induced platelet activation and aggregation;
      prevents platelet-mediated thrombosis; prolongs reperfusion time and reduces re-occlusion and
      cyclic flow variation; and significantly decreases infarct size and rapidly restores
      myocardial tissue perfusion. These findings suggest that ticagrelor may have additional
      benefits in patients with acute coronary syndrome beyond inhibition of platelet aggregation,
      which is advantageous to the dilation of microcirculation and improvement of myocardial
      perfusion. AMISTAD study shows that: adenosine reperfusion therapy can reduce 33% of the
      infarction area assessed by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) detection.
      AMISTAD- 2 study showed that: adenosine early reperfusion therapy can reduce the composite
      end point of death and heart failure events. Additionally, ticagrelor is a non-precursor
      agent, playing a role directly on platelet inhibition.

      Myocardial perfusion imaging with SPECT is among the most widely used and well-established
      noninvasive tools for the diagnosis of ischemic coronary disease. It has been shown to have a
      high sensitivity and specificity in identifying patients with coronary artery disease and to
      be accurate in identifying areas of prior myocardial infarction.

      Given the evidence (from PLATO trial) of greater IPA with ticagrelor than clopidogrel,
      similar risk of major bleeding and probable effect of micro-vasculature dilation due to
      adenosine, ticagrelor will improve the reperfusion and decrease the infarct size
      significantly.

      This study is to test the effectiveness of ticagrelor on improving reperfusion and minimizing
      the myocardial infarct size after PPCI in patients with AMI. Also, it is to evaluate the
      safety of ticagrelor in patients with AMI.
    
  