
    
      Low molecular weight heparins (LMWH) are routinely used in perioperative prophylaxis of
      thromboembolic complications [(chiefly deep vein thrombosis (DVT)]. LMWHs have been proved to
      be safe and equipotent or superior when compared with unfractionated heparin.

      Sequential compressing devices (SCD) are relatively novel pneumatic stockings with several
      air chambers. A computerized pump applies a gradient of pressure which decreases from the
      foot cranially. Pressure is also applied intermittently according to predetermined schedules.
      This devices are being employed for DVT prophylaxis in patients for whom anticoagulation
      therapy is contraindicated, or in those who have a low risk of DVT. They have also been
      employed to complement anticoagulant therapy in patients at high risk of DVT, such as those
      undergoing orthopedic surgery (Fordyce, 1992; Handoll, 2002; Warwick, 2002; Pitto, 2004).

      The mechanism of action of SCD seems to be primarily mechanical, through a displacement of a
      column of blood through the venous system and towards the heart; they act as a surrogate of
      the muscular pump in immobilized patients (Killewich, 1995).

      There is also some evidence that SCD activity may influence the coagulation/fibrinolysis
      system towards hypocoagulability (Dai, 2000; Kohro, 2003); Kohro and colleagues have also
      hypothesized that the shear forces generated by SCD may alter platelet adhesion by a direct
      effect on platelets and/or by increasing the release of factors from the venous endothelium
      (Kohro, 2005).

      The investigators aim to assess the effects on coagulation when SCD are applied to patients
      at high risk of DVT in addition to standard LMWH therapy.The investigators chose to study a
      population in whom SCD may be useful in reducing the incidence of DVT, such as patients
      undergoing postoperative monitoring in the intensive care unit (ICU) after major abdominal
      surgery for cancer.

      In addition to standard laboratory tests, the investigators will use thrombelastography
      (TEG®) to assess all phases of coagulation. A TEG parameter, maximum amplitude (MA), has been
      linked to an increase of thrombotic complications in a postoperative population (McCrath,
      2005).
    
  