
    
      This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ganetespib when given with
      paclitaxel, trastuzumab, pertuzumab in treating patients with human epidermal growth factor
      receptor 2 positive (HER2+) breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body and
      usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced) or has returned after a
      period of improvement (metastatic). HER2+ describes cancer cells that have too much of a
      protein called HER2 on their surface. In normal cells, HER2 helps to control cell growth.
      When it is made in larger than normal amounts by cancer cells, the cells may grow more
      quickly and be more likely to spread to other parts of the body.

      Ganetespib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the proteins needed for
      cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop
      the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by
      stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab and pertuzumab, bind
      to HER2+ cancer cells and may kill them. Giving ganetespib with paclitaxel, trastuzumab, and
      pertuzumab may be a better treatment for patients with HER2+ breast cancer.

      This phase I study has two parts. During the first part of this study, patients with HER2+
      MBC receive trastuzumab in combination with ganetespib and paclitaxel to evaluate the safety,
      toxicity and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of this triplet regimen. There are dose escalations
      for ganetespib. Paclitaxel and trastuzumab are administered at standard doses without
      escalation. Part 1 is ongoing.

      During the second part of this study, pertuzumab at standard dose will be added to the
      triplet regimen of ganetespib, paclitaxel and trastuzumab, using the MTD of ganetespib
      determined in part one. The MTD of ganetespib and the safety of the four-drug regimen will be
      evaluated. The MTD for ganetespib in combination with paclitaxel and trastuzumab is 150
      mg/m2.
    
  