
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Numerous recent therapeutic advances have changed standard treatment options for
           patients with GI cancer. These include newer chemotherapeutic agents in addition to
           established proof of principle for anti-angiogenic agents. The burden of GI cancers is
           reflected by the presence of three GI cancer types in the top five causes of cancer
           mortality. Over 58,000 deaths yearly can be attributed to GI cancer.

        -  While immune-based therapies in GI cancers are experimental at the current time, a
           gathering body of literature is suggestive of an enormous potential, either alone, or
           most likely in combination with standard chemotherapy.

        -  Before immunotherapy can be combined with non-immune based treatment options we first
           need to investigate the effects of non-immune based therapies on immune responses
           (especially immune-evasive mechanisms) with cancer.

        -  Commensal gut microbiota play an important role in colonic inflammation and colon
           cancer. The human gut flora consists of approximately 100 trillion microbial cells,
           which their disruption leads to many types of diseases including inflammatory bowel
           disease and colorectal cancer. Recent studies have shown that colon cancer patients as
           well other patients with gastrointestinal cancers have an altered gut flora when
           compared to healthy controls. As an example, intestinal microbiome has been shown to
           contribute to the start and progression of certain kinds of liver diseases such as NAFLD
           as well as end-stage liver diseases 2-4 Therefore, it is important to investigate
           further as to how the gut affects the patient s response to chemotherapy, other types of
           cancer therapy and to tumor growth in general.

      OBJECTIVES:

      To serve as an umbrella protocol to allow collection, storage and investigation of samples
      from patients with gastrointestinal (GI) cancers in support of Thoracic and GI Oncology
      Branch translational trials to develop new therapeutic agents and novel treatment approaches
      as well as new prognostic and diagnostic models. Also, to collect samples from patients with
      non-GI cancers for comparison.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients undergoing evaluation for participation in NCI treatment protocols in the NCI
           intramural program with diagnosis of cancer.

        -  18 year of age or older.

      DESIGN:

        -  Blood, tumor tissue or stool samples may be collected from consenting subjects at the
           initial visit and/or at the time of visit to NIH, scheduled per other NIH protocols.

        -  Analysis of subject s samples include but not limited to immune-monitoring, single cell
           sequencing, identifying of gene expression and generation of CAR-T cells.

        -  Stool samples will be used to determine the intestinal microbiome.
    
  