
    
      According to ACOG guidelines, patients between 24 and 28 weeks gestation will be screened
      with a 1 hour glucose tolerance test (GTT) by their obstetrician. Those with elevated glucose
      levels will undergo a 3 hour GTT. According to routine OB standards, if the blood glucose is
      elevated on 2 or more of 4 parameters during this test (> 95 fasting, > 180 at 1 hour, > 155
      at 2 hours, >140 at 3 hours), the patient will begin receiving dietary therapy using ADA
      guidelines. If blood glucose levels remain 20% above a fasting of 90 & post parandial of 120
      with diet alone during a period of 1-3 weeks after diagnosis, the patient will be invited to
      participate in this study. Type 2 diabetics who have been diagnosed prior to pregnancy will
      also be included. These patients may enroll in the study prior to 24 weeks gestation,
      entering at the time of referral. Patients who give consent for participation will be
      randomly assigned to either insulin therapy (the usual standard of care), or to oral
      Glucovance therapy (the experimental group). Glucovance will be started at 1.25mg/250mg BID.
      NPH & regular Insulin will be started on a 1unit/kg basis BID. Both groups will receive care
      according to the current standard for gestational diabetics and pregnant Type 2 diabetics.
      The perinatologist and diabetes educator will evaluate the blood glucose record and assess
      the patient's adherence to the ADA diet weekly and will determine when the insulin or
      Glucovance needs to be increased. If the patients in the Glucovance group continue to be
      poorly controlled with 4 tablets/day (5mg/500mg), the therapy will be continued and insulin
      will be added to the management. Statistical analysis will compare the two groups for myriad
      factors including vaginal versus operative deliveries, hemoglobin A1C, fructosamine, and
      glucose at delivery, infant birth weight, infant complications, initial infant blood glucose.
    
  