
    
      Hypothesis

      The hypothesis is that analysis of ictal (during seizure) and interictal (between seizures)
      single neuronal firing dynamics will identify ictogenic tissue in children undergoing SEEG
      recording for focal epilepsy.

      Study Design

      Prospective cohort study.

      Sample Size

      The investigators will aim to recruit 30 patients over a period of 3 years, of which 50% will
      have a normal MRI and 50% will have an identifiable lesion. It is not possible to conduct
      specific sample size calculations for this study but the centre carries out approximately 24
      SEEG recordings per year so this target is feasible and achievable.

      Participant Journey

      The current patient pathway for children with medically refractory epilepsy undergoing
      pre-surgical evaluation will not be altered by the current study. The suitability for SEEG
      recording will be determined by the specialist epilepsy multidisciplinary team (MDT) and
      patients and parents will be invited to the neurosurgical outpatient clinic to discuss the
      procedure. There is nothing additional that will be required as part of this research study.

      If they agree to proceeding with the SEEG recording procedure, patients will be invited to
      participate in this study during routine outpatient clinic visits. The treating consultant
      neurosurgeon (who is part of the routine clinical care team) will inform the patients and
      parents about the study and give them the opportunity to meet with the clinical research
      fellow. Patients and their parents will have the study explained to them by the research
      fellow and be given age-specific information sheets. Following an adequate time to digest
      this information (a few weeks) and an opportunity to ask any questions, the child (if
      appropriate) and their parents will choose whether or not they wish to participate in the
      research. If they choose to participate they will be asked to give written informed consent.

      The novel combined micro-macro electrodes will then be used during the surgical implantation
      procedure. The use of these novel electrodes will not change the surgical procedure, which is
      conducted using robotic assistance to ensure optimal accuracy. The macro electrode recordings
      will be used for routine clinical analysis and the duration of recording and subsequent
      analysis of the recordings will not be affected by the micro electrode data captured for
      research purposes. The clinical SEEG also involves electrical stimulation of the brain which
      will not be affected by the study. Participation in this study will not preclude
      participation in these other studies and it may be possible to use the micro electrode data
      to supplement analyses in these other studies. Subsequent decision making on suitability for
      a surgical procedure will follow the normal clinical pathway and will not be affected by the
      micro electrode recording data.

      Further participant follow-up will be observational and data will be obtained from routinely
      available clinical information, including whether or not a surgical resection is carried out
      and, if so, whether the patient remains seizure-free at follow-up.

      The pseudo-anonymised research data will be securely stored via a secure university (UCL)
      research data storage service in a safe haven. Data will be stored for the duration of the
      study and 15 years following completion of the study to comply with GOSH guidelines. Data
      will be analysed according to the pre-specified data analysis plan, outlined elsewhere in
      this application.

      Timeline

        -  February 2019 - April 2019 (3 months): Study and infrastructure set-up including
           acquisition of appropriate recording amplifiers and finalisation of data storage
           arrangements.

        -  May 2019 - July 2021 (2 years 3 months): Recruitment. Aim to recruit 15 patients per
           year. Sufficient provision to allow for slow recruitment in the timeline to ensure that
           adequate sample is achieved for subsequent analysis.

        -  August 2021 - October 2021 (3 months): Data analysis.

        -  November 2021 - January 2022 (3 months): Write-up and dissemination of results. The
           scientific results will be disseminated in the form of peer-reviewed publications &
           conference presentations. In addition, sessions will be held to disseminate the results
           to patients and the public, in the form of information evenings to groups such as Young
           Epilepsy and Epilepsy Action.
    
  