
    
      Background: Transfers of care within hospital are vulnerable periods in health care delivery.
      The complete, accurate, and timely communication of essential patient information is
      particularly critical in transfers of care from the intensive care unit (ICU) to an inpatient
      ward. The ICU generally has the most vulnerable patients, the highest resource use, and most
      complex system of multi professional coordinated care within the hospital. Communication
      breakdowns between ICU and receiving inpatient medical teams can have profound implications
      on the quality, delivery and cost of patient care. Ineffective transfers may result in
      adverse events, redundant testing, increased hospital stays, and readmission to ICU or
      hospital.

      The written transfer summary is a widely used and important means to present and prioritize
      patient information to healthcare providers. Unlike verbal reporting, written communication
      is durable and accessible to many providers at many points in time, making it a critical
      component in facilitating continuity of patient care. Despite known shortcomings, dictation
      remains standard practice in many hospitals to complete ICU medical transfer summaries.
      Although the optimal content and structure for transfer summaries have not been agreed upon
      in the scientific community, it is clear that standardization can help minimize both the
      incidence and impact of information gaps during transfer. Computer-enabled tools that remind
      and guide the user to document essential content (e.g., goals of care, medications) have been
      found to improve the relevance, consistency, and readability of information in transfer
      summaries.

      Methods: This study will use a cluster-specific pre-post trial design with randomized and
      staggered implementation to assess the effectiveness of an electronic transfer of care tool
      developed in the primary clinical information system (Sunrise Clinical Manager, Eclipsys
      Corporation, Boca Raton, FL) by a multidisciplinary team of healthcare providers and clinical
      documentation specialists. Four adult medical surgical ICUs in one Canadian city will begin
      as control sites (i.e., no electronic medical transfer tool available) and subsequently be
      allocated in a random order to cross over to intervention sites (i.e., electronic medical
      transfer tool available) at regular intervals. Implementation intervals will be matched to
      medical resident rotation block dates, which occur every four weeks; a single study interval
      will encompass two resident blocks. Users--physicians and nurse practitioners responsible for
      completing ICU medical transfer summaries--will have access to the electronic medical
      transfer tool at intervention sites, in addition to standard dictation services. A
      multi-component knowledge translation (KT) strategy designed to facilitate adoption of the
      tool will be tailored and delivered to ICUs prior to implementation at the site. The KT
      strategy will encompass education, point-of-care support, and audit and feedback.

      Data will be collected both prospectively and retrospectively to measure perceived
      (prospective user survey) and actual (retrospective chart review) quality of the transfer
      summaries. The primary outcome will be a binary composite measure of two transfer summary
      conditions, manually collected retrospectively: (1) presence of four essential information
      elements (goals of care designation, diagnosis, active issues on transfer, medications to
      continue) and (2) availability of the transfer summary to accepting clinicians at the time of
      patient transfer. Transfer summaries that meet these two conditions will be coded as
      "Present"; those that do not will be coded as "Absent". Patient clinical outcome data also
      will be retrospectively collected from hospital clinical information systems and paper
      charts. All study outcomes will be compared between baseline (pre-implementation) and
      intervention (post-implementation) periods for all ICUs.

      Discussion: The evaluation of the electronic medical ICU transfer tool will contribute to our
      understanding how computer-based structured documentation can improve communication between
      medical teams and potentially better patient safety.
    
  