
    
      Infants and young children are at greatest risk of mortality from epidemic influenza.
      Influenza medications currently approved for use in the United States are administered orally
      or via inhalation. Availability of a parenteral influenza medication could be of great
      importance in medical and public health responses to both seasonal and pandemic influenza.
      Peramivir is an experimental parenteral influenza drug that is in advanced stages of clinical
      development. The primary objective of this study is to define the pharmacokinetics (PK) of
      peramivir in children with confirmed influenza. The secondary objectives are to: assess the
      safety and tolerability of intravenous (IV) peramivir in children with influenza; assess
      viral dynamics as a function of drug PK; and assess virus susceptibility to peramivir. This
      study is a prospective, open-label, age-stratified PK/pharmacodynamic (PD) and safety
      evaluation of investigational IV peramivir in hospitalized children with influenza infection
      who are unable to receive or have failed at least three days oseltamivir or zanamivir
      therapy. A minimum of 63 children with confirmed influenza will be enrolled into 1 of 7 age
      cohorts: Cohort I (>= 12 years to < 18 years); Cohort II (>= 6 years to < 12 years); Cohort
      III (>= 2 years to < 6 years); Cohort IV (>= 181 days to < 2 years); Cohort V (>= 91 days to
      < 181 days); Cohort VI (>= 31 days to < 91 days) and Cohort VII (Birth to < 31 days). Only
      hospitalized children will be enrolled. At study onset, Cohorts I, II and III (children from
      >=2 years to < 18 years of age) will be enrolled initially. When PK and safety data from 9
      total subjects enrolled Cohort I, Cohort II and/or Cohort IIII are available and reviewed by
      the study's Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), Cohorts IV-VII will be opened for
      enrollment. The initial doses selected for use were based on modeling and from a recently
      completed clinical trial study of a fixed dose (10 mg/kg) of peramivir in pediatric patients
      with influenza. In the current study, PK data will be obtained in a real time basis, and
      doses in each cohort may be modified if the target exposure [area under the curve (AUC) 24]
      falls outside of a pre-specified range. Additional enrollments may be allowed if the dose
      requires modification in a given cohort. In the event of a public health emergency, the
      National Institutes of Health (NIH), DSMB, or Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may that all
      cohorts be open for enrollment. Subjects will receive IV Peramivir once daily for 5 days or
      until the day of hospital discharge, whichever comes first, and PK blood draws will be
      obtained around the second dose. In addition to PK and PD, this study will carefully assess
      clinical disease course and adverse events (AEs), including neurologic AEs. Safety
      evaluations also will include neurologic assessments, general physical assessments, and AE
      and serious adverse event (SAE) reporting. Sequential nasopharyngeal specimens will be
      obtained for virologic assessments, including viral cultures, polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
      for viral ribonucleic acid (RNA) (quantitative), and analysis of antiviral resistance.
    
  