
    
      Mesothelioma is a malignant tumor of the mesothelial surfaces primarily arising in the
      thoracic pleura and is estimated to cause 43,000 deaths worldwide each year with over 3300
      cases occurring annually in the United States. Approximately 80% of cases of mesothelioma are
      due to inflammation induced by prior asbestos exposure with a lead time from exposure to
      development of cancer of 20-30 years.

      This is a single arm, open label phase II study of the anti-PD-L1 antibody, durvalumab, in
      combination with standard chemotherapy. Pemetrexed and cisplatin will be given for up to six
      3-week cycles with the addition of concurrent durvalumab dosed every 3 weeks. The first 6
      patients who are enrolled and commence treatment will be monitored for safety of the
      combination. Use of carboplatin in place of cisplatin will be permitted for patients who are
      ineligible for cisplatin due to impaired renal function at screening, however these patients
      must otherwise fulfill the eligibility criteria for the study. For patients that receive
      cisplatin, carboplatin may also be substituted after Cycle 1 for cisplatin related toxicity
      (e.g., grade 3 ototoxicity, grade 3 nausea) at the investigator's discretion. After
      completion of Cycle 6 of concurrent therapy, patients with stable or responding disease per
      modified RECIST for malignant mesothelioma will continue on single agent durvalumab every 3
      weeks until progression. Maximum duration of durvalumab treatment is 12 months starting from
      Cycle 1 of concurrent treatment (inclusive of any treatment delays or missed treatments).

      Tumor assessments will be performed approximately every 6 weeks during concurrent therapy and
      every 9 weeks during the maintenance phase.

      Mandatory pre-treatment tumor tissue sample (i.e., obtained during a previous procedure or
      biopsy) and blood samples (prior to Cycle 1, Cycle 2 and Cycle 5) for research will also be
      required.
    
  