
    
      Pancreaticoduodenectomy is part of the curative treatment of periampullary neoplasms.
      Postoperative mortality for this procedure is between 1 and 5 %, and morbidity ranging from
      30 to 50%. Infectious complications, with pancreatic fistula and gastric delayed empting, are
      an important part of this morbidity, affecting nearly 35% of patients.

      One of the risk factors of infectious complications is the presence of a preoperative
      obstructive jaundice, due to obstruction of bile ducts by the tumor. In this case, it is
      proposed to perform a preoperative drainage of the bile ducts, preferably by endoscopic
      procedure (ERCP), associated with the placement of a endoprosthesis. However, this procedure
      is controversial, this one increasing postoperative morbidity, and in particular the rate of
      infectious complications. One explanation of these events is the bacteriological
      contamination of the bile ducts during the endoscopic procedure. In addition, it has been
      observed for the patients who have benefited from preoperative drainage, the biliary flora is
      predominantly polymicrobial and may contain multiresistant nosocomial germs, unlike patients
      who have not benefited from this procedure, whose biliary flora is predominantly sterile or
      monomicrobial. This colonization by multiresistant germs may have consequences in the
      postoperative period, in fact, up to 49% of the germs found in the bile samples are also
      found in the samples taken during postoperative infectious events. This microbial release
      could make it more difficult to take care of postoperative infections, with less efficacy of
      conventional antibiotic treatments.

      The aim of the present prospective study was, first, to verify the correlation between
      biliary colonization and postoperative infectious complications, and secondarily to asses
      morbidity and mortality in patients who underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy. Patients whit
      colonized bile and patients with sterile bile were compared for these outcomes.
    
  