
    
      Poor health of employees can cause absences, lack of continuous service, decreased output or
      productions, fatigue or lack of concentration, and eventually financial damage to the
      employer. Research shows that health promotion programs in the work place improve employee's
      physical and emotional health, as well as their sense of commitment, belonging, and
      responsibility.

      People of working age spend most of their day at work, and usually have less time to
      participate in other activities, the work day in Israel being one of the longest in the OECD.
      Work places, therefore, present the most suitable setting for health interventions, as they
      are an accessible and available framework and have real potential of creating change.

      The current Health Promotion in the Work Place training course aims to train female employees
      to design, implement, and evaluate a health promotion program in their workplace, as well as
      promote personal change in improving healthy habits, and empowering the participants.
      Objectives include improving eating habits, increasing engagement in physical activity,
      increasing self-efficacy, and designing a detailed health promotion program in the work
      place, based on it's needs, and implementing it there.

      In order to accomplish these objectives, a unique course has been designed, consisting of 20
      sessions- 15 consecutive sessions, and 5 maintenance sessions throughout the year. The course
      will focus on acquiring health knowledge and health promotion skills, as well as leadership
      skills and empowerment. The participants will learn how to build programs, market them to
      their coworkers and employers, budget them, recruit partners, create a Gantt charts,
      implement and evaluate. The maintenance sessions will take place in different work places, so
      that the participants can showcase their projects.

      Data will be collected at baseline and 2 post interventions follow up points (after 15 weeks
      and after one year).
    
  