
    
      Between 25 % - 50 % of women of childbearing age have uterine fibroids. Also, 25% of women
      with fibroids suffer from the metrorrhagia, menorrhagia, dysmenorrheal or pelvic compression
      so that they don't have a good quality of life. The worse case is the fertility of patients
      with fibroids is hindered. The current clinical treatment is medication or surgery.
      Medication can only suppress the symptom temporarily when the hysterectomy method of removing
      part or all of uterus can cure the patient completely. However, the hysterectomy is an
      invasive operation and the women with fibroids who plan to have a baby don't accept this kind
      of treatment.

      Magnetic resonance-guided high-intensity focused ultrasound (MRgHIFU) system for the
      noninvasive treatment of uterine fibroids has been developed and was approved by the US Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2004. The ultrasound waves emitted by the ultrasonic probe
      propagate through the skin, fat, muscle, soft tissues and converge on fibroids at focus. High
      energy/intensity at focus causes the thermal necrosis of the fibroid tissue in several
      seconds. The whole process of HIFU ablation of fibroids is monitored and guided by MR
      thermometery. The advantage of MR-HIFU modality includes no incision, outpatient treatment
      and few side effects.

      The objectives of this program are to verify the safety and effectiveness of the MRgHIFU
      system developed by the division of Medical Engineering of National Health Research
      Institutes (NHRI), to achieve the clinical trial at the Chang-Gung Memorial Hospitals of
      Linkou and to commercialize the self-developed MRgHIFU system. The mission is to conduct the
      first-stage clinical test for 10 women with symptomatic uterine fibroids and to make two sets
      of HIFU system. Meanwhile, the impact of quality of life and satisfaction with treatment of
      the patients diagnosed with symptomatic uterine fibroids will be analyzed.
    
  