
    
      Screening Procedures: Patients will be identified after acceptance by Stanford's kidney
      transplant team as appropriate candidates for living kidney donation prior to their surgery.

      The following assessments will be performed over the course of 4 years for this protocol.

      A. Informed Consent will be obtained.

      B. A Cimetidine Blocked 24 hour urine collection will be obtained prior to surgery.

      C. DETAILED KIDNEY FUNCTION STUDIES will be performed using iothalamate, and PAH at three
      different times:

        1. Prior to surgery for uninephrectomy (the night before to months before surgery)

        2. 6 months to 1 year post kidney donation.

        3. 4 years after kidney donation.

      D. The Structure of the Kidney will also be assessed at three different times during this
      protocol:

        1. Cortical and whole kidney volumes will be determined using the clinical MRI or CT
           performed routinely for kidney donor evaluation.

        2. At the time of surgery, in the operating room: A single wedge biopsy of the kidney will
           be taken for morphometric and later genetic analysis. *NOTE: Genetic analysis is for the
           genetics of ageing not disease. In this procedure, a small wedge kidney biopsy is
           excised under direct visualization by the transplant surgeon after the kidney has been
           removed from the donor and before the kidney is transplanted into the recipient. The
           area of excision is then oversewn and checked for bleeding.

           The size (volume) of the Tx kidney will be measured by water displacement in a graduated
           cylinder immediately before Tx. This volume will be used in our calculations to estimate
           the number of glomeruli in youthful vs ageing kidneys.

        3. A second MRI or CT will be obtained 6 months to 1 year after kidney donation to measure
           the kidney's overall compensatory growth and increase in cortical volume for comparison
           with the pre-operative volumes.
    
  