
    
      Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) results from damage or dysfunction of the
      peripheral nerves and is one of the most common side effects of antineoplastic chemotherapy
      when neurotoxic drugs are used. Pain and paresthesia symptoms are prevalent, causing chronic
      discomfort and loss of functional abilities whilst also interfering negatively with quality
      of life and the patient's autonomy. In a pilot study of patients with CIPN, there was
      evidence that Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) improved the painful
      symptoms of patients with CIPN. This study aims to investigate the effects of TENS in
      reducing the symptoms of pain and numbness and improve the daily lives of cancer patients who
      have CIPN.

      1. Primary Objectives Evaluate the effects of TENS in the reduction of symptoms related to
      peripheral neuropathy due to chemotherapy treatment of a high and moderate neurotoxic
      potential in cancer patients.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Evaluate the therapeutic response of TENS with frequency variation (FV) in symptoms of
           paresthesia

        -  Evaluate the therapeutic response of TENS with frequency variation (FV) in activities of
           the daily lives of patients

        -  Evaluate the therapeutic response of TENS with frequency variation (FV) in symptoms of
           neuropathic pain.

        -  Evaluate the factors associated with better treatment response in paresthesia, in pain
           and activities of daily living.

      Eligibility criteria: The participants of the research will include patients with any cancer
      diagnosis who are being subjected to chemotherapy in either adjuvant or neoadjuvant therapy,
      containing in its protocol at least one chemotherapeutic drug of moderate and high neurotoxic
      potential.

      The participants of the research will receive TENS within the following parameters: VF mode
      TENS with a variable frequency between 7 Hz and 65 Hz. It has a pulse width of 200 µs, this
      is the highest tolerable intensity while still remaining comfortable for the patient. It has
      an application time of 60 minutes with the highest tolerable intensity, while still remaining
      comfortable for the patient. The treatment will be given on the same day as the chemotherapy,
      and will be given from home within 3 cycles. The participants will be divided into 2 groups:
      Experimental Group (EG) who will be administering the active TENS and the Control Group (CG)
      who will be administering the placebo TENS. The evaluation of the effects will be measured
      through the following instruments: Classification of neuropathy by the CTCAE (Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) version 4.02 2009, scale of functionality ECOG, the
      Questionnaire of Neurotoxicity Induced by Antineoplastics (QNIA) for the evaluation of the
      symptoms of CIPN, and the Analogue Visual Scale (AVS) to assess the symptoms of pain and
      paresthesia. The error α is estimated at 5%.
    
  