
    
      Most smokers in the U.S. actually do quit smoking when hospitalized, either voluntarily or
      involuntarily because of hospital's nonsmoking policy. However, the majority of them return
      to smoking soon after their discharge from the hospital. A hospital stay, therefore, is a
      "teachable moment" for these patients, a good opportunity to encourage them to lead a
      smoke-free life after they are discharged. Research, however, has found that brief counseling
      provided to smokers while they are hospitalized has limited effect. The scientific data
      clearly show that smokers should be identified at the hospital, provided counseling, and
      given intensive interventions with follow up extended to 1 month post discharge. Providing
      such clinical services to these patients will reduce their chance of relapse to smoking and
      the rate of re-hospitalization. In practice though, hospitals have had difficulty providing
      even basic bedside counseling with a subgroup of patients, not to mention a much longer
      follow up post-discharge with all patients.

      The proposed study aims to demonstrate that state quitlines can help bridge the gap between
      the recommendations from existing scientific data and the current practice by hospitals.
      Quitlines deliver counseling services by telephone. This is convenient for patients because
      they do not have to go anywhere in order to receive the counseling. Moreover, telephone
      counseling can be delivered proactively by the counselor.

      The potential impact of this study is that if this model is proven effective in a rigorous
      study design, then it is likely that state quitlines across the U.S. will adopt it and start
      working with hospitals that are interested in using such as system. If the new JCAHO
      requirements get adopted, there will be a strong incentive for the hospitals to work with
      partners like the quitlines that can help provide follow up counseling.

      With the proposed project the investigators intend to establish a practical model that lends
      itself to broader dissemination, while testing the effectiveness of the interventions with
      the rigor of a randomized design.
    
  