
    
      Heart transplantation is a lifesaving procedure however, more then 20% of patients do not
      survive beyond 3 years, being the cardiac allograft afflicted by cardiac allograft
      vasculopathy (CAV), which results in allograft loss. The purine adenosine 5'-triphosphate
      (ATP), released during cell damage/inflammation, is sensed by the ionotropic purinergic P2X7
      receptor (P2X7R), which is expressed primarily, though not exclusively, on lymphocytes, thus
      regulating T cell activation. Loss-of-function single nucleotide mutations (SNPs) have been
      detected for P2X7R gene; particularly the Glu496 to Ala 1513A>C (rs3751143) P2X7R
      loss-of-function mutation is relatively common (1-3% of individuals are mutated omozygous and
      25% are heterozygous). Our central hypothesis is that a loss-of-function P2X7R mutation
      identifies a group of cardiac transplanted patients at high risk for CAV and cardiac
      allograft loss because of a compensatory overexpression of P2X1R/P2X4R, which induces a
      disregulation of T-bet/ROR-g, ultimately leading to the abnormal generation of Th1/Th17
      cells. Our primary goal is to define the effect of the P2X7R loss-of-function mutation on
      clinical end points in the CTOT-05 cohort of cardiac transplant recipients (200 patients) and
      to explore the effects of the mutation on the immune system. Our preliminary data
      demonstrated that P2X7R increases during cardiac transplant rejection in vivo in mice and in
      humans and it is activated by ATP released by cardiac cells, thus triggering activation of
      Th1/Th17 cells. However, while short-term disruption of the P2X7R pathway prolongs cardiac
      allograft survival, the genetic deletion of P2X7R accelerates CAV and shortens cardiac
      allograft survival. This was evident in P2X7R KO-B6 mice and in a group of cardiac transplant
      recipients bearing the P2X7R loss-of-function mutation. Based on our published results and
      our novel observations, we have developed the following working hypothesis: P2X7R
      loss-of-function mutation generates a compensatory overexpression of the other ionotropic
      purinergic receptors (P2X1/P2X4) with chronic delivery of ATP immunity, hyperactivation
      T-bet/ROR-g, abnormal generation of Th1/Th17 cells and ultimately leading to accelerated CAV
      and to cardiac allograft loss. To test this hypothesis, we will follow two main paths: i) we
      will evaluate in the CTOT-05 cohort of cardiac transplant recipients the effect of the Glu496
      to Ala 1513A>C (rs3751143) P2X7R loss-of-function mutation on clinical end points
      (development of coronary artery vasculopathy, death, re-transplantation or re-listed for
      transplantation, any rejection) in the first year post transplant; ii) we will explore in
      vivo and ex vivo in the CTOT-05 cohort of cardiac transplant recipients the effects of P2X7R
      loss-of-function mutation on the immune system.
    
  