
    
      Endometrial cancer (EC) or carcinoma of corpus uteri is a neoplastic change, mostly
      adenocarcinoma, arising from uterine columnar epithelial lining. Abnormal uterine bleeding is
      the main presenting symptom especially in postmenopausal women. EC is estimated to be the
      seventh most commonly diagnosed cancer in women. It is considered the 16th leading cause of
      death in women with cancer worldwide, with 382 000 estimated new cases and 89 900 deaths in
      2018. Factors as obesity, parity, diabetes mellitus, unopposed estrogen exposure, genetics
      and hormonal therapies are recognizable risks for EC. Other factors as chronic comorbidities,
      tumor size and organ metastasis influence staging, prognosis, and management protocols.

      FIGO staging has been adopted as the standard classification system in the management of
      endometrial cancer. However, this staging system does not consider all factors that affect
      treatment decision and prognosis including but not limited to patient demographics, tumor
      grade, and lymphovascular space invasion. In addition, some interventions are still debatable
      particularly in the presence of intermediate disease e.g, grade II early EC. Available
      evidence supports combined pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy in management of patients
      with EC. However, combined pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy carry the risk of long term
      morbidities as lymphedema. Thus, hysterectomy alone as management plan is suggested in
      patients with low risk EC. More comprehensive studies of the multiple confounders that
      determine patient's risk are essential to reach an individually adjusted management plans and
      to predict prognosis of each individual case. Therefore, availability of large multicenter
      studies will provide robust evidence regarding optimal management of EC and hence, improve
      treatment outcome and prognosis particularly in the era of machine learning and artificial
      intelligence.
    
  