
    
      Objective:

      The goal of this protocol is to identify families with inherited movement disorders and
      evaluate disease manifestations to establish an accurate clinical diagnosis, and to
      investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Studies of inherited movement disorders in
      large families with good genealogical records are especially valuable.

      Additionally, the plan is to screen subjects with and without Parkinson's disease for the
      presence of revelant antibodies, such as antibodies targeting tobacco mosaic virus antigens
      which may have a protective role against the development of the disease or may be related to
      other pathophysiologic mechanisms.

      The study will also assess a series of exploratory peripheral blood biomarkers, including,
      but not limited to, those delineated by DNA, RNA, protein, and/or metabolite alterations in
      an effort to more accurately predict those with, or at risk of having, the specific
      neurological disease. Finally, validation of the NIH Toolbox Odor Identification Test
      (NIHOIT) against the standard University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) in
      patients with Parkinson's Disease will be analyzed.

      Study population:

      Subjects older than 2 years old with movement disorders and their family members will be
      enrolled. Patients with diseases of known molecular basis will be genotyped in order to
      investigate phenotype/genotype correlation. Patients with disease of unknown or incomplete
      genetic characterization will be studied with a hope of contributing to the identification of
      specific disease causing genes and genetic mechanisms and/or peripheral biosignatures
      involved in a particular disorder.

      Design:

      Eligible participants will have an initial medical and/or neurological evaluation at the
      Clinical Center or in the field, including blood draw for genetic and other biomarker
      testing.

      Outcome measures:

      Determination of phenotype/genotype correlations in specific movement disorders, gene
      identification if not known, gene expression and protein and metabolite levels, and presence
      of antibodies in Parkinson's disease and establishment of a clinical diagnosis when possible.
    
  