
    
      -  Background: TAVI has emerged as an alternative to surgical aortic valve replacement for
           patients with severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) and is expanding worldwide with
           more than 50,000 patients treated to date.

        -  Purpose Changes in haemostasis, particularly in platelet activation or reactivity
           before, during and after TAVI have never been studied. Valve replacement is known to
           alleviate von Willebrand factor abnormalities associated with AS. A potential
           improvement of platelet function could also occur after TAVI. Indeed, circulating
           platelets may be desensitized and under-reactive due to multiple passages through the
           stenotic valve and could recover normal reactivity after TAVI. Besides, TAVI presents a
           risk of major ischemic complications. The investigators can hypothesize the involvement
           of high reactive platelets in peri-procedural thrombotic or ischemic events. This study
           of the platelet activation kinetics will be performed by comparing several specific
           markers before and at various times after valve implantation.

        -  Primary outcome To evaluate the kinetics of platelet activation before and at various
           times after valve implantation, by comparing several specific markers in peripheral
           venous blood samples before (day 0) and at days 1 and 5±1 after the procedure.

        -  Study design and number of subjects: This is a prospective, monocentric, study. The test
           group includes up to 15 patients treated by transfemoral TAVI using a MedTronic
           CoreValve (MCV) prosthesis. Platelet activation will be studied before and after the
           procedure and compared to a reference established with an age-matched, aspirin-treated,
           atherosclerotic population (30 patients in the control group).

        -  Eligibility criteria:

             -  inclusion criteria: test group: patients with severe aortic stenosis and
                transfemoral TAVI with MCV aspirin treatment . Control group: age-matched patients
                with stable coronary artery disease treated by aspirin but without aortic stenosis.

             -  exclusion criteria: recent (1 month) acute coronary syndrome; treatment by anti
                platelet agents other than aspirin

        -  Procedures: Specific platelet activation markers, circulating platelet/monocytes
           aggregates, platelet reactivity and vWF will be assessed in peripheral venous blood
           before, 1 and 5 days after TAVI and in ascending aorta during the procedure.
    
  