
    
      Each year, during the fall and winter, coinciding with the influenza season, the number of
      health care visits and the number of days missed from school increases due to febrile
      respiratory illnesses. The highest rates of influenza infections are present amongst
      school-age children. The vaccination against seasonal influenza remains the most important
      measure to prevent infection and to combat the overall spread of the virus. School-age
      children, in particular, adolescents, may not be aware of the need for influenza vaccination.

      Interactive computerized educational programs have been developed and used in different
      pediatric settings in an attempt to increase children's understanding of their medical
      condition, and improve adherence to the treatment.

      The investigators identified one of our satellite pediatric clinics, as being the perfect
      venue for an intervention that will attempt to increase influenza vaccination. The clinic is
      located in an underserved area. More than 9,000 children are seen annually in this clinic
      with about 20% of the patients age 8 and above. A pediatric pulmonary office, part of the
      pediatric clinic, serves a high number of patients, most of whom have poorly controlled
      asthma.

      Currently, no focused, developmentally appropriate education programs regarding vaccination
      are used in our outpatient clinics.

      The investigators propose implementing an influenza vaccination educational program in this
      pediatric satellite office that serves a population that has historical low rates of
      influenza vaccination.

      The investigators have developed an influenza-vaccination-education-study-program that will
      involve the use of an animated influenza vaccine-based computer program (videogame) that is
      designed from the investigator's own initiative. This videogame should provide a basis or
      foundation to discuss the need for influenza vaccination and the adverse effects of influenza
      disease. It will be designed to intrigue the child by providing animated tours and creative
      experiences that are designed to encourage behavioral changes towards the need for
      vaccination.

      The investigators hypothesis that by using this hybrid entertainment-educational tool, we
      will increase children's knowledge about influenza disease and the need for influenza
      vaccination. By using this age appropriate intervention, we aim to decrease children and
      adolescent's anxiety related to the vaccination and to increase vaccination rates. The
      investigators hypothesis that our intervention will have a high impact since it is geared to
      an ethnic community with historically low rates of influenza vaccination.
    
  