
    
      Childhood mortality related to Plasmodium falciparum malaria is on the rise with more than 1
      million deaths per year in Sub-Saharan Africa. In the context of growing drug-resistance to
      antimalarials health officials are calling for rapid replacement of failing drugs by
      combining antimalarial drugs. Artemisinin Combination Antimalarial Therapies (ACTs) are in
      the focus of malaria control programmes and are recommended for first-line treatment in
      African countries. ACTs have been reported to be highly effective as artemisinin derivatives
      cause a rapid and substantial decrease in the parasite load when used for treating patients
      with malaria and resistance to artemisinin is still lacking. However, the short half-lives of
      artemisinins result in frequent recrudescent infections when used alone and therefore, much
      interest lays on the choice of the combination partner drug. ACTs also have been proposed as
      a means of reducing transmission by the reduction of gametocytes and of delaying the spread
      of drug resistance and prolonging the therapeutic life span of. Nevertheless, drug resistance
      of parasites to the respective partner drug is a matter of concern. Artesunate-amodiaquine
      (AQ) and artemether-lumefantrine (AL) are two registered fixed-dose artemisinin combination
      chemotherapies used in Africa which are GMP-manufactured at industrial scale. There is still
      limited data from randomised, controlled trials to support the general effectiveness of these
      two ACTs in Africa, including Ghana. More data is needed to compare these two therapies to
      make evidence-based first-line treatment decisions. Importantly, it is difficult to predict
      how combination therapy may affect the spread of drug resistance and monitoring drug
      resistance markers should be embedded in these trials to guide drug policy decision.

      The aim of this open-labelled, randomised drug trial is to compare the effectiveness and
      safety of artesunate-amodiaquine (Arsucam®) against artemether plus lumefantrine (Coartem®)
      for the treatment of children under five years of age with uncomplicated Plasmodium
      falciparum malaria.
    
  