
    
      Patients will be recruited from in- and outpatient clinics at the Otto Heubner Center, the
      Berlin Center for Rare Diseases, and the Institute for Medical Genetics and Human Genetics at
      Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Germany. Following informed consent, 5 ml EDTA blood will
      be obtained from the index case and 10 ml blood from each parent. Disease related phenotype
      information and the outcome of previous diagnostic tests and procedures will be recorded as
      part of Study visit #1.

      [1] Study visit #1

        1. A medical genetics physical will be performed. Detailed clinical symptoms (phenotype)
           will be recorded using Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) terminology.

        2. A detailed pedigree will be drawn.

        3. Age of disease onset will be determined.

        4. Results from previous diagnostic tests and procedures, as well as hospital stays, will
           be recorded.

        5. The parents will be asked to complete a validated, standardized quality of life
           questionnaire adapted for for rare disease. The questionnaire is available online or in
           paper form.

      [2] Study visit #2a (optional)

      This study visit will only take place in the event that gene panel sequencing identifies a
      variant of uncertain significance, where additional information would be needed in order to
      determine its pathogenicity (e.g. confirmational biochemical testing, collection of
      additional information). Relevant research findings will be discussed and the nature and
      necessity of the additional testing will be explained.

      [3] Study visit #2b (optional)

      This study visit will only take place in the event that WGS identifies a variant of uncertain
      significance where additional information is needed in order to determine its pathogenicity >
      see Study visit #2a.

      [4] Study visit #3 (results session)

      Results will be returned in the context of a genetic counseling session.

      [5] Study visit #4 (6 months after Study visit #3)

      The parents will be asked to complete the validated, standardized quality of life
      questionnaire adapted for rare disease again.
    
  