
    
      Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is a form of cancer that is common in older patients. Mutations
      in the isocitrate dehydrogenase enzyme 2 (IDH2) have been found in approximately 15% of
      patients with AML.

      The outcome of first line chemotherapy treatment is poor and many patients fail to attain
      complete remission (CR, ie refractory) or will eventually relapse. There is no single
      standard of care for relapsed or refractory AML. Since the prognosis is very poor there is a
      great need for new therapies.

      Inhibition of the mutant IDH2 enzyme may represent a promising targeted therapy for AML.
      AG-221 is a small molecule inhibitor of the IDH2 enzyme, designed to preferentially target
      the mutant IDH2 variants. Data from the ongoing first-in-human study has shown AG-221 to be
      generally well tolerated and demonstrated CR in patients with IDH2 mutation positive relapsed
      or refractory AML.

      The study purpose is to test the safety and efficacy of AG-221 compared with conventional
      care regimens (CCR), which include best supportive care (BSC) only, azacitidine plus BSC,
      low-dose cytarabine plus BSC or intermediate-dose cytarabine plus BSC, in patients with late
      stage AML refractory to or relapsed after second or third line therapy and positive for the
      IDH2 mutation. Patients will be randomly assigned to receive open-label tablets of AG-221 or
      one of the CCR on continuous 28-day treatment cycles. The trial duration is expected to be 78
      months which includes 42 months enrollment, approximately 7 months treatment and a follow-up
      period.

      Study procedures include: vital signs, physical exams, ECGs, ECHO, urine/blood samples, bone
      marrow aspirates and/or biopsies and peripheral blood to test for IDH2 and assess treatment
      response. Bone marrow, blood, cheek swab samples will be used for genetic tests.

      This study is being sponsored by Celgene Corporation. Approximately 316 participants will
      take part in the study.
    
  