
    
      In response to the large numbers of senior center clients who suffer from untreated
      depression, we have partnered with the NYC Department for the Aging (DFTA) to develop
      SMART-MH, a community care model that can be embedded in senior centers to improve
      recognition, referral, and adherence to depression treatment. The investigators also
      developed and tested Engage, a stepped-care therapy streamlined to use "reward exposure" as
      its principal intervention based on the assumption that dysfunction of the reward networks is
      central to the pathogenesis of depression. With senior center partners and a mobile
      technology team, the investigators redesigned Engage-M so that it can be used in a group
      format by licensed clinical social workers (LCSWs) of Senior Centers. Mobile technology
      provides probes for client adherence and offers to therapists easy to review summary records
      of mood, activity, and social interaction that can be used to target their sessions. The
      investigators have integrated SMART-MH and Engage-M into a comprehensive community care model
      "Reaching and Engaging Depressed Senior Center Clients" (REDS).

      The specific aims of this developmental project are to: 1. Finalize the REDS protocol and
      assess feasibility of training; 2. Prepare an Operations' Manual; 3. Examine reach,
      feasibility, and acceptability of REDS; 4. Examine engagement of behavioral targets and
      preliminary effectiveness; and 5. Collect information on REDS cost, barriers to
      implementation, and potential savings in health care utilization.

      The investigators will randomly assign four senior centers to offer either Engage-M (N=40),
      the treatment offered by REDS (1 individual and 8 weekly group sessions) or 8 group sessions
      "Wellness in Mind and Body" plus mental health referral (W-MH; N=20). The participants will
      have clinically significant depressive symptoms (PHQ-9>10) and will be older and middle-aged
      adults (55+); 12.6% of the NYC senior center clients are aged 55-65 years. Clients will be
      identified by senior center staff trained in SMART-MH strategies. The investigators will
      offer additional training to staff of all centers on SMART-MH outreach, depression screening,
      and treatment engagement. The investigators will train and provide weekly supervision to 2 or
      more LCSWs per center of the two centers assigned to Engage-M. The investigators will not
      offer training or supervision to senior center staff leading the groups of W-MH but will
      provide oversight so that clients receive mental health referrals and are encouraged to
      attend weekly Wellness group meetings.
    
  