
    
      In the developed countries, pregnant women take relatively adequate and diversified food
      while pregnant women in the developing countries consume inadequate amount and less
      diversified diet with very low energy, folate, iron, zinc, and vitamin A content. But, Asian
      and African pregnant women took more cereals with a small amount of animal products,
      vegetables, and fruits.

      Similarly, the dietary practice of Ethiopian pregnant women has long been an issue of public
      health concern since almost all pregnant women take inadequate amount of poor quality diet.
      Their energy and nutrient intake was below the recommended average requirement. In the
      country, food taboos are highly prevalent; nonetheless, there is a variation on the type of
      food considered as taboo and the possible reason for food taboo within the country.

      In spite of increasing nutrient demand with increasing gestational age, from the literature
      trend of dietary change was different from country to country and within the country.
      Pregnant women in developed countries improve their dietary practices with increasing
      gestational age. However, pregnant women in developing countries experienced "eating down".

      Women who had inadequate dietary intake during pregnancy were more likely to develop
      under-nourishment compared with their counterparts. Under-nourishment in turn associated with
      intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR), low birth weight (LBW) and premature delivery.

      Not only inadequate intake but also excessive consumption of energy-dense foods associated
      with increases the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes such as preeclampsia, gestational
      diabetes mellitus, hemorrhage, cesarean-section delivery, infection, birth trauma, macrosomic
      infant, delay or failure to lactate, postpartum weight retention.

      To improve maternal and child nutrition, the Ethiopian government developed food and
      nutrition policy, strategy, and programs with guidelines to implement nutrition-specific and
      sensitive interventions vital to alleviate nutrition problems. In the country, nutrition
      education is often given to pregnant women at the community and health institution. Yet,
      pregnant women have insufficient knowledge and poor dietary practice.

      Counseling is a series of professional guidance which aims to change the knowledge, attitude,
      and behavior of an individual. Guided counseling is identified as an effective measure to
      improve maternal knowledge on nutrition which is the determinant factor of woman's adherence
      to a healthy dietary practice. Appropriate dietary practice, in turn, improves nutritional
      status and birth weight of pregnant women. From the literature, the health belief model and
      theory of planned behavior constructs are effective to improve the dietary practice of
      pregnant women. In this study, guided counseling refers to professional guidance based on the
      health belief model and the theory of planned behavior to improve dietary practice,
      nutritional status, and birth weight.

      Hence, the aim of this study was to assess the effect of guided counseling in improving
      dietary practice, nutritional status and birth weight of pregnant women in West Gojjam Zone.
      Dietary practice means the dietary intake of pregnant women. Trimester based nutrition
      counseling was implemented(the women were counseled to increase portion size and frequency of
      meal with increasing gestational age). The study used the health belief model and theory of
      planned behavior constructs and counseling card to counsel the women. Besides, a leaflet with
      appropriate pictures was given to the women to use it at home.

      Methods: The study was conducted among pregnant women in West Gojjam Zone, Amhara Region,
      Ethiopia from May 2018 to May 2019. Baseline data on dietary practice and nutritional status
      of pregnant women were collected from May to August 20/2018 (13weeks). Endline data were
      collected from October 2018 to May 2019. Therefore, a time frame to the second, third and
      fourth objective was 8months. The study used mixed methods design; quantitative and
      qualitative study and cluster randomized controlled community trial. Single population
      proportion formula was used to estimate the sample size for objective I while G power 3.1.9.2
      software was used to determine the sample size for objective II, III and IV. Respondents were
      selected using a randomized cluster sampling technique.

      Community-based guided counseling using the health belief model and theory of planned
      behavior was the intervention package for this study. The core contents of guided counseling
      were the following: increasing frequency of meal (consumption of at least one additional meal
      in the second and at least two additional meals during the third trimester of pregnancy),
      increasing portion size with gestational age, using iodized salt, taking iron/folic acid
      supplement, eating diversified food by giving emphasis to iron-rich foods, taking fruits and
      vegetables, include animal source foods in the diet (at least two servings per day), reducing
      heavy workload, taking daytime rest, using malaria prevention methods and health service.

      Moreover, the consequence of inadequate dietary intake, susceptibility to the consequence of
      insufficient die, the severity of the consequence of inadequate meal intake were also parts
      of the core content of guided counseling. Attitude, subjective norms, self-efficacy,
      perceived control, intention, knowledge and dietary practice of pregnant women were also
      assessed before each counseling session. Then, counseling was given based on the identified
      gap.

      The intervention began before 16 weeks of gestation. Each pregnant woman attended 4
      counseling sessions. Each counseling session lasting in 30-60 minutes depending on the number
      of participants (monthly). Leaflet with core messages in Amharic with appropriate picture was
      prepared and delivered to each pregnant woman in the intervention arm to use it in their
      home. Three nurses who have a Bachelor of Science and two public health professionals were
      recruited as counselor and supervisor of counseling intervention, respectively. Women in the
      control arm received traditional nutrition education given by the existing health system.

      The outcomes of the intervention were measured during 36-37 weeks of pregnancy. Birth weights
      were measured within 48hours after delivery. The first, second and third outcomes of this
      intervention were dietary practice and nutritional status of the pregnant women, and birth
      weight, respectively. Data safety have been monitored by the Data Safety Monitoring Board
      (DSMB). Data were collected by interviewer-administered questionnaires adapted from previous
      literature and modified based on the local context.

      Data on the socio-demographic and obstetric characteristics were collected during the
      baseline using a structured questionnaire. Whereas, data on women's knowledge about maternal
      diet, household food security status, dietary practice, Health Belief Model and Theory of
      Planned Behavior constructs, Mid-Upper Arm Circumference, weight, and blood pressure were
      collected before and after implementation of the intervention.

      The dietary practices of pregnant women were assessed by a food frequency questionnaire. The
      nutritional status of pregnant women was assessed using the Mid-Upper Arm Circumference
      measurement.

      Six female diploma nurses and three public health professionals were recruited as data
      collector and supervisor, respectively. Additionally, three laboratory technicians were
      recruited to confirm pregnancy. Women who took four or more meals a day and have high Women
      Dietary Diversity Score and Food Variety Score above the mean and high Animal Source Food
      consumption were considered as having appropriate dietary practice.

      Data were entered using Epi Info version 7.2.2 software and analyzed by SPSS version 23
      software. Descriptive statistics were computed. Bivariate and multivariable logistic
      regression analysis was done. A p-value < 0.2 was used as a cut-off point to select variables
      for the final model. P-values < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.

      Pre-intervention and post-intervention differences in women's dietary diversity score, food
      variety score, animal source food consumption, dietary practice and nutritional status
      between the intervention and control groups will be analyzed by using paired sample t-test
      for continuous variables and chi-squared test for the categorical variables. Dietary
      practice, nutritional status, and birth weight being nested within clusters, hence mixed
      effects binary logistic regression models, mixed effects linear logistic regression models
      and mixed effects multinomial logistic regression model will be used to measure the
      difference in effect on the dietary practice, nutritional status and birth weight between the
      intervention groups taking into account for clusters and report the Intraclass correlation
      coefficient, respectively. Cluster level variables will be analyzed as a random effect in the
      models, whereas the first level predictors will be managed as a fixed effect.

      Various measures have been taken to maintain the quality of the research starting from
      designing the tool to data analysis and interpretation of the result. The questionnaires were
      adapted and pretested. Three days of intensive training was given to the counselors, data
      collectors, and supervisors using the training manual. An equal number and non-adjacent
      clusters for intervention and control group were taken from each Woreda to neutralize the
      effect of variations if any. Close supervision has been done by supervisors and principal
      investigator during counseling and data collection.

      A cross-sectional phenomenological qualitative study using both key informant interviews and
      focus group discussions have been used to supplement the quantitative data. Qualitative data
      was collected until saturation of information. Typical case sampling and extreme sampling
      technique were used to select the study participants for the key informant interviews and
      homogeneous sampling for focus group discussions. Semi-structured interview and focus group
      discussion guides were developed to collect qualitative data.

      To assure the quality of data the interviews and facilitation of focus group discussions were
      done by a principal investigator. To assure trustworthiness triangulation was used in data
      sources, during data collection and research methodologies. Thematic framework analysis
      technique will be used to analyze data.

      The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board of Bahir Dar University. Written
      permission was obtained in West Gojjam zone and each Woreda administrators. The intervention
      was registered in Clinical Trials.gov. Written consent was secured from each participant
      after explaining the purpose of the study, the right of the participants to withdraw from the
      study at any time during the study period, potential risk and benefits. Confidentiality has
      been maintained throughout the study. Undernourished women and women with high blood pressure
      have been referred to the nearby health institution for treatment. Written consent was
      secured from individuals who give their picture for leaflet preparation. If the intervention
      is effective, the project will be implemented in the control area.
    
  