
    
      Hand dermatitis is one of the most common skin disorders encountered by dermatologists.
      Chronic hand dermatitis (CHD) is often due to allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) or irritant
      contact dermatitis (ICD) and has a 1-year and lifetime prevalence of up to 10% and 15%,
      respectively, in the general population. On average, the disease affects patients for about 7
      to 11 years.

      Patients with ACD show an increase in cytokines produced from T helper (Th)1 and Th17 cells,
      including (interleukin) IL-17 and IL-23, which are also implicated in the pathogenesis of
      psoriasis. Apremilast, a small molecule phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE-4) inhibitor, has
      demonstrated clinical efficacy and tolerability in the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic
      arthritis, likely through the blockade of IL-17, IL-23, and several other pro-inflammatory
      mediators. Therefore, it may provide an effective treatment option for other Th1 and
      Th17-mediated disease (such as CHD due to ACD and ICD), which share a common immunologic
      pathway with psoriasis. Investigators hypothesize that apremilast has the ability to decrease
      disease severity in patients with moderate-to-severe CHD that is either secondary to
      psoriasis, or occurring in patients with an atopic or allergic past medical history. Hence,
      investigators have designed a pilot study involving CHD patients who attend the dermatology
      clinic at the George Washington Medical Faculty Associates (GW MFA) in order to assess the
      efficacy and safety of apremilast treatment for the treatment of moderate to severe CHD. The
      objectives are as follows:

      Primary objective:

      1. To evaluate the efficacy of Apremilast 30mg twice daily administered as monotherapy in the
      treatment of moderate-to-severe CHD as assessed by improvement of the Physician Global
      Assessment (PGA).

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Apremilast 30mg twice daily as assessed by
           monitoring adverse events, laboratory values (CBC, CMP), and physical examination.

        2. To evaluate CHD lesion time to response (TTR) as assessed by Modified Total Lesion
           Symptom Score (mTLSS).

        3. To evaluate the patient's perception of CHD severity improvement as assessed by the
           Patient Global Assessment (PaGA).

        4. To evaluate the patient's health-related quality of life as assessed by the Dermatology
           Life Quality Index (DLQI) questionnaire a measurement of the patient's subjective
           symptoms.

      STUDY ENDPOINTS

      Primary endpoint:

      1. Proportion of patients achieving a 2 point decrease in Physician Global Assessment (PGA)
      at the end of the study.

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Proportion of patients achieving Physician Global Assessment (PGA) score of 0 (clear) or
           1 (almost clear) at end of study.

        2. Change in mTLSS, patient global assessment, and DLQI scores from baseline to end of
           study.

        3. Photographic improvement of CHD from baseline to end of study.
    
  