
    
      Monitored anesthesia care (MAC) is commonly applied in modern perioperative care and means
      that minor surgical procedures are accomplished in awake patients using local anesthesia and
      light sedation. MAC has many advantages compared to general anesthesia; the recovery time
      after anesthesia is shorter and risk for postoperative nausea is lower to mention some.
      However, the patient is spontaneously breathing and the airway is not protected by an
      endotracheal tube which potentially increases risk of pulmonary aspiration. Pulmonary
      aspiration, that is inhalation of stomach and/or pharyngeal contents into the lungs, is a
      severe anesthesia-related complication and can in worst case lead to pneumonia and even
      death. Intact swallowing function is crucial in avoiding aspiration and how sedatives and
      analgesic agents used during MAC influence swallowing function is not fully understood.

      Pharyngeal function during bolus swallowing is measured by combined high resolution impedance
      manometry (HRIM). The HRIM catheter is inserted through the nose in such a way that sensors
      straddle the entire pharynx and esophagus with the distal catheter tip in the stomach.
      Dynamic pressure changes and flow can be detected during swallowing and data registered by
      HRIM are analysed using purpose-designed software, AIM analysis (automated impedance
      manometry analysis). AIM analysis derives pressure flow variables which describe different
      physiological events like bolus timing and bolus distension in the pharynx and the esophagus
      during swallowing. A Swallow Risk Index value, quantifying risk of deglutitive aspiration,
      can also be defined.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate impact of different bolus volumes on remifentanil-induced
      swallowing dysfunction in healthy volunteers. The study will clarify underlying mechanisms
      (central vs. peripheral effects) of remifentanil-induced swallowing dysfunction. Furthermore,
      whether swallowing tasks can be done safer during sedation by altering bolus volumes will be
      revealed. In addition to bolus volume, different bolus viscosities will be tested. It is
      shown that higher bolus viscosity diminishes misdirected swallows in dysphagic patients and
      higher bolus viscosity may possibly counteracts the swallowing dysfunction induced by
      remifentanil. Moreover, if MNTX reverses the remifentanil-induced effects on swallowing, then
      this would suggest a dominant peripherally mediated mechanism. Our aim is also to evaluate
      impact of remifentanil exposure on esophageal motility and impact of methylnaltrexone alone
      on swallowing function.

      20 healthy volunteers will be studied on two different occasions approximately one week
      apart. In a randomized order volunteers will receive intravenous infusion of remifentanil and
      an intravenous injection of MNTX on one occasion, and placebo (normal saline) infusion and an
      intravenous injection of MNTX on the other occasion. Blood samples are obtained for plasma
      concentration determination of the study drug and sedation levels are assessed during study
      drug exposure.
    
  