
    
      Inflammatory processes have been implicated as a cause of schizophrenia (Fan, Goff et al.
      2007), and the COX-2 inhibitor, Celecoxib, has been shown to reduce symptoms of schizophrenia
      (Muller, Krause et al. 2010). Aspirin, which is also a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drug(NSAID), irreversibly inhibits Cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and modifies the enzymatic
      activity of Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), thus inhibiting the formation of prostaglandins and
      reduces inflammatory reaction. In a study funded by the Stanley Medical Research Institute
      (SMRI) recently published, Laan at all (Laan, Grobbee et al. 2010) administered add-on
      1000mg/d of Aspirin to patients with schizophrenia receiving anti-psychotics, and reported
      reductions in Positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS) total and PANSS positive scores
      without substantial side effects.

      Minocycline is a second-generation tetracycline that exerts anti-inflammatory and
      antimicrobial effects while having a distinct neuroprotective profile. Minocycline effects
      the glutaminergic system, through inhibition of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and
      blocking of nitric oxide (NO)- induced neurotoxicity (Du et al, 1998; Jiang et al., 2005),
      and thus has been suggested as a potential treatment for schizophrenia. One published study
      (Levkovitz, Mendlovich et al. 2010), and another, unpublished study by Bill Deakin found that
      add-on treatment of 200mg/d of Minocycline was beneficial for symptoms and cognition in
      schizophrenia, and a study by Miayoka et al (Miyaoka, Yasukawa et al. 2008) administered
      open-label 450 mg/day Minocycline, and found improvement on positive symptoms.

      Indirect pharmacological evidence suggests a relative excess of dopaminergic activity as
      being implicated in the pathogenesis of some of the symptoms of schizophrenia, and all
      effective antipsychotics effect dopamine D2 receptors. Pramipexole is a pre-synaptic dopamine
      auto-receptor agonist hypothesized to improve in symptoms in schizophrenia patients. In an
      open label study, Kasper at all (Kasper, Barnas et al. 1997) showed statistically significant
      improvement in PANSS scores in patients not stabilized on haloperidol. Other data indicate
      that add-on Pramipexole improves symptoms of depression and cognition, in patients with
      affective disorders (Goldberg, Frye et al. 1999; Sporn, Ghaemi et al. 2000; Goldberg, Burdick
      et al. 2004; Zarate, Payne et al. 2004), and Malhotra et al, unpublished data.

      All of these studies were relatively small, and were performed by investigators with an
      interest in the compound. The objective of this study is to replicate them in large trial by
      investigators with no specific interest in the compounds. This proposed study is a multi-arm
      study, in which patients will be randomized to one of the three study drugs: Pramipexole,
      Minocycline and Aspirin, or placebo as part of the same protocol. A design by which several
      active compounds are all compared to the same placebo arm has been utilized before for
      schizophrenia (Meltzer, Arvanitis et al. 2004). This design has several advantages: in
      addition to reduced costs and time it exposes fewer patients to placebo, and enables direct
      comparison between the compounds and not only to the placebo.
    
  