
    
      A randomized placebo-controlled double-blinded study in preterm infants < 32+6 weeks'
      gestation or Birth weight < 1500 g who are admitted to NICU.

      Exclusion criteria include infants with congenital anomalies, out born infants, infants of
      single mothers with unknown partners (mother is separated from preterm infants based on the
      state law) and infants admitted beyond 48 hours of age, confirmed immunodeficiency disorder,
      Inborn Error of Metabolism, parental refusal to participate. The infants who have overt
      bleeding, thrombocytopenia < 50,000/mm3 or are critically ill requiring multiple inotropes in
      high doses, on High frequency ventilation and inhaled nitric oxide and infants with
      congenital surgical abdomen are excluded from the study.

      An informed parental consent is obtained at the initial post-natal visit. Each neonate is
      then randomly assigned to the placebo or intervention group per the block randomization
      generated using a computer-generated allocation sequence. Allocation is concealed from all
      involved investigators, bedside nurses, doctors, parents and outcome assessors except the
      International Board Certified Lactation Consultant (IBCLC) assigned to allocate the
      intervention. The IBCLC is not an investigator in the study.

      Intervention group:

      Colostrum that is fresh or refrigerated is collected by the IBCLC and prepared using 1cc
      syringes which are labeled with patient identification data, date and time of milk
      expression. These syringes are concealed using adhesive silk tapes and handed over to the
      bedside nurse. The tip of the syringe is placed towards the posterior end of the buccal
      cavity, colostrum/breastmilk is slowly squirted in aliquots of 0.1 ml of the milk into the
      area . This is to be done slowly drop by drop over a 30 s period. The milk should not pool in
      the buccal cavity. If it pools, give a few seconds to get absorbed and the rest may be
      manually rubbed using a swab along the gums and the inner surface of the buccal cavity for 10
      seconds with two strokes in each area. Repeat the procedure on the opposite side. If the
      colostrum was refrigerated the syringe may be kept in the warm incubator for five minutes
      before administering.

      OIT will be initiated as soon after birth as colostrum is available no earlier than six hours
      of age and continued every 4 hours as available. OIT may be provided in babies who are kept
      nil per oral and is to be continued even when enteral feeding has been ordered to get a
      minimum of 20 doses and can be continued until the baby reaches full oral feeding.

      Control group: The control group will receive 0.2 ml of sterile water that will be prepared
      and applied in an identical manner and frequency to that among the intervention group. This
      will be started at six hours of age to avoid disclosure of intervention and control group.
      However, as soon as Mother's milk is available it will be initiated enterally.
    
  