
    
      Retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukodystrophy (RVCL) is a very rare and uniformly fatal
      genetic condition that affects the microvasculature. Symptoms begin in adulthood (usually in
      the 40s) and include loss of vision, mini-strokes, and dementia. RVCL includes three
      conditions which were previously thought to be distinct: hereditary endotheliopathy,
      retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke (HERNS); cerebroretinal vasculopathy (CRV); and
      hereditary vascular retinopathy (HVR). RVCL is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and
      is caused by carboxyl (C)-terminal heterozygous frameshift (fs) mutations in TREX1 (Three
      Prime Repair Exonuclease 1). There is no treatment for RVCL, only symptomatic management.

      TREX1 is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated (i.e., intracellular) enzyme that, in
      addition to its DNA repair activities, may regulate sugar metabolism in the ER. TREX1
      mutations have also been associated with several autoimmune and autoinflammatory diseases. In
      RVCL, fs mutations of TREX1 result in C-terminal truncation and this dysregulates the
      oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) complex leading to free glycan release from dolichol
      carriers. In mouse models and in patient-derived cells, inhibiting OST with aclarubicin may
      correct glycan and immune defects associated with fs mutations of TREX1 (Hasan, M. et al.,
      Immunity 43: 1-12, 2015).

      Aclarubicin (aka aclacinomycin, aclacinomycin-A) is an anthracycline antibiotic isolated from
      Streptomyces galilaeus cultures. Aclarubicin has been shown to have a broad spectrum of
      anti-tumor activity. Aclarubicin was utilized for treatment of various cancers in Phase 1 and
      2 studies in the United States of American (USA) in the 1980's and 1990's. While no longer
      clinically employed in the USA, it is commonly used in China and Japan, often as part of a
      combination drug therapy program for certain malignancies.

      Aclarubicin is typically administered over 3-5 consecutive days, however, alternative
      schedules such as weekly or monthly have been evaluated. In solid tumors, the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) of 4-day dosing was 30 mg/m2/day; marrow suppression was dose limiting,
      otherwise the regimen was well tolerated. Additionally, a Phase II study in acute
      myeloblastic leukemia was conducted using 100mg/m2 per day for three days and repeated at
      days 14-16 if marrow hypoplasia was not produced. Toxic effects of this regimen included
      severe neutropenia, nasea/vomiting, and diarrhea. No changes were noted in left ventricular
      ejection fraction or no cardiac symptoms developed.

      RVCL is caused by fs mutations in the C-terminus of TREX1 resulting in low-grade free glycan
      release, immune activation, and possibly autoantibody production due in part to dysregulation
      of the OST complex. Inhibiting OST with aclarubicin corrects these glycan and immune defects
      in mouse models and in patient-derived cells. Thus, inhibiting OST with aclarubicin might be
      a therapeutic option for patients with RVCL.

      Given the poor prognosis of RVCL, the lack of treatment options, and the pre-clinical data on
      OST inhibition by aclarubicin in mice, there is strong rationale for conducting a clinical
      trial of aclarubicin in patients with RVCL.

      In this pilot study, aclarubicin will be administered initially at ~ 20% of the single-agent
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in oncology studies. Assessments will be made every six months
      as to objectives of the study. Patients that do not have clear objective response may have
      their dose level increased with permission of the principal investigator permitting the
      patient has not previously experienced any toxicities requiring dose modifications. A patient
      who has clear objective progression at any time may also have their dose escalated as long as
      they have completed 1 full cycle at their current dose level. Maximum dose level will be 24
      mg/m2/day. The aim of aclarubicin administration in RVCL is not to induce apoptosis, as in
      oncology studies, but rather to modulate intracellular functions and, thus, a reduced dose
      will be utilized.
    
  