
    
      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective treatment for medication-resistant forms of
      depression, including major depressive disorder and mania. Therapeutic success of ECT is
      related to the duration and quality of Electroencephalogram (EEG) and motor seizures.
      Previous studies have demonstrated that deliberate hyperventilation augments seizure duration
      in anesthetized subjects. It has also been shown that seizure activity significantly
      increases cerebral metabolic rate, predisposing the patient to potentially severe cerebral
      desaturation events. These desaturation events are predicted to be exacerbated by pre-emptive
      hyperventilation which has a potent cerebral vasoconstrictive effect. Despite the widespread
      use of ECT, little is known about the effect of hyperventilation on cerebral metabolism in
      this setting. Ketamine has recently been demonstrated to have anti-depressant properties in
      patients with major depressive disorder, suggesting that patients treated with ketamine
      anesthesia and then ECT, may benefit clinically from the additive effects of both treatment
      modalities, compared to ECT alone.

      The investigators hypothesize that hyperventilation will facilitate prolonged seizure
      duration and faster remission of depressive symptoms. As well there may be significant
      cerebral desaturation and cardiovascular side effects of ECT therapy following
      hyperventilation. Lastly, the effect of hyperventilation on the efficacy of ECT therapy may
      be improved when ketamine anesthesia is used simultaneously. To test this hypothesis this
      study will compare ketamine anesthesia to etomidate anesthesia. Etomidate is a short acting
      anesthetic that is commonly used in these procedures.

      The study objectives (primary and secondary) are as follows:

        1. To quantify the effect of hyperventilation and type of anesthetic agent on ECT-induced
           seizure duration

        2. To assess the effect of hyperventilation immediately prior to ECT on cerebral metabolism
           as measured by cerebral oximetry

        3. To determine the effect of hyperventilation and anesthetic agent on the remission of
           symptoms in Major Depressive Disorder

        4. To assess the side effect profile of hyperventilation during ECT on hemodynamics
    
  