
    
      This will be a randomized, single-blind, up-down sequential allocation study. Patients will
      be randomly assigned to one of two groups, and receive either an ultrasound-guided or
      nerve-stimulator guided interscalene brachial plexus block. The initial local anesthetic
      volume in both groups will be 10mL. The outcome of each patient's block will determine the
      dose for the subsequent patient. When an effective ISBPB is observed, as defined by a NRS
      (patient-rated pain on a scale from 0 to 10) rating of 0 within 30 minutes post-surgery, the
      volume of local anesthetic solution used for the next patient will be decreased by 2.5mL.
      Conversely, when an ineffective ISBPB is observed, the volume of local anesthetic used for
      the next patient will be increased by 2.5mL.

      The goal of this study is to determine the minimum effective anesthetic volume of ropivacaine
      0.5% providing analgesia in patients when using either ultrasound or a nerve stimulator to
      guide placement of the block. The primary outcome measure will be the pain score of the
      patient on a numeric rating score during the 30 minutes after surgery.

      A number of previous studies have suggested that ultrasound-guidance is beneficial for
      peripheral nerve blocks in terms of block performance time, success rates, and block quality.
      Some studies have also shown that ultrasound-guidance can reduce the volume of local
      anesthetic needed to perform a successful block. This study may reveal that less local
      anesthetic is needed under ultrasound guidance than under nerve stimulator, which may
      potentially reduce some of the common complications of ISBPB.

      We hypothesize that ISBPB done under ultrasound guidance will have a lower minimum effective
      local anesthetic volume than ISBPB done under nerve stimulation. Further, we hypothesize that
      the lower volume will reduce the incidence of some of the complications of ISBPB.

      Using lower volumes of local anesthetic while still maintaining effective analgesia may
      reduce some of the common complications of ISBPB. It may also allow this beneficial analgesic
      technique to be given to patients with some respiratory risk factors who are currently unable
      to receive it.
    
  