
    
      The dermatophytes are a group of pathogenic fungi that inhabit and invade keratinized tissue
      including hair, skin and nails in humans. Infections caused by the three genera of organisms
      making up the dermatophytes include: Trichophyton, Microsporum and Epidermophyton. Infections
      due to the dermatophytes are termed dermatophytosis or tinea.

      Tinea pedis (athlete's foot) is most commonly caused by Trichophyton rubrum, and less
      commonly by Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Epidermophyton floccosum.

      Tinea infections have been on the rise for variety of reasons including: an aging population,
      an increase in immunocompromised individuals, increase use of gyms, swimming pools, sports
      activities, wearing of occlusive footwear, and the organisms themselves becoming more
      resistant to therapy.

      Treatment for tinea pedis usually involves the use of topical therapy with azoles or similar
      antifungal agents. The efficacy of the topical agent depends on the duration of therapy, type
      of lesion, the mechanism of action of the drug, and the viscosity, hydrophobicity and acidity
      of the formulation.

      Sertaconazole is a broad spectrum, antifungal agent effective against Candida and
      dermatophytes. It has also shown antibacterial and anti-inflammatory activity. Skin
      absorption studies have revealed acceptable therapeutic levels of sertaconazole remained in
      the skin until 48 hours after application. Half life for drug clearance from the skin is 60
      hours. Skin tolerability and phototoxicity studies have revealed sertaconazole to be
      effective and safe when compared to other topical antifungal agents.

      In 2004 sertaconazole nitrate 2% cream, was FDA approved for the topical treatment of
      interdigital tinea pedis in immunocompetent patients 12 years of age and older, caused by
      Trichophyton rubrum. Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Epidermophyton floccosum. The approved
      dosage is twice a day for a total of four weeks to the affected area. This treatment regimen
      may prove to be difficult for many patients to follow and cause a lower cure rate than would
      be expected.

      It would seem reasonable to postulate that a once a day application would provide adequate
      therapeutic levels for interdigital tinea pedis based on several previous findings.
      Acceptable therapeutic levels of drug were maintained in the skin after 48 hours of
      application and the half-life of the drug is 60 hours. Patient compliance and therefore a
      higher mycological cure rate and better clinical outcome should theoretically occur with once
      a day dosing of sertaconazole 2%. Once a day dosing should prevent early discontinuation and
      better compliance for patients with tinea pedis.
    
  