
    
      Invasive carcinoma of the uterine cervix remains the most common invasive cancer in women in
      many countries. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) is now recommended as a standard
      treatment for locally advanced and high-risk cervical carcinoma (1-3). Although the local
      control rate and survival have improved with use of CCRT, the treatment does cause greater
      toxicity in the bone marrow and other normal tissues compared with that caused by
      conventional RT. Our previous study demonstrated that serial changes in serum cytokines
      during chemoradiation correlated with tumor regression and treatment morbidity. The sudden
      elevation of serum TGF-beta 1 and VEGF levels after the first fraction of brachytherapy
      correlate with the development of greater RT morbidity. Higher pretreatment TGF-beta 1 and
      VEGF levels are associated with poor tumor response to chemoradiation (4). It implicates that
      angiogenic factor, such as VEGF, may play roles in the toxicity and outcome of CCRT. However,
      it still lacks a surrogate marker for prediction of clinical outcome of CCRT.

      The most commonly used chemotherapeutic drugs combined with radiation as radiosensitizers are
      cis-platinum and 5-fluorouracil. These drugs, especially cis-platinum, are toxic to kidney,
      myelosuppressive and prone to cause life-threatening neutropenia, anemia or thrombocytopenia,
      which are more severe than those with radiotherapy alone (1-3). To avoid unnecessary
      over-treatment, the optimization of CCRT is of critical importance. Herein, the development
      of a surrogate marker for monitoring treatment efficacy as well as toxicity is pivotal to
      optimize CCRT.

      Angiogenesis is a heavily regulated process, which is involved by complex interactions
      between inhibitory and stimulatory angiogenic factors. It is essential for tumor growth,
      progression and metastasis and is correlated with poor prognosis in cancer patients including
      cervical cancer (5). Many novel compounds, such as EGCG (6), that potently inhibit formation
      of neoplastic blood vessels have been recently developed. There is increasing interest in
      developing angiogeneis-suppressive agents for cancer treatment and growing number of
      anti-angiogenesis drugs currently being evaluated in clinical trials for various
      malignancies. Promising results have been reported include an increase in overall survival
      and reduction in the risk of death (Bevacizumab), reversal of cellular drug resistance
      (Cetuximab) and activity as second-line therapy in colorectal cancer patients who have
      exhausted other available treatment options (Cetuximab, ABX-EGF, PTK-787, Gefitinib,
      Erlotinib) (7,8).

      Although the therapeutic role of angiogenesis target therapy has been approved in cancer
      treatment, the way to optimize the dose of angiogenesis inhibitors remains to be determined
      because of the lack of reliable surrogate markers of tumor angiogenesis. Shaked et al.
      reported that the levels of circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPC), which contribute
      to the tumor vessel formation, reflect the anti-tumor efficacy of anti-angiogenesis regimens
      (9,10). Growing evidence suggests that the levels of circulating EPC reflect the response to
      chemotherapy both in animal model and clinical trial (11-13). Thus, circulating EPC can be
      used as a marker for optimizing and monitoring the anti-angiogenesis therapy including
      angiogenesis inhibitors and chemotherapy.

      Circulating endothelial cells (CEC), especially apoptotic CEC, were observed to increase in
      breast cancer patients with a clinical benefit (defined as a clinical response or a stable
      disease) after metronomic therapy (14). Preclinical models indicated that the source of
      apoptotic CEC was most likely the tumor vasculature (14).

      Whether circulating EPC or CEC can be served as markers of CCRT efficacy and toxicity in
      cervical cancer or not remains undetermined. Since CCRT is now a standard treatment of
      locally advanced and high-risk cervical cancer, the development of the surrogate marker for
      monitoring CCRT response and optimize treatment intensity, again, is very important.
    
  