
    
      After a lung transplant recipient is put on the waiting list for subsequent lung
      transplantation, informed consent will be sought for the current study. If signed informed is
      obtained, the patient will be enrolled upon admission for transplantation at which moment
      he/she will be randomised to placebo or azithromycin according to a blinded
      randomisation-list. In accordance with his/her attributed study-number, each included patient
      will be assigned to a pre-numbered bottle containing the study-drug, which was pre-filled and
      blinded for its content and are delivered in advance to the ward by the University Leuven
      Hospital Pharmacy. From this bottle, a first loading dose of placebo (25 mL po syrup) or
      azithromycin (25 mL po syrup = 1000 mg) will be given by the nurse during preparation for
      subsequent lung transplantation (Day 0). After lung transplantation, 'add on' treatment of
      placebo (6.25 mL) or azithromycin (6.25 mL = 250 mg) syrup will be given via (naso)gastric
      tube or per os every other day (days 1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15,17,19,21,23,25,27,29 and 31) by the
      nurses taking care of the patient in the early post-transplant period. In case of any serious
      suspected drug-interactions (however very unlikely) or adverse attributable to the study
      drug, the study will be promptly stopped in this patient. Serious adverse events will be
      monitored by the treating lung transplant physicians (blinded for the study-drug) and are
      defined as allergic reactions including skin reactions (rash, urticaria or Stevens-Johnson
      syndrome), angioneurotic edema and anaphylaxis, cardiac arrhythmias (ventricular tachycardia
      or torsades de pointes), neurologic disorders (convulsions). Routine immunosuppressive,
      prophylactic and necessary antimicrobial treatment according to standardized protocol is
      given to all patients, independent of study drug. After transplantation, routine follow-up
      (e.g. biochemical and microbiological blood analyses, chest radiography, pulmonary function
      testing and bronchoscopic evaluation with broncho-alveolar lavage and/or trans- or
      endobronchial biopsies will be performed as they are currently routinely being performed as
      part of the standard, prospective follow-up after lung transplantation.
    
  