
    
      Methods and Materials: The standard of care in my practice and most practices is to have
      arthroplasty patients return for an annual clinical and radiographic evaluation. We are
      asking our patients that choose to enroll in the study to simply return for routine "standard
      of care" follow up. The only deviation from this standard of care is the method by which we
      obtain the xrays. In this study we will obtain true AP (anterior/posterior) and axillary
      views on there return visit. These are our normal "standard of care" xrays. The only
      difference is that we are going to obtain these Xrays using fluoroscopic guidance. The reason
      we are using fluoroscopic guidance is that we want to make sure that the xrays are perfect
      with the beam oriented tangential to the backside of the glenoid. This will allow us to see
      any lucencies behind the glenoid and allow us to truly assess for any loosening. Standard
      Xrays attempt to have the beam oriented tangential to the glenoid but just small deviations
      can underestimate any potential lucent lines. This will expose the study subjects to small
      amounts of radiation that would be outside the "standard of care". The patients will be
      informed of this and the dose recorded. The fluoroscopy procedure will take about 15-20
      minutes, but the total radiation exposure for the activities performed will be up to, but not
      more than three minutes. The total radiation will be less than 3 rem. A licensed radiology
      technologist (RT) employed by the hospital will perform the fluoroscopy procedures and the
      Xrays. Jeff Jarnagin PA or Edwin Spencer MD will be present at all times during the
      fluoroscopy procedure. Both Dr Spencer and Jeff Jarnagin have been involved in other similar
      studies and have completed "training in human research subject protection". Subjects will be
      provided proper shielding (lead apron) throughout the activities. The licensed radiology
      technologist at the hospital will have the final responsibility for providing proper
      shielding.

      As with every clinical study, there may be some risks. Since the fluoroscope emits X-rays,
      subjects will be exposed to radiation. During fluoroscopy, the actual dose of radiation
      exposure that will be administered, is within minimal risk limits and will be much lower than
      those known to produce detectable health effects. For this study, the fluoroscopy machine
      will be on for up to, but not more than, 3 minutes total and the amount of radiation will not
      exceed 3 rem which includes the radiation from the standard Xrays. According to published
      literature, exposure risks below 5-10 rem are minimal. Health effects have not been
      consistently demonstrated for radiation exposure below 10 rem.

      Subjects will also fill out 2 data sheets. One is for the PENN score and the other is for the
      ASES (Association of Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons) score which are validated clinical outcomes
      measures. These forms are routinely filled out at their annual clinical visits and are
      considered standard of care.

      Data Analysis: The radiographs will be independently evaluated by 2 different board certified
      radiologists blinded to the clinical results and names of the patients. The films will be
      re-evaluated by each radiologist (they will be blinded to their initial reading) and the
      average of their results will be recorded. The clinical ASES and PENN scores will be recorded
      and differences in the preoperative and postoperative scores will be reported. Statistical
      analysis such as a students t test is not necessary as we are not comparing two groups
      however simple descriptive statistics will be used to report the change in ASES and PENN
      scores and most importantly the presence or absence of lucent lines and location of any
      lucencies. The lucent lines will be graded according to the method developed by Lazarus et
      al.4 The medical records and Xray data will be kept as confidential as possible under current
      local, state, and federal laws. The researchers will examine the medical records for
      information related to both of the shoulders and the study data. The medical records that
      identify the subject and the consent form will be reviewed by the researchers. The results of
      this research project may be presented at meetings or in publications. The identity of the
      subject will not be disclosed in any presentation or publication.

      The Xrays will be stored in a secure place at the Knoxville Orthopaedic Clinic. These Xrays
      will be accessible by only approved personnel. They will be kept indefinitely for the
      possibility of future use in research or publications.

      Personnel who will have access to your information include:

        -  Jeff Jarnagin PA (Assistant to Dr Spencer)

        -  Dr. Edwin Spencer, PI (Orthopaedic Surgeon)

      Risk Analysis: The only risk involved is the extra amount of radiation required to obtained
      the floroscopically guided Xrays. As stated above the maximum amount of radiation is 3 rem
      which includes the radiation from the standard Xrays. According to published literature,
      exposure risks below 5-10 rem are minimal. Health effects have not been consistently
      demonstrated for radiation exposure below 10 rem. To protect the subjects a licensed
      radiology technologist (RT) employed by the hospital will perform the fluoroscopy procedures
      and the Xrays. Jeff Jarnagin PA or Edwin Spencer MD will be present at all times during the
      fluoroscopy procedure. Subjects will be provided proper shielding (lead apron) throughout the
      activities. The licensed radiology technologist at the hospital will have the final
      responsibility for providing proper shielding.

      The benefits to the patient is for the researchers (and readers of any published data) to
      garner a better understanding of the best method to resurface the glenoid in a TSA. Many
      patients require bilateral operations and therefore it could directly benefit a few patients
      but essentially this project is designed to gather information for the greater good of all
      patients who require a TSA.

      Subject Identification, Recruitment And Consent: Subjects will be identified by a unique
      identification number analogous to that used by the Knoxville Orthopaedic Clinic. Subjects
      will be called by either Dr Edwin E Spencer Jr MD (PI) or his assistant Jeff Jarnagin PA and
      asked to be involved or participate. The patients will be made aware that participation in
      the study is completely voluntary and that participation does not affect their future access
      to care by Dr Spencer. Informed consent will be reviewed over the phone and in person when
      they come in for Xrays by Dr Spencer or his assistant Jeff Jarnagin PA. Attached is our
      consent form. Once the subject has completed the xray evaluation and completed the clinical
      forms, they will be paid the $50 stipend. The subject will incur no cost for participation in
      the study. Insurance carriers will not be billed for any part of the study. The money for the
      patients will come from the study sponsor DePuy Inc. The xrays including the floroscopy and
      radiologists' readings will be paid for by the study sponsor DePuy. The surgeon, Dr Spencer,
      will not be paid for his time and effort and is donating his time to science and the greater
      good.
    
  