
    
      As the newest global medical emergency, the COVID-19 (diagnosed SARS-CoV2 infection with lung
      involvement) exhibits features that are unlikely ameliorated by antivirals-based approaches
      alone. First, although the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) infect lung and intestine, many
      patients suddenly take a turn for the worse even when the viral replication appears to be
      under control. Second, patients with serious or critical clinical symptoms show remarked T
      cell lymphopenia that are more severe and more acute than human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
      infection. Functional exhaustion of T cells is suggested by high expression of T-cell
      exhaustion markers, which again appears more acute than in HIV patients. Third, multiple
      cytokines are elevated among patients with severe clinical symptoms, which potentially
      explains the multiple organ failure associated with COVID-19. For these reasons, treatment of
      COVID-19 likely requires a combination of both antivirals and non-antivirals-based
      approaches.

      CD24Fc is a biological immunomodulator in Phase II/III clinical trial stage. CD24Fc comprises
      the nonpolymorphic regions of CD24 attached to the Fc region of human IgG1. We have shown
      that CD24 is an innate checkpoint against the inflammatory response to tissue injuries or
      danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). Preclinical and clinical studies have
      demonstrated that CD24Fc effectively address the major challenges associated with COVID-19.
      First, a Phase I clinical trial on healthy volunteers not only demonstrated safety of CD24Fc,
      but also demonstrated its biological activity in suppressing expression of multiple
      inflammatory cytokines. Second, in Phase II clinical trial in leukemia patients undergoing
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT), three doses of CD24Fc effectively eliminated
      severe (Grade 3-4) acute graft vs host diseases (GVHD), which is caused by over reacting
      immune system and transplanted T cells attacking recipient target tissues. Third, in
      preclinical models of HIV/SIV infections, we have shown that CD24Fc ameliorated production of
      multiple inflammatory cytokines, reversed the loss of T lymphocytes as well as functional T
      cell exhaustion and reduced the leukocyte infiltration of multiple organs. It is particularly
      noteworthy that CD24Fc reduced the rate of pneumonia in SIV-infected Chinese rhesus monkey
      from 83% to 33%. Therefore, CD24Fc maybe a prime candidate for non-antiviral biological
      modifier for COVID-19 therapy. The phase III trial will involve 270 patients randomized into
      blinded placebo and CD24Fc arms, with time to clinical improvement from critical or severe to
      mild symptom as the primary endpoint.
    
  