
    
      Patients will be screened throughout the year as part of the clinical referral process to the
      Interventional Pulmonology service at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania for the
      management of a malignant pleural effusion. Patients eligible for inclusion based on the
      clinical evaluation will be approached for enrollment. Written consent will be obtained.
      Patients will subsequently undergo placement of a IPC under MAC as per standard clinical
      practice followed by complete drainage of the pleural space. Patients randomized to the rapid
      pleurodesis protocol arm will received 20mL of 10% iodopovidone mixed with 80mL of normal
      saline instilled intrapleurally through the IPC. Patients randomized to the standard of care
      arm will have 100mL of normal saline (placebo) instilled intrapleurally through the IPC. The
      mixture will be allowed to dwell for 2 hours and then completely evacuated through the IPC
      and the patient will be discharged home.

      After discharge, all patients will continue to drain their IPC on a daily basis for 7 days.
      Following this, all patients will continue to drain their IPC on an every-other-day basis
      until total IPC output is less than 50ml per session over 3 consecutive sessions. At which
      point they will be asked to undergo a clamp trial of no drainage for 7 days followed by a
      reattempt at drainage. Patients without return of symptoms over those 7 days and minimal
      drainage afterwards (<50ml) will be seen in the office for possible IPC removal. Patients
      with return of symptoms during those 7 days or more than minimal drainage afterwards (>50mL)
      will be asked to continue drainage until total IPC output is again less than 50mL per session
      over 3 sessions.

      After a passed clamp trial, patients will be evaluated in the office with a bedside
      ultrasound to assess for pleural apposition in 5 of 6 designated points and the absence of
      pleural effusions. If all criteria are met, the IPC is removed. If there is evidence of
      residual effusion, continued drainage will be advised.

      All patients will be evaluated in the office on day 7, day 14, day 30, day 60 and day 90
      after IPC placement. On each visit they will be assessed for pleural apposition with
      ultrasound. At day 30, 60, and 90 all patients will receive a global health related
      questionnaire (EORTC QLQ30) and a symptom questionnaire. At 90 days, complications rate will
      be assessed for the entire study period.
    
  