
    
      Spontaneous aneurysm subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) occurs annually in approximately 400
      people in Denmark. SAH is most commonly seen in younger (median age 56 years) and women
      (71%), have a high mortality (21-44%) and result in a poor neurological outcome in about 50%
      of patients. Due to the relatively young patient population and high mortality and morbidity,
      SAH in the population causes the same number of lost working years as blood clots in the
      brain.

      The occurrence of complications like hydrocephalus and re-bleeding can be minimized by rapid
      external ventricular drainage and aneurysm closure, and so-called delayed cerebral ischaemia
      (DCI) is currently considered to be the most frequent serious complication of SAH. DCI occurs
      in 20-30% of patients, most often within the first 14 days, is characterized by a reduction
      in consciousness or focal neurological deficit lasting at least one hour without any other
      underlying cause and is associated with a significantly increased risk of a poor outcome. The
      cause and treatment of DCI is controversial, and the previous hypothesis of vasospasm as the
      sole contributor is currently supplemented by a broader focus on several other mechanisms,
      including the brain's blood supply and its regulation.

      The brain's blood supply (CBF) is kept relatively constant in healthy by changing cardiac
      diameter and thus the cerebrovascular resistance (CVR) during changes in brain perfusion
      pressure (CPP, measured as mean arterial pressure (MAP) minus intracranial pressure (ICP))
      within certain limits. This mechanism is known as cerebral autoregulation. Outside these
      limits, respectively. decreases and increases CBF, with the consequent risk of
      hypoperfusion/ischemia and hyperperfusion/vasogenic edema with prolonged changes.

      Weakened autoregulation, i.e. that CBF varies passively with CPP also within the normal
      autoregulation limits, is described in e.g. traumatic brain injury (TBI), ischemic stroke,
      acute liver failure and meningitis, with complete or partial restoration of autoregulation by
      hyperventilation (mild hypocapnia). SAH also describes impaired autoregulation with varying
      association with disease severity, DCI and outcome. It is not known whether mild hypocapnia
      restores autoregulation in patients with SAH, whereas animal experimental studies suggest
      this.

      Reduced intracerebral oxygenation (PbtO2) is associated with a worse outcome after SAH.
      Cerebral microdialysis measures the concentration of certain metabolites in the brain and can
      provide an insight into whether metabolic activity is affected by oxygen deficiency, and
      so-called anaerobic combustion occurs. Microdialysis measurements with elevated lactate
      concentration, which is a metabolic product, among other things. Anaerobic combustion appears
      to occur prior to clinical signs of DCI, as well as during the DCI episodes, decreasing
      PbtO2. It is possible that these findings could be due to a condition of impaired
      autoregulation and too low perfusion pressure to meet brain metabolic needs, but this has not
      previously been elucidated. It is also unknown if it is possible to improve brain metabolism
      by increasing the brain's perfusion pressure.

      The purpose of this study is therefore to investigate brain autoregulation in patients with
      SAH.
    
  