
    
      Immunization is an important part of public health intervention and cost effective strategy
      to control the infectious diseases especially in children and it is one of the most common
      painful procedure in infants. Pain during immunization leads to distressing experience for
      the infant, parents and health care worker. Distraction is non pharmacological method which
      is used for diverting attention from noxious stimulus by passively redirecting the attention
      or by actively performed by the subject in the performance of diversion technique. Aim and
      objectives:The aim of present study was to compare the effectiveness of distraction
      techniques on pain intensity during immunization among infants. The objectives of the study
      were to assess and compare the mean pain scores among infants receiving immunization in
      electronic toy group, key toy group, simple toy group and control group and to find out the
      association of pain scores among infants receiving immunization with their selected
      variables. Material and methods: A true experimental multiple intervention post test control
      design was used. There were 100 infants selected using simple random sampling technique and
      were randomly allocated in various groups such as electronic toy group, key toy group, simple
      toy group and control group using lottery method. During immunization, distraction techniques
      were shown to experimental groups and routine care was given to control group. Research tool
      was submitted to 7 experts from various specialists for validity. Reliability was calculated
      by Kappa method and it was 0.83 of FLACC pain scale to assess pain intensity during
      immunization among infants. Data collection was done in January 2017. The obtained data was
      analyzed and interpreted in terms of objectives and research hypotheses. Analysis was done by
      using descriptive and inferential statistics.
    
  