
    
      Patients who receive an allogeneic (using another person as the donor) stem cell transplant
      (SCT) are at risk for developing graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

      The word "graft" refers to the donor blood cells that you will receive during the transplant.
      The word "host" refers to the person receiving the cells. GVHD is a complication of
      transplantation where the donor graft attacks and damages some of the participant's tissues.

      GVHD may occur when the T cells (a type of white blood cell that helps protect the body from
      infection) from the donor react against normal tissues or organs in the body. There are two
      basic types of GVHD:

        -  Acute GVHD often occurs early (generally first 3-6 months after SCT) may affect skin,
           gastrointestinal tract (stomach and intestines) and liver.

        -  Chronic GVHD often occurs later (Usually after 3-6 months after SCT) and may affect many
           organs and significantly diminish quality of life.

      To confirm the diagnosis of acute or chronic GVHD, the participant may be asked to have a
      biopsy (a small sample of the participant's tissue to look at under the microscope) of the
      skin, gut, or, rarely, the liver.

      In this research study, the investigator are investigating a pre-transplant intervention
      aimed to prevent GVHD by processing the donor product with the Miltenyi CliniMACS TCR α/β
      Reagent System. The Reagent System will remove certain cells (called T-Cell Receptor (TCR)
      α/β positive T-cells) that are thought to cause GVHD from donor product before it is given to
      the participant. By selectively removing this specific type of T cells from the donor
      product, the investigators hope to reduce the risk for GVHD without reducing the efficacy of
      the transplant.

      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved CliniMACS α/β T cell
      depletion system for use in the US, but this system is approved by the European Medicines
      Agency (EMA) and used in Europe
    
  