
    
      Neuromuscular blocking agents are used as part of most general anesthetics to help facilitate
      tracheal intubation and optimal surgical conditions (Barish et al). These medications cause
      universal paralysis of patients while unconscious. After most surgeries where extubation is
      planned, the standard of care is to "reverse" any residual neuromuscular blockade with either
      anticholinesterase treatment (specifically neostigmine) or sugammadex. Despite adequate
      reversal, residual neuromuscular blockade is a common problem seen in the post-anesthetic
      care unit (PACU). It leads to issues of airway obstruction, hypoxemia, respiratory
      complications including atelectasis and pneumonia and muscle weakness (Brull et al). The
      investigators posit that these complications are likely amplified in patients who require
      post-operative intensive care unit admission. In particular, the investigators hypothesize
      that cardiac surgery patients are at risk. Elective cardiac surgery patients are routinely
      admitted to the CVICU still intubated and ventilator-dependent immediately following surgery.
      The goal of uncomplicated cardiac surgery patients (fast track cardiac surgery patients) is
      to extubate them within 6 hours of ICU arrival. However, standard of care throughout the US
      does not include reversal of their neuromuscular blockade. By the time these patients meet
      extubation criteria, most providers believe that the neuromuscular blockade should have worn
      off and therefore do not administer reversal (Murphy et al). The investigators hypothesize
      that residual neuromuscular blockade delays time to extubation and increases respiratory
      complications in fast track cardiac surgery patients. By administering reversal of
      neuromuscular blockade in patients with a Train Of Four ratio of <0.9 we anticipate that
      there will be an increase from 60 to 85% of patients being successfully extubated within 6
      hours of arrival to the ICU and a decrease in composite respiratory complications.
    
  