
    
      Secondary bacterial infections such as pneumococcal pneumonia are a leading cause of death
      during influenza endemics. Individuals recently infected with influenza become more
      susceptible to pneumonia, an effect associated with increased density of pneumococcal
      carriage in the nose and uncontrolled inflammatory immunological responses. The interaction
      of influenza virus and pneumococcus has been known and well documented. Recent works have
      shown that the Live Attenuated Influenza Vaccine (LAIV) enhances pneumococcal carriage in
      murine models. These results highlighted the potential effect of mass immunization of
      children with LAIV on pneumococcal carriage. Increased carriage could lead to increased
      pneumococcal disease in LAIV-vaccinated individuals as well as increased bacterial
      transmission within the population. LAIV has been licensed for use in children since 2011 in
      Europe, and has been increasingly administered in children and adults in the USA. There is an
      urgent need for a clinical trial that will determine the effect of LAIV on pneumococcal
      carriage dynamics.

      The investigators have developed a safe and reproducible experimental human pneumococcal
      carriage (EHPC) model. The investigators will use EHPC to define the effect of antecedent and
      concurrent LAIV on pneumococcal carriage acquisition, density and duration. The investigators
      will perform two double - blinded Randomised Controlled Trials (RCT) to compare LAIV with
      Quadrivalent Inactivated Influenza Vaccine (QIV). The investigators will compare clinical
      symptoms, pneumococcal carriage density and duration associated with both vaccines
      administered antecedent to or concurrently with EHPC inoculation. Changes in the
      nasopharyngeal microbiome, inflammatory responses in the nasal mucosal and lung cellular
      immunity associated with influenza virus and pneumococcus interaction will be investigated.
      This project may provide some reassurance regarding the impact of mass immunization with LAIV
      on carriage or, if carriage is increased, will provide knowledge of how a natural carriage
      episode might develop into pneumonia in susceptible subjects during pandemic influenza.
    
  