
    
      Image-guided percutaneous lung biopsy is an essential procedure in lung cancer management,
      where it is integral to confirming the diagnosis and determining tumour histology. In this
      era of personalized medicine where knowledge of specific cellular pathways and molecular
      characterization relies on obtaining optimal tissue sampling, the critical question is how to
      obtain a high-quality biopsy tissue sample that could be processed for various pathological
      assessment from a single, minimally invasive percutaneous image-guided approach.

      An ideal percutaneous lung biopsy also needs to have a short procedure time with accurate
      needle placement to minimize the inherent risk of the procedure, including the stochastic
      effect of radiation, and injuries to structures resulting in pneumothorax, pulmonary
      hemorrhage, and air embolism, which could all be potentially life threatening. Previous
      studies have also shown that post-biopsy haemorrhage or pneumothorax requiring chest tubes
      insertion had worse outcome, increased length of hospital stays, and respiratory failure.

      Since the 1970s, conventional Multi-detector CT (MDCT) has been the modality of choice in
      percutaneous lung biopsy, which requires repeated scanning of the target lesion during the
      procedure and the interventional radiologist entering and leaving the CT suite after each
      needle adjustment. Recent research has proposed CT fluoroscopy and cone-beam CT (CBCT) as
      alternative methods.

      Virtual guidance has been developed to improve target visibility and access for these complex
      cases. This involves image registration where the real-time imaging dataset is matched to a
      reference dataset, where the position of a device is displayed on the current imaging dataset
      in real time. Syngo iGuideTM is a novel navigational software which has the potential for
      accurate needle guidance in percutaneous biopsy. More specifically, it plans a potential
      computed 3D needle path before the procedure, using the CBCT images. An integrated laser
      crosshair is also projected onto the patient's skin to indicate the entry point and angle of
      the needle at no additional radiation dose to the patient and staff. This 3D path can be
      transposed onto real time fluoroscopic images to guide the biopsy, thus potentially improves
      patients' safety due to more accurate needle placement.
    
  