
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of selinexor in combination with mitoxantrone
      hydrochloride, etoposide, cytarabine (MEC) or oral etoposide (respective cohorts are
      independent of each other) in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia
      (AML).

      II. To define the specific toxicities, maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the dose limiting
      toxicities (DLT) of these combinations.

      III. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of these combinations.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate and duration of complete remission (CR) ± hematologic recovery of
      selinexor plus MEC therapy in AML.

      II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR). III. To define the rate of complete
      remission (CR + CR with incomplete blood count recovery [CRi]) rate by the end of induction
      therapy.

      IV. Determine the disease-free survival for patients who reached CR/CRi within 1 year.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To conduct pharmacodynamic studies by measuring the effect of these chemotherapy
      combinations on the inhibition of exportin 1 (XPO1).

      II. To conduct pharmacokinetic sampling of selinexor and etoposide at limited time points to
      assess drug metabolism, peak plasma levels and area under curve (AUC).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of selinexor. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      cohorts.

      COHORT A (PATIENTS FIT FOR INTENSIVE THERAPY, AGE < 60): Patients receive mitoxantrone
      hydrochloride intravenously (IV), etoposide IV, and cytarabine IV once daily (QD) on days 1-6
      and selinexor orally (PO) on days 1, 3, 8, 10, 15, and 17. Treatment continues for 1 course
      (28 days). Further treatment is based on disease response. Patients achieving CR/CRi are
      evaluated for stem cell transplant; patients who do not proceed to transplant may receive
      selinexor as monotherapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT B (PATIENTS UNFIT FOR INTENSIVE THERAPY, AGE ≥ 60): Patients receive etoposide PO QD
      on days 1-5 and selinexor PO on days 1, 3, 8, 10, 15, and 17. Treatment may repeat every 28
      days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      not achieving response after 4 courses discontinue treatment; patients achieving response may
      receive up to 4 courses of maintenance therapy every 8 weeks. Patients may then continue
      selinexor as monotherapy at the discretion of the principal investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 30 days.
    
  