
    
      Elderly patients undergoing surgery are more vulnerable to adverse postoperative outcomes due
      to advanced age, frailty, and concomitant medical conditions. Adverse cognitive outcomes such
      as postoperative delirium (POD) and postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) are frequently
      encountered in older surgical patients, and are associated with increased morbidity and
      mortality. Since there is no simple and effective way to treat POD and/or POCD once they have
      occurred, prevention may be the key. Previous research has shown that delirium may be
      partially prevented using multicomponent risk intervention strategies. These prophylactic
      measures are best targeted at high-risk individuals. While most risk factors for POD and POCD
      may be detected in the medical history, clinical examination, or laboratory investigations,
      some may be missed in the absence of a specific assessment. Pre-existing cognitive impairment
      in surgical patients is one of the strongest risk factors for further postoperative cognitive
      decline including POD and POCD. However, it tends to be underdiagnosed, because an objective
      evaluation of the cognitive performance is time-consuming and usually requires trained
      personnel. At present, risk prediction models for POD after cardiac surgery either lack
      internal and external validation, use only brief cognitive assessments, and/or do not include
      cognitive functions at all.

      In 2014, we developed a self-administered tablet computer program for the iPad (CogCheck) to
      assess the patient's individual risk for adverse postoperative cognitive outcomes.
      User-friendliness of the CogCheck application was tested in 20 cognitively healthy and 13
      cognitively impaired volunteers, as well as in 47 patients undergoing surgery. In addition,
      normative data for the CogCheck tool have been generated in a previous study with 283 healthy
      volunteers. Respecting the continuing allocation of limited resources, the tool is
      self-explanatory and concise with a mean (SD) administration time in healthy participants of
      21.7 (2.2) minutes.

      POD occurs predominantly after cardiac surgery, with a reported incidence between 6% and 56%.

      The aim of this observational study is to validate the use of the CogCheck application as a
      risk prediction tool for postoperative delirium in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.

      Data are gathered from patients undergoing cardiac surgery at the University Hospital Basel.
      By comparing patients with and without POD, we will determine which subtests of the CogCheck
      tool best predict the occurrence of POD. Based on the final prediction model, risk profiles
      are created to facilitate the identification of patients that might benefit from preventive
      measures in the preoperative period.
    
  