
    
      Controlled periradicular therapy (PRT) is a microinvasive interventional pain release
      procedure. Advantage of targeted pain therapy is exact administration of effective drugs to
      the nerve root in the area of the thoracic, lumbar or sacral spines. It is used like as
      effective treatment in the patients with radicular pain caused by foraminal stenosis
      radiculopathy or spinal stenosis.

      Spinal stenosis is the narrowing of spaces in the spine which causes pressure on the spinal
      cord and nerves. Discogenic radicular irritation syndrome is usually caused by protrusion of
      intervertebral disc or prolapsed disc. The most common is lumbar and sacral radiculopathy
      which could by exactly verified by CT or magnetic resonance imaging. The biggest profit with
      the best response on this therapy has patients who are resistant for physiotherapy or per
      oral medicament therapy.

      Intervertebral space verification is provided by X-ray examination imaging. Than in this
      place is Tuohy needle inserted. Position of Tuohy needle is verified by application of low
      dose of contrast. When the right position of needle is secured than effective drugs are
      administered: local anesthetic - Bupivacaine 0,25% (1-2ml) together with corticosteroid
      injection -Depo-Medrol (40mg). PRT involves several medicable effects: anaesthetic - positive
      effect on pain transmission in nerve fibers, antichemical - limitation of chemical products
      from sequestered discs, Anti-edematous - reduction of root nerve oedema, antiphlogistic -
      inhibition of phospholipase A2, antifibrotic - reduction of scar production.

      Trial will compare groups of patients after fulfilment inclusion criteria's who will undergo
      microinvasive interventional pain release procedure - PRT.

      The first group of patients will undergo PRT procedure in the intervertebral space
      responsible for skin dermatome were the pain is radiating.

      Second group of patients will undergo double PRT procedure in the intervertebral space
      responsible for skin dermatome where the pain is radiating and also in the intervertebral
      space above where usually is disc lesion responsible for origin of pain localized. After
      first visit in ambulance patients will be about study informed. After agreement patient will
      be in to the study involved. Specific unique nine digits number will be assigned to each
      patient. Then patients will be randomized in to groups by special evaluated software created
      especially for this study. Patients will agree that about type of PRT (one level or two
      levels) will be informed until the end of the study. This way will be patients blinded.

      Second examination will be provided after 6 months. Patients will be in the beginning
      introduced to doctor only by their unique number. Doctor will be blinded and he will not
      dispose with information about microinvasive procedure and will examine patient. Data which
      will be collected: (Visual analogue scale, pain radiating dermatome, global pain scale,
      changes in analgesics drugs consumption). All acquired information will be noted in to the
      special anonymous protocol. Also patients will anonymously fulfill Oswestry Low Back
      Disability Questionnaire. The third examination will be provided after 12 months same way.
      Patients will be in the beginning introduced to doctor only by their unique number. Doctor
      will be blinded and he will not dispose with information about microinvasive procedure and
      will examine patient. Data which will be collected: (Visual analogue scale, dermatome where
      pain is radiating, global pain scale, changes in analgesics drugs consumption). All acquired
      information will be noted in to the special anonymous protocol. Also patients will
      anonymously fulfill Oswestry Low Back Disability Questionnaire (ODI). If the patient will
      need to a see a doctor in the reason of deterioration of pain feeling and if the ODI will not
      increase more than 10% against patient's origin ODI value than one PRT is allowed in the
      spinal space responding to a pain radiating dermatome during first six months after patients
      inclusion to trial. Under the same conditions another PRT is allowed during next six months.

      When ODI will increase more than 10% against patient's origin ODI value and more than 1 PRT
      during six month interval will be needed, than patient will be excluded from the study.
    
  