
    
      Introduction:

      Spinal cord injury has a profound impact on the lives of those affected. Quality of life is
      restricted not only by immobility but also by severe neurogenic bladder and bowel
      dysfunction. For example, 66% of SCI patients have to empty their rectum digitally, 75%
      suffer from faecal incontinence and 9% spend more than 60 minutes each time they defecate.
      Neurological impairment due to SCI is permanent and the average age at injury is only 28
      years. The longevity of individuals with SCI is approaching that of the general population
      and, accordingly, most patients have to live for several decades with severe bladder and
      bowel symptoms. It is estimated that the number of individuals with SCI in Denmark is 3.000
      and each year 10.000 persons in the European Union sustain a SCI. Even though clean
      intermittent catheterization has successfully reduced mortality due to urinary tract
      infections or reflux and though several new treatment modalities for neurogenic bowel
      dysfunction have been introduced, both bladder and bowel dysfunction still rank among the top
      three causes of impairment of quality of life after SCI.

      Somato-sensory reflex arch:

      The concept was pioneered by professor Xiao. Animal studies and basic clinical research were
      performed in the United States and later human clinical studies have been done in Wuhan,
      China. The surgical procedure principle can briefly be summarized as follows:

      All spinal nerves have an anterior efferent root and a posterior afferent root. For the
      somato-sensory reflex arch (or "Xiao procedure") the posterior (afferent or sensory) root of
      the 5th lumbar nerve (L5) is kept while the anterior root is cut and anastomosed to the
      anterior root of a lower segment, usually the third sacral segment (S3). Thereby, a new
      reflex arch has been created from the skin of the leg through the sensory part of L5 to the
      spinal cord and further through the anastomosis via S2 or S3 to the bladder and bowel. Strong
      stimuli at the L5 dermatome, i.e. scratching or electrical stimulation, will then initiate
      voiding (6,7). Effects of the somato-sensory reflex arch on neurogenic bowel dysfunction have
      not been studied, but clinical experience indicates that bowel management is substantially
      facilitated.

      The Xiao procedure introduces a completely new concept for management of spinal cord lesions
      and it has been greeted with optimism worldwide. The number of patients operated in China
      alone is now more than 3.000 and centres in the United States, Germany and Israel have
      introduced or modified it. Furthermore, centres in Australia, Finland and Denmark plan to
      introduce it within the present year. There are, however, serious concerns that need to be
      addressed:

      Clinical follow-up has only been done in very few patients and physiological studies after
      the procedure are equally few and small.

      In spite of the very large number of patients operated in China logistic or cultural factors
      have prohibited effective follow-up.

      A minor improvement in bladder and bowel function may be important to a Chinese patient
      without access to other treatment but it is unknown whether the Xiao procedure will be an
      advantage to patients in a western healthcare system.

      The mode of action of the somato-sensory reflex arch is very incompletely studied and the
      mode of action on bowel function not studied at all.

      Before the widespread use of somato-sensory reflex arch we find it of utmost importance that
      well designed studies with validated or even objective endpoints are performed. Results of
      such studies will have an international impact in either defining indications for a
      completely new treatment principle or, otherwise, in preventing the widespread use of an
      ineffective treatment.

      Hypotheses:

      In March 2009 the core members of our multidisciplinary study team went on a study tour to
      Wuhan, China. In Wuhan a staggering number of 600 patients had the somato-sensory reflex arch
      procedure performed in 2008. Based on experience from our visit we pose the following
      hypotheses:

        1. In a "western setting" the somato-sensory reflex arch can be created in adult SCI
           patients with only minor morbidity and complications.

        2. Somato-sensory reflex arch reduces bladder and bowel symptoms in SCI patients.

      Patients and Methods:

      Spinal cord injured patients

      Internationally, two indications for the somato-sensory reflex arch are emerging:

      Adult patients with bladder dysfunction due supraconal SCI (above the conus medullaris) and
      Children with bladder dysfunction due to spinal bifida. Most children with spinal bifida have
      motor incomplete lesions and, accordingly, the surgical procedure carries a risk of
      long-lasting or even permanent loss of motor function - typically loss of dorsiflexion of the
      foot. Whether results from the procedure justify that risk remains to be determined. In
      contrast, patients with motor complete supraconal SCI, and thereby complete loss of voluntary
      muscle function below the level of injury, do not run that risk. Therefore, it has been
      decided that patients in group a) above will be offered the procedure at the Department of
      Neurosurgery NK, AUH. Initially, 20 patients will undergo the procedure. As the method is
      new, surgery and follow-up will be performed under strict monitoring with emphasis on
      neurophysiologic testing and potential complications. Approval will be obtained from the
      Ethics Committee, patients will be very carefully informed by the neurosurgeon (Dorte
      Clemmensen) and informed consent will be signed.

      Surgical procedure:

      The relatively minor surgical procedure has been described in previously. In summary: A
      hemilaminectomy of L5-S1 is performed. By means of neurophysiology testing the 5th lumbar
      root and 2nd or 3rd sacral roots are identified on one side. The perineurium is opened and
      the motor roots are separated from the sensory. The motor roots are transsected and a
      microanastomosis is created between L5 and S2 or S3. After surgery sprouting occurs and after
      12-18 months the reflex arch is functional. Time till clinical effect is therefore also 12-18
      months. The advantage of the procedure is that it is performed through a hemilaminectomy of
      only two segments and the surgical stress in relatively small. The patients are expected to
      be in their habitual condition within 48 hours.

      Post surgical monitoring:

      Through informal contacts it has been agreed that complications and basic functional results
      from three centres about to adopt the procedure (Melbourne, Australia; Helsinki, Finland; and
      Aarhus, Denmark) will be recorded in a standardized way. Preliminary principles for
      assessment have been agreed upon and other centres introducing the procedure in the future
      will be invited to participate. This will allow comparison of results between centres.

      Study A). Detailed assessment of functional results of the somato-sensory reflex arch To
      patients the main concern is whether the procedure is safe and reduces symptoms. Detailed and
      internationally accepted evaluation forms for adult SCI patients have recently been
      developed. The so called International Spinal Cord Injury Data Sets have been endorsed by the
      International Spinal Cord Organisation (ISCoS) and the American Spinal Cord Association
      (ASIA). Information within the data sets are mainly symptom based but for lower urinary tract
      function urodynamic assessment is included and for bowel function radiographically determined
      colorectal transit time is included. From the bowel function data sets the most commonly used
      scores for bowel dysfunction, including the Neurogenic Bowel Dysfunction Score, developed at
      our unit, can be computed.

      Patients undergoing the surgical procedure will be assessed using the basic and extended
      lower urinary tract data sets and the bowel function data sets before surgery and 18 months
      after. Before

      Based on the investigations above, we aim at publishing the following sub-studies:

      A1). Prospective study of urodynamic function and bladder symptoms before and after
      somato-autonomic reflex arch in spinal cord injury patients.

      A2). Prospective study of colorectal symptoms before and after somato-autonomic reflex arch
      in spinal cord injury patients.

      A3). Prospective study of colorectal transit times and rectal wall properties after
      somato-autonomic reflex arch in spinal cord injury patients.
    
  