
    
      Rationale: Acetylcholine is the primary parasympathetic neurotransmitter in the airways, and
      induces bronchoconstriction. Since the cholinergic tone appears to be the major reversible
      component of obstruction, muscarinic receptor antagonism and bronchodilation represent the
      primary goal of anticholinergic therapy in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD). Long-acting anticholinergic therapy is central in GOLD stage B-D, because of
      improvements in lung function, quality of life, and especially reduction of exacerbations.
      The elicited reduction in exacerbations with the long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)
      tiotropium appears larger than that of the long-acting beta agonist (LABA) salmeterol even
      when the bronchodilation is similar. In asthma too, it has been shown that the addition of
      the tiotropium to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)+LABA combination therapy reduces the number
      of severe exacerbations. These effects on exacerbation frequency suggest that tiotropium
      might exert anti-inflammatory effects in the airways next to bronchodilatory effects. There
      are multiple animal and in vivo studies to indeed suggest an anti-inflammatory effect of
      anticholinergics.

      Such an anti-inflammatory effect of anticholinergic intervention could be clinically
      relevant; however it has not been previously demonstrated in patients with COPD.

      The investigators hypothesize that tiotropium bromide reduces the ongoing inflammation in
      patients with COPD compared to placebo. The investigators expect a decrease of TNF-alpha mRNA
      in sputum after treatment with tiotropium bromide.

      Objective: This research proposal aims to assess the anti-inflammatory effects after 6 weeks
      treatment with tiotropium compared to placebo in patients with stable COPD.

      Study design: This will be a multicenter parallel design randomized controlled double-blinded
      study.

      Study population: A total of 50 COPD patients with stable disease status will be included and
      followed for two consecutive visits.

      Intervention: COPD patients will be randomized to the treatment group (tiotropium respimat 5
      ug) or to the placebo group.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: A decrease of TNF-alpha mRNA in induced sputum will be the
      main parameter for assessing the anti-inflammatory effects of 6 week treatment with
      tiotropium in patients with stable COPD. Additionally, changes in sputum cell differentials
      and other cytokine parameters (protein, mRNA,LTB4), blood cell differentials, CRP, and
      cytokine parameters, health related quality of life (CCQ, CAT) will be assessed as well as
      changes in post-bronchdilator FEV1.
    
  