
    
      Assigned Interventions: Pulmonary rehabilitation program (PRP) will be conducted according to
      the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society (ATS/ERS) guidelines. Physical
      training will be conducted over 24 sessions supervised, three times a week. The program will
      include aerobic training in treadmill (with 30 min load determined by the dyspnea sensation -
      4 to 6 on the modified Borg scale) and resistance training for upper limbs with free weights
      or elastic bands (movements performed based on the proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation
      diagonals, performed in two series, lasting two minutes each) and lower limbs (quadriceps and
      triceps sural) with free weights and/or in the bodybuilding station. All the muscle exercised
      and the breathing accessory muscles will be stretched for 30s each. Eleven 30-minute
      educational sessions will be delivered addressing topics related to disease self-management.

      The death cases and numbers of exacerbations and hospitalizations will be measured by monthly
      phone calls after PRP.

      Before PRP, post-PRP, 6 months post-PRP and 12 months post-PRP will be evaluated:

      Pulmonary function test: Spirometry (EasyOne, NDD) or Total Body Plethysmography (Eric
      Jaeger, Germany) will be performed in accordance with ATS/ERS standards in order to provide
      the level of pulmonary obstruction and severity of disease. The predicted values will be
      calculated with the equations derived from Brazilian population.

      Triaxial Accelerometry by Dynaport Activity Monitor: In order to evaluate the physical
      activity in daily life (PADL), it will be used DynaPort Activity Monitor (McRoberts BV®,
      Netherlands). Monitoring took place on four consecutive days lasting 12 hours from awakening.
      Data processing and analysis will be performed with the Dyrector software (McRoberts BV®).

      Glittre-ADL Test (TGlittre): The patients will be instructed to complete the circuit
      described by Skumlien et al. In one day, the patients will perform two Glittre-ADL Tests with
      the orientation of performing the test in the shortest possible time. On the other day, two
      tests will also be performed, however, the patients will be instructed to perform the circuit
      at his usual speed (TGlittre-Perf). The order of execution of TGlittre and TGlittre-Perf will
      be randomized previously.

      Six minute walk test (6MWT): The patients will be instructed to walk in order to perform the
      largest distance during six minutes. The walking speed will be selected by the patient,
      according to the guidelines of the ATS. Two 6MWTs will be conducted on tracks of 20 and 30
      meters, in different days, with execution order randomized previously.

      Peripheral muscle oxygenation: The patients will use a near-infrared spectroscopy device
      (NIRS PortaLite®, Artinis Medical Systems) on the vastus lateralis muscle of the dominant
      lower limb during TGlittre, TGlittre-Perf and 6MWT. The positioning will follow the SENIAM
      Project (Surface ElectroMyoGraphy for the Non-Invasive Assessment of Muscles)
      recommendations. The analyzed variables will be oxyhemoglobin, deoxyhemoglobin, total
      hemoglobin and tissue saturation index.

      Postural control: The patients will perform five protocols randomized previously on force
      platform NeuroCom® SMART Equitest® (Sensory Organization Test, Adaptation Control Test, Motor
      Control Test, Limits of Stability, Rhythmic Weight Shift e Weight Bearing Squat). Besides,
      they will perform two Timed Up and Go Test in the shortest possible time and Berg Balance
      Scale, composed of 14 specific items with different tasks. The Activities-specific Balance
      Confidence and Falls Efficacy Scale - International - Brasil, both composed for 16 items
      related to ADL confidence and self-efficacy for falls, respectively, also will be performed.
      The postural control assessment will be randomized previously.

      London Chest Activity of Daily Living scale: Patients will be asked about their perception of
      limitation in activities of daily living, using the London Chest Activity of Daily Living
      scale. It consists of 15 items with scores from 0 to 5, with the total score ranging from 0
      to 75 points. The higher the score is, the greater the ADL limitation.

      Modified Medical Research Council scale: Patients will be asked about their perception of
      dyspnea, using the modified Medical Research Council scale. The scale range is from 0 to 5,
      being that higher values correspond to worse dyspnea.

      Saint George Respiratory Questionnaire: Patients will be asked about their perception of
      health-related quality of life, using the Saint George Respiratory Questionnaire. The SGRQ
      score ranges from 0 to 100% (total and three domains: symptoms, activity and impact), being
      that higher values correspond to worse quality of life.

      COPD Assessment Test: Patients will be asked about the perception of the impact of COPD
      (cough, sputum, dyspnea, and chest tightness) on health status, using COPD Assessment Test.
      The total score varies from 0 to 40 and higher scores indicate greater impact of the disease
      on the health status of these patients.

      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale: The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale will be
      applied to evaluated symptoms of anxiety and depression. It has two subscales: anxiety and
      depression. Each subscale generates a final score ranging from 0 to 21 points. Higher scores
      to more symptoms.

      Behavioural Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 (BREQ-2): the questionnaire assesses
      motivation to exercise. It consists of 19 Likert-based items that measure motivation to
      exercise. The self-determination index (SDI) will be scored. It ranges between -24 (lowest
      SDI) to 20 (highest SDI). The higher the SDI score, the greater the motivation to exercise.

      Basic Psychological Needs in Exercise Scale: it assesses the patient´s perception regarding
      the supply of basic psychological needs and with the exercise. It is composed by 12 items
      that are divided into three domains: autonomy (four items), competence (four items), and
      relatedness (four items). Each item varies from from 1 ("totally disagree") to 5 ("very
      strongly agree"). The domains scores varies from 4 to 20. The higher the score, the greater
      the fulfillment of basic psychological needs.

      COPD self-efficacy scale: the scales will be used to assess disease-specific self-efficacy.
      It assesses an individual's confidence in managing dyspnoea or other breathing-related
      issues. It is a Likert-based scale, consisting of 34 items divided into the following 5
      subscales: negative affect (12 items), intense emotional arousal (8 items), physical exertion
      (5 items), weather or environment (6 items), behavioural risk factors (3 items). The total
      score ranges from 34 to 170 points. It can be also presented by a mean of the 34 items (sum
      of the items divided for 34). The higher the score, the greater the self-efficacy for both
      scales.

      General self-efficacy scale: the scales will be used to assess general self-efficacy. It is a
      10-item Likert-based scale, whose score varies from 10 to 40. The higher the score, the
      greater the self-efficacy.

      Pulmonary Rehabilitation Adapted Index of Self-Efficacy: the scale will assess self-efficacy
      in the context of PR. It is composed by 10 items from the General Self-efficacy Scale and 5
      items specific to challenges faced by patients attending a pulmonary rehabilitation program.
      Each item is scored from 1 to 4, with 4 being the highest level of perceived self-efficacy
      and 1 being considered the lowest level. The score range comprises a score of 15 to 60, with
      higher scores indicating high levels of self-efficacy.
    
  