
    
      This prospective study is performed with the women's clinic in Turku University Hospital.

      The aim is to get every patient, who is operated because of endometriosis in Turku University
      Hospital, to participate on the study. The patients are recruited on the basis of the
      referral letters, which have been sent to the endometriosis outpatient clinic. Before the
      visit to the outpatient clinic they are sent an electric form in which it is told about the
      study and the samples to be collected and from the voluntariness of the participation and
      privacy protection. The patients fill in the electric anamnesis form, which is gone through
      with the outpatient clinic visit. With the outpatient clinic visit the patients sign a
      consent form together with the doctor. After having agreed to the study the patients will
      fill an electric questionnaire about quality of life of endometriosis patient (EHP-30) and a
      questionnaire about their sexual satisfaction (FSFI) before the operation. The electric forms
      are made on the Webropol-program. In the electric forms the patient information is encoded so
      that an individual patient cannot be identified.

      The control group consists of patients who will be operated because of an adnexal finding
      other than endometriosis, for example ovarian cyst. Also patients with laparoscopic
      sterilization will be recruited to the control group. The patients who might be suitable, are
      contacted by telephone call. The main points of the study are explained to them and they are
      asked to participate in the study. The control patients fill in the same electric forms
      before the operation as the endometriosis patients do and doctor discusses with them before
      they agree to the study. The exclusion criterions are acute infection, pregnancy,
      hemoperitoneum, suspicion of a malignancy or incidentally found endometriosis.

      The findings during the operation of endometriosis patients and the procedures that have been
      done are documented on the specific forms made for this purpose (Oper1, -2 ja -3-forms) and
      the prognostic form for future fertility (Endometriosis Fertility Index) is filled. On the
      morning of the operation day the urine and blood samples are taken and the samples from
      endometrium, peritoneum and peritoneal fluid as well as the endometriotic tissue are
      collected during the operation.

      Blood and urine samples are taken also from the control patients on the morning of the
      operation day. During the operation the samples from peritoneum, peritoneal fluid and
      endometriotic tissue are collected.

      After 4-6 months of the operation all the patients come to outpatient clinic visit to Turku
      University Hospital's women's clinic. Before this visit they fill in the specific electric
      questionnaire for the control visit. In this form they are asked for example how well they
      have recovered from the operation and how their symptoms have developed. They also fill in
      the EHP-30- and FSFI-forms. The endometrial and blood and urine samples are collected during
      this visit. After this all patients will receive an annual follow up form electrically 1, 2
      and 3 years after the operation in which they are asked about later recovery, symptoms and
      possible pregnancies and the patients will also fill in the EHP-30- and FSFI-forms.

      The information from the questionnaires is encoded so that an individual patient cannot be
      identified. The questionnaires and the register collected from them will be stored in Turku
      University Hospital at least until the study has ended.
    
  