
    
      AGILE is a multicentre, multi-arm, multi-dose, multi-stage open-label, adaptive, seamless
      phase I/II Bayesian randomised platform trial to determine the optimal dose, activity and
      safety of multiple candidate agents for the treatment of COVID-19.

      This study allows for the assessment of many candidates at different doses, with the ability
      to add candidates as they are identified or drop them as their evaluation is completed.
      Promising candidates will move to the an external trial for further evaluation in the phase
      II/III setting.

      Each candidate will be evaluated in its own trial, randomising between candidate and control
      with 2:1 allocation in favour of the candidate. Each dose will be assessed for safety
      sequentially in cohorts of 6 patients. Once a phase II dose has been identified we will
      assess efficacy by seamlessly expanding into a larger cohort.

      AGILE is completely flexible in that the core design in the master protocol (as has been
      explained above) can be adapted for each candidate based on prior knowledge of the candidate
      - i.e. population, primary endpoint and sample size can be amended. This will be detailed in
      each candidate-specific trial protocol of the master protocol.

      Candidate-Specific Trial 1 (CST-1): TBC

      Candidate-Specific Trial 2 (CST-2): Open-label 2:1 randomised controlled phase I of EIDD-2801
      versus standard of care followed by a 1:1 blinded controlled parallel group Phase II trial of
      EIDD-2801 versus placebo. A phase I will be carried out to confirm the optimal dose in this
      group. Following a safety review, EIDD-2801 will be tested for efficacy in a blinded placebo
      controlled randomised phase II trial.

      Candidate-Specific Trial 3 (CST-3A): Multicentre, Adaptive, Phase I trial to Determine the
      optimal dose, Safety and Efficacy of Nitazoxanide for the Treatment of COVID-19

      Candidate-Specific Trial 3 (CST-3B): A Randomized, Multicentre, Seamless, Adaptive, Phase
      I/II trial to Determine the optimal dose, Safety and Efficacy of Nitazoxanide for the
      Treatment of COVID-19

      Candidate-Specific Trial 5 (CST-5): Randomized, Multicentre, Seamless, Adaptive, Phase I/II
      Platform Study to Determine the Phase II dose of VIR-7832, and Evaluate the Safety and
      Efficacy of VIR-7831 and VIR-7832 for the Treatment of COVID-19
    
  