
    
      The exorbitant health care costs associated with dementia relative to other illnesses are a
      signiﬁcant concern in the US and other countries with aging populations. Difficulty
      completing everyday tasks is a primary reason for the high cost of care, loss of caregiver
      paid hours, and general caregiver burden. As older adults become more computer literate,
      assistive technologies hold promise as an inexpensive solution to improve daily functioning
      and ultimately promote aging in place, reduce caregiver burden, and reduce healthcare
      expenditures due to secondary health issues that arise when everyday tasks are neglected.

      Electronic reminder applications are a type of assistive technology that deliver cues to
      perform important daily activities (e.g., take medication). Electronic reminders are widely
      available, but, few of these applications have been designed specifically to 1) target the
      numerous cognitive difficulties that impede the recall and completion of everyday tasks in
      people with dementia (i.e., premature decay of task goals, decreased motivation to perform
      tasks, etc.); 2) circumvent the sensory/motor difficulties that older adults face when using
      technology (i.e., simple, user-friendly interface); and 3) be accessible at a low cost (i.e.,
      easily integrated with consumer devices like smartphones). Additionally, there is a dearth of
      fundamental knowledge and quantitative data on the feasibility of electronic reminder
      applications for older adults with dementia. This revised R21 application
      (PAR-15-351/PAR-18-179) proposes a Stage I feasibility study that will address gaps in
      fundamental knowledge on the efficacy and usability of an electronic reminder aid for
      commercially available smartphones specifically designed for people with dementia.

      Aim 1 (efficacy): To investigate the hypothesis that a reminder application designed to
      target the specific cognitive impairments that preclude task completion in dementia and to
      circumvent sensory/motor challenges faced by many older adults (SmartPrompt) is efficacious
      for promoting everyday task completion. The SmartPrompt includes six features to address
      cognitive impairments that cause task failure in dementia: 1) reminder alert (prospective
      memory impairment); 2) choice to respond to reminder immediately or at a later time
      (distractibility); 3) instructions (semantic knowledge degradation); 4) persistent reminder
      until task is completed (poor monitoring); 5) activity logging via photos (episodic memory
      impairment); 6) gaming rewards for task completion (apathy). Diverse participants with mild
      dementia (N = 40) and their caregivers will be asked to track performance of a target task
      (medication, meals, or hydration) twice per day for two weeks. Using an AB/BA crossover
      design, participants will use the SmartPrompt for one of the two weeks (SmartPrompt
      Condition) and will perform the task as usual during the other week (Control condition; order
      counterbalanced across participants). Efficacy outcomes, including caregiver/participant
      daily logs of task completion and reports of caregiver burden and participant frustration,
      will be examined using repeated-measures analyses comparing the Control vs. SmartPrompt
      Conditions.

      Aim 2 (usability)- To evaluate the usability of the SmartPrompt using measures obtained from
      caregivers, participants with dementia, the study team, and the study smartphone. The
      investigators expect that the design features of the SmartPrompt will be perceived favorably
      by participants and will require minimal technical support from the study team and caregivers
      during the one-week SmartPrompt testing period. The investigators also expect that the
      structure and support embedded in the SmartPrompt application design will lead to favorable
      caregiver and participant usability ratings relative to published standards. All technical
      problems reported by the participant and/or caregiver will be logged and analyzed by the
      study team for future design modifications. Metrics obtained directly from the smartphone
      (e.g., response times to reminder alarms) also will be evaluated as objective measures of
      usability.

      Exploratory Aim: To examine participant and caregiver features that are associated with
      SmartPrompt efficacy/usability. Features of primary interest include participant sex, level
      of education, level and type of cognitive/functional impairment, caregiver and participant
      computer literacy/self-efficacy, and desire to change. The investigators will recruit a
      diverse older adult sample and administer measures of cognition, performance-based testing of
      everyday function, and questionnaires on mood/anxiety, computer
      literacy/proficiency/self-efficacy, and desire for behavior change. Bivariate correlations
      and multiple regression analyses will be performed with participant/caregiver features as
      predictors and efficacy/usability outcomes as the dependent variables. Results of this aim
      will be used to 1) develop a working framework of barriers and facilitators for the efficacy
      and usability of electronic reminder applications that will be tested in future studies and
      2) inform modifications of the SmartPrompt training protocol and/or design for a future Phase
      II clinical trial.

      Considering the limited success of pharmaceutical treatments for dementia, there has been
      surprisingly little rigorous research on the potential to leverage relatively simple
      assistive technologies to improve daily functioning for people with dementia. Even relatively
      modest improvements in daily function could have a host of positive downstream effects,
      including increased autonomy and quality of life and improved health for people with dementia
      and reduced cost of care and reduced burden for caregivers.
    
  