
    
      Experimental protocol: Optimization and validation of these 2 techniques will be completed in
      3 experimental phases:

        1. Preclinical validation: Abdominal aortic aneurysm and EVAR without endoleak (n=6), with
           a type I (n=6) and a type II (n=6) endoleak will be created in 18 mongrel dogs. QSE-LSME
           and SSWI acquisitions will be acquired before SG insertion and at 48H, 1, 3 months and
           at sacrifice at 6 months. The 2 techniques will be optimized to generate strain
           (QSE-LSME) and elasticity (SSWI) measurements of the simulated thrombus and vessel wall.
           CT-scan with prospective gating will be acquired on the AAA at least 6 different cardiac
           phases then segmented to allow 2D/3D registration of CT and elastographic acquisitions.
           Strain (QSE-LSME) and elasticity (SSWI) measurements of sac thrombus and vessel wall
           will be compared in the three experimental groups and correlated to sac pressure
           measurements, CT segmentation of sac components and pathologic evaluation.

        2. Clinical feasibility, reproducibility and correlation with CT-angiography. From our EVAR
           database, 3 groups of 15 patients will be selected based on clinical and CT-angiography
           evolution. Group 1 will include patients without endoleak and AAA volume decrease of
           more than 20% following EVAR, group 2 patients without endoleak and no more than 10% sac
           volume variation and group 3 patients with endoleak or endotension and more than 20% sac
           volume increase. Ultrasound B-mode RF acquisitions with QSE-LSME and SSWI techniques
           will be acquired by two independent investigators. We will compare strain values of the
           different AAA components in the three groups. Thresholds will be tested to detect
           endoleak. Then strain values will be correlated with diameter, volume and stretch index
           variation between baseline and contemporary CT scans.

        3. Prospective study validation of strain elasticity thresholds for endoleak detection and
           characterization of thrombus organization. The goal of this second clinical feasibility
           study is to collect longitudinal strain and elasticity measurements in the early post
           EVAR period (before one-year). We will include 15 patients with AAA scheduled for EVAR.
           These patients will have a baseline CT and baseline QSE-LSME and SSWI examination.
           Doppler ultrasound with QSE-LSME and SSWI examinations will then be performed at 3 and
           12 months. The variation of strain and elastic values over time frames will be analyzed
           and correlated volume progression and endoleak occurrence on CT scans.
    
  