
    
      The investigators hypothesis is that a diet high in whole-grains reduces abdominal fat. These
      findings might have clinical and public health significance for reducing obesity and related
      co-morbidities like type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Using a double-blind
      cross-over design, energy expenditure, body composition and metabolic health will be
      assessed. Three day inpatient study visits to the Cleveland Clinic Clinical Research Unit
      (CRU) will be implemented for metabolic control and testing. Total daily energy expenditure
      will be measured using the doubly labeled water (DLW) method. Body fat and glucose/protein
      metabolism will be assessed by imaging and isotope techniques, respectively. Blood, urine,
      and stool samples will also be collected for cardiometabolic and digestive health outcomes.
      After baseline testing, subjects will begin an 8 week dietary intervention, where all food
      and non-water beverages will be supplied by the study center. Dietary compliance will be
      assessed by weigh back measurements two times a week. To assess time course effects of diets
      differing in the amount of fiber on body composition and metabolic health, subjects will
      provide plasma and urine samples 2, 4, and 8 weeks after initial testing. Imaging and isotope
      analysis will be performed baseline and at week 8. All post testing will be conducted after
      week 8 following similar pre-testing control conditions. Subjects will then undergo an 8-10
      week washout period where they will be instructed to return to their normal diet (except for
      any supplements). After the washout period, subjects will start the second arm of the
      intervention and consume the alternate diet (i.e. refined or whole grain diet). All energy
      expenditure, body composition and metabolic testing procedures will be repeated during the
      alternative arm of the study as described above.
    
  