
    
      Patients generally have pre-anesthetic visits 1-2 weeks prior to their scheduled operation.
      Patients identified by the Clinical Research Study Assistant (CRSA) based on inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be approached regarding this study in the pre-anesthetic clinic.
      Patients will be made aware of the components of the study and the CRSA will be present to
      answer any questions. Patients have until the day of the surgery after admission to the
      hospital (generally 4 hours before the planned procedure) to decide whether they want to be
      enrolled in this study. In most cases patients will have approximately 1-2 weeks from being
      made aware of this study to come to a decision. Even patients who have been scheduled for
      pre-anesthetic clinic visit less than 1 week prior to surgery will still have >24 hrs to make
      decisions. Those admitted on the day of surgery may still be able to participate provided
      they have at least 4 hrs to review the study and have their questions answered by the study
      team. Patients will have access to a contact phone number in case they have additional
      questions. Baseline patient data will be collected once consent is obtained. On the day of
      surgery, administration of general anesthesia (GA) will be protocolized. Patients will cease
      their current oral opioid while on IV opioids. After the surgery, Patients will be randomly
      allocated into either placebo or intervention arm using a computerized random generator.
      Treatment regimen will involve nabilone capsule administration starting with 1mg twice a day
      orally first administered on post-operative day (POD) #0. The patient will be continued on
      this medication for 72 hours. Enrolled patients will document their pain scores and other
      data points as per study outcomes measured. The CRSA will follow for nabilone-related adverse
      effects at 24hrs, 48hrs, and 72hours post-operatively. Study subjects will also be followed
      up for psychotropic adverse reactions of nabilone (including hallucination, depressed mood,
      anxiety reactions, and euphoria) for 3 days after discontinuation of study treatment. This
      follow up will be made by the CRSA during the subject's stay in the hospital, or by telephone
      call made after discharge from the hospital. Any surgical complication will be recorded up to
      30 days after the operation. The CRSA will administer study questionnaires and assist
      patients in their completion. The CRSA will work with the principal investigator (PI) to
      capture all requirements for study evaluation.
    
  