
    
      Introduction Surgical intestinal resection of complicated or treatment refractory Crohn's
      disease (CD) is not uncommon. Ileocecal resection is the most frequent surgical intervention
      utilized in pediatric-onset CD, particularly in those with limited ileocecal disease. Only
      scarce data is available on the long-term outcome of patients following bowel resection in
      pediatric-onset CD . These studies have demonstrated that the risk for disease recurrence and
      additional surgical intervention is high in this population. Hence, as pediatric
      post-surgical patients are, by definition, high risk patients, prophylactic strategy is
      usually required. The most common prophylactic medications for post-operative recurrence are
      thiopurines and anti-TNF alpha agents. Adult randomized control trials assessing
      post-operative prophylaxis such as the PREVENT study and the POCER study have demonstrated
      similar short-term clinical recurrence rates (1 year) when comparing infliximab to placebo
      (PREVENT) or adalimumab to thiopurines (POCER). However, endoscopic recurrence rates did
      favor anti- tumor necrosis factor (TNF) prophylaxis. Apart from phenotypic characteristic and
      residual disease after resection there are data supporting fecal calprotectin as a strong
      predictor of disease recurrence. Both adult and pediatric guidelines recommend on performing
      a follow-up colonoscopy 6-9 month following surgical resection in-order to assess endoscopic
      activity by the Rutgeerts score and to adjust therapeutic regimens according to findings.
      Currently, there are no prospective or comparative studies assessing the effect of
      prophylactic post-operative therapies in children. Hence, it is the investigators aim is to
      assess the impact of postoperative prophylaxis on endoscopic and clinical recurrence in
      children with CD, following ileo-cecal resection using a prospective observational matched
      control design.

      Hypothesis:

      Post-operative pediatric patients treated with anti-TNF prophylaxis will demonstrate lower
      endoscopic recurrence rates at 1 year and lower clinical recurrence rates at 2 years compared
      with thiopurines treated patients.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective: To evaluate the effect of prophylactic therapy on clinical and endoscopic
      disease recurrence in children with CD following ileo-cecal resection.

      Secondary objective: To evaluate the effect of prophylactic therapy on biochemical and
      anthropometric measures.

      Methods:

      Study design:

      General design:

      This is a multi-center, prospective, observational study with case-control matching. Patients
      with either thiopurines or anti-TNF alpha prophylaxis (including patients maintaining prior
      thiopurines and anti-TNF alpha treatment for post-operative prophylaxis) will be enrolled 0-3
      months following ileo-cecal resection. Prophylactic treatment will be decided at the
      discretion of the treating physician and not as a part of the study. Medication regimen and
      dosage will be set by the treating physician according to standard of care and, agin, not as
      a part of the study. Patients will be enrolled at the first screening visit. Informed consent
      will be signed by both parents is required during enrollment. Informed assent will be offered
      for patients 14 years old and older. According to current recommended standard-of-care,
      patients will undergo a colonoscopic evaluation 6-9 month following surgery. Results will be
      documented according to the Rutgeerts score. Any other endoscopic or cross-sectional imaging
      performed during the study for clinical reasons will be documented in the appropriately.

      Group 1: Patients treated with thiopurines for post-operative prophylaxis. Group 2: Patients
      treated with anti-TNF alpha monotherapy for post-operative prophylaxis.

      Study Visits Scheduled visits will be performed at screening/enrolment (0-3 months following
      ileo-cecal resection) and at 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months.

      At enrollment, demographic, clinical, endoscopic, histologic and radiologic data will be
      retrieved, including with data on disease phenotype, course, therapeutic regimens, indication
      for surgery, type of surgery, surgical outcomes and pathology report from the resected
      specimen. Every visit all patients will be examined for height, weight, pediatric Crohn's
      disease activity index (PCDAI), physician global assesment (PGA) as well as comprehensive
      laboratory examinations including complete blood count (CBC), albumin, erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein- CRP (CRP will be measured and registered in
      mg/dL). Fecal sample for fecal calprotectin will be obtained as well. At enrollment, 1 year
      and last visit fecal sample for microbiome analysis will be obtained.

      Current treatment, and any treatment change since the previous visit will be recorded in the
      case report form. Relapse at any time should be noted along with PGA, and PCDAI at relapse.

      Fecal calprotectin At each visit a single stool sample will be collected from each patient.
      One to 5 g stool will be stored at -20 degrees Celsius. Quantitative measurement of
      calprotectin will be performed using PhilCal Test (Calpro, Oslo, Norway) at the end of the
      study period at a central laboratory.

      Fecal samples for microbiome Samples will be stored at -20ºc and then will be transported
      frozen to the laboratory where they were stored at -80ºc. Samples will be sent to a central
      laboratory at the end of the study (Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel). DNA will be
      extracted from 200 mg of stool samples using Norgen Stool DNA extraction kit (Norgen Biotek)
      according to the manufacturer's instruction. The extracted DNA will be evaluated by agarose
      gel electrophoresis (1% w/v) and quantified spectrophotometrically. Libraries will be
      prepared and paired-end shotgun metagenomic sequencing will be performed on the Illumina
      MiSeq platform according to the manufacturer's specifications.

      Anonymization and Coding Coding will be performed by the local principle investigator (PI) at
      enrollment according to site number and patient number. CRFs will not carry patients details
      apart from the code given by thr treating physician. Patients details can be identified and
      matched to the patient's code only by the local PI and for the purpose of filling missing
      data. Fecal Calprotectin tubes will be shifted using patients' codes only with no identified
      details.

      Matching:

      Patients will be matched between arms using case-control analysis according to baseline
      characteristics: Age, gender, indication for surgery, type of surgery, PCDAI following
      surgery, perianal disease, disease location/behavior, residual disease.

      Data analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using SPSS (version 25.0, SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). Continuous
      variables will be evaluated for normal distribution using histogram, Q-Q Plots and
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and reported as median (interquartile range, IQR) for non-normally
      distributed variables or mean (standard deviation, SD) for normally distributed variables.
      Categorical variables will be reported as frequency and percentage. Continuous variables will
      be compared using independent simple T-test or Mann-Whitney while categorical variables will
      be compared using chi-square test or fisher-exact test. Correlation between continuous
      variables will be evaluated using Spearman rho correlation coefficient.

      Patients with anti-TNF alpha prophylaxis will be matched to patients with thiopurines
      prophylaxis in a ratio of 1:1 (matched case-control). Patients will be matched as described
      earlier. Continuous variables will be compared between matched patients using paired sample
      T-test or Wilcoxon test while categorical variables will be compared using McNemar test.
      P-values <0.05 will be considered significant.

      Sample size:

      In order to demonstrate 20% difference in endoscopic recurrence rate between groups is
      significant, we will need to study 42 children in each group to be able to reject the null
      hypothesis that the failure rates between the groups are equal with probability (power) of
      80% and a type I error probability of 0.05.

      In-order to allow redundancy for non-matched patients, 50% non-matching rate is expected,
      thus requiring 100 patients.

      Safety:

      The study does not involve intervention. Any decision regarding prophylaxis initiation or
      treatment change during follow-up is at the sole discretion of the treating physician and not
      directed by the study. Clinical assessment is part of the routine follow-up of IBD patients.
      Blood samples are taken as standard of care along the course of the study with no extra blood
      samples needed. Colonoscopy at 6-9 months following ileo-cecal resection is considered
      standard of care and highly recommended by societal guidelines hence is not directed by the
      study but by accepted clinical guidelines. Nevertheless, a patient refusing colonoscopic
      evaluation as clinically indicated will remain in the study for the assessment of clinical
      recurrence.
    
  