
    
      Glaucoma Filtration Surgery (GFS) remains the definitive surgical management for elevated IOL
      uncontrolled by medical management. Bleb failure is a major factor limiting the longterm
      success of trabeculectomy surgery. Bleb failure involves vascularization with fibroblast
      migration and eventual scarring of the fistula tract. Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor
      (VEGF) is a unique mitogen specific to vascular endothelial cells and the signal cascade
      leading to fibroblast migration and proliferation involves dynamic interaction between many
      proteins. Blocking the neovascular signal cascade with anti-VEGF molecules like Bevacizumab
      may lead to a decrease in fibroblast proliferation by decreasing the supply of mitogenic
      cytokines such as fibroblast growth factor (FGF) carried in by new vessel formation and
      decreasing the known synergism that exists between VEGF and fibroblast growth factor (FGF)
      The study is designed as an off-label, randomized, parallel, comparative study. Patients who
      meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and sign the informed consent will be included. After
      enrollment, patients will be randomized into two groups: trabeculectomy with off-label
      subconjunctival bevacizumab or trabeculectomy with mitomycin-C.This study aims to compare the
      safety and effectiveness of off-label subconjunctival bevacizumab and subtenon Mitomycin C in
      glaucoma filtration surgery (GFS). The primary endpoint is to prove the effectiveness via the
      reduction of IOP and grading of bleb photographs according to the Moorfields Bleb Grading
      Protocol, and the secondary endpoint is to prove the safety via the incidence of
      complications and adverse events.

      Procedure: Surgical technique Trabeculectomy will be performed after the administration of
      retrobulbar or peribulbar anesthesia with lidocaine. For the limbus-based procedure, a bridle
      suture (4-0 silk) will be placed under the superior rectus muscle tendon, and the conjunctiva
      and Tenon's capsule will be incised in the superior quadrant 8 to 10 mm posterior to the
      surgical limbus. The conjunctiva and Tenon's capsule will be dissected anterior to the
      limbus. Meticulous hemostasis will be achieved with bipolar cautery. In cases randomized to
      MMC usage, a cellulose sponge (approximately 6 × 12 mm × 1 mm) soaked with mitomycin C (0.2
      mg/ml) will be applied over the intended site of the scleral flap for 1 to 3 minutes. The
      duration of mitomycin C application will be based on the preoperative evaluation of each
      patient's risk factors for failure. Copious irrigation with balanced salt solution will be
      performed to wash away residual MMC. A ½ to 2/3 thickness square scleral flap (approximately
      3.5 × 3.5 mm) will be then dissected into the clear cornea. After resection of an anterior
      trabecular block (approximately 2.5 × 1 mm), an iridectomy will be performed. The scleral
      flap will be sutured with two or three 10-0 nylon sutures at its corners. The conjunctiva and
      Tenon's capsule will be closed in a single continuous layer with 8-0 Vicryl suture. In the
      subjects randomized to receive Injection Bevacizumab, 0.05 ml of reconstituted bevacizumab
      drug (1.25 mg) will be injected subconjunctivally adjacent to the bleb. Atropine eye ointment
      will be placed in the fornix and the eye will be patched. In the early postoperative period,
      all patients will be treated with topical corticosteroids (four times daily) for two weeks,
      which will be tapered-off slowly over six to eight weeks. Suture-lysis with argon laser will
      be performed under topical anesthesia when, in the opinion of the surgeon, filtration is
      judged to be too low and the IOP too high for the patient to meet the target pressure.

      Preparation of the Drug:

      Bevacizumab Avastin (Avastin) is available in a sterile vial (100 mg in 4 ml) preservative
      free and in order to ensure safety the vial injection will be administered within one day.

      Subconjunctival Injections (1.25mg drug in 0.05ml) will be given at the end of the surgery
      adjacent to the bleb raised using a single-use 30-gauge needle and a tuberculin syringe.

      Follow-Up: The following demographic and clinical data will be extracted from the medical
      records of eligible patients: race, age of the patient at the time of surgery, gender, eye
      laterality, preoperative visual acuity, refractive error, average of IOP readings during
      three months before surgery, number of medications recorded during the three months preceding
      trabeculectomy, concurrent ocular diseases before or at the time of surgery, history of
      intraocular or extraocular surgery that involved the conjunctiva, previous laser surgery for
      glaucoma (argon laser trabeculoplasty, iridoplasty, or peripheral iridotomy), visual field
      mean deviation of the last field before surgery, date of surgery, type of conjunctival flap,
      concentration and duration of mitomycin C application, site and dose of subconjunctival
      Bevacizumab injection and intraoperative complications.

      Postoperative IOP, number of medications, visual acuity, complications, postoperative suture
      lysis, and surgery performed after trabeculectomy will be recorded. At each visit, the
      examination will include measurement of Snellen best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), IOP
      using a calibrated applanation tonometer, slit-lamp biomicroscopy, Seidel testing, and
      ophthalmoscopy. Humphrey perimetry (24-2 or 10-2) will be done prior to surgery, at 3 and 6
      months post intervention to assess for objective disease progression. There will be 7
      post-operative and follow-up visits within 6 months of surgery: postoperative days 1, 7, 14,
      30, 60, 90 and 180. A window of ± 7 days is allowed for the 30, 60, 90 day visits and ± 14
      days for the 180 day visits. On each visit Bleb photographs would be recorded and graded
      according to the Moorfields Bleb Grading Protocol by a single observer.

      Outcomes:

      Complete success will be defined as an IOP < 18mmHg without anti- glaucoma medications at 6
      months follow up after surgery or at least a 20% reduction from baseline IOP.

      Qualified Success will be defined as an IOP of <18mmHg with one anti-glaucoma medication.

      Failure will be defined as IOP >21 mmHg or not reduced by 20% below baseline on two
      consecutive follow-up visits after three months despite medication, IOP ≤5 mmHg on two
      consecutive follow-up visits after three months, additional glaucoma surgery, or loss of
      light perception.

      Eyes that will be Seidel positive within the first month of follow-up will be classified as
      wound leaks, and those occurring after one month will be categorized as bleb leaks. Cataracts
      will be considered to have progressed if there is loss of ≥2 lines of Snellen BCVA that is
      attributed to the cataract at the six-month follow-up visit or after, or if cataract surgery
      is performed.

      Statistical analysis Univariate comparisons between treatment groups will be made by the
      two-sided Student t test, χ2 test, or Fisher exact test. The association of surgical
      complications with treatment outcome, vision loss, and cataract progression will be assessed
      for statistical significance with the χ2 test or Fisher exact test. A p value of .05 or less
      will be considered statistically significant.
    
  