
    
      Despite a lot of clinician's efforts to develop an effective medical treatment of calcific
      aortic valve disease (CAVD) for decades, there is no scientifically-proved medical treatment
      yet. Since the pathological features of CAVD are characterized by inflammatory cell
      infiltration and lipid deposition, as in atherosclerosis, statin drugs that are proved to be
      effective in the treatment of cardiovascular disease, have been used in the most recent
      randomized clinical trials; however, different types of medications showed negative results
      and thus, CAVD represents an unmet clinical need.

      Researchers of Asan Medical Center have proved that dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4)-IGF
      (insulin-like growth factor)-1 axis is important for pathologic osteoblast transformation of
      valvular interstitial cell (VIC), and reported that the administration of DPP-4 inhibitor
      prevents the calcification effectively in the actual animal model of CAVD. Under a normal
      condition, IGF-1 suppresses the pathologic transformation of VIC; however, when endothelial
      cells are damaged due to aging or various pathological conditions, DPP-4 expression is
      increased in valvular tissue. Since DPP-4 acts as an enzyme that degrades IGF-1, it reduces
      normal IGF-1 activity and increases transformation of VIC to osteoblast, causing pathological
      calcification and worsening CAVD.

      After comparing six different DPP-4 inhibitors, researchers of Asan Medical Center discovered
      that evogliptin has higher cardiac tissue distribution compared to other DPP-4 inhibitors. In
      addition, the DPP-4 inhibitors with high cardiac tissue distribution have shown decreased
      incidence rate of severe CAVD in the retrospective study. Based on these findings, this study
      will examine the effect of evogliptin on progression of CAVD.

      The study is a randomized, open-label trial of evogliptin in subjects with T2DM and
      moderate-to-severe CAVD. Subjects who have agreed to participate in the study and signed the
      ICF will undergo a screening period and those who meet the eligibility criteria will be
      randomized in a 1:1 ratio to evogliptin or non-evogliptin group. The subjects will take the
      drug for 96 weeks and will be closely monitored for efficacy. The effectiveness of evogliptin
      on inhibition of CAVD progression will be evaluated by comparing the change in aortic valve
      calcium volume in the evogliptin group against that of the non-evogliptin group.
    
  