
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oxaliplatin and gemcitabine hydrochloride
           when combined with radiotherapy in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic
           pancreatic or biliary tract adenocarcinoma. (Part 1)

        -  Determine the MTD of erlotinib hydrochloride and gemcitabine hydrochloride when combined
           with oxaliplatin at the MTD and radiotherapy in these patients. (Part 2)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, nonrandomized, parallel group, uncontrolled, open-label,
      dose-escalation study of gemcitabine hydrochloride, oxaliplatin, and erlotinib hydrochloride.

        -  Part 1: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30-60 minutes and oxaliplatin
           IV on day 1. Patients also undergo external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) once daily on days
           1-5. Treatment repeats every 7 days for up to 6 courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine hydrochloride and oxaliplatin
      until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Up
      to 10 patients are treated at the MTD.

        -  Part 2: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride, oxaliplatin*, and EBRT as in part 1.
           Patients also receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-5. Treatment
           repeats every 7 days for up to 6 courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine hydrochloride and erlotinib
      hydrochloride until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience DLT. Up to 10 patients are treated at the MTD.

      NOTE: *Patients receive oxaliplatin at the MTD determined in part 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.
    
  