
    
      Adhesive capsulitis (also known as frozen shoulder) is a painful and disabling disorder of
      unclear cause in the shoulder capsule. There are many ways to treat frozen shoulders. Laser
      acupuncture and joint mobilization are both ways to treat frozen shoulders. According to the
      literature, laser acupuncture has the effect of pain control for frozen shoulder and joint
      mobilization can increase the patient's shoulder range of motion. As a creative inspiration,
      the R&D team uses application and principle of these treatment to design the device. After
      cooperation and effort, the R&D team developed two devices that are 「portable laser
      Acupuncture device for frozen shoulder」and「the joint mobilization simulation device」. During
      the development of two devices, collecting various usage data and user's feelings, feedback
      and clinical effects are very important. So, R&D team will use this research project to help
      device development. This project will recruit volunteers as objects for device development
      and advancement.

      The volunteers with frozen shoulder will be recruited to this experiment and use devices
      under a designed experimental procedure. After subjects use device , R&D team will collect
      subject feedback, efficacy assessments, and various device data. This step will not only help
      investigators to improve and refine the device but also find the best operating mode and
      using standard of the device to help the frozen shoulder patients.

      Subjects in this study will also enter a designed course of treatment. All patients will be
      distributed equally and randomly to three groups (control , mobilization device, laser
      acupuncture plus mobilization device) to receive treatment. All groups receive three therapy
      sessions per week for 8 consecutive weeks. At last, investigators will compare the
      differences between the three groups to understand the effect of portable laser acupuncture
      and joint mobilization device on frozen shoulder.
    
  