
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate whether the addition of the radioprotector amifostine can reduce the
      incidence and severity of non-hematologic toxicity, specifically esophagitis and pneumonitis,
      during concurrent hyperfractionated radiotherapy and chemotherapy (with paclitaxel and
      carboplatin) in patients with stage II, IIIA, or IIIB non-small cell lung cancer. II.
      Evaluate the differences in quality of life and symptom distress, specifically dysphagia,
      between patients receiving amifostine and those not receiving amifostine. III. Evaluate the
      relationship of tobacco use and alcohol use during treatment to appraisals of quality of life
      and symptom distress, specifically esophagitis, in the two groups. IV. Evaluate the efficacy
      of induction therapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin followed by concurrent chemotherapy and
      hyperfractionated radiotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label treatment and randomized supportive care study. Patients are
      stratified according to disease stage (II vs IIIA vs IIIB), Karnofsky performance status
      (90-100% vs 70-80%), and age (70 and under vs over 70). Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on days 1 and 22 and over
      1 hour weekly for 6 weeks beginning on day 43. Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30
      minutes immediately after each paclitaxel dose. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously for 10-14 days after each of the first two paclitaxel and carboplatin doses.
      Radiotherapy begins on day 43 and is administered twice daily for 5 days per week for 6
      weeks. Beginning on day 43, patients receive amifostine IV over 5-7 minutes 4 days a week for
      6 weeks. Arm II: Patients receive treatment as in arm I without amifostine. Quality of life
      is assessed at baseline, before chemoradiation (after 2 courses of induction chemotherapy),
      the last week of chemoradiation (week 6), and at the 6-week follow-up visit. Patients are
      followed at 1 month, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 244 patients (122 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 38 months.
    
  