
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the effect of American ginseng extract on the number of days of acute
           respiratory infection (ARI) during the peak respiratory illness season (January-March)
           in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

        -  To determine the safety of American ginseng extract in these patients evaluated
           according to NCI CTCAE v3.0.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the effect of this treatment on antibiotic use days (AUDs).

        -  To assess the effect of this treatment on the rate of all infections diagnosed by a
           physician.

        -  To assess the effect of this treatment on the duration and severity of each ARI episode.

        -  To assess the effect of this treatment on major infections defined as infection severe
           enough to require hospitalization or intravenous antibiotics.

        -  To assess the effect of this treatment on the incidence of herpes zoster infection
           defined as an episode of physician-diagnosed zoster infection.

        -  To assess the effect of this treatment on CLL disease activity (i.e., serum IgG, total
           lymphocyte count, platelet count, and Rai staging).

        -  To determine the incidence of ARI and type of illness in an untreated cohort of CLL
           patients over an entire winter respiratory illness season (January 1- April 30).

      Tertiary

        -  To determine the effect of this treatment on the incidence of influenza and respiratory
           syncytial virus confirmed by a physician.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to antibiotic
      prophylaxis with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (yes vs no), serum IgG (≤ 500 mg/dL vs > 500
      mg/dL), and influenza vaccine status (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral American ginseng extract twice daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily. Treatment in both arms continues for
           up to 4 months in the absence of illness or adverse events.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks by phone.
    
  