
    
      The negative impact of tobacco use on lung health is widely recognized, together with poorer
      response to several infections. Smoking behaviour is characterized by inhalation and
      repetitive hand-to-mouth movements which could contribute to virus acquisition. In the
      context of SARS-CoV-2 outbreak, smoking appears to be associated with negative progression
      and adverse outcomes. On the other hand, several epidemiological studies suggest that the
      risk of infection with SARS-CoV-2 is significantly lower (OR 0.3) among current smokers, and
      this negative association remains significant after adjustment for age or occupation. An
      hypothesis is that the expression of the gene encoding for angiotensin II conversion
      enzyme-2-receptor could be down-regulated by nicotin. However several bias in these
      retrospective epidemiological studies limit their strength. Few informations are available
      among former smokers and users of alternative nicotine delivery systems.

      In March 2020, at Hotel Dieu Hospital in Paris the investigators opened a center for
      SARS-CoV-2 screening, with nasopharyngeal swabs and RT-PCR, for healthcare workers who had
      symptoms compatible with SARS-CoV-2 (i.e. fever, chills, headaches, dry cough, anosmia,
      ageusia, diarrhea). No severe cases were tested. So far, more than 8000 healthcare workers
      had been tested, among which 40% were positive.

      The aim of this study is to perform a case-control study in healthcare workers who underwent
      SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR, in which cases are infected with a positive RT-PCR and controls are
      negative. Cases and controls will be matched for sex and age. In order to obtain with > 80%
      probability an OR < 0.6, the investigators estimated that the number of subjects to be
      included is 1250 cases and 1250 controls. A structured questionnaire assessing current and
      former tobacco consumption and alternative nicotine delivery systems will be sent by mail to
      cases and controls. Informed consent will be obtained by mail.

      OR will be estimated by conditional logistic regression modelling with matching for sex and
      age.

      Such a case-control study will elicit relevant information about the role of tobacco and
      nicotine use in the risk of acquisition of SARS-CoV-2.
    
  