
    
      Beta-Thalassemia is a major public health problem in Mediterranean countries , parts of North
      and West Africa, the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent, southern Far East and southeastern
      Asia is of the highest incidence. In Egypt, it is considered as the most common chronic
      hemolytic anemia (85.1%) with 5.3- 9% carrier rate and annual birth of 1000/1.5 million live
      births. Thalassemia is a heterogeneous group of hereditary anemia that results from reduced
      or absent production of alpha or beta globin chains of hemoglobin A. β-thalassemia patients
      have partial or complete lack of production of β-chains of hemoglobin. The remaining excess
      of α-chains are unstable, and they finally precipitate and disintegrate, causing red blood
      cell (RBC) membrane damage. The affected RBCs are prematurely hemolysed in the spleen and
      bone marrow, leading to increased RBC turnover, ineffective erythropoiesis, and severe anemia
      that can only be controlled by regular blood transfusion.

      One of the major complications in this inherited disorder is iron overload because of
      premature hemolysis, ineffective erythropoiesis and repeated transfusion in the plasma and
      major organs such as heart, liver, and endocrine glands. Iron has a catalytic role to produce
      powerful reactive oxidant species (ROS) and free radicals, which lead to oxidative stress and
      damage . Children with beta thalassemia have oxidative stress and antioxidant deficiency even
      without iron overload status. The only way to avoid the accumulation of potentially toxic
      iron is iron chelation along with the transfusional therapy, desferrioxamine is a chelating
      agent that has been discovered 30 years ago and since then it has been considered to be one
      of the most important chelating agent that have been extensively used in the clinical
      practice . Then other iron chelating agents have been discovered as deferasirox (Exjade®) and
      deferiprone (Kelfer®). However, there are a lot of problems regarding the compliance to
      desferrioxamine regimen and the side effects of other orally active iron chelating agents,
      which rises the need for studying the effect of other naturally occurring iron chelating
      agents and supplements to reduce the consequences of the iron overload. As reactive oxygen
      species (ROS) and iron overload have an important role in the pathophysiology of thalassemia
      , some studies have been carried out to determine the effects of supplements such as
      silymarin and vitamin E in thalassemic patients on regular blood transfusion and
      desferrioxamine, and they showing benefit due to their antioxidant, cytoprotective, and
      iron-chelating activities .

      Regarding the toxic effect of iron overload on liver, hepatomegaly is one of the most
      findings that resulting from hemosiderosis, extra medullary hematopoiesis, transmitted
      hepatitis B and C and cirrhosis . In one study, liver function tests (LFT) and serum ferritin
      were elevated in most patients in spite of desferoxamine use .

      Metformin (Biguanides) is used as a first-line treatment for patients with type 2 diabetes
      mellitus . But it is not the only use of metformin, a lot of studies have been carried out
      recently to study the beneficial role of metformin in non-diabetic patients of different
      disorders. Metformin was shown to be safe and effective for management of type 2 diabetes in
      pediatric patients aged 10-16 years old, initiated dose of 500 mg twice daily and titrated up
      to a maximum of 2000 mg/day based on response . Several clinical studies have supported the
      beneficial role of metformin in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) .
      Most of these studies have evaluated the effect of different doses of metformin on liver
      biochemistry (aminotransferase profile), histology, and metabolic syndrome feature . Among
      several studies, it's demonstrated that metformin significantly improved insulin resistance,
      aminotransferase levels, and liver morphology. Furthermore, in ob/ob mice, a model of hepatic
      steatosis, it has been shown that metformin reversed hepatomegaly, hepatic fat accumulation,
      and ALT abnormalities, by reducing hepatic tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) expression . Also
      the hepatoprotective effect of metformin on methotrexate-induced hepatotoxicity in rabbits
      with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) has been established. The role of metformin in these
      studies is mainly thought to be antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. However, the role
      of Metformin on hepatic function in different populations with the same mechanism of liver
      injury should be further investigated.

      This study is conducted to determine the safety and efficacy of metformin as hepatoprotective
      and antioxidant therapy in iron overloaded patients with Beta-Thalassemia Major.
    
  