
    
      Quality improvement (Ql) methods are a cornerstone of business and healthcare management
      throughout the United States yet there have been few studies of Ql interventions in addiction
      treatment settings. The proposed study tests the effectiveness of one Ql system - Patient
      Feedback (PF) - at increasing outpatient group therapy attendance and self-reported
      abstinence. The feasibility and acceptability of PF was established in a six-site study
      conducted within the National Drug Abuse Treatment Clinical Trials Network. In the proposed
      study, 32 community-based outpatient treatment programs with approximately 250 clinicians
      will be randomly assigned to PF, or usual clinic practices. In the PF condition, every week
      fro 12 weeks clinic patients are invited to complete a 12-item, self-administered survey in
      which they rate therapeutic alliance and treatment satisfaction, and report past week
      substance use. These anonymous surveys are faxed by clinic staff to a University of
      Pennsylvania data center where a custom software application converts the surveys into
      feedback reports and posts them to a password protected website. Clinicians can access their
      caseload feedback reports and aggregated reports for the whole clinic; supervisors can only
      access the aggregated clinic reports. On a monthly basis staff meet as a team to review the
      feedback reports and develop Ql plans intended to yield improvements in select Ql indicators.
      The PF website and the monthly PF e-newsletter provide social recognition, clinical
      resources, and a virtual community for participating clinicians. After 12 weeks, participants
      in both conditions complete follow-up measures and then both groups are given open access to
      PF for 12 additional months. During "sustainability phase" staff usage of the PF website is
      monitored. Alternate versions of the PF Survey are introduced during the sustainability
      study, including one that monitors HIV risk behavior. The rapid processing of surveys enables
      near real time feedback to clinic staff. Organizations may share their feedback reports with
      funding sources, regulatory agencies, policy makers, and other stakeholders. This
      centralized, semi-automated feedback system eases fulfillment of accreditation requirements
      and as such, reduces the cost of clinic operations.
    
  