
    
      Dental caries is the localized destruction of tooth tissues by acids, especially lactic acid,
      produced by the fermentation of dietary carbohydrates by bacteria in dental plaque.
      Demineralization can be arrested or reversed when remineralization agents are applied to
      incipient carious or non-cavitated carious lesions. A large number of therapeutic agents
      including non-fluoridated products have been developed to promote enamel remineralization.
      The process of restoring lost mineral ions to the tooth structure and strengthening the
      lattice work is known as remineralization.

      The development of decalcification around orthodontic brackets and bands, commonly called
      white spot lesions (WSLs), is often observed in patients with poor oral hygiene during
      treatment .In many instances, these WSLs continue to be visible after the removal of fixed
      appliances and after natural remineralization. The remineralized enamel crystallites are
      generally more resistant to decalcification and also have the same orientation as the
      original enamel crystallites. The early enamel lesions have a potential for remineralization
      with an increased resistance to further acid challenge, particularly with the use of enhanced
      remineralization treatments.

      Recaldent™ is derived from the milk protein, casein. For many years it has been known that
      milk and its derivatives have a tooth protective effect. Research has shown that this
      activity is due to a part of the casein protein called Casein Phosphopeptide (or CPP), which
      carries calcium and phosphate ions in the form of Amorphous Calcium Phosphate (or ACP) which
      used in reminerlization of white spot caries lesions.

      Clinpro tooth crème (3M ESPE) is a 0.21% w/w sodium fluoride (NaF) anti caries dentifrice
      that contains 950 ppm fluoride and a functionalized tricalcium phosphate (f-TCP)
      ingredient.One major advantage of this calcium phosphate system is that it is stable in
      aqueous environment and also does not affect the fluoride activity added in the dentifrices.
      Furthermore,it has been suggested that fluoride combination with f-TCP not only provides
      greater remineralization in terms of microhardness and fluoride uptake, but also decreases
      the dose of fluoride required to achieve the same degree of remineralization,
    
  