
    
      Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) Guided Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) has
      become a therapeutic intervention for the management of biliary obstruction or pancreatic
      strictures related to chronic pancreatitis or other diseases. Successful biliary or
      pancreatic cannulation can be achieved in 90 to 97%. Failure to obtain biliary access can be
      related to operator experience, peri-ampullary diverticula, prior surgery (e.g., Billroth II
      anatomy), tumor involvement of the ampulla, biliary sphincter stenosis and impacted stones.
      In experienced hands, pancreatic duct cannulation fails in less than 10% of cases. This is
      primarily related to surgically altered anatomy or inflammation. Referral to a tertiary care
      center , percutaneous intrahepatic cholangiography (PTC) for biliary decompression , and
      surgical intervention are typically offered after a failed ERCP. Percutaneous intrahepatic
      cholangiography with subsequent percutaneous or endoscopic drainage has a morbidity of up to
      32%. Surgery can also be associated with significant morbidity and mortality.

      Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) allows detailed imaging of the regional anatomy by approximating
      the frequency transducer to the region of interest. With the evolution of linear array and
      the ability to direct a needle within the field of interest, the therapeutic potential of EUS
      has reached new levels beyond fine needle aspiration (FNA), celiac plexus blocks and drainage
      of cystic lesions. The biliary and pancreatic systems, being in close proximity to the
      gastric or duodenal lumen, are a logical target for EUS in cases not accessible by ERCP.
      EUS-assisted cholangiopancreatography was described a decade ago. In order to validate these
      procedures and broaden its use beyond tertiary centers, it is crucial to understand its
      efficacy and success rate. The objective of the study is to evaluate retrospectively and
      prospectively the efficacy and safety of EUS-Guided ERCP procedures for the diagnosis and
      treatment of pancreatico-biliary disorders.

      The purpose of this registry is to record information and evaluate the impact of EUS-Guided
      ERCP on the management of pancreatico-biliary disorders. The registry will evaluate efficacy,
      safety and technical success of the EUS-Guided ERCP procedures.

      The involvement of multi-international sites is crucial- as the advanced endoscopists outside
      US are attempting similar complex EUS-Guided ERCPs for complicated pancreatico-biliary cases
      as their counterparts in US. However, because of the non-existence of a registry, these cases
      are often reported as isolated case series with remarkable technical similarities to case
      series in other countries.

      The registry hopes to combine all such comparable cases and collect enough relevant data for
      statistical analyses.
    
  