
    
      Impairments following stroke make it one of the leading causes of disability. Many
      individuals with stroke do not recover complete function of the upper limb at time of
      discharge from clinical services. Moreover, early stage improvements may wane following the
      cessation of formal therapies. Regaining as much upper limb function as possible is
      important, as even mild impairments are associated with limitations in daily function and
      lower health-related quality of life. The overarching purpose of this project is to use
      portable technology, affordable for home use, to provide objective feedback on performance of
      upper limb motor tasks to individuals with residual deficits following chronic conditions
      such as stroke. Objective feedback serves to better inform the participant of their progress
      and actively engage them in their rehabilitation, thus encouraging self-management of
      rehabilitation. Results from a recent survey shows therapists predominantly provide patients
      with stroke written home exercise programs at time of discharge from therapies. With this
      static approach, patients have a limited capacity to evaluate their motor performance and no
      encouragement to refine their movement. Smartphones were coupled with three-dimensional (3D)
      printed objects to create a home rehabilitation system, mRehab. The built-in sensors in
      smartphones and a custom app can quantify characteristics of movement and provide actionable
      feedback to users during in-home rehabilitation. It was hypothesized that 1) participants
      with stroke could use mRehab in a home program with minimal oversight and 2) use of mRehab
      would result in changes in functional movement.

      Methodology: A single-subject experimental design with multiple baselines was used. A
      strength of the single-subject study design is that participants serve as their own control.
      Each participant had a varying length of the baseline and follow-up periods to establish that
      the intervention, rather than time, was the primary reason for any observed change in
      performance. Participants completed baseline measurements, a six-week mRehab home program,
      and follow-up measurements. Baseline measurements consisted of both in-lab and in-home
      measurements. Participants attended two lab visits prior to starting the home program to
      establish baselines on clinical assessments and to learn how to use mRehab. MRehab collected
      limited preliminary performance data without providing feedback during baseline. Participants
      then used mRehab in a six week home program receiving feedback on their performance each time
      they completed practice of an activity. At the completion of the home program participants
      completed follow up assessments that were similar to the baseline measurements. In addition,
      usability of mRehab was assessed.
    
  