
    
      Over the next year between 20 and 40 patients, who meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      will be entered into the study. The treatment period of the study will last at least 10-13
      weeks depending on how quickly your Depakote ER level reaches a therapeutic level
      (50-100mcg/mL).

      At your first visit:

        -  A medical and psychiatric history will be obtained. For your own safety, it is your
           responsibility to tell the study doctor or study staff of your past and present
           diseases, all allergies and medical conditions, and all medications that you currently
           or recently have taken, including over-the-counter medications such as vitamins, allergy
           medicines, and herbal drugs. A physical examination and vital signs, which will include
           measuring your height, weight, blood pressure, respiratory (breathing) rate, and heart
           rate (pulse).

        -  Blood samples will be taken, through a needle in your vein. Approximately 2-2 ½
           tablespoons (28 or 38 ml) of blood for routine testing of hematology (red and white
           blood cells) and clinical chemistry (blood salt, sugar, fats, and hormones, and tests of
           liver, kidney and thyroid function), and valproate level

        -  A urinalysis, a urine pregnancy test (for all females), and a urine drug screen will be
           obtained. If you are a woman and your urine pregnancy test is positive, a blood test
           will be done to confirm this; you will not be able to participate in this study if this
           is also positive.

        -  An electrocardiogram (ECG - a painless electrical tracing of your heart function).

        -  Psychiatric scales designed to measure past compliance, side-effects, and your bipolar
           symptoms will be administered. (See the Attached Schedule of Events for a list of all
           Procedures required during the study) Patients, who continue to meet all inclusion and
           exclusion criteria, will return for a baseline visit (Visit 2). At this visit you will
           discontinue valproic acid and begin taking Depakote ER the following day. The total
           daily dose will be adjusted to be 8-20% higher than your original valproic acid dose, at
           the discretion of the Investigator, in order to reach therapeutic levels. Rating scales
           will be administered and the study drug (Depakote ER) will be dispensed.

      Your study doctor or staff will explain the amount of medication you will receive, and will
      give you instructions on how to take it. It is important that your study drug is not taken by
      anyone else. Your study doctor and other study staff, whom you are to ask any questions about
      the study drug's effects and any side effects, will regularly check your response to
      treatment. If you get worse, the study drug dose may be changed, or you may be given
      additional medications, or the study drug may be stopped and you will be given another drug
      instead.

      Before continuing to visit 3 you must reach a valproate level of 50-100mcg/mL. Weekly
      titration visits (T1-T4) will be scheduled and blood samples will be taken to test the
      Valproic level in your blood. The study doctor may adjust your dose, until a level of 50-100
      mcg/ml is reached. If the above level is not reached within four weeks of visit 2, you will
      be discontinued from the study.

      After the therapeutic level is reached, you will be asked to return in one week for visit 3,
      four weeks for visit 4, and another four weeks for the final visit, visit 5. Overall, your
      treatment with Depakote ER will be between 10-13 weeks in duration. During visits 3 and 4 the
      Depakote ER dose may be adjusted in 250mg or 500mg increments to maintain adequate level, to
      manage side effects and/or manage bipolar symptoms at the discretion of the study doctor. In
      addition, you will be asked to report any side effects and complete the psychiatric scales at
      each visit and blood samples will be taken at visits 3 and 5. (See the Schedule of Events for
      more details)
    
  