
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety/tolerability and efficacy of using
      ustekinumab in subjects with common variable immunodeficiency CVID or selective IgG subclass
      deficiency (functional agammaglobulinemia) who have associated symptomatic gastrointestinal
      inflammation (CVID enteropathy). Ustekinumab (a Food and Drug Administration [FDA] approved
      drug) is a monoclonal antibody to interleukin (IL)-12/23p40. CVID is a clinically
      heterogeneous disorder characterized by decreased serum immunoglobulin IgG and IgA levels. In
      addition to chronic or recurrent pyogenic sino-pulmonary infections, many patients develop
      non-infectious gastrointestinal manifestations that can be disabling or fatal. Currently
      there is no standard therapy for the associated gastrointestinal disease outside of empiric
      nutritional intervention for weight loss, anti-diarrheal agents, and non-specific
      anti-inflammatory agents.

      Recently, gut inflammation complicating functional hypogammaglobulinemia due to CVID and
      selective IgG subclass deficiency has been characterized as a T helper type 1 (Th1)
      inflammatory response, with excess IL-12 cytokine production associated with diarrhea and
      weight loss as well as reduced D-xylose absorption and steatorrhea. This protocol aims to
      test specific anti-IL-12 therapy in this patient group. It has been previously shown that
      therapy targeted to IL-12 successfully treated the Th1 gut inflammation of Crohn s disease
      (CD). Ustekinumab, a monoclonal antibody to the p40 subunit of IL-12 and IL-23, is FDA
      approved for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, active psoriatic
      arthritis, and more recently, moderately to severely active CD. This protocol is designed to
      measure the safety of ustekinumab in patients with functional hypogammaglobulinemia and CVID
      enteropathy, as well as measure effects on symptoms, gut function, expression of immune cell
      surface markers, production of cytokines and global gene expression from blood and gut
      mucosal mononuclear cells, and the gut microbiota.

      Patients with CVID and selective IgG subclass deficiency with gastrointestinal symptoms of
      malabsorption, maldigestion, and chronic diarrhea will be enrolled into this study. Subjects
      (up to a total of 10 individuals) will receive a treatment dose of 270 mg (3 doses of 90 mg
      either single-use prefilled syringe or single-use vial, depending on availability) will be
      injected subcutaneously in subjects by qualified nursing staff on the Day 0 study visit.
      Subjects will then receive a follow up treatment dose of 90 mg at Week 8, Week 16, Week 24,
      Week 32 and Week 40 and be followed for a total of 48 weeks.

      Subjects will have study procedures prior to treatment and 48 weeks post-treatment, these
      include upper and/or lower endoscopies, to measure changes in immune responses and studies to
      evaluate physiologic measures of gut function at 48 weeks, as well as routine safety
      monitoring throughout the study. Gut absorption tests will be performed at the Week 24 visit.
      Variables will include safety (adverse event rate), clinical (weight, stool frequency,
      results of gut absorption tests), and laboratory (lymphocyte and cytokine assays) parameters
      for descriptive summary statistical analysis (n, mean, median, standard deviation, minimum
      and maximum range).
    
  