
    
      This is a randomized study of autologous HSCT using a low intensity, non-ablative
      conditioning regimen with cyclophosphamide and ATG versus treatment with the currently
      presumed best available immunomodulatory medication (alemtuzumab) in RRMS patients with
      significant inflammatory disease activity in spite of ongoing immunomodulatory MS treatment.

      Significant disease activity is defined as having one or more clinically reported multiple
      sclerosis (MS) relapse(s), AND 1 or more T1 Gd-enhanced lesion(s), OR three or more new or
      enlarging T2 lesions on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) over the last year while being
      treated on immunomodulatory medication by standard national guidelines. The relapse(s) must
      have occurred 3 or more months after the onset of an immunomodulatory treatment, as
      immunomodulatory treatment in MS may reach full effect after 3 months or more.

      Both the knowledge of the treatment effect of registered immunomodulatory therapies for RRMS,
      and the number of treatments approved for RRMS by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) are
      rapidly increasing. During the study period, there may thus appear new supplementing
      information on other MS immunomodulatory treatments that favour the use of a new comparator
      (replacing or supplementing alemtuzumab as a comparator). This will be evaluated by the PMC
      if applicable during the study period and the planned extension period.

      If the treatment efficacy obtained by HSCT is better than the currently most efficacious
      standard, immunomodulatory treatment in randomized treatment trials, HSCT will likely be
      approved as a part of the standard treatment recommendations for a significant proportion of
      RRMS patients. A randomized study regarding with statistical power to evaluate the clinical
      outcome of autologous HSCT compared to a standard immunomodulatory treatment in MS has not
      yet been published. Except for Sweden, HSCT is currently not registered as a part of standard
      MS treatment in the public health services of Europe. The HSCT regimen for the study will be
      identical to the regimen used in similar patient populations in Sweden, Norway and Denmark.

      Alemtuzumab has been chosen as the primary comparator, because it is the immunomodulatory
      medication currently authorised by the EMA for treatment of RRMS with the most favourable
      therapeutic effects. In a meta-analysis of immunomodulatory treatment effects in RRMS,
      alemtuzumab was the immunomodulatory drug with the most eminent reduction of annualized
      relapse rate and 3 month confirmed disability progression.

      In this study, a health economic evaluation will be included. Accordingly, the proposed study
      should provide a robust basis for future official decisions regarding the role of HSCT in
      RRMS treatment.
    
  