
    
      The concept for the Rhythm Pad is to screen the public non-invasively for a cardiac rhythm
      abnormality, every time that they interact with a clinician. Cardiocity have conducted
      significant trialing of the RhythmPad product within both the primary care setting at the Old
      Cottage Hospital in Epsom and in a secondary care setting at St Peter's Hospital in Chertsey.
      The initial results were encouraging with a simple hand screening providing an indication of
      AF in 66% of the confirmed cases of AF, when verified by a traditional electrocardiogram
      (ECG) known as a GE MAC550 12 lead device as the benchmark.

      The main aim is for the RhythmPad range of products to increase the ability to diagnose
      cardiac rhythm abnormalities, along with reducing the number of false positive referrals to
      secondary care for a 12 lead Electrocardiogram of ECG. As such confirming the diagnosis
      before referral reduces the number of false positive referrals. If one of our algorithms
      thinks that there is evidence that the person might be in a state of Atrial Fibrillation
      (AF), Flutter, might have left or right bundle branch block, etc, then by moving to the 6
      lead we are able to increase the confidence of the diagnosis.

      The RhythmPad is now able to support a 6 lead ECG acquisition, this is by using a modified
      device called the RhythmPadGP as such we would plan to trial this technology with St Peter's
      Hospital. We have learnt from the experiences of the previous trails. We know that 5% of the
      entire population will not have strong enough Lead 1 ECG when measured from their hands. Also
      those with Essential Tremor, Parkinson's etc. are not able to keep their hands steady for an
      accurate reading to be taken. In such cases, or as an escalation from the one lead data, we
      now offer through a simple Velcro ankle strap attachment the ability to record 6 leads of
      data.
    
  