
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Metastatic or refractory/recurrent human papillomavirus (HPV)-16+ cancers (cervical,
           vulvar, vaginal, penile, anal, and oropharyngeal cancers) are incurable and poorly
           palliated by standard therapies.

        -  HPV-16+ cancers constitutively express the HPV-16 E6 oncoprotein, which is absent from
           healthy human tissues.

        -  Administration of T cell receptor (TCR) gene engineered T cells can induce objective
           tumor responses in certain malignancies.

        -  T cells genetically engineered with a TCR targeting HPV-16 E6 (E6 TCR) display specific
           reactivity against human leukocyte antigen serotype within HLA-A A serotype group
           (HLA-A2+), HPV-16+ target cells.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective

        -  To determine a safe dose of administration of autologous T cells transduced with an
           anti-HPV-16 E6 TCR and aldesleukin to patients following a nonmyeloablative but
           lymphodepleting preparative regimen.

        -  To determine the objective tumor response rate (Complete or Partial Response) and
           duration in patients with metastatic or recurrent/refractory HPV-16+ cancers treated
           with this regimen.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years old and less than or equal to 70 years old
           with metastatic or refractory/recurrent HPV-16+ cancer.

        -  Prior first line systemic therapy is required unless the patient declines standard
           treatment.

        -  Patients must be HLA-A 02:01-positive.

      DESIGN:

        -  Patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte-depleting preparative regimen of
           cyclophosphamide and fludarabine

        -  On day 0 patients will receive transduced lymphocytes and then begin high dose
           aldesleukin

        -  The study will begin with a phase I dose escalation. After the maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) cell dose has been determined, the patients will be enrolled into the phase II
           portion of the study.

        -  Clinical and immunologic response will be evaluated about 4 to 6 weeks after treatment
           and then about every 1-6 months until disease progression

        -  Following a dose escalation phase of 9 to 18 patients, initially 21 evaluable patients
           will be enrolled in the phase II portion of the study. If 0 to 1 of the 21 patients
           experiences a clinical response, then no further patients will be enrolled. If 2 or more
           of the first 21 evaluable patients enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will
           continue until a total of 41 evaluable patients have been enrolled. The accrual ceiling
           will be set at 61 patients. Provided that about 1 patient every 6 weeks will be enrolled
           onto this trial, approximately 4 years may be needed to accrue the maximum number of
           patients.
    
  