
    
      Physical therapy sessions will be individual and supervised, will last 30-40 minutes, twice a
      week, for eight weeks.

      Participants will warm up with a walk or bike for 5 minutes. Then, a single series of
      sustained stretching will be performed for a period of 40 seconds for the following muscle
      groups: hamstrings, quadriceps femoris, hip abductors, hip adductors and gastrocnemius. After
      the stretches, active muscle strengthening exercises will be performed focusing on the
      quadriceps femoris muscle. The knee extension and squat exercises will be performed in four
      sets, with the first set being thirty repetitions or even volitional fatigue, and the
      following three sets will be fifteen to twenty-four repetitions, with 90 seconds of rest
      between each series, and two minutes of rest at the end of the four series. Both groups will
      perform these exercises with 30% of 1RM. The maximum load that will be lifted until
      volitional fatigue between 7 to 10 repetitions will be used instead of direct 1RM
      measurement.

      Regarding the intensity of the exercises, this will be monitored by the physical therapist
      according to the perception of the level of effort and difficulty reported by the participant
      when completing the series of knee extension and squat, according to the specifications of
      the modified Borg scale (CR-10) . The exercises will be carried out with a load between
      60-80% of the capacity and level of effort reported by the participant. The load will be
      increased by 2-10% when the patient is able to perform 24 complete repetitions in the last
      series of the exercise with perceived effort <60%. During the exercises, a metronome will be
      used for the time under tension, 2 seconds for the eccentric and concentric phase.

      Partial blood flow restriction will be used during knee extension and squat exercises as
      follows: Arterial occlusion pressure will be measured by placing a cuff on the proximal thigh
      in a standing position. The measurement of insufflation for each patient will be established
      as follows: with the participant in the supine position, the pulse of the pedal will be
      located with the LOGIQ e (GE Healthcare) Ultrasound. The cuff pressure will be increased
      until the pedal pulse can no longer be identified, and then the arterial occlusion pressure
      will be recorded when the pulse is restored. The RPFS will be performed at 60% of the
      arterial occlusion pressure for the experimental group and there will be no arterial
      occlusion pressure for the sham group.
    
  