
    
      Randomised controlled multicenter trial. Prospective study. The trial will be performed in
      accordance with the CONSORT-statement. The inclusion period will be two years. The patients
      will be randomised to standard treatment (casting, partial weight-bearing, orthotic insoles)
      in addition to either zoledronic acid or placebo (saline) infusions. The randomization
      process will be carried out through a web based randomization service (Norwegian University
      of Science and Technology, Unit for applied clinical research). Patient data will be kept and
      organized by a study coordinator (nurse) and will not be revealed for the clincal
      investigators, except in medical emergency situations. In such cases, the patient will be
      excluded from the study. A number of bottles containing zoledronic acid or placebo will be
      available in each of the participating hospitals. The bottles containing zoledronic acid and
      placebo are visually identical, numbered from 1 through 80 (two bottles with similar number,
      the second bottle will be kept for the second infusion). The patients will be randomised in
      blocks, creating evenly sized groups given zoledronic acid or placebo. When a patient is
      included and thereafter randomised, the study coordinator decides which bottle number to be
      given and provides this information to the physician. The study coordinator is the only
      person in the study group which is not blinded.

      On the first visit, the included patients will undergo clinical examination and baseline
      parameters will be registered. If MRI is not previously obtained, this will be performed as
      quickly as possible. The clinical controls will be scheduled 4 and 12 and 26 weeks
      thereafter, the latter including MRI. If healing has still not occured, the patients will be
      given the second infusion and meet for clinical examination every 4 weeks until healing.
      Clinical healing is defined as painless or near painless (VAS pain 0-2) weight bearing. If
      healing has not occured 12 months after inclusion, surgery will be considered.

      MRI will be obtained at (or before) baseline, 6 months and one year. MRIs will be examined by
      a blinded radiologist. Bone marrow lesions (BMLs) will be measured (area and volume) and
      fracture lines registered.

      All patients (both groups) will be prescribed calcium and vitamin D (Calcigran Forte
      500mg/400IE) taken orally once daily in the whole study period. This is recommended as an
      adjunct to bisphosphonate treatment on a general basis/standard treatment and is not to be
      investigated separately.
    
  