
    
      The Breast Microwave Imaging (BMI) system that will be used in this study is designed to
      detect breast abnormalities using low power microwave waveforms. The system is formed by
      three main components:

        1. Patient bed. The volunteer will be positioned in this bed in a prone position where with
           the breast to be imaged in a pendant position.

        2. Instrumentation rack. This component contains all the microwave instrumentation and
           motion mechanisms required to illuminate the breast using an ultrawide band waveform and
           record the responses from the breast structures.

        3. Control computer. This component is used to control the motion of the mechanical
           components of the system and to retrieve the responses from the breast structures from
           the microwave instruments and store them in an electronic format.

      The system takes between 7.5 to 10 minutes to collect a three dimensional dataset from a
      single breast.

      The BMI system used in the study operates in the frequency range of 20 megahertz (MHz) to 9
      gigahertz (GHz). Canadian safety limits for the interaction of these non-ionizing
      electromagnetic waves with humans are outlined in the Health Canada publication "Safety Code
      6: Limits of Human Exposure to Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Energy in the Frequency Range
      from 3 kilohertz (kHz) to 300 GHz [1]. For unregulated environments, the Specific Absorption
      Rate (SAR) limit set by Health Canada is 1.6 W/Kg. In the system used in this study,
      radio-frequency energy is generated via the Vector Network Analyzer (VNA). If the VNA is set
      at its maximum output power, which is 3.2 milliwatt (mW), the power received at 5 cm from the
      antenna (which is the distance where the breast will be) was measured to be 890 microwatt,
      which would yield a SAR value of 0.0196 W/kg.

      References

      [1] Consumer and Clinical Radiation Protection Bureau, Limits of Human Exposure to
      Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Energy in the Frequency Range from 3 kHz to 300 GHz, Health
      Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, 2015.
    
  