
    
      Background: Cardiac arrest is the number one cause of mortality in the Canadian population.
      Out-of-hospital bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is associated with a 3 to 4
      fold increase in survival for cardiac arrest, but citizens are often reluctant to initiate
      CPR because of its mouth-to-mouth component. In an effort to increase bystander CPR rates in
      the community and minimize interruptions in chest compressions, the 2010 Resuscitation
      Guidelines changed the 2005 recommended 30:2 compression to ventilation ratio to continuous
      chest compressions for laymen. Although the 30:2 ratio is meant to increase survival for
      cardiac arrest, the ability of rescuers to deliver continuous chest compressions has never
      been studied. Little is known about the impact of the new recommendations on bystander
      fatigue and resulting CPR quality.

      Objectives: The overall goal of this study is to compare bystander fatigue and CPR quality
      after 5 minutes continuous chest compressions versus the 2005 30:2 chest compression to
      ventilation Resuscitation Guidelines in a population aged 55 or greater.

      More specifically, the investigators will compare each CPR ratio with regard to:

        1. The achieved frequency and depth of chest compressions, and

        2. Participants' rating of their perceived level of exertion.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct a randomized cross-over trial comparing bystander
      fatigue and CPR quality using two different CPR ratios. Intervention: All participants will
      be asked to perform two 5-minute sessions of CPR on a manikin - one session using the 30:2
      ratio, the other using continuous chest compressions. There will be a supervised practice
      session in the beginning, and resting periods in between. The order in which the sessions
      will be executed will be determined in a random fashion. The study population will consist of
      volunteers aged 55 or older, a group most susceptible to perform CPR on a real victim. The
      study will take place in a busy public area of The Ottawa Hospital, Civic Campus, and in
      senior's activity centres in Ottawa. Participants will have to score 3 or less on the
      validated Clinical Frailty Scale in order to participate in the study. Participants with
      physical limitations or disease processes precluding their ability to safely perform CPR will
      be excluded. Outcome measures: Information on age, gender, prior CPR training, and measure of
      frailty will be collected at the time of enrollment. The number, frequency, and quality of
      chest compressions (depth and release) will be measured during each CPR session using a Zoll
      cardiac monitor with the ability to measure CPR processes. Heart rate and blood pressure will
      be measured before and after each CPR session. The participants will be asked to rate their
      level of fatigue before and after each CPR session using the validated Borg Rating of
      Perceived Exertion scale. Sample size: The investigators hope to recruit 60 participants.
      Data analysis for Objective#1 will include descriptive statistics and a paired t-test with
      95% confidence interval; Objective#2 will be analyzed using descriptive statistics and
      Wilcoxon Rank Sum test. In addition, as an exploratory analysis, the investigators also
      assessed the rate of change over time in the number of chest compressions performed
      adequately using a random coefficient model. This study protocol will be reviewed by the
      OHREB before implementation, and will be entered in a trial registry.

      Importance of the study: Data from this study will evaluate bystander fatigue and resulting
      CPR quality when comparing the 2010 continuous chest compression to the 2005 30:2 chest
      compression to ventilation Resuscitation Guidelines. This project will improve our
      understanding of the physiological demands associated with the implementation of the new CPR
      Resuscitation Guidelines for laymen. The investigators anticipated the results from this
      study will be widely distributed, and will help shape the 2015 iteration of the Resuscitation
      Guidelines.
    
  