
    
      Two interventions will be compared for metabolic control (A1c, LDL Cholesterol, and blood
      pressure). Additional measures will include: body weight abdominal girdle, other lipids (HDL
      cholesterol, triglycerides);and physical activity, quality of life, psychological well-being
      and self-efficacy will be measured with specific questionnaires.

      Inclusion criteria are: Type 2 diabetes (ADA criteria) diagnosed during the last 3 years,
      without chronic complications, negative urine ketone tests, current in their dues to IMSS,
      A1c > 7%, and BMI > 25. No age limits.

      Exclusion criteria: Psychosis or personality disorders, other illnesses thought to be fatal
      in 6 months or less (e.g. AIDS, liver Cirrhosis, etc), unable to read and write, and
      currently taking other drugs that impair blood glucose metabolism, such as glucocorticoids.
      Patients unable to perform physical activity because of other neurological, orthopedic or
      rheumatological conditions, patients on drug treatment for depression or obesity. Patients
      with alcohol or other drug dependencies, and being a relative of a patient already included
      in the study.

      Patients will be randomly assigned to either intervention and will not be told to which
      intervention he/she was assigned.

      The Intensive intervention is structured in 16 sessions to be held every week for groups of
      up to 15 patients in family medicine clinics in Mexico City. This includes healthy nutrition
      and physical activity plus behavioural modification techniques; the treatment goals will be
      instituted by the case manager (lowering body weight by 5% 10%, and increasing physical
      activity to 150 minutes/week).

      The Educational Collaborative group will attend 16 weekly sessions where nutritional and
      physical activity will also be discussed, along with knowledge about diabetes and its
      treatment. Behavioural modification techniques are included in the curricula but the
      treatment goals will be selected by the patients themselves.

      Blood samples will be drawn from an antecubital vein before the program starts and every 3
      months thereafter. Measurements will include: A1c, glucose, total cholesterol, LDL, HDL
      cholesterol and triglycerides. Furthermore, body weight and abdominal girdle will be measured
      by a trained nurse observer who does not know the patient's group allocation. Questionnaires
      for physical activity, quality of life, psychological well-being and self-efficacy will be
      answered by patients every 3 months.

      The statistical analysis will be conducted as an intention-to-treat analysis, and will
      include comparison of proportions of patients attaining treatment goals, adjusted by age,
      sex, BMI, and base-line values with logistic regression; continuous variables will be
      analyzed with Analysis of Covariance.
    
  