
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab increases the tumor
      response rate assessed by modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Criteria in
      patients with hypermutated recurrent glioblastoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the overall survival distribution, median survival, and one-year survival rate of
      patients with hypermutated, recurrent glioblastoma who are treated with ipilimumab and
      nivolumab.

      II. Estimate the progression-free survival distribution and median progression-free survival
      of patients with hypermutated, recurrent glioblastoma who are treated with ipilimumab and
      nivolumab.

      III. Determine the adverse event profile of patients with hypermutated, recurrent
      glioblastoma who are treated with ipilimumab and nivolumab.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Test whether PD-L1 or immunologic infiltrate in the tumor microenvironment are associated
      with objective tumor response, overall survival, progression-free survival, tumor mutational
      burden, or rates of grade 3 or higher adverse events.

      II. Test whether MGMT status, microsatellite instability (MSI) status, mutational signatures,
      or amount of tumor mutational burden (TMB) including germline analysis are associated with
      objective tumor response, overall survival, progression-free survival, or rates of grade 3 or
      higher adverse events.

      III. Evaluate associations between exome and transcriptome gene levels with objective tumor
      response, overall survival, progression-free survival, rates of grade 3 or higher adverse
      events.

      IV. Evaluate associations between the gut microbiome and objective tumor response.

      V. Response rate using immunotherapy (i)RANO.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients without disease progression are followed every
      8 weeks until disease progression, then every 3 months for up to 3 years. Patients with
      disease progression after completion of study treatment are followed every 3 months for up to
      3 years.
    
  