
    
      Aim of the work:

      The aim of this study is:

        1. To identify any relationship between NPHS2 gene mutations and NS in children and adults
           in Middle East.

        2. To study the relationship of mutations in this gene with the clinical presentation,
           clinical coarse and response to treatment in these patients and compare it with patients
           without mutations in this gene.

        3. To compare our results with similar data from other World populations/ethnic groups.

        4. To share our results with the treating clinicians so that counselling of the patients
           can be done in terms of treatment, prognosis and family screening.

      Anticipated outcome and benefit :

      With the increasing number of patients with NS in Middle East and the higher number of
      consanguineous marriages as compared to other societies, the investigators are sure that many
      gene mutations will be uncovered that may be the same as the previously reported genes or new
      novel genes.

      In either case the investigators would have studied the genetic predisposition in our patient
      population and helped the nephrologists in taking appropriate treatment decisions.

      The investigators expect a total of 150 patients with NS in both children and adults. About
      20% will be from the pediatric population with MCD, while about 80% will be adults with
      predominantly FSGS.

      Patient Recruitment:

      This study will include patients referred to the nephrology departments in the major
      hospitals in Kuwait- Mubarak,Amiri,Farwaniya, Adan and Jahra Hospitals. Both children and
      adults of all ages.

      This study will also include patients referred to the nephrology departments in Assuit
      university hospitals and all Upper Egypt hospitals Both children and adults of all ages,

      Procedures:

      Saliva and blood sampling and DNA extraction

      After obtaining informed consent from parents of children and adults, 3 ml of blood will be
      collected from children and in the event that the patients or their parents refuse then
      buccal swabs will be collected from children, and 5 ml of blood will be collected from
      adults.All patients will be fully informed about the methods of blood sampling or buccal
      swabs and A written consent will be obtained from adult patients and parents of childrens.
      The buccal swabs will be processed to extract DNA and stored at -20 till time of genetic
      analysis. Peripheral blood samples will be collected in EDTA anticoagulated tubes and DNA
      will be extracted according to standard methods using QIAGEN DNA blood mini kit (QIAGEN) and
      stored at 20 till time of analysis.

      Genotyping :

      Genotyping of the NPHS2 variant rs61747728 will be performed by Real-time TaqMan Allelic
      Discrimination Assay (Life technologies, CA, USA) according to standard manufacturer
      protocols. Allelic discrimination analysis will be performed and analyzed using ABI 7500 Fast
      Real-time PCR system SDS software (Life technologies, CA, USA).

      Statistical analysis

      Basic statistical analysis will performed using SPSS software (version 22; SPSS Inc, Chicago,
      IL, USA). The genetic analysis will be performed using the SNPassoc package from R software.
    
  