
    
      Hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia and glycemic variability are independently associated with
      morbidity and mortality of critically ill patients. Blood glucose control with insulin has
      the potential to decrease morbidity and mortality of intensive care unit (ICU) patients.
      Blood glucose control with insulin, however, is associated with an increased risk of
      hypoglycemia and may not decrease glycemic variability. In addition, blood glucose control
      with insulin utilizing manual systems for glucose measurement is blood-consuming and
      time-consuming, since frequent blood draws for glucose measurements are necessary in order to
      achieve blood glucose control.

      Automated, frequent, plasma-based glucose monitoring with the OptiScanner 5000 glucose
      monitoring system has the potential to improve a patient's glucose TIR by improving all 3
      domains of glycemic control: reducing hyperglycemia while at the same time preventing
      hypoglycemia and reducing glycemic variability. Second, it could reduce the workloads
      associated with the high number of blood samples to be obtained and analyzed.

      The primary objective of this study is to observe the Time-in-Range for patients whose
      glycemic control is being monitored with the OptiScanner system. A secondary objective is
      assessment of the time it takes the patient to achieve in range glucose values while
      connected to the OptiScanner. The study will evaluate patients requiring frequent glucose
      monitoring in a Surgical ICU.

      The study population includes surgical critical care patients who require blood glucose
      monitoring. Subjects must have a vascular access device [i.e., Central Venous Catheters
      (CVC), Multi-lumen Access Catheters (MAC) either in place or to be placed with an expected
      usage of at least 48 hours. During Phase One of the trial, patients will be connected to the
      OptiScanner for up to 72 hours and the hospital's current standard of care for glucose
      management will be followed. Currently glucose values are measured using point of care
      glucose meters and/or by collecting a blood sample and sending it to the hospital laboratory.
      Patients' glucose values are currently monitored depending on their clinical condition with
      the frequency of glucose measurement typically occurring every one to four hours. Patients
      enrolled in this study will still be monitored in this same manner, depending on their
      clinical condition (using point of care meters and/or blood collection for the lab). The
      additional continuous monitoring provided by the OptiScanner may introduce additional glucose
      measurements. The clinical care team will be advised to confirm any OptiScanner glucose value
      (using routine clinical care methods) before making any modifications to the patient's
      clinical care based on the OptiScanner result (i.e. increase, decrease, stop insulin drip,
      etc.). A research team member will be at the bedside during the patients' connection to the
      OptiScanner to ensure that the clinical team does not use the OptiScanner results to direct
      patient care and to observe the overall clinical care glucose management of the patient.
      Clinical data will be captured on the participants.
    
  