
    
      Background:

      Chronic graft versus host disease (cGVHD) is a major complication of allogeneic stem cell
      transplant (alloHSCT). The sclerotic skin manifestations of chronic cutaneous GVHD (ScGVHD)
      can lead to significant functional impairment and no satisfactory therapy exists to
      adequately treat this form of cGVHD.

      Imatinib mesylate (Gleevec) is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor with potent
      activity against platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) signaling, a key cytokine
      pathway which has been implicated in fibrotic disease in general, and in extensive cGVHD in
      particular.

      We hypothesize that treatment with imatinib mesylate will reduce the sclerotic manifestations
      of cGVHD as assessed by quantitative range of motion assessment of an affected joint.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      To investigate whether imatinib mesylate results in clinical improvement in skin fibrosis in
      children and adults with ScGVHD using range of motion assessment of affected joints.

      To determine if imatinib mesylate 200 mg daily is tolerated by patients with cGVHD.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To assess toxicity associated with imatinib mesylate in patients with cGVHD.

      To establish outcome criteria for the evaluation of ScGVHD using multi-modality objective and
      subjective assessments, including magnetic resonance imaging, skin scoring, and patient
      self-reported measures.

      To evaluate biomarkers of disease activity and correlative response measures to treatment
      with imatinib mesylate.

      To assess quality of life and functional measures of disease activity and to evaluate changes
      through the course of therapy.

      To evaluate the response of other organ manifestations affected by cGVHD to treatment with
      imatinib mesylate.

      To evaluate steady-state pharmacokinetics of imatinib mesylate in the cGVHD patient
      population.

      Eligibility:

      Patients age 4 years of age or older with the diagnosis of ScGVHD.

      Design:

      This is an open-label, pilot study of imatinib mesylate.

      Treatment cycles are 28-day cycles with no rest period between cycles.

      A target of 10 evaluable patients will be enrolled on this trial.
    
  