
    
      Detailed description:

      Many peritoneal dialysis patients suffer from uremia due to inadequate dialysis or volume
      overload caused by failure of peritoneal membrane transportation. One of the most important
      etiologies of peritoneal membrane failure is unavoidable to use high glucose-containing
      dialysate solution that induces injury to mesothelial cells. Previous data found that injured
      mesothelial cell produced Angiotensin II inducing peritoneal inflammation and fibrosis.
      Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition or
      angiotensin receptor antagonism play a major role to slow these effects.

      Many trials in animal studies have proved the benefit of angiotensin-converting enzyme
      inhibition and angiotensin receptor antagonism in preservation of peritoneal membrane but
      clinical evidences in human are controversy in the past. Recently our data have demonstrated
      the roles of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition and angiotensin receptor antagonism for
      slowing peritoneal membrane dysfunction in views of anatomy and solute transportation
      (abstract presentation in American Society of Nephrology 2010). These available data
      confirmed that renin-angiotensin system blockages were benefit. Nowadays, there is a new
      class of antihypertensive drug, called direct renin inhibitor . It blocks (pro)renin active
      site that is the rate- limiting step of renin-angiotensin system. We're interesting in this
      drug and wonder it can slow the peritoneal membrane dysfunction in continuous ambulatory
      peritoneal dialysis patients. Therefore, we design a study to show the effect of aliskiren
      alone or combination with angiotensin receptor antagonism for slowing peritoneal membrane
      dysfunction in naive continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients in several hospitals.
      Our study will be taken in 1 year duration and uses modified peritoneal equilibrium test and
      dialysate cancer antigen 125 (CA125) as indexes of peritoneal membrane transportations.
    
  