
    
      Objective: There is a critical need for treatments that address depression and barriers to
      mental health care among the nearly 100,000 Veterans with Parkinson's Disease (PD) served by
      the VA. Depression in PD (dPD) is a major complicating factor in the movement disorder,
      affecting several key functional outcomes such as motor disability, cognitive status, quality
      of life, and caregiving relationships. The challenge to meeting the treatment needs of
      Veterans with dPD centers on the lack of clinicians who are knowledgeable about the
      interactions of PD and depression, the considerable transportation barriers faced by this
      population, combined with the geographical dispersion of specialized services within the VA,
      and the paucity of effectiveness research that informs treatments for dPD. The proposed study
      seeks to overcome these challenges by using a telehealth delivery platform (i.e.,
      video-to-home) to test the effectiveness of a 10-session cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT)
      package that has been tailored to address the unique needs of depressed Veterans with PD. The
      proposed treatment package also provides support and skills-training to the Veteran's
      Caregiver (3 sessions). This HSR&D proposal will be the first to: 1) to evaluate the
      effectiveness of TH-CBT for improving Veteran outcomes in dPD, 2) to examine the impact of
      TH-CBT for dPD on a variety of Caregiver outcomes, and 3) to assess Veteran and Caregiver
      perspectives on TH-CBT using a mixed-methods sequential explanatory design.

      Method: A PD-informed, telehealth-administered cognitive behavioral therapy package (TH-CBT)
      for dPD will be evaluated in a clinical effectiveness trial. 180 participants (90 Veterans
      and 90 Caregivers) will be enrolled. Half of the sample will receive the study treatment
      package (TH-CBT), in addition to their standard medical care. The other half will only
      receive standard medical care. The two groups will be compared at baseline, midpoint (week
      5), endpoint (week 10), and 1 and 6 months post treatment. Veterans will be assessed with
      standard measures of depression, anxiety, quality of life, and motor function, while
      Caregivers will be evaluated with measures of caregiver burden, empowerment, and
      communication.

      Impact: Given the public health impact of improved depression treatment in Veterans with
      Parkinson's disease, the knowledge to be gained may be significant and the project could
      directly impact clinical practice. The data gleaned from this study will guide the wide-scale
      implementation of this remote care model within the VA for meeting the specialized needs of
      Veterans with PD. Towards this goal, successful results for the proposed study will
      facilitate a multisite initiative to further examine issues of dissemination, implementation,
      and effectiveness, using a hybrid research design. Ultimately, these Health Science Research
      & Development (HSR&D) data may support the development of a centralized care model, in which
      highly specialized dPD providers, concentrated in a few locations, provide specialty care to
      Veterans and Caregivers across the country.
    
  