
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) can be shown to be
      superior to hypofractionated intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) in terms of
      genitourinary (GU) and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity by having fewer patients that
      experience a minimal important decline (MID) in urinary irritation/obstructive and bowel
      Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) as measured by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index
      Composite (EPIC)-26 at 24 months post completion of therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if SBRT (5 fractions of 7.25 Gy) is superior to hypofractionated IMRT (28
      fractions of 2.5 Gy) as measured by disease free survival (DFS).

      II. To determine whether SBRT can be shown to be superior to hypofractionated IMRT at 12 and
      24 months post completion of therapy in terms of HRQOL by having fewer patients that
      experience a minimal important decline (MID) bowel (12 months only) sexual, hormonal, urinary
      irritation/obstructive (12 months only) and in urinary incontinence HRQOL as measured by
      EPIC-26.

      III. To determine if SBRT (5 fractions of 7.25 Gy) is superior to hypofractionated IMRT (28
      fractions of 2.5 Gy) as measured by biochemical failure, overall survival, local failure,
      prostate cancer specific survival, and distant metastases.

      IV. To determine if prostate imaging-reporting and data system (PIRADS)version (v)2 = 4/5
      disease is predictive for biochemical failure.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether a potentially more expensive therapy, SBRT, would be cost-effective
      than standard hypofractionated IMRT as measured by the European Quality of Life Five
      Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L).

      II. To determine if disease characteristics captured on MRI can be used to predict which
      patients will respond to SBRT versus hypofractionated IMRT.

      III. Collect specimens for future translational research analyses.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo IMRT once daily for 5 fractions per week for 28 fractions over less
      than 32 business days.

      ARM II: Patients undergo SBRT at least every other day for 2-3 fractions per week for 5
      fractions over less than 12 business days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months until death
      or study termination.
    
  