
    
      The purpose of this clinical and radiographic study will be to determine what influence on
      marginal bone loss has the thickness of soft tissues and the height of the prosthetic
      abutment and eventually determine which of the two factors is the most important.This
      research was designed as a multicentre cohort observational study. Two clinical centers will
      treat patients through the placement of a single dental implant. The implants will be
      prosthetically loaded about 4 months after placement and periapical radiographs will be
      acquired at each time-point.

      All patients will receive antibiotic prophylaxis with 2 g of amoxicillin one hour before
      surgery. With the help of a dissector, a full thickness vestibular flap will be carefully
      arranged and the vertical thickness of soft tissues will be measured with a probe marked
      every 1.0 mm. If the vertical thickness of the soft tissue is 2 mm or less, the tissue will
      be considered thin. If the thickness of the mucosa is greater than 2 mm, it will be
      considered thick. After the measurement, the lingual flap will be elevated at full thickness,
      and the site for site placement will be prepared. The implant bed will be at least 1.5 mm
      from the adjacent tooth or teeth, and must be surrounded by at least 1 mm bone in both buccal
      and lingual directions. A 3,75 mm diameter and internal hexagonal connection implant will be
      placed at the level of the bone crest according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
      Operators will be free to choose the most suitable system length (8, 10, 11.5 mm). All
      implants will be submerged according to a traditional two-stage protocol. After insertion,
      the flaps will be sutured without tension with interrupted sutures. Patients of both groups
      will be instructed to disinfect the site by rinsing twice daily for one week for 1 minute
      with 0.12% chlorhexidine. After 4 months of healing, the treated area will be reopened for
      connecting the healing abutments with a crestal incision that will retain the keratinized
      tissue; The same soft tissue measurements will be repeated as confirmation of what was done
      during the first surgical implant insertion phase. The implants will be considered
      osteointegrated successfully if they are clinically intact unless they show obvious
      radiotransparency and patients will not report any pain. After this step, it will be possible
      to divide the patients into 2 groups according to the thickness of the soft tissue: a group
      with thick tissue (more than 2.0 mm); Slim tissue group (less than 2.0 mm). The prosthetic
      framework will be bonded directly to prefabricated titanium abutment (1 or 3 mm). This will
      result in the formation of 4 different subgroups: a group with thick tissue and high
      prosthetic abutment; A group with thick tissue and low prosthetic stump; a group with thin
      tissue and high prosthetic abutment; a group with thin tissue and low prosthetic abutment.

      All the implants will be rehabilitated by the dentist with screwed restorations. After
      prosthetic treatment, patients will receive oral hygiene instructions and will be monitored
      through calls to ensure periodontal health throughout the study period.
    
  