
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A large quantity of epidemiological data has accumulated attesting to a link between social
      support and the progression of cardiovascular disease in cardiac patients. One way that
      social support might exerts its health effects is by attenuating physiological responses to
      psychological stress, since these responses have been related to cardiovascular disease. Much
      myocardial ischemia occurring during daily life appears to be related to periods of
      psychological stress, and laboratory mental stress tasks have been found to induce ischemia.
      Thus, the incidence, severity, and duration of myocardial ischemia might be modified by
      changes in the social environment.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There are two components to the study. In the first component, the investigators are testing
      the hypothesis that the presence of a supportive spouse attenuates ischemic responses to
      psychological stress in the laboratory. Using a counterbalanced crossover, repeated measures
      design, patients are asked to complete a public speaking task in the laboratory in two
      conditions: with a spouse present; and alone. Hemodynamic, radionuclide angiographic, and
      catecholamine responses to the task are assessed in both conditions.

      In the second component, the investigators are examining whether married patients show
      reduced duration of ischemia compared to unmarried patients. In addition, they plan to
      examine whether presence of a supportive other (spouse, or friend in the case of unmarried
      patients) reduces the incidence and duration of ischemia in patients during daily life
      activities. Patients are asked to keep a detailed diary for a two week period to ascertain
      patterns of daily activities. Using these diaries and in consultation with patients, the
      investigators are selecting a two day period during which patients have a busy and varied
      schedule. Patients are then asked to follow the same pattern of activities for a 48 hour
      period on two consecutive weeks when heart rate, and the incidence and duration of ischemia
      are measured. During one week their spouse, in the case of married patients, or friend, in
      the case of unmarried patients, is present; during the other week patients are to repeat the
      activities alone.
    
  