
    
      Objective: This project, Clinical and Molecular Studies in Families with Glaucoma and Related
      Diseases, will study the inheritance of glaucoma in families of many nationalities and ethnic
      backgrounds in order to identify the genes that, when mutated, cause glaucoma, elevated
      intraocular pressure, or similar diseases and the pathophysiology through which they act.

      Study Population: The number of subjects to be enrolled has no logical upper limit, but will
      be at least 250 and not more than 2000 during the next 5 years.

      Design: The study consists of ascertaining individuals and especially families with multiple
      individuals, affected by glaucoma or related retinal and anterior chamber diseases. These
      patients and their families will undergo detailed ophthalmological examinations and, where
      indicated, additional non-investigational examinations to characterize disease in their
      families and determine their affectation status. A blood sample will be collected from each
      individual for isolation of DNA and in some individuals biochemical testing or for
      lymphoblastoid transformation to establish a renewable source of DNA. Linkage analysis,
      physical mapping, SNP and microsatellite analysis for association studies, and mutational
      screening will be carried out to identify the specific the gene and the mutations in it that
      are associated with glaucoma in this family. If necessary, the gene product or blood sample
      will be characterized biochemically. The study will enroll subjects at the NEI and at
      collaborating institutions.

      Outcome Measures: Linkage will be determined using the lod score method and mutations in
      specific genes will be assessed using a combination of residue conservation, blosum score,
      and molecular modeling. Biochemical, metabolic, and physiological effects will be
      individualized to the specific assay.
    
  