
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients with stage IIIB or IV non-small cell
           lung cancer treated with paclitaxel and carboplatin in combination with either cediranib
           maleate or a placebo.

        -  Determine the pharmacogenomics and pharmacodynamic aspects of these regimens in these
           patients. (Phase II)

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens. (Phase III)

      Secondary

        -  Compare objective tumor response rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the time to response and response duration in patients treated with these
           regimens. (Phase III)

        -  Determine the nature, severity, and frequency of the toxic effects of these regimens,
           including hemorrhage and hemoptysis, in these patients.

        -  Correlate the expression of tissue markers (at diagnosis) with outcomes and response in
           patients treated with these regimens. (Phase III)

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens. (Phase III)

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to gender, participating center, disease stage (IIIB vs IV), weight
      loss (≥ 5% vs < 5%), and prior adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to
      1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral cediranib maleate once daily in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours
           and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment with paclitaxel and carboplatin
           repeats every 21 days for 6-8 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before each treatment course, after completion of
      study treatment, and every 3 months thereafter.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 750 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  