
    
      The permanent Survey of French data"monitoring of tourist demand" shows that 20% of the
      French population over 15 years performed each year at least one trip abroad. Travel most
      frequently are destined for European countries (6 times out of 10). The fact remains,
      however, that the french travelers (roughly 4.5 million) then fall between 120 countries of
      which a quarter part of the health high risk area.

      Most of these risks can be minimized if appropriate precautions are observed before, during,
      and after the travel.

      The development of tourism of people living in France is a real public health issue.

      In these conditions, the need for travel medicine becomes more pressing. Medical discipline
      in full expansion, it is initially preventive before the trip. The other role of the travel
      medicine is the diagnosis and the treatment of the pathology after the end of the travel,
      which involves strictly medical skills.

      This research investigation is so limited to travel preventive consultation before departure.

      Regarding the prevention of the risks related to the trip, the World Health Organization
      (WHO) emits the 3 following recommendations:

      "Travelers who intend to visit a developing country should consult a travel medicine center
      or a doctor, before their departure...". The main elements to look for by the healthcare
      professional who leads the consultation include:

        -  an assessment of any potential or underlying health problems

        -  a risk assessment linked to the trip according to destination, the route during the
           stay, the type of trip, the conditions and the duration of the stay

        -  the risk reduction strategy (Council in hygiene, nutrition) including the vaccinations
           and recommended therapeutics .

      The consultation before the departure, interested on the promotion of health and the
      prevention of risks associated with travel. The aim is to propose suitable preventive
      measures. It cannot be a stereotyped speech depending on destinations, it is essential to
      adapt it to the person's situation.

      Healthcare professionals must communicate effectively, so as to promote the understanding and
      retention of the information provided. The health promotion is one of the main skills
      invested by nurses.

      The different investigation invites us to reflect on the new forms of health professionals
      cooperation. The investigator believe that the travel medicine offers opportunities in this
      way.

      The hypothesis is : a nursing consultation in the travel medicine, subject to adequate
      training and a perfectly defined framework, can't meet the same criteria of quality of care
      than a medical consultation,

      The expected results are an equivalence of results in terms of efficiency of support
      consultation.
    
  