
    
      Treatment of buccal gingival recession (GR) is the common clinical requirement from patients
      who are mainly concerned about aesthetics. Noteworthy are also requests linked to root
      sensitivity, difficulty in oral hygiene procedures, presence of root caries and non-carious
      cervical lesions. GR defects, when left untreated, do not improve spontaneously and may
      progress toward increased recession depth (RD) and clinical attachment loss which increase
      the patient's aesthetic concern and the clinical discomfort due to augmented dental
      hypersensitivity.

      Complete root coverage (CRC) can be considered the primary clinical outcome and selecting the
      surgical technique depends mainly on the local anatomical characteristics and on the
      patient's demands.

      In patients with a residual amount of keratinized tissue apical to the recession defect, the
      coronal advanced flap (CAF) may be recommended. This surgical technique results in optimal
      root coverage, good color blending of the treated area with respect to adjacent soft tissues
      and a complete recovery of the original (pre-surgical) soft tissue marginal morphology.
      Furthermore, post-operative morbidity is reduced to a single area of surgical intervention
      and the overall chair time is limited.

      When utilizing CAF technique, critical factors in CRC have been described in the literature.
      Flap positioning coronal to the CEJ and a tension-free flap design are among the most
      important ones. Moreover, flap thickness has been shown to influence the clinical outcomes of
      CAF procedure .

      Coronally advanced flap has been widely validated by the literature for the treatment of
      single recession defects and, currently, different flap designs and technical modifications
      are available to clinicians.

      De Sanctis and Zucchelli have recently introduced the "split-full-split" flap elevation
      modality. According to the authors, the modulation of flap thickness, produced by the
      inclusion of periosteum in the central area, increases flap thickness in the portion of the
      flap residing over the previously exposed avascular root surface. This, in turn, would give
      better stability to the flap. However, the partial-thickness flap approach is still commonly
      performed in the clinical practice and it is validated in the literature.

      To date, evidence is still lacking on the influence of including the periosteum in the flap
      when compared with a split thickness approach in obtaining a CRC.

      Thus, the aim of this double blind, controlled and randomized clinical trial was to evaluate
      the possible benefit on wound healing and flap stability of periosteum inclusion comparing a
      "split-full-split" flap elevation versus a "split" thickness approach when CAF is performed
      for the treatment of isolated-type gingival recessions in the upper jaw.
    
  