
    
      The overarching hypothesis is that there are discoverable molecular transducers that
      communicate and coordinate the effects of exercise on cells, tissues, and organs, which may
      initiate processes ultimately leading to the health benefits of exercise. Because this is a
      mechanistic trial, the main goal is not a health-related outcome. Rather, the goal is to
      generate a map of the molecular responses to exercise that will be used by the Consortium and
      by the scientific community at large to generate hypotheses for future investigations of the
      health benefits of PA. Study assessments are completed before and after the intervention
      period (exercise or control), and at specific interim time points during the course of the
      intervention. An additional focus of the pediatric studies is to examine the impact of sex
      and developmental phase (self-reported pubertal stage) during childhood and adolescence on
      acute and chronic exercise responses.

      Assessments include measurements of cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular strength, and body
      composition (including whole body bone mineral content) determined by dual-energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA). There is also collection of blood, monitoring of free-living PA level
      using wearable devices, and completion of participant reported outcomes and health status by
      interview and/or questionnaire. As part of the MoTrPAC functions, participant data and
      biological samples are transferred from the Pediatric Clinical Site to the Consortium
      Coordinating Center (CCC) Data Management, Analysis and Quality Control Center (DMAQC) and to
      the Biological Sample Repository, and later analyzed by the Consortium Chemical Analysis
      Sites (CAS) and the Bioinformatics Center (BIC).

      Biological samples collected in this project undergo molecular phenotyping, including
      metabolomic, lipidomic, proteomic, epigenomic, transcriptomic, and genomic analyses. These
      assays are done at the MoTrPAC CAS.

      Overall coordination of the study and analyses occurs at 4 institutions which make up the CCC
      and the BIC.
    
  