
    
      Patients with familial dysautonomia (FD), also called Riley Day syndrome or hereditary
      sensory and autonomic neuropathy type III, suffer recurrent attacks of uncontrollable nausea
      and vomiting that can last several hours or days and are severely disabling. Hypertension,
      tachycardia and skin blotching frequently accompany these attacks. Our long-term objective is
      to develop an effective treatment for nausea and vomiting in patients with FD.

      In preliminary studies we found that plasma levels of dopamine were very high during attacks.
      Stimulation of dopamine receptors in the chemoreceptor trigger zone in the brainstem is a
      well-known cause of nausea and vomiting. The investigators postulate that acute increases in
      circulating dopamine levels are the cause of paroxysmal nausea and vomiting in FD.

      Dopamine is synthesized by decarboxylation of the aminoacid L-dihydroxyphenylserine (L-DOPA)
      by the enzyme aromatic L-aminoacid decarboxylase, also known as DOPA decarboxylase. Patients
      with Parkinson's disease suffer nausea and vomiting when they receive treatment with L-DOPA.
      However, when L-DOPA is administered together with carbidopa, a reversible competitive
      inhibitor of DOPA decarboxylase that does not cross the blood brain barrier, nausea and
      vomiting are prevented. The investigators hypothesize that by blocking the conversion of DOPA
      to dopamine and thus preventing its increase in plasma, treatment with carbidopa will
      decrease nausea and vomiting in patients with FD.

      Although carbidopa has been used for many years in patients with Parkinson's disease, it has
      never been used in patients with FD. The first specific aim of this proposal is to assess the
      safety and tolerability of carbidopa in patients with FD.

      The second specific aim of this proposal is to determine whether blocking the peripheral
      synthesis of dopamine with carbidopa will improve recurrent nausea in patients with FD.
    
  