
    
      OBJECTIVE

      Primary:

      ·To evaluate the changes on functioning deriving from a blended intervention merging
      psychological intervention aimed at increasing activity and exercise with a personalised
      exercise program based on medical assessment on subjects suffering from mild to moderate
      depressive symptoms.

      Secondary:

        -  To test the differential effect of the above-mentioned blended exercise program on
           wellbeing, depressive symptoms and physical activity performance of patients with
           depressive symptoms, by comparing the three study arms.

        -  To measure wellbeing of patients allocated to the personalised exercise program,
           compared to the group condition.

        -  To assess and compare antidepressive response within both groups and intra subject at
           interim visits and final assessment.

        -  To measure effects of a personalised exercise program on exercise capacity and strength.

      Exploratory:

      · To study gender differences concerning all treatment outcome parameters.

      STUDY DESIGN The investigators will conduct a 3-arm randomized controlled clinical trial in
      which eligible participants will be allocated to one of the following conditions:
      a)Intervention A: Personalised exercise group program + fitness tracker + IDEApp with
      motivational messages; b)Intervention B: Personalised exercise group program + fitness
      tracker + IDEApp without motivational messages; c) Control Group: fitness tracker +IDEApp
      without motivational messages.

      All participants, regardless of their treatment condition, will be read a short text about
      the the benefits of regular exercise on mood during the initial clinical interview, in order
      to make sure that they have listened to this unspecific advice at least once.

      This study seeks to investigate the effects of personalised exercise on top of usual care.
      All participants will continue receiving naturalistic pharmacological and/or psychological
      treatment, without any research-related disruption.

      TARGET POPULATION Male and female patients with current depressive symptoms regardless of
      diagnosis entity.

      SETTING Outpatient mental health centres and General Practice(GP) surgeries belonging to the
      healthcare network of Hospital del Mar in Barcelona, Spain. Referrals will be made by any
      general practitioner, nurse, psychologist or psychiatrist treating the patient. Group
      sessions will be facilitated by a psychologist (Psychology BSc, MSc) and a physiotherapist
      (Physiotherapy BSc, MSc) who will undertake brief and intuitive therapy training.

      Before any study procedures occur, participants will be informed about the study
      characteristics, will be provided with a study information leaflet and a written informed
      consent form must be signed by them. After signing the informed consent, a competent
      practitioner will confirm or disregard depressive symptomatology, administer the MADRS and
      judge that the subjects fulfil all the inclusion criteria items and none of the exclusion
      criteria requirements.

      INTERVENTION The main goal of the intervention is to personalise exercise prescription and
      enhance motivation towards being physically active. To fulfil our objectives, a collaborative
      team of psychologists, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation specialists, and one psychiatrist
      developed a brief group intervention -the IDEA programme- and an ad-hoc made app to register
      and store the participants' physical activity, exercise compliance and sleep patterns.

      In the exercise-oriented sessions, participants will be asked to wear sports clothes to
      practice the individualised exercise prescription on-site and will receive an individual
      brochure with indications and photographs of their prescription.

      For the implementation of the sessions, the research team developed a guide for the
      professionals with the content of each session and its dynamics. In the case of the
      individualised exercise prescription, a pool of exercises was created in order to standardize
      the potential exercises that will be chosen individually for each participant.

      MOBILE APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT A collaborative team of psychologists, Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation specialists and software engineers developed a user-friendly smartphone
      application (IDEApp) that can be synchronised to a fitness tracker. The fitness tracker will
      register and store data regarding physical activity and sleep patterns. IDEApp will collect
      two types of data: objective and self-informed. Objective data will include the number of
      daily steps, aerobic exercise -including minutes, distance in metres, maximum, minimum and
      average heart rate- and sleep structure -including duration in a 24-hour period, deep and
      light sleep discrimination-. Self-reported data will require participants to simply indicate
      on IDEApp whether one of three exercise options have been performed: 1) relaxation, 2)
      stretching, or 3) strength and endurance.

      When non-compliance with the exercise prescription, physical activity decreases, or altered
      sleep patterns are detected, the system will trigger motivational or awareness messages
      through the app.

      NUMBER OF SUBJECTS 172 participants with mild to moderate depressive symptoms irrespective of
      diagnosis entity will complete the study.

      RECRUITMENT The recruitment period will extend over 12 months and all participants will be
      given away an activity band that will be free to use together with free access to the app
      after study completion.

      IMPLEMENTATION Allocation and intervention assignment will be automatically generated by the
      IDEApp web-based platform once participants are registered in the system by study staff.
      Participants will be enrolled in the trial by a study psychologist after baseline assessment.

      ASSESSMENT Participants will attend the study entry clinical interview and baseline
      assessment, followed by an evaluation with a physiotherapist to identify their physical needs
      and capabilities. Such assessments will allow the subsequent prescription of tailored
      exercise to the intervention groups. After baseline assessment, the study staff will install
      IDEApp on the smartphone of all participants and provide them with the activity band. In the
      first week after study entry, all subjects will effectively start using the devices and
      IDEApp, which will provide estimates of their baseline physical activity and exercise, and up
      until the end of the trial.

      After group sessions completion (after 1 month for Control Group), every participant will be
      followed by an eight-month follow-up. Post-allocation assessments following the intervention
      at 4-weeks (T1) and 12-weeks (T2) will be carried out by telephone. The final assessment at
      36-weeks (T3) will be carried out face-to-face and will follow a similar outline as the
      baseline assessment.

      DATA MANAGEMENT Study data will be collected, entered and managed using REDCap electronic
      data capture tools hosted at Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute (IMIM). More
      specifically, data will be collected offline in the REDCap mobile app on an Android tablet
      and then will be sync back to the project on the REDCap server. A password system will be
      utilized to control access to data and the activity that researchers may undertake is
      regulated by the privileges associated with their user identification code.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN FOR PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOMES Statistical analysis will be
      performed using the software SPSS Statistics 25. Descriptive statistics will be used to
      analyse the distribution of socio-demographic and clinical characteristics among groups at
      baseline. Continuous variables with a normal distribution will be analysed performing an
      ANOVA. Where the premises of normalcy are not met, the Wilcoxon test will be used. The
      differences between groups on the categorical and mail clinical variables will be evaluated
      by using a Chi-square test. Those variables that are statistically significant may be used as
      covariates for a logistic or linear regression study of the factors associated with the
      magnitude of the effect, and determine which variables are better predictors of functioning.
      The effect size index will be estimated in case of correlation indexes for each of the
      performed analyses. To analyse efficacy the investigators will perform intention to treat
      analysis. Analysis will be two-tailed and the significance set a p <0.05.

      Last Observation Carried Forward analysis will be used to handle and minimize missing data on
      the clinical variables.

      ENDPOINTS

      Primary endpoint

      ●Change in psychosocial and occupational functioning of subjects allocated to both the
      experimental conditions (A+B) versus control condition, as measured by the SF-36 from
      baseline to week 36 and from baseline to interim visits.

      Secondary endpoints

        -  Improvement in wellbeing of subjects allocated to both the experimental conditions
           (A+B), as measured by the WHO-5 Well-Being Index (WHO 5 WBI) from baseline to week 36
           and from baseline to interim visits.

        -  Improvement in depressive symptoms of subjects allocated to both the experimental
           conditions (A+B), as measured by the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) from baseline
           to week 36 and from baseline to interim visits.

        -  Improvement in current physical activity of subjects allocated to both the experimental
           conditions (A+B), as measured by the Simple Physical Activity Questionnaire (SIMPAQ)
           from baseline to week 36 and from baseline to interim visits.

        -  Change in functional exercise capacity using the 6-minutes walking test (6MWT) from
           baseline to week 36 in subjects receiving experimental conditions (A+B) of personalised
           exercise prescription versus control condition. The change in the distance walked in the
           6MWT after completion of the program will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the
           personalised exercise program. For the evaluation of dyspnea and subjective fatigue, the
           short Borg CR 10 Scale will be used before and after the test.

        -  Change in functional exercise capacity using the 1-min STS test from baseline to week 36
           in subjects receiving experimental conditions (A+B) of personalised exercise
           prescription versus control condition.

        -  Change in isometric muscle strength of the hand and the forearm using the handgrip
           strength test from baseline to week 36 in subjects receiving experimental conditions
           (A+B)of personalised exercise prescription versus control condition. The equipment used
           will be a Jamar Plus+ digital hand dynamometer, grip strength will be measured 3 times
           per hand in the 2-handle position.

        -  Proportion of participants allocated to the experimental conditions (A+B) presenting
           better commitment to prescribed personalised exercise plans -understood as more than a
           70% compliance of prescribed exercise-measured by objective activity data recorded by
           the smartband-at follow-up visits.

        -  Change in physical activity and enhancement of a healthier lifestyle-as measured by
           activity and sleep objective data provided by a smartband and an ad-hoc-designed app-
           from baseline to week 36.
    
  