
    
      Alemtuzumab is the type of drug known as a "monoclonal antibody". The antibody binds to a
      specific protein (antigen) called CD52. CD52 is found on the surface of normal lymphocytes
      and monocytes. When the antibody binds to the protein on the surface of the lymphocyte or
      monocyte it causes the cell to die. The goal of the study is to learn if killing normal
      lymphocytes and monocytes with alemtuzumab will result in regression (lessening) of the
      cancer cells.

      Alemtuzumab is usually given by an infusion into a vein. However, in this study, it will be
      given as an injection under-the-skin. This method of giving alemtuzumab is not approved by
      the FDA. The purpose of giving the drug by injection under the skin is to decrease the side
      effects observed with infusion by vein.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete medical history and physical exam Blood (about 2 tablespoons)
      will be collected for routine tests. A bone marrow sample will be collected to learn if your
      Hodgkin's lymphoma has spread to the bone marrow. To collect a bone marrow sample (biopsy),
      an area of the hip bone is numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow is
      withdrawn through a large needle. A CT scan or MRI of the chest, abdomen (stomach), and
      pelvis (waist area) will be done. You will also have a PET scan or a Gallium scan to check on
      the status of the disease. You will be required to have a heart scan or an echocardiogram to
      check how strong your heart muscle is. You will be asked about medications that you are
      currently taking, including over-the-counter medications. Women who are able to have children
      must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive alemtuzumab 3
      times a week as an injection under the skin. Typically these injections will be given on
      Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Each dose will be divided into two injections to be given in
      each thigh. You will be treated for 12 weeks in a row. The treatment doses will be given by a
      nurse at M. D. Anderson in an outpatient setting. Before each injection, you may receive
      Tylenol and/or Benadryl to decrease the risk of side effects caused by the study drug.

      During the 12-week treatment course, in addition to your study drug injections, you will
      visit the clinic every 3 weeks for physical exam and routine blood tests (2 tablespoons
      each). You will also have a blood test (1 tablespoonful) every week to find out if you are
      having a certain type of viral infection (cytomegalovirus, called CMV). If your blood tests
      show that your CMV blood levels are increasing, you may need treatment with anti-viral
      antibiotics to control your viral infection. You doctor will also give you antibiotics to
      take by mouth to prevent possible infections.

      If the tumor grows during treatment or you experience any intolerable (very bad) side
      effects, you will be taken off study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options
      with you.

      Within 3 weeks of the last dose of alemtuzumab, you will have a physical exam, routine blood
      tests (2 tablespoons), CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, and a bone marrow biopsy
      (if needed). These tests will help show whether your tumor is shrinking after therapy. If
      these tests show that your tumor is not growing, you will be placed on observation and your
      tumor status will be checked up on every 3 months by repeating similar tests.

      This is an investigational study. Alemtuzumab is FDA approved for the treatment of chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia and is commercially available. However, the FDA has not approved
      alemtuzumab for the treatment of Hodgkin's disease. Furthermore, the FDA has not approved the
      injection of alemtuzumab under the skin for the treatment of cancer. A maximum of 35 patients
      will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  