
    
      Ibuprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with anti-inflammatory, analgesic
      and anti-pyretic properties. There are now a wide variety of formulations of ibuprofen
      available on market in which the active ingredient, ibuprofen, is either as the free acid,
      salt or salt in situ. As a result of differences between these formulations, differences in
      absorption and time to effectiveness are achieved. Rates of absorption are commonly assessed
      using pharmacokinetic (PK) studies, where the time taken for therapeutic plasma concentration
      levels to be reached can be determined, with associated absorption profiles being generated.

      Before absorption can occur the product must disintegrate in the stomach and empty into the
      small intestine. Gamma scintigraphy may be used to assess the disintegration rate (of
      tablets/capsules/caplets) by acquiring images of the investigational medicinal product (IMP)
      in vivo. Through the use of radiolabelled dosage forms, it enables the visualisation of key
      stages preceding absorption, including tablet disintegration and the rate of gastric
      emptying. The assessment of these stages, which are required prior to absorption in the small
      intestine, may be useful in gaining an understanding of the differences between the dosage
      forms. The main purpose of this study is to visualise and determine the rate of
      disintegration and subsequent availability for absorption of different ibuprofen
      formulations, by gamma scintigraphy.

      The study will be conducted in two parts. Part 1 will be conducted as a pilot phase where
      each subject will receive all 5 IMPs over 5 treatment visits (one IMP/visit).

      The data generated in Part 1 will be assessed and used to determine whether to continue to
      Part 2 as planned, continue to Part 2 with adaptations or stop the study. Adaptations may
      involve altering the radiolabelling procedure and/or the gamma scintigraphy procedure and/or
      associated time-points and/or redefining primary/secondary endpoints and statistical
      analyses.
    
  