
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of bevacizumab to temozolomide and radiation improves
      efficacy as measured by progression-free and/or overall survival.

      II. To assess the association between overall survival and K^trans change from T1 to T2.
      (ACRIN 6686) III. To assess the association between overall survival and spin echo cerebral
      blood volume (CBV) change from T1 to T2. (ACRIN 6686)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the tumor molecular profile conferring a mesenchymal/angiogenic
      phenotype is associated with a selective increase in benefit, as measured by either overall
      survival or progression-free survival, from the addition of bevacizumab.

      II. To compare and record the toxicities of the conventional and bevacizumab-containing
      regimens.

      III. To assess the association between progression-free survival and K^trans change from T1
      to T2. (ACRIN 6686) IV. To assess the association between progression-free survival and spin
      echo CBV change from T1 to T2. (ACRIN 6686) V. To assess the association between values of
      K^trans and spin echo CBV measured separately at T0 and at T1, and overall and
      progression-free survival. (ACRIN 6686) VI. To assess the association between overall
      survival and K^trans changes from T0 to T1 and from T2 to T3. (ACRIN 6686) VII. To assess the
      association between overall survival and spin echo CBV changes from T0 to T1 and from T2 to
      T3. (ACRIN 6686) VIII. To assess the association between overall survival and apparent
      diffusion coefficient (ADC) change from T0 to T1. (ACRIN 6686) IX. To assess the association
      between overall survival and ADC change from T1 to T2. (ACRIN 6686) X. To assess the
      association between progression-free survival and ADC change from T0 to T1. (ACRIN 6686) XI.
      To assess the association between progression-free survival and ADC change from T1 to T2.
      (ACRIN 6686) XII. To assess the association between T1 values of ADC and overall and
      progression-free survival. (ACRIN 6686) XIII. To assess the association between change in
      lesion size between T1 and T3, as measured by advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and
      overall and progression-free survival. (ACRIN 6686)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the differential acute effects associated with the addition of bevacizumab to
      temozolomide and radiation, as compared to the conventional arm, on measures of
      neurocognitive function, health-related quality of life, and symptoms during radiation and
      across the longitudinal progression-free interval.

      II. To determine the relationship of neurocognitive function, health-related quality of life,
      and symptoms, with progression-free and overall survival.

      III. To determine the association between tumor molecular profile (i.e.,
      mesenchymal/angiogenic phenotype and proneural phenotype) and neurocognitive function,
      health-related quality of life, and symptoms.

      IV. To describe the association between health-related quality of life as measured by the
      European Organization for Research and Treatment Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30/Brain
      Cancer Module-20 (EORTC-QL30/BCM20) and mean symptom severity as measured by the M. D.
      Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor Module (MDASI-BT) in patients enrolled in this study.

      V. To evaluate the relationship between self-reported neurocognitive function and objectively
      measured tests of neurocognitive function (NCF).

      VI. To assess the association between measures of change in enhancing tumor size at week 22
      and overall survival in participants with glioma receiving chemoradiotherapy with and without
      bevacizumab.

      VII. To assess the association between measures of change in T2-based tumor size at week 22
      and overall survival in participants with glioma receiving chemoradiotherapy with and without
      bevacizumab.

      VIII. To assess the association between changes in ADC values and overall survival in
      participants with glioma receiving chemoradiotherapy with and without bevacizumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (there are also two registration
      steps prior to randomization which are labeled as "arms" in ClinicalTrials.gov to facilitate
      entry of results into the website).

      ARM I: Patients undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy or 3-dimensional conformal
      radiation therapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks and receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily
      (QD) for up to 7 weeks. Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy and radiation
      therapy, patients receive temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment with temozolomide repeats
      every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients also receive placebo IV over 30-90 minutes once every 2 weeks beginning in
      week 4 of chemotherapy and radiation therapy and continuing until the completion of
      temozolomide.

      ARM II: Patients undergo radiation therapy and receive temozolomide as in Arm I. Patients
      also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes once every 2 weeks beginning in week 4 of
      chemoradiotherapy and continuing until the completion of adjuvant temozolomide.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year,
      every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  