
    
      Umbilical hernia is common in cirrhotic patients suffering from ascites, with a prevalence up
      to 20%, which is 10 times higher than in the general population. Ascites is the major
      predisposing factor since it causes muscle wasting and increases intra-abdominal pressure. A
      unique feature of cirrhosis is low physiologic reserve, which increases the risk of death
      from complications of umbilical hernia and makes the patient more vulnerable to perioperative
      complications during repair. Because of the high operative risk, umbilical hernia repair has
      traditionally been reserved for the most complicated cases, such as strangulation of the
      bowel or rupture of the skin with leakage of ascitic fluid Many patients are thus managed
      conservatively, with watchful waiting. However, the natural course of umbilical hernia tends
      toward complications (eg, bowel incarceration, rupture of the overlying skin), which
      necessitate urgent repair. The risk of death with hernia repair in this urgent setting is
      seven times higher than for elective hernia repair in cirrhotic patients. More recent data
      indicate that elective repair in patients with well-compensated cirrhosis carries
      complication and mortality rates similar to those in noncirrhotic patients. Therefore,
      patients who should undergo umbilical hernia repair are not only those with complicated
      umbilical hernia (strangulation or ascites leak), but also those with well-compensated
      cirrhosis at risk of complications. Factors that pose a particularly high risk of
      complications of repair are large hernia (> 5 cm), hernia associated with pain, intermittent
      incarceration, and trophic alterations of the overlying skin. In these patients, elective
      repair should be considered if hepatic function is preserved, if ascites is well managed
      (sodium restriction, diuretics, and sometimes even preoperative transjugular intrahepatic
      portosystemic shunt placement), and if the patient is not expected to undergo liver
      transplantation in the near future. If liver transplantation is anticipated in the short
      term, umbilical hernia can be managed concomitantly. Management of ascites after umbilical
      hernia repair is essential for prevention of recurrence.

      Aim of Work This study is aiming to assess the outcome of local repair of umbilical hernia in
      cirrhotic patient using intraperitoneal onlay mesh technique

      Surgical Steps:

      small skin incision over the hernia. Dissection and division the hernia sac

      Reduction of the contents of the sac into the abdomen and excision of the redundant hernia
      sac.

      Insertion of a finger or peanut sponge into the defect to clear the underside of the
      peritoneum of adhesions or bowel. Clear enough space around the defect to place a patch twice
      the size of the hernia defect.

      Complete immersion of the mesh (in sterile saline for 1-3 seconds) immediately prior to
      placement in order to maximize the flexibility of the prosthesis.

      Insertion of a small retractor into the defect to pull anterior and cephalad to make room for
      the mesh. Choose either the small, medium or large patch to insert into the defect. The
      chosen patch size should be approximately twice the size of the hernia defect. Gently fold or
      roll the patch parallel to the opening between the strap with the barrier side facing out
      carefully avoiding any sharp folding or kinking that might compromise the memory ring. Care
      should also be taken not to cut or nick the memory recoil ring. Gently insert the patch all
      the way through the defect and into the intraabdominal space, using an atraumatic clamp.
      Prevent the patch from touching the patients skin.

      Remove the clamp and the small retractor. The memory recoil ring will allow the patch to "pop
      open." Gently pull up on the looped positioning strap until the patch rests against the
      abdominal wall without pulling harder than necessary. This allows the patch to evenly rest
      tension-free against the abdominal wall in all four quadrants.

      While gently pulling up on the looped positioning strap, use a retractor to peer in between
      the anterior portion of the patch and the peritoneum to ensure that no tissue such as a bowel
      or omentum is caught between the patch and the abdominal wall Gently separate the two straps
      to allow access to the inner positioning pocket to ensure that the patch is lying flat in the
      intraabdominal space, against the anterior abdominal wall Utilizing the anterior mesh straps
      and pocket, place interrupted U-stitches in a minimum of two quadrants for the small patch
      (4.3 cm) and in four quadrants for the medium (6.4 cm) and large (8.0 cm) patches.

      Care should be taken to ensure the sutures secure the fascia to the anterior polypropylene
      pocket only. For the appropriate amount of sutures follow your surgical judgement and adjust
      to specific patient needs.

      Use nonabsorbable sutures to secure the patch by suturing the positioning straps to the
      margins of the defect. Cut off the excess positioning straps and discard. The patch recoil
      technology and abdominal pressure will ensure that the patch lies flat Reapproximate the
      fascia and then close the subcutaneous tissues. Lastly, reapproximate the wound
    
  