
    
      Since April 2010 a quarterly follow-up is available for patients with ALS at Geneva
      University Hospitals. It takes place in the outpatient unit of the Department of Neurology,
      and includes interventions by the multidisciplinary team of the " Center for Amyotrophic
      Lateral Sclerosis and related diseases ". This new tracking method can help improving quality
      of life of patients and their families by adapting medical care, proposing communication
      aids, facilitating access to specialized examinations and anticipating pulmonary, nutritional
      and neurologic complications. Moreover, it speeds up administrative procedures, improves the
      flow of information between medical teams inside and outside the hospital and it allows and
      encourages discussion about advanced directives.

      Since June 2012, the multidisciplinary follow-up is monitored through a Cohort study that was
      approved by the ethical committee (NAC 11-062R). We collect clinical examination findings,
      anthropometric evaluation, blood analyses, pulmonary function tests, respiratory muscle
      strength, arterial blood gases, nocturnal oximetry, and evaluation by occupational therapists
      and by physiotherapists on a quarterly basis. Nerve conduction studies are done at the
      beginning of the follow-up to identify the degree and extent of loss of upper and lower
      motoneurons in ALS and to help guiding the diagnosis. MRI and analysis of cerebrospinal fluid
      are also acquired at the beginning of the follow-up in order to rule out other diagnoses
      which can mimic ALS. Definite, probable or possible ALS is defined according to the Revised
      El Escorial and Awaji criteria [16-17]. Patients are referred to a genetic counselor who
      helps making informed decisions regarding genetic issues. The data collected are inserted
      into the Secu-Trial database, which is managed by an assistant provided by the Clinical
      Research Center.
    
  