
    
      Study Design:

      This study will be a cross-sectional investigation of liver transplant recipients who
      received a liver transplant and have at least 6 months of follow-up. This study will be
      conducted at Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Northwestern Medical Faculty Foundation and
      Northwestern University.

      Patients who underwent liver transplantation and have at least 6 months of follow-up
      receiving a maintenance immunosuppression (which consists of calcineurin inhibitors (CI),
      cyclosporine (CsA), or tacrolimus (Tac)) during the entire post-transplant follow-up period
      will be included in the analysis.

      For each patient, the following information will be collected:

        -  Date of transplantation, age, gender, race, causes of liver failure, past medical
           history including incidence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, post-operative
           complications, post-operative infections, number of acute liver rejection episodes,
           death, CsA and Tac trough levels at different time points post-transplant and sCr levels
           before liver transplant, at 1, 6, 12, 24 months, and yearly post-transplant.

        -  GFR (Glomerular Filtration Rate) with MDRD equation before liver transplant, at 1, 6,
           12, 24 months, and yearly post-transplant.

        -  In the attempt to rule out all patients with pre-existing CRF before liver transplant,
           only the patients with sCr<1.0mg/dL before liver transplant will be included in our
           analysis.

      Genotyping:

        -  DNA will be extracted using blood buffy coat from liver transplant recipients.

        -  Determination of ACE genotypes will be performed by using polymerase chain reaction
           sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP) and polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment
           length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP).

        -  Based on GRF calculation by MDRD equation liver transplant patients will be categorized
           into three groups based on NKF staging of chronic kidney disease:

      Group I->normal GFR (>90ml/min/1.73m2). Stage I CKD Group II->GFR between 30-59ml/min/1.73m2.
      Stage III CKD Group III->GFR between 15-29ml/min/1.72m2. Stage IV CKD

        -  Urine (80cc) will be collected from all patients in the 3 groups and analyzed for
           biomarkers of interstitial fibrosis and proximal tubule injury. Specific biomarkers that
           will be tested are: urinary TGF-beta1, kidney injury molecule-1 and angiotensinogen.
           Urinary biomarkers will be normalized to creatinine and analyzed using an ELISA assay.

        -  Blood (20cc)will be taken at one visit.

        -  An additional blood draw (18cc) will be requested from all subjects. This blood will be
           used to study organ transplant tolerance in subjects who are currently using
           immunosuppressant medications.

      Statistical Plan-Statistical tests to be performed:

      Once liver transplant patients are genotyped and urine samples are collected we will compared
      the development of CKD post liver transplant for associations with urinary biomarkers and
      polymorphisms of the ACE gene. Two sample t tests will be used to compare differences in
      continuous variables between liver patients with different degree of CKD; chi square tests
      will be used to compare differences in discrete variables. Multivariable logistic regression
      analysis will be also performed to identify the combination of clinical variable and gene
      polymorphisms that are significantly associated with the development of post liver transplant
      renal dysfunction.

      This study will enable us to learn and evaluate potential genetic predisposition for the
      development of renal dysfunction after exposure to CI. If our hypothesis is correct, testing
      of the component of the RAS genotypes may help identify patients at risk for CI
      nephrotoxicity and help in the pre-selection of liver transplant candidates in whom the use
      of CI as primary immunosuppression should be avoided.

      Furthermore, the data generated from this study might serve as a strong basis for a
      prospective NIH-founded project to look at the role of agents that block the
      renin-angiotensin system for the prevention of CI-induced chronic nephrotoxicity.
    
  