
    
      Background Neuromuscular paralysis is a frequent requirement to facilitate airway management
      and surgery. Patients receiving neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) are at risk of residual
      neuromuscular blockade (RNMB) that can lead to postoperative cardio-pulmonary complications,
      and may increase postoperative morbidity and mortality.1-2 NMBAs can be antagonized with the
      cholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine; however, this agent has several undesirable side
      effects because of its parasympathetic stimulation.3 Thus, muscarinic receptor antagonists,
      such as atropine, are used along with cholinesterase inhibitors; however, these drugs also
      have their own set of adverse effects. Despite its relatively slow onset of action and
      inability to antagonize profound blockade, neostigmine is still used frequently for reversal
      of rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade because of its low cost. Sugammadex is a
      selective relaxant biding agent, developed to encapsulate the steroidal NMBAs, and proved to
      be extremely effective for the reversal of either shallow (dose of 2 mg/kg), deep (dose of 4
      mg/kg), or even profound (dose of 16 mg/kg) neuromuscular blockade. However, routine use of
      sugammadex is limited by its relatively high cost compared with neostigmine.

      The purpose of the study is to investigate drug costs and adverse effects of low-dose
      neostigmine (0.025 mg/kg) plus low-dose sugammadex (1 mg/kg) for reversal of
      rocuronium-induced neuromuscular block, and compare efficacy of antagonism and costs of this
      combination therapy with the current standard therapies: full-dose sugammadex (2 mg/kg) and
      full-dose neostigmine (0.05 mg/kg) plus atropine.

      Randomization and blinding On randomization, each patient will be allocated by a unique
      identifying number into study groups "A", "B", or "C". The allocation of a patient to the
      specific group will be only known by the research assistant. The participating anaesthetists
      as well as the research staff who collect patient data will remain blinded until after the
      completion of the study.

      For reversal of rocuronium neuromuscular- block we used:

        -  Group A - Sugammadex (Bridion®) 2 mg/kg,

        -  Group B - Neostigmine (Miostin®; Stigmosan®) 0.05 mg/kg and atropine 1 mg/ dose.

        -  Group C - Neostigmine (Miostin®; Stigmosan®) 0.025 mg/kg and atropine 0.5 mg/dose
           followed within 3 min by Sugammadex 1 mg/kg.

      Monitoring the neuromuscular blockade After induction of anesthesia and before administration
      of rocuronium, monitoring of neuromuscular blockade at the adductor pollicis muscle is
      initiated using acceleromyography (TOF-Watch SX, Organon, Dublin, Ireland). After degreasing
      the skin, two surface electrodes are placed above the ulnar nerve near the wrist. After
      induction of general anesthesia, 50-Hz tetanic stimulation is applied for 5 sec and followed
      after 1 min by train-of-four (TOF) stimulation every 15 sec. If the response to TOF is
      stable, calibration and supramaximal stimulation are ensured by built-in calibration function
      (CAL2). After at least 2 min of a stable baseline documentation of the response to TOF,
      rocuronium is administered.

      At the end of surgery, inhalational agent (sevoflurane) will be discontinued. Once the
      end-tidal concentration of sevoflurane reaches 0.4-0.6%, the previously randomized reversal
      study drug will be administrated at shallow neuromuscular block (TOF count of 2). The primary
      efficacy variable is the incidence of residual neuromuscular block (defined as TOFR <0.90)
      measured at least 15 min. after the administration of the reversal agent. In case of residual
      block, a rescue dose of 2 mg/kg sugammadex will be administrated before tracheal extubation.
      Extubation is performed once patient is deemed fully recovered (TOFR = 1.0)
    
  