
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the scale structure and reliability of the ovarian cancer specific
      questionnaire module (EORTC QLQ-OV28) designed to be used in conjunction with the standard
      nonspecific questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) in patients with ovarian epithelial cancer. II.
      Evaluate the psychometric properties of the revised scales (physical and role functioning;
      global health status/QL) of the EORTC QLQ-C30 among ovarian cancer patients. III. Evaluate
      the evidence for the validity of EORTC QLQ-OV28.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior therapy and
      disease. Questionnaires are designed to be completed by patients themselves without help.
      Patients complete the EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-OV28, and a debriefing questionnaire regarding time
      to completion and patient's reaction to the quality of life questionnaires according to one
      of the following schedules: Group 1: Patients complete the questionnaires once prior to the
      start of the first course of chemotherapy, and again on the first day of the third course of
      chemotherapy. Group 2: Patients complete the questionnaires once 1 to 8 weeks following
      completion of the 6th course of chemotherapy and prior to any further anticancer therapy.
      Group 3: Patients complete the questionnaires once at a routine follow-up clinic visit and
      again at home within 3 days of the clinic visit. Group 4: Patients complete the
      questionnaires once prior to the first course of chemotherapy and again on the first day of
      the 3rd course of chemotherapy prior to administration OR at the first clinical review
      following 2 courses of chemotherapy OR 2 months later for patients receiving continuous or
      weekly chemotherapy. If they are unable to complete written questionnaires due to physical
      limitations or illiteracy, or if they express a strong preference for oral administration,
      patients in Groups 1, 2, and 4 may complete the questionnaires orally instead.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 280 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  