
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the efficacy of adding erlotinib hydrochloride (erlotinib) to chemotherapy to
      improve progression free survival in patients with metastatic or recurrent squamous cell
      carcinoma of the head and neck.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate overall survival, response rate, disease control rate, and duration of response
      by treatment with or without erlotinib.

      II. Evaluate quality of life (patient reported outcomes) by treatment with or without
      erlotinib.

      III. Evaluate the safety profile of erlotinib in combination with chemotherapy. IV. Correlate
      the occurrence of erlotinib-induced rash with outcomes. V. To evaluate the steady-state
      pharmacokinetics of erlotinib. VI. To explore the prognostic and predictive value of
      epidermal growth factor receptor related biomarkers and other biomarkers, including blood and
      tissue proteomic and blood and tissue genomic markers, that may be associated with clinical
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 2
      hours or carboplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1, and erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) daily
      on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression and unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response, partial
      response, or stable disease may continue erlotinib hydrochloride treatment.

      ARM B: Patients receive docetaxel and cisplatin or carboplatin as in Arm I and placebo PO
      daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression and unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response, partial
      response, or stable disease may continue placebo treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  