
    
      Intrapartum Caesarean Delivery (ICD) in advanced labour has a greater fetal and maternal
      morbidity and mortality than an elective prelabour Caesarean delivery. The prediction of
      delivery mode may reduce the likelihood of intrapartum Caesarean delivery. There is also a
      parental desire to know the likelihood of vaginal delivery. Women admitted to delivery units
      throughout the world undergo internal digital vaginal examination (DVE) when they are thought
      to be in labour or where a diagnosis of labour needs to be discounted. DVE is an
      uncomfortable experience, multiple examinations have been linked to ascending maternal and
      fetal infection, and it is subjective method and not reliable technique to assess labour
      progress.

      It has recently become possible to make assessments more objectively using ultrasound.
      Ultrasound in labour (intrapartum ultrasound) has come to the forefront in the last decade
      stemming from a persistent demand for a more reliable method of labour assessment coupled
      with a wider availability of ultrasound on the delivery suite.

      The hypothesise in this study, that developing the previously derived proof of principle
      labour prediction model for nulliparous women and using an additional data could improve the
      prediction accuracy of intrapartum Caesarean delivery by developing a robust model.

      Using the additional data gathered in term nulliparous patients, will develop the model to
      predict pregnancy outcomes. This may aid in delivery of care to pregnant women by providing a
      real-time online calculation tool for the likelihood of Caesarean delivery and length of
      labour based on repeat ultrasound measurements.

      All participants will be identified by the researcher and an emphasis will be placed on
      recruiting patients antenatally as much as possible. All participating patients will be
      consented prior to enrolment and will receive a full explanatory information leaflet. If
      recruited antenatally, there is no time limit until the woman enters the delivery unit. If
      recruited in labour, then 2 hours will be considered appropriate to make a decision on
      whether they wish to take part and patient will only be approached when relatively pain-free
      (in between contractions).

      The admission ultrasound scan will include if feasible fetal Doppler assessment of the
      Umbilical Artery (Umb A) and Middle Cerebral Artery (MCA). Amniotic Fluid Index (AFI) will
      also be measured. The fetal position will be assessed with a transabdominal scan and
      recorded.

      Firstly, Umb A and MCA Doppler in addition to the fetal position and AFI, will be assessed
      with a transabdominal scan. After that, the transducer will be placed transperineally at the
      level of the posterior fourchette in a transverse position to measure HPD while caput
      succedaneum will be measured in a sagittal transperineal scan. The moulding will be assessed
      as either present or not.

      During the ultrasound examination, women will be in the supine position with flexed hips and
      knees and the bladder empty as previously described. Healthcare professionals will be blinded
      to the ultrasound findings, and these findings will also not be disclosed to the parents.
      Another doctor or midwife will perform all the ultrasound examinations. Subsequent scans will
      be performed as required at the time of routine clinical examinations typically between 2-4
      hours apart but it may be longer.

      The healthcare professional will perform DVE for assessment of cervical dilatation in line
      with the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines.
    
  