
    
      Project Background: The co-occurrence of diabetes and depressive symptoms is highly prevalent
      and has dramatic consequences on the quality of life and health of affected patients. Due to
      the complex interrelation between these conditions, patients often experience both
      psychological and physiological difficulties. Furthermore, Veterans with diabetes and
      depressive symptoms in rural settings have limited access to care. Interventions that reach
      Veterans in rural / community-based primary care are needed, especially those that blend
      treatment strategies for physical and emotional health.

      Project Objectives: Specific (Primary) Aim (1): Compare the effectiveness of the Healthy
      Outcomes through Patient Empowerment (HOPE) intervention to enhanced usual care (EUC) at 6
      and 12 month follow-up.

      Hypothesis 1a: After 6 months (active treatment phase), HOPE will produce greater
      improvements in diabetes control (measured by hemoglobin A1c levels) and depression (measured
      by PHQ-9 scores) than will EUC.

      Hypothesis 1b: At 12 months (6-month active phase plus 6-month maintenance phase), HOPE
      participants will continue to evidence significant greater improvements in HbA1c and PHQ-9
      compared with EUC participants.

      Exploratory Specific Aim (2): To examine the role of moderators and mediators on intervention
      effectiveness Exploratory Aim 2a. To evaluate factors that mediate or moderate effectiveness
      at 6 and 12 months for all enrolled patients (regardless of intervention group assignment).
      Potential mediating and moderating variables include patient-level (clinical factors-diabetes
      distress and self-efficacy and sociodemographics) and facility-level factors (availability of
      medical and mental health services by clinical site).

      Exploratory Aim 2b. To evaluate factors that mediate or moderate effectiveness at 6 and 12
      months for patients enrolled in the HOPE intervention arm. Intervention factors include
      adherence (e.g. session attendance), fidelity (ratings of coach effectiveness), and treatment
      implementation (e.g., goal setting quality and self-management behaviors) as well as any
      significant predictors obtained from Aim 1a.

      Exploratory Specific Aim (3): Evaluate the potential for embedding the HOPE intervention
      processes within a VA CBOC using the REAIM framework for evaluating effectiveness of
      behavioral interventions.

      Exploratory Aim 3a - Reach. Compare clinical and demographic characteristics of enrolled
      study participants with the characteristics of all potentially eligible patients at each
      CBOC.

      Exploratory Aim 3b - Adoption. Qualitatively elicit clinicians' perceptions of behavioral
      coaches, patients' use of action plans, and responses to coaches' recommendations in
      preparation for future implementation

      Project Methods: The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial enrolling 242 largely
      rural Veterans with uncontrolled diabetes and clinically-significant depressive symptoms.
      Both groups will receive screening, education, and notification of clinical findings along
      with follow-up in usual primary care. HOPE participants will also receive 6 behavioral
      coaching telephone sessions and 3 booster sessions over a six month period. Coaches will use
      a standardized, theory-based process for conducting the sessions with the aim of creating
      patient-centered and articulated goals and behavioral action plans. Participants' primary
      care providers will be notified about session discussions and the resultant goals and action
      plans. Both groups will receive only usual primary care during the subsequent 6 months
      maintenance period. Hemoglobin A1c and PHQ-9 measurements along with self-report
      questionnaires will also be collected at baseline, 6 and 12 months follow-up. Changes in
      measurements from baseline will be compared between groups. Analytic evaluations of
      intervention mediators/moderators and implementation will also be conducted at 6 and 12
      months follow-up.
    
  