
    
      Although some NF1 children manage in the end to exhibit "expert" reading behavior, a
      non-negligible number of them have real problems learning this skill. Today's estimates
      indicate that 30-60% of NF1 children suffer from written-language learning disorder. Studies
      of the effects of the neurocognitive deficit on academic performance are relatively rare,
      owing to the small size of the populations concerned. However, research is needed to develop
      effective rehabilitation programs. At the current time, most tools available to professionals
      are designed for the evaluation and remediation of child language problems, particularly
      difficulties related to the acquisition of meta-phonological skills. The findings from
      dyslexics and typically developing readers however suggest a strong relationship between
      reading ability and visual processing. The main goal of this study is to investigate the
      occurrence of perceptual, visuo-attentional and oculomotor deficits in NF1 children and their
      potential to explain reading behavior and reading problems in this population. The
      investigators hope to contribute to the process of clarifying the specificity and
      heterogeneity of reading profiles and the causes of its disturbance in NF1. The second
      objective of the study is to evaluate an oculomotor/perceptual reading aid for NF1 children;
      in particular, the idea of the training is to help the readers to land their saccades at the
      optimal viewing position1 (OVP) of each word (highlighting the letter at the OVP or putting
      it in color, so that the saccades they make would land near the centre of the word, at the
      OVP). Eye movement control during reading is a highly automated process; people are not aware
      of most of the saccades and fixations they make. This tool is a way to train children to
      control these subconscious saccades and fixations. Note that, our team has already
      demonstrated the usefulness of this reading aid for beginning readers. This project have
      important implications from a clinical perspective, by providing the opportunity to gain
      insight into the reading difficulties of NF1 children, in view of establishing thorough and
      accurate assessment procedures and proposing child-specific guidelines and remediation
      methods that take into account the particular processes affected. Providing a clearer picture
      of visuo-attentional and perceptual skills in children with NF1 would be of considerable
      clinical benefit, not least for supporting targeted clinical practices. Moreover, NF1
      children could benefit from a new remediation tool that allow them to have feedback on their
      reading ability, and to read more easily, more rapidly, and with better comprehension. If
      appropriate interventions are implemented at an early age, academic skill development could
      be altered, preventing subtle learning difficulties from becoming more pronounced over time.
    
  