
    
      Study Aim 1. This study is aimed to evaluate the effects of non-invasive transcutaneous
      electrical spinal-cord stimulation (TcESCS) applied below the neurological level of Spinal
      Cord Injury (SCI) on respiratory, upper extremity, and trunk functional and motor control
      properties and identify their underlying physiological mechanisms. Evaluation of the
      mechanisms of respiratory and motor control modulations evoked by the TcESCS will have
      important implications for the development of specific therapeutic strategies to fight
      complications of SCI. The objective of Aim 1 is to investigate whether TcESCS can
      significantly increase activation of motor networks. This work will be done by
      electrophysiological characterization of respiratory and other motor responses as assessed at
      rest and in response to the respiratory and other challenges in SCI individuals. Changes in
      functional measures will be assessed when the TcESCS device is turned "off" and "on". To
      evaluate "dose-dependent" effects, changes in surface electromyographic (sEMG) magnitude and
      muscle co-activation will be assessed when stimulation parameters and location are changed
      during respiratory efforts and motor tasks. The extent to which the stimulation is associated
      with the largest change in respiratory and sEMG parameters will be implemented as a strategy
      to be used during stimulation in combination with Respiratory Training (RT), Arm Training
      (AT), and Trunk Training (TT). To attain the objective of this aim, we will test the working
      hypothesis that TcESCS excites specific motor networks leading to amplified motor responses.
      We will test this hypothesis by applying TcESCS during our original approach of the
      Respiratory Motor Control Assessment (RMCA) and other sEMG-based assessments with kinematics
      to characterize respiratory, arm, and trunk motor function. During these assessments,
      beat-to-beat Blood Pressure/ Heart Rate (BP/HR), and respiratory rate will be recorded to
      evaluate respiratory-cardiovascular responses. The rationale for this aim is that successful
      completion of the proposed research will contribute fundamental elements to our basic
      knowledge, without which the therapeutic value of TcESCS cannot be understood. The
      acquisition of such knowledge is critical to the development of specific rehabilitative
      strategies. When the proposed studies for Aim 1 have been completed, we expect that motor and
      inter-related characteristics affected by TcESCS in patients with SCI will be established.
      Such findings would be important because it will allow us, for the first time, to evaluate
      the ability of non-invasive spinal cord stimulation to enhance the decreased state of spinal
      network activity thus demonstrating the potential for rehabilitation.

      Study Aim 2. The goal is to evaluate the effectiveness and therapeutic mechanisms of the
      TcESCS combined with task-specific (Respiratory Training) and non-task-specific (Arm Training
      and Trunk Training) interventions for breathing. Identification of the physiological effects
      of potential rehabilitative approaches will have important implications for the development
      of specific therapeutic strategies. The objective of Aim 2 is to investigate the therapeutic
      effects of RT regimen in combination with TcESCS. This work will be done by using methods
      outlined in Aim 1 and additional clinical measures all assessed before training, and
      repeatedly during follow-up period. Working hypothesis that compare to RT alone and TcESCS
      alone, RT assisted by TcESCS leads to enhanced use-dependent plasticity of respiratory motor
      networks, leading the functional recovery will be tested by using the approach of detecting
      changes in respiratory and other motor control outcome measures in response to stimulation
      and training. The rationale for this aim is that successful completion of the proposed
      research will advance the field by providing new avenues for the application of
      activity-based therapy accompanied by the spinal cord stimulation. When the proposed studies
      for Aim 2 have been completed, it is expected that the rehabilitative capacity of RT with
      TcESCS will be determined. Such results are important, because, for the first time,
      identified therapeutic mechanisms of TcESCS will provide evidence that this intervention can
      enhance the effects of activity-based therapy in participants with SCI.
    
  