
    
      The goal of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) therapy is to successfully restore both epicardial
      blood flow and myocardial perfusion. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has been
      documented as being the most effective method for restoration of epicardial blood flow.
      However, epicardial blood flow does not necessarily equate to myocardial perfusion; not every
      patient with thrombolysis in myocardial infarction(TIMI) 3 flow after successful percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) achieves effective myocardial tissue-level perfusion. Although
      epicardial thrombolysis in myocardial infarction(TIMI) 3 flow could be restored in >90% of
      acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) ,
      normalization of myocardial perfusion was achieved less frequently, with detrimental impacts
      on survival.

      Clopidogrel, the most widely used antiplatelet agent in acute coronary syndrome (ACS), is a
      thienopyridine prodrug, which is inactive until in undergoes biotransformation into its
      active metabolite, which then binds irreversibly to platelet P 2 Y 12 receptors. This
      irreversible binding means that the receptors are inhibited for the lifespan of the platelet.
      The main limitations of clopidogrel administration include slow onset, prevention of recovery
      of platelet functions, and interindividual variability.

      Clinical pharmacology and early dose-finding studies suggested a faster onset and greater and
      more consistent inhibition of platelet aggregation (IPA) with ticagrelor compared with
      clopidogrel. ONSET/OFFSET study showed that in patients with stable coronary artery disease
      on aspirin, ticagrelor demonstrates a rapid onset of pharmacological effect, as demonstrated
      by a mean platelet aggregation (IPA) for ticagrelor at 0.5 h after 180 mg loading dose of
      about 41%, with the maximum platelet aggregation (IPA) effect of 87.9-89.6% by 2-4 hours post
      dose. A total of 90% of patients had final extent Inhibition of platelet aggregation (IPA)
      >70% by 2 h post-dose. The high inhibition of platelet aggregation (IPA) effect of ticagrelor
      (between 87% and 89%) was maintained for 2-8 hours. Ticagrelor might overcome the slow-onset
      limitation of clopidogrel and bring extra benefit for improving myocardial perfusion in the
      acute phase of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) when undergoing early percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI).

      Currently, there are two main methods of angiographic assessment of myocardial perfusion:
      Thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) myocardial perfusion grading (TMPG), described
      by Gibson et al. and myocardial blush grading (MBG), described by Van't Hof et al. These
      established myocardial perfusion parameters, myocardial perfusion grading (TMPG), and
      myocardial blush grading (MBG), have been widely used in various important trials and are
      reported to be highly useful in predicting clinical outcomes. However, visual assessment of
      these methods is categorical, subjective, and operator dependent. Thrombolysis in myocardial
      infarction(TIMI) Myocardial Perfusion Frame Count (TMPFC), a novel and objective method that
      measures the filling and clearance of contrast in the myocardium using cine-angiographic
      frame-counting, was developed by the investigators' center to quantify myocardial tissue-
      level perfusion and was proved to be a predictive value on clinical prognosis.

      Thus, the investigators aim to initiate an open-label study evaluating the acute efficacy of
      treatment with ticagrelor versus clopidogrel on myocardial tissue-level perfusion assessed by
      Myocardial Perfusion Frame Count (TMPFC) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients
      with high-risk non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) undergoing early
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
    
  