
    
      CUTHIVAC 001 is a randomised Phase I study aimed at exploring the safety and immunogenicity
      of different modes of delivery of a GTU® DNA plasmid vaccine (GTU®-multiHIV B clade) in
      healthy volunteers. Within the study Transcutaneous (TC) delivery and intramuscular (IM)
      delivery with electroporation will be compared to more conventional intradermal (ID) and
      intramuscular (IM) routes. The investigational HIV-1 vaccine GTU®-MultiHIV B clade encodes
      for a MultiHIV antigen which is a synthetic fusion protein consisting of full-length
      polypeptides of Rev, Nef, Tat, p17 and p24 and containing more than 20 Th and CTL epitopes of
      protease, reverse transcriptase (RT) and gp160 regions of the HAN2 HIV-1 B clade. 30 healthy
      male and female volunteers 18 to 45 years old who are at low risk of HIV infection are to be
      recruited.

      Group 1 will serve as the reference for the proportion with T-cell responses. Preclinical
      data using lower doses suggest that there may also be antibody (Ab) responses.
      Electroporation (EP) has been shown to significantly increase the immunogenicity of DNA.
      Vaccine is provided in sealed vials at 2.0mg/ml and there are practical limitations on the
      volumes that can be administered via each route. To deliver 4mg at each timepoint,
      participants will all individuals will be given two IM injections of 2.0mg GTU®-MultiHIV DNA
      IM (one into each leg) at each visit. The dose will be given in 1.0ml of sterile PBS injected
      into the upper thigh muscle. The maximum volume that can be given ID is 0.1ml per injection,
      and therefore the maximum dose that can be administered ID is 0.2ml.

      Individuals in Group 2 will receive 0.2ml by TC, a novel needle-free method of vaccine
      delivery which has previously been shown to favour CD8+ T-cell and IgA Ab responses without
      compromising overall immunogenicity.

      The objective of this study is to assess the safety and immunogenicity in response to three
      immunisations with a DNA- GTU® MultiHIV B clade vaccine administered via the ID, TC and IM
      routes, with and without electroporation in a variety of combination regimens.
    
  