
    
      Intervention and comparators:

      Patients will receive transcutaneous stimulation of the auricular branch of the left vagus
      nerve for 5 minutes in the OR already under anesthesia. Subjects will be blinded to their
      treatment arm.

      The device to be used will include a handheld electrical pulse generator and a pair of
      electrodes to be placed at the ear for stimulation. The specific target at the ear will be
      the auricular branch of the vagus nerve which innervates the skin overlying the cymba conchae
      of the ear canal.

      Anatomical landmarks and cutaneous innervation of the external ear. Three nerves contribute
      to the cutaneous innervation of the lateral aspect of the ear: the auricular branch of the
      vagus nerve (ABVN), the auriculotemporal nerve (ATN) and the great auricular nerve (GAN).
      There is a variable degree of overlap in the distribution of these cutaneous nerves.

      Electrodes will be placed near/at the entrance to the canal of the ear to provide stimulation
      to the auricular branch. The handheld electrical pulse generator (e.g. Roscoe Medical, TENS
      7000) will be programmed to deliver stimulation pulses to the electrodes. The electrodes will
      be made of conductive material facilitating trans-cutaneous electrical stimulation. All
      subjects will be told that they may or may not sense the stimulation.

      Attempts to diminish pain associated with blood drawing will be made by performing whenever
      possible the phlebotomy coincident with other blood drawing requirements or while the patient
      is under anesthesia.

      The investigators will administer transcutaneous electrical stimulation to the left ears for
      5 minutes. Subjects receiving auricular stimulation will receive stimulation using the
      following parameters: 0.300 milliseconds (msec) stimulus peaks at a frequency of 30 Hz for
      five (5) minutes, with peak current pulse amplitude set to 1.5 milliamps (mA). Research
      subjects will receive hemodynamic monitoring and heart rate variability monitoring while
      undergoing vagal stimulation as a routine part of the underlying care for organ procurement
      or anesthesia management.

      Transcutaneous electrical stimulation Electrical auricular stimulation is accomplished using
      a Roscoe Medical TENS 7000 that delivers a programmable electrical current density,
      frequency, and pulse width. The TENS 7000 will be connected to ear clip (or hand held)
      electrodes to transcutaneously stimulate the cymba conchae of the ear to activate the
      auricular branch of the vagus nerve (diagram above), also known as Arnold's nerve, which
      provides sensory innervation to the skin surrounding the ear canal. Through a neural reflex
      arc, activation of this sensory nerve sends a neural signal to the brainstem that then
      activates the efferent vagus nerve through the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). This is a
      well-described and clinically accepted neuromodulatory pathway, as transcutaneous electrical
      auricular stimulation has been studied to treat seizures, similarly to how invasive
      electrical vagus nerve stimulation has been approved by the FDA for the past two decades for
      the same indication. Currently, transcutaneous electrical auricular stimulation is approved
      in Europe for the treatment of seizures.

      The scientific basis for these specific choices comes from more than 10 years of experience
      performing experimental vagus nerve stimulation in animals to control bleeding at The
      Feinstein Institute for Medical Research. The frequency of stimulus peaks will be 30 Hz. The
      pulse width of the individual stimulus peaks will be 0.300 milliseconds (msec). The total
      duration of stimulation will be five (5) minutes. For the remaining stimulation parameter,
      which is the peak current pulse amplitude, the investigators will use 1.5 milliamps (mA).
      These stimulation parameters are very similar to parameters previously demonstrated to be
      safe in two separate tinnitus studies (6, 7). A portable, battery-powered oscilloscope will
      be used to confirm peak current.

      Safety procedures Recent assessments of cardiac safety following transcutaneous electrical
      stimulation of the auricular branch of the vagus nerve have revealed no indication of
      arrhythmic effects of tVNS (6, 7).

      In the exceedingly rare instance that a research subject develops a symptomatic
      bradyarrhythmia, qualified personnel anesthesiologists/surgeons/residents/CRNA) will be
      immediately available to administer any therapies (intravenous fluid, anti-arrhythmic
      medications, cardioversion) to treat the bradyarrhythmia and its associated symptoms.
    
  