
    
      The World Health Organization's Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity (PA) and Health
      Promotion highlights that PA and dietary habits are central to disease prevention and
      lifelong health. Canadian children have increased health risks as their activity levels are
      drastically lower than recommendations and ~26% are classified as overweight or obese. The
      situation is even more critical for children with disabilities; 4.2% of Canadian children
      have disabilities and this number is rising. Due to complex and intersecting factors,
      children with physical disabilities (CWPD) are more sedentary, have lower PA rates and poorer
      quality diets than their non-disabled peers. Annual health care costs of obesity related to
      disability are estimated at $44 billion in the US, supporting the need to start health
      promotion activities early in life. Despite the serious proximal and distal consequences of
      this health profile, the investigators lack robust evidence on effective strategies to foster
      and sustain health habits for CWPD.

      A new intervention paradigm that produces sustainable results without undue burden (on
      families or services) is therefore urgently required to address the health promotion needs of
      CWPD. The investigators propose that a strengths-based coaching approach may meet all of
      these requirements. Solution-Focused Coaching in Pediatric Rehabilitation (SFC-Peds) has been
      recommended as a coaching model for children with disabilities, for its strong theoretical
      basis and ability to be customized to children and families' resources, environmental
      settings, child age and developmental stage. Taking a strengths-based approach (such as
      SFC-Peds) is a departure from usual rehabilitation research and practice, which has largely
      been problem-focused (i.e. what a child can't do). A strengths-based approach can result in
      hope, motivation and action.

      Given that the investigators will be the first to use SFC-Peds to promote healthy habits with
      CWPD, a feasibility and acceptability study is essential. Evidence of feasibility is a
      critical prerequisite for a RCT, especially for complex interventions that have multiple
      interacting components and/or target multiple behaviours (such as SFC-Peds). Feasibility
      studies rigorously examine the processes (e.g. recruitment and retention), resources (e.g.
      personnel, time required to complete measures), management (e.g. coordination of research
      personnel, quality of data entry) and science (e.g. appropriate methodology and outcomes) of
      the intended RCT. It is also critical to evaluate the acceptability of interventions for the
      target population (e.g. satisfaction with duration, intensity, level of interest, perceived
      impact), as well as those allocated to the control arm (e.g. acceptability of not receiving
      coaching, perceived burden of assessments). Examining all of these issues before the efficacy
      trial begins increases the likelihood of success. Feasibility studies such as the one the
      investigators are proposing help ensure that resources are invested in efficacy trials likely
      to generate clinically meaningful results and therefore have maximum impact on health care
      knowledge and outcomes.

      Primary objective: To evaluate the feasibility (study design, methods, processes) and
      acceptability (family/child/clinician satisfaction, perceived usefulness) of conducting a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) of a novel, brief, coaching intervention, solution-focused
      coaching in pediatric rehabilitation (SFC-Peds) for improving and sustaining physical
      activity (PA) and dietary habits in children with physical disabilities (CWPD).

      Secondary objective: To determine the responsiveness of selected outcome measures to SFC-Peds
      coaching over 12 months.

      Principal research question: "Is an efficacy trial to evaluate a 6 month SFC-Peds
      intervention to improve PA and dietary habits feasible to implement and acceptable to CWPD
      and families?"

      Physical, environmental and psychosocial restrictions mean that children with physical
      disabilities (CWPD) are adopting worrying physical activity (PA) and dietary habits. Despite
      this, the investigators currently have limited evidence to inform interventions that may
      enhance lifelong health in CWPD. The investigators suggest that a paradigm shift is needed,
      one that moves beyond traditional prescriptive programs to a strengths-based approach where
      intervention strategies enable new health habits to be integrated seamlessly into children
      and families' everyday lifestyles for long-term sustainability.

      Research such as our proposed study will ensure that this potentially transformative approach
      is rigorously examined and used in an evidence-based manner. As little is known about
      effective and acceptable behaviour change interventions for CWPD, this study's findings will
      make significant contributions to the field: i) Greater understanding of ecologically valid
      interventions that have the potential to enhance the long term health of CWPD; ii) Insight
      into how 2 different rehabilitation populations respond to SFC-Peds; and iii) Data on the
      responsiveness of outcome measures to a SFC-Peds intervention. These insights will enable us
      to design acceptable, feasible and rigorous interventions that will result in robust data for
      informing both research and clinical practice.
    
  