
    
      In spite of the great effort, LBP remains a significant burden on the society and can cause a
      disturbing impact on the functional ability during the productive years of the individuals.
      It is important to find pragmatic treatments that not only reduce the pain, but also decrease
      the disability. Activity monitoring in real life has the potential to change our concept of
      outcomes, and as a result, expand our ideas about the appropriateness of the interventions in
      rehabilitation.

      The international guidelines vary but agree on advising patients with LBP to remain
      physically active. The National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE)'s updated guideline
      on the LBP recommends encouraging people to continue with their normal activities as far as
      possible. NICE found that there were no randomized controlled trials (RCTs) (which are the
      best way of investigating the efficacy of a treatment) that compared the effect of the advice
      of staying active with no advice or the advice to rest.

      Despite the guidelines, it was reported that many health care providers are still too
      restrictive and believe that LBP requires some avoidance of activities and to remain off-
      work. Many general practitioners do not give advice on daily activities to patients with back
      pain and there is confusion about what constitutes an effective advice. Only 12% of the
      physiotherapists identify correctly the guidelines, and most of them do not agree with these
      guidelines regarding the return to work or activity. Investigating the benefit of the advice
      of staying active and different active intervention programs in patients with low risk NSLBP
      may help in developing recommendations for the physiotherapists responsible for reviewing
      exercise protocols for patients with LBP.

      Therefore, the improvement of the primary care management of patients with LBP has the
      potential to reduce the long-term effects of back pain, including persistent disabling
      symptoms, low quality of life, and reduced capacity to work. The advice of staying active may
      not only be a treatment to improve the recovery from LBP, but also an opportunity to promote
      physical activity for other health benefits, such as improved cardio-metabolic function,
      blood pressure, and reduced body fatness.
    
  