
    
      Patients with severe left ventricular heart failure and estimated short expected survival
      time despite optimal medical therapy can be treated with a left ventricular mechanical heart
      pump - described as a Left Ventricular Assist Device (LVAD). The LVAD can be used as a bridge
      for patient survival prior to heart transplantation, or as a destination therapy for terminal
      heart failure. The LVAD delivers a non-pulsatile blood flow into the patients aorta,
      supporting and/or taking over the left ventricular function. However the right heart
      ventricle (RV) is not supported by the LVAD. RV failure is a major threat to the patient, in
      particular during the early postoperative period. Postoperative RV failure after LVAD
      implantation is medically treated, but in severe cases a mechanical temporary right
      ventricular assist (RVAD) may be needed. Patients in need of postoperative RVAD after an LVAD
      implant have a significantly increased mortality. Thus it is of vital importance to balance
      the LVAD pump flow against the native RV function in order to avoid the need for an RVAD. If
      the LVAD flow rate is set too low the RV will be exposed to a high afterload and risk
      failure. If, on the other hand, the LVAD flow is set too high it can potentially completely
      empty the left ventricle with secondary geometrical distortion of the heart chambers and an
      increased venous return to the RV. This too increases the risk for RV failure. To find the
      optimal LVAD flow rate it is custom to do an extensive evaluation of central hemodynamic
      parameters (Cardiac Output(CO), Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Pressure (PCWP), Pulmonary Arterial
      Pressure (PAP), Central Venous Pressure (CVP)) and cardiac echocardiographic evaluation of RV
      function at different LVAD pump flow rates and MAP. The instant balance between RV filling
      pressure-CVP, and LV filling pressure-PCWP, is on the other hand easy to obtain. However it
      is not known if these measurements can be used to obtain an optimal LVAD flow rate.
      Furthermore all mechanically driven circulatory support devices, including LVAD, will expose
      the peripheral arterial circulation to a non-pulsatile blood flow.There are few previous
      reports on how an LVAD affects the cerebral blood flow autoregulation and microembolic load
      at different settings and MAP. This investigation aims to describe these cerebral effect af
      an LVAD using a continous Transcranial Doppler (TCD) detection of cerebral arteries.
    
  