
    
      The Magill forceps (MF) is the instrument of choice for nasal tracheal intubation (NTI). It
      serves as an aid for inserting the endotracheal tube tip past the vocal cords during NTI. NTI
      is preferred over oral tracheal intubation (ETT) in certain instances such as pediatric
      dental surgery. This is because NTI permits excellent access to all intraoral structures
      while reducing risk of inadvertent displacement of an orotracheal tube. Although there is
      literature looking at MF design alterations to reduce complications and improve its other
      uses, there is no literature examining the effect of design alterations on time to successful
      intubate (TTI). Our study premise is based on the concept that a MF is not ideally structured
      for the pediatric airway anatomy. Knowing that the larynx is considerably anterior in the
      pediatric airway, we hypothesized that a + 45° angle change 2cm from the tip of the MF will
      help align the direction the instrument carrying the endotracheal tube with the anatomic
      direction of the airway and thus help reduce the TTI.. If a reduction in TTI can be shown it
      would be of significant benefit and could add another tool for NTI. Even though, the current
      MF has been satisfactory in its use, this should not deter us from looking for opportunities
      to improve on the current standard. To test this hypothesis, we will include a hundred
      participants as part of an open label, controlled, single center, and randomized study in
      which 50 patients will be intubated with the conventional MF and 50 patients will be
      intubated with the altered MF. We expect the results to show at least a 5 second reduction in
      TTI and thus be statistically significant with a p value less than 0.05 for our sample size.
      Our expected conclusion is that a reduced TTI is clinically beneficially as it will reduce
      apnea time in the pediatric patients, a population with known physiological limitations in
      respiratory reserve. This, in turn, could point to a reduction in intra-operative and
      post-operative respiratory complications.
    
  