
    
      Children Interstitial lung disease (chILD) is a heterogeneous group of rare respiratory
      disorders of known and unknown etiologies that are mostly chronic and associated with high
      morbidity and mortality. ILD are characterized by inflammatory and fibrotic changes of the
      lung parenchyma structure that typically result in the presence of diffuse infiltrates on
      lung imaging, and abnormal pulmonary function tests with evidence of a restrictive
      ventilatory defect and/or impaired gas exchange.

      Genetic factors are important contributors to chILD. Genetic variations have been mainly
      described in genes encoding (or interacting with) the surfactant proteins (SP): SP-C (SFTPC)
      and the ATP-binding cassette-family A-member 3 (ABCA3) (ABCA3), and less frequently in the
      genes encoding NKX homeobox 2 (NKX2)-1 (NKX2-1), SP-B (SFTPB), SP-A (SFTPA) ,MARS and other
      genes.

      To investigate genetic defects and clinical features of chILD in China, wide recruitment and
      interdisciplinary critical peer review of all diagnoses from discharge diagnosis coding
      system of Children's Hospital of Fudan University will be included. Each case will be given a
      diagnosis independently; if no firm diagnosis is possible, the investigators will review the
      case periodically as new information becomes available. During the first year of the study,
      clinicians´ decisions according to clinical practice and outcomes will be independently
      monitored and assessed.

      The investigators will systematically optimize and clarify the relative weight of a large
      spectrum of single and composite clinical outcomes, sequential limited chest CT (to minimise
      radiation exposure), lung function testing, histopathological categorization of lung
      biopsies, serum markers and genetic tests. Variability, reproducibility and the effects of
      training on reading images will be investigated.

      This project will analyse in detail treatment and outcomes within and between subjects using
      data collected. Analysis of the collected data will support the definition of trial protocols
      planned in the future.
    
  