
    
      Uterine serous carcinoma (USC) accounts for up to 40% of endometrial cancer-related deaths.
      In contrast to the more common endometrioid histology, USC is more likely to present in
      advanced stage and carries a worse prognosis. USC mimics the most common serous carcinoma of
      the ovary and has high probability for nodal and intra-peritoneal spread. Furthermore,
      studies have indicated that USC harbors a high frequency of somatic TP53 mutations, germline
      BRCA1 mutations, and mutations within the Fanconi Anemia - BRCA pathway. Data is supportive
      of the USC association with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, essentially harboring
      mutations in DNA repair genes. Approximately 5% of women with USC have germline mutations in
      3 different tumor suppressor genes including BRCA1, CHEK2, and TP53.(1,2) The Cancer Genome
      Atlas Research network reported 4 groups of endometrial tumors based on integrated genomic
      data - including a novel POLE subtype in 10% endometrial tumors. Patients with uterine serous
      cancers shared many similar characteristics with basal-like breast and high grade serous
      ovarian cancers, suggesting a correlation with "BRCAness".(3)

      Given the "BRCAness" of USC, recent multicenter prospective cohort study of 1083 women with
      BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations who underwent risk reducing salpingo-oophorectomies (RRSO) without
      hysterectomy were noted to have increased serous/serous-like endometrial carcinoma if they
      harbored BRCA1 mutations.(4) The study recommended to consider this risk of uterine cancer
      when discussing the advantages and risks of hysterectomy at the time of RRSO in BRCA1 women.
      This further supports the high rates of mutations noted among USC patients. A recent
      systematic review and meta-analysis support the view that USC is a component of BRCA 1/2
      -associated tumors. Furthermore, this analysis supports that women with USC should be offered
      screening for germline mutations when there is a positive family history of malignancies
      associated with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome(HBOCS).(5) Furthermore, the
      Cancer Genome Atlas Research network reported 4 groups of endometrial tumors based on
      integrated genomic data - including a novel POLE subtype in 10% endometrial tumors. Patients
      with uterine serous cancers shared many similar characteristics with basal-like breast and
      high grade serous ovarian cancers, suggesting a correlation with "BRCAness".(3)

      Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARP1 and PARP2) play an important role in DNA repair. Upon
      formation of DNA breaks, PARP binds at the end of broken DNA strands helping in DNA repair of
      damage. The hypothesis is that treatment with PARP inhibitors will allow the killing of a
      subset of cancer cells with deficiencies in DNA repair pathways. For example, a tumor
      harboring a BRCA or Homologous Recombination gene mutation will have selective blockage by
      PARP inhibitors in order to maintain genomic integrity. Furthermore, the data in serous
      ovarian cancer has indicated that tumors arising in a non-BRCA patient that has a homologous
      recombination deficiency could also enhance tumor cell sensitivity to PARP inhibitors.

      PARP inhibitors (PARPi) are synthetically lethal to tumor cells with homologous recombination
      deficiency (HRD). HRD leads to common phenotype of genome-wide loss of heterozygosity (LOH).
      Recent analysis of the ARIEL2 part 1 in platinum sensitive ovarian cancer trial found that
      patients with germline or somatic BRCA mutation or wild-type BRCA with high LOH had longer
      progression-free survival and improved responses with rucaparib treatment than did patients
      with wild-type BRCA and low LOH.(7)

      The rationale for this current trial is based on significant clinical and genomic
      similarities of USC and epithelial ovarian carcinomas.(1,2,4) Currently the treatment for
      stage III and IV USC yields approximately 20-30% survival at 2 years and 10%-20% survival at
      3-5 years post diagnosis with current standard therapy of chemotherapy +/-radiation depending
      on the sites of the disease at surgical staging/debulking. Furthermore, there is no
      successful second line therapy for patients with recurrent USC and no available clinical
      trials for patients with recurrent disease. Given the most recent findings of the
      multi-national, Phase 3 NOVA trial in women with platinum sensitive, recurrent ovarian
      cancer, Niraparib significantly prolonged the median progression-free survival - irrespective
      of the presence or absence of a germline BRCA mutation or the presence/absence of a
      homologous recombinant deficiency.(6) The investigators hypothesize that patients receiving
      Niraparib maintenance in addition to standard therapy for USC may lead to improved
      progression free survival in women with suboptimally debulked stage III, stage IV, and
      platinum-sensitive recurrent USC. The investigators hypothesize that this treatment will be
      well tolerated in this group of patients.
    
  