
    
      Background & Rationale:

      Postural Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS) is a chronic state of orthostatic tachycardia (> 30 bpm
      increment from lying to standing) and typical symptoms that are worse on standing, and are
      relieved by lying down. Typical orthostatic symptoms include palpitation, lightheadedness,
      chest pains, dyspnea, tremulousness, blurred vision and mental clouding. POTS often occurs in
      younger individuals with a female predominance (4-5 fold). Using the RAND36 quality of life
      (QOL) tool, we showed that POTS patients had lower quality of life (QOL) scores than healthy
      subjects for both physical (26±9 vs. 54±6; P<0.0001) and mental health domains (43±11 vs.
      52±10; P<0.0001). These QOL scores are similar to scores for chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease and congestive heart failure.

      In collaboration with the Kem/Yu lab (Oklahoma University), the investigators sought to
      determine whether POTS patients had functionally significant adrenergic receptor (AR) Abs.
      Samples from 14 POTS patients (included 7 blinded, well-characterized samples from
      Vanderbilt) and 10 healthy control subjects. Using the rat cremaster artery assay, the
      sera/immunoglobulin (IgG) of the POTS patients demonstrated significantly greater arteriolar
      contractile activity (69±3% of baseline vessel diameter) compared to the control subjects
      (91±1% of baseline; P<0.001). This contractility was suppressed with prazosin, an α1-AR
      blocker. With the addition of POTS sera, the phenylephrine dose-response curve was shifted to
      the right. In other words, a higher dose of phenylephrine was required to achieve the same
      degree of vasoconstriction, suggests that the α1-AR Ab is actually a
      partial-agonist/antagonist.

      Using a cell-based cyclic AMP (cAMP) reporter assay, all POTS sera had dose-dependent β1-AR
      activation (max: +30±3% from buffer baseline) compared to control sera (-1±2% from buffer
      baseline; P<0.001), and 7/14 POTS patients (but no control subjects) had elevated β2-AR
      activation. The excessive β1-AR activation could be blocked with propranolol. With the
      addition of POTS sera, the isoproterenol dose-response curve was shifted to the left (a lower
      isoproterenol dose was required to achieve the same receptor activation in the presence of
      the POTS sera). These data suggest that the β1-AR Ab is actually a straight agonist.

      Big Picture:

      While exciting, these data are obtained from only 14 POTS patients. In this protocol (Aim#1;
      REB15-2434), the investigators will study a larger cohort of POTS patients and control
      subjects in order to have a better sense of the true prevalence of these antibodies, to
      determine their association with other autoimmune illnesses, and to see if they relate to the
      patient-reported onset of illness.

      In addition to this, the investigators seek to see whether this is physiologically
      significant in intact humans in vivo (Aim#2).

      The investigators propose to perform dose response studies for phenylephrine and
      isoproterenol in POTS patients and control subjects with blood pressure (BP) and heart rate
      (HR) as the output metric and will then determine if these are different between POTS
      patients and control subjects and, more importantly, based on the auto-antibody in vitro
      activity.

      Specifically, the investigators will give a series of injections of small doses of
      phenylephrine while monitoring their HR and continuous BP. After each injection, the
      investigators will note the peak BP increase and will monitor the patient until the BP
      returns to baseline. The investigators will give incrementally larger doses until the
      endpoint is achieved. The endpoint is the lowest test dose of phenylephrine that will
      increase the systolic BP by >25 mmHg (PHE-PD25).

      the investigators will then repeat the same process with small doses of isoproterenol with
      the same monitoring. After each injection, the investigators will note the peak HR increase
      and will monitor the patient until the HR returns to baseline. The investigators will give
      incrementally larger doses until the endpoint is achieved. The endpoint is the lowest test
      dose of isoproterenol that will increase the HR by >25 bpm (ISO-PD25).
    
  