
    
      Background: Although several standard clinical techniques are used to detect and treat common
      allergic conditions, each one is limited in scope and requires to follow repeated treatment
      protocols. The non-invasive system known as NAET® does not generally have such limitations
      and has over the last twenty-three years been demonstrated to be effective clinically in
      thousands of cases. NAET® is a natural treatment that utilizes standard medical diagnostic
      measures along with kinesiolgocal, chiropractic and oriental testing, procedures to identify
      the allergens, as well as the intensity of reactions to the allergens which vary from
      individual to individual. Treatment consists of a sequence of spinal manipulations at
      specific thoracic and lumbar spinal levels along with acupuncture acupressure on
      configurations of standard acupuncture points.

      Methods: In a double blind study, 26 patients with diagnosed milk allergy (13 males, 13
      females, age range between 18-65 years) were randomly assigned to 2 groups:

        1. NAET®/Experimental group, and

        2. Placebo/control group The study was conducted by 12 volunteer-clinicians from NAET
           Research associates, divided into six investigator groups. Each group conducted a
           designated sequential part of the study independently from all other groups, that is,
           was blinded from all other groups for the duration of the study. Subjects from both
           groups (Experimental and Control) were evaluated immediatedly before treatment and eight
           weeks thereafter using the following nine diagnostic measures: Subjective history
           (Allergy Symptom Rating Scale or ASRS); ALCAT Test; antibodies to milk protein in the
           blood serum by Immunoglobulins G, Immunoglobulins A, Immuno-globulins M, and
           Immunoglobulins E (IgG, IgA, IgM, IgE) by Elisa method (enzyme linked Immunozorbant
           Assay); Intradermal testing for milk sensitivity. NSTRS (Kinesiological muscle response
           testing also known as Neuromuscular Sensitivity Testing) and Pulse difference Rating
           Scale (PDRS) were tested by two well trained NST clinicians at two different times
           before and after the treatments. Both groups demonstrated allergic sensitivities to
           whole milk test sample in varying degrees. After completing the evaluations, the
           Experimental group received 2 NAET® treatments on whole milk, on two consecutive
           Saturdays. The Placebo group received two treatments on placebo samples on the same days
           along with the experimental group on two consecutive Saturdays as well. At the end of
           the treatment phase, once again both groups were evaluated for whole milk test sample
           using all of the nine diagnostic measures.

      Results On the nine diagnostic measures there was a significant difference in the means of
      the before and after measures of the Experimental group, while they remained almost the same
      for the Placebo group. At 95% CI, p-values were less than 0.05 in all tests except for IgG
      study (p-value=1.30). NSTRS and PDRS were evaluated by two clinicians at different time to
      evaluate the intertester relability among two clinicians for these two tests. A significant
      correlation was noticed with the results both testers received on these two testing-NST and
      PDRS (p-value <0.0001).

      Conclusion The study demonstrated the efficacy of eliminating or reducing milk allergy using
      the NAET® treatment protocol. This study also evaluated the reliability of performing two
      testing procedures (NST & PDRS) by two independent examiners in testing the subjects for milk
      at two different times. There was a significant correlation in the results they received as
      shown above, when the two clinicians tested the subjects independently, demonstrating that
      there is a good reliability between these well trained clinicians in their performance while
      doing these two evaluations.
    
  