
    
      Patients will be recruited via primary care and secondary care trusts. After an initial
      screening visit to determine subject's eligibility, they will be randomised to either the
      EndoBarrier or Control arm (conventional medical therapy including dietary counselling), and
      invited for 15 study visits over 24 months. The standard medical therapy drug titrations will
      be carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the American Diabetes Association. These
      guidelines have been chosen as they are applicable to an International audience and thus
      would adhere to the current best worldwide practice that would still be likely to be relevant
      when the results of this trial are published following study completion.

      Patients will receive the intervention for 12 months and then be followed up for 12 months.
      They will be contacted via telephone in between visits to monitor any problems and boost
      motivation.

      The main outcome of this study is to compare the EndoBarrier device with conventional medical
      therapy, diet and exercise for obesity related type 2 diabetes and their effectiveness on:

        1. Metabolic state as defined by the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) with an HbA1c
           < 6% (or < 42 mmol/mol) and a blood pressure < 135/85mmHg

        2. Absolute weight loss.

      Patients will also be invited to participate in one of 3 sub-groups as part of the
      mechanistic studies (Group 1: functional MRI (fMRI), Group 2: insulin clamps or Group 3: food
      preference). Participation in the sub-studies is optional.

      The following assessments will be performed at visit 1 (Screening Visit):

      Informed consent, inclusion and exclusion criteria, demographics, medical history, physical
      examination, body measurements including height, weight and waist , vital signs, ECG, urine
      albumin-creatinine ratio, routine haematology and biochemistry, C13 urea breath test and
      urine pregnancy test, if applicable. Additional checks will be completed if the subject
      consents to take part in a sub-group mechanistic study.

      Once all data including blood test results related to the screening have been obtained, the
      Investigator will review the subject's eligibility to continue in the trial. If the subject
      is eligible after this review, the subject will be randomised into one of the two study arms
      (EndoBarrier or Control).

      Both groups will undergo the following measurements:

        -  Body weight and waist circumference, blood pressure, changes in illness and medication
           and adverse events will be checked at all visits.

        -  Blood samples will be obtained at 13 visits

        -  Urine albumin:creatinine ratio: urine samples will be collected at visit 3, 5, 8, 10 and
           14

        -  Questionnaires (Health Economics) will be completed at visits 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 14.

        -  Dietary counselling: at visits 2, 4 (control arm only), 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, and 15
           subjects will receive diet (either in groups or individually) by a qualified dietitian.

      EndoBarrier group:

      Visit 2 (- 4 weeks) will include dietary counselling with a dietitian, dietary preparation
      pre- and post-intervention and a medical consultation (including distribution of proton pump
      inhibitors) in preparation for the EndoBarrier implant.

      At visit 4 (0 weeks) the EndoBarrier device will be implanted. The subject will attended the
      hospital in a fasting state and will receive a general anaesthetic before the device
      placement procedure. A small tube (the endoscope) is inserted into the mouth and guided to
      the small intestine for visual examination of this area by the physician. Then a guide wire
      will be inserted through the endoscope, after which the endoscope is removed but the guide
      wire is left in place. A capsule (containing the device) is placed on the guide wire and
      guided to the destination in the small intestine. The physician can see the capsule under
      x-rays as it is moved towards the small intestine. When the physician determines that the
      capsule has reached the correct location, the guide wire is removed, which releases the
      device. When the device is released, it also releases a small plastic ball (slightly larger
      than a pea). The ball is excreted naturally via a stool. Normally, this does not cause any
      discomfort. The device remains in the small intestine until it is removed after 12 months.

      After the procedure (up to 12 hours) the subject may need to stay overnight in the hospital
      so the physician can monitor their condition, but this usually is not required.

      During insertion fluroscopy will be used to determine the position of the device. Videos and
      photos of the fluoroscopy images are recorded to help the investigators make treatment
      decisions and may be passed on to the study sponsor. The images will not contain any patient
      identifiable data but will be labelled with initials and study participation number only.

      At visit 11 (12 months) the EndoBarrier device will be removed. The removal procedure is
      comparable to the placement procedure but usually requires less time. Before the device
      removal procedure, the subject will receive a general anaesthetic. During device removal, an
      endoscope is inserted into the mouth and guided to the small intestine for visual examination
      of this area by the physician. A guide wire is inserted into the endoscope. The end of the
      endoscope has a small hook, which the physician will use to pull the device back into the
      endoscope. The endoscope containing the device is then removed through the mouth. The
      physician will then insert the endoscope again to inspect the area where the device was
      placed. After the procedure, the subject can return home.

      All subjects in the EndoBarrier arm will see a gastroenterologist or equivalent specialist at
      study visit 2, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 15 to discuss their well-being and any questions
      regarding their EndoBarrier implant. EndoBarrier patients will also receive frequent reviews
      with a diabetes specialist to review their medication regimen (visits 2, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13 and
      15).

      Control group (Standard Medical Therapy) Standard medical therapy will be carried out in
      accordance with the guidelines of the American Diabetes Association. Patients will be seen at
      visits 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 15 for follow-up of their diabetes control by a diabetes
      specialist.

      Both groups will provide a blood sample for DNA/RNA sampling: at visit 3 and samples for
      metabolomics (blood, urine, feces): at visits 3, 5, 8, 10 and 14

      Subjects who agree to participate in a sub-study will be asked to complete additional tests
      including:

        -  Fasting Gut hormones and metabolites (Group 1-3): at visits 3, 5, 8, 10 and 14

        -  Post meal gut hormones and metabolites (Group 1 and 3): at visits 3, 5, 8, 10

        -  Eating and behaviour questionnaires (Group 1-3): at visits 3, 8, 10 and 14

        -  Functional MRI (Group 1): at visits 3 and 8

        -  Taste and Food preference (Group 3): at visits 3, 5, and 8

        -  Eating behaviour computerised tasks (Group 1 and 3): at visits 3, 8, 10 and 14

        -  Cognitive Assessment tasks (Group 1): at visits 3, 8 and 10

        -  Insulin Clamps (Group 2): at visits 3, 5, and 8
    
  