
    
      After Ethics Committee approval, all paediatric patients admitted to the paediatric intensive
      care unit (PICU) will underwent PICU screening. In case of eligible for inclusion in to the
      study, the baseline parameters a demographics will be evaluated together with the initial
      laboratory sampling after approval and singed the informed consent by the legal guardian of
      the patient. Patients will be randomized by the online randomizer to the oligomeric and
      polymeric enteral nutrition group.

      Polymeric (control group): Patients indicated for at least 2 days of enteral nutrition by the
      gastric tube. The nutritional support will be initiated after initial haemodynamic
      stabilization (blood levels of lactate normalization, norepinephrine infusion <0,1 ug/kg/min)
      in the 48-hours interval from admission in form of bolus administration of polymeric formula
      1ml/kg/dose. The gastric residual volume will be evaluated after 4 hours from bolus dose. In
      case of gastric residual volume lower than half of previously administered dose, the next
      dose will be doubled. In case of higher residual volume, the same amount will be administered
      with the metoclopramid (3 times per day). In case of persistent residual volume higher than
      half of initial dose in 12 hours, the erythromycin will be initiated for 3 days. The bolus
      enteral feeding will be administered at the predefined time 5/day (6:00, 10:00, 14:00, 18:00,
      22:00). The las gastric decompression is planned ad 24:00. The aim is to reach energetic goal
      defined by Schofield equation.

      Interventional (oligomeric group): Patients indicated for at least 2 days of enteral
      nutrition by the gastric tube. The nutritional support will be initiated after initial
      haemodynamic stabilization (blood levels of lactate normalization, norepinephrine infusion
      <0,1 ug/kg/min) in the 48-hours interval from admission in form of bolus administration of
      oligomeric formula 1ml/kg/dose. The gastric residual volume will be evaluated after 4 hours
      from bolus dose. In case of gastric residual volume lower than half of previously
      administered dose, the next dose will be doubled. In case of higher residual volume, the same
      amount will be administered with the metoclopramid (3 times per day). In case of persistent
      residual volume higher than half of initial dose in 12 hours, the erythromycin will be
      initiated for 3 days. The bolus enteral feeding will be administered at the predefined time
      5/day (6:00, 10:00, 14:00, 18:00, 22:00). The las gastric decompression is planned ad 24:00.
      The aim is to reach energetic goal defined by Schofield equation.
    
  