
    
      Hypothesis of the study. In patients of 75 or more years of age with AMI and ST-elevation or
      LBBB, the treatment strategy based on primary angioplasty is superior to the treatment
      strategy based on initial fibrinolytic therapy for reducing the incidence of death,
      re-infarction and disabling CVA at 30 days. This benefit is maintained at 12 months.

      Objectives General objective of the study. To compare the efficacy and safety of primary
      angioplasty and fibrinolytic treatment in >=75 year-old patients with AMI eligible for
      fibrinolytic therapy in Spanish medical centers with an active program of primary
      angioplasty.

      Primary end point: Incidence of the combined end point of all-cause death, re-infartion or
      disabling stroke at 30 days

      Secondary end points:

        -  All-cause death at 30 days

        -  Incidence of the combined end point of all-cause death, disabling CVA or de novo heart
           failure at 30 days

        -  Incidence of recurrent ischemia requiring emergency catheterization in the first 30 days

        -  Cause of death at 30 days classified in three groups:

             1. Shock or heart (pump) failure

             2. Mechanical complications (ruptures) or electromechanical dissociation

             3. Other causes (including bleeding)

        -  Incidence of major bleeding during hospital admission

        -  All-cause mortality at 12 months

        -  Period of time elapsed until presentation of any of the composite of all-cause death,
           reinfarction or disabling CVA at 12 months

        -  Period of time elapsed until the presentation of any composite of all-cause death,
           reinfarction, disabling CVA or non-elective hospital readmission for cardiac causes
           (unstable angina, heart failure, non-elective coronary revascularization at 12 months.

      TYPE AND DESIGN OF THE CLINICAL TRIAL Clinical trial status Phase IV trial Description of
      randomization process The treatment strategy will be determined by a centralized
      randomization process, using a telephone system. Eligible patients will be randomized to one
      of two (2) treatment arms: fibrinolytic treatment or primary angioplasty.

      Control and design This is a randomized multicenter, open blind clinical trial designed to
      compare the efficacy and safety of primary angioplasty vs. thrombolytic treatment in >=75
      year-old patients with AMI and ST-elevation or de novo LBBB, eligible for thrombolysis,
      admitted at Spanish medical centers that have an active primary angioplasty program, within
      the first 6 hours after symptom onset.

      Masking techniques Being an open trial there are not masking techniques, nor will there be an
      emergency opening procedure of emergency codes.

      Pre-inclusion / clearance period Not applicable

      SUBJECT SELECTION Inclusion / exclusion criteria Subjects must be >=75 years of age with AMI
      and ST-elevation or de novo LBBB, eligible for thrombolytic therapy, admitted in any Spanish
      medical center in which there is an active primary angioplasty program within the first 6
      hours after symptom onset.

      Each patient must fulfill all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Subjects of 75 or more years of age

        2. Diagnosis of AMI: chest pain or any symptom of myocardial ischemia of, at least, 20
           minutes of duration, not responding to nitrate therapy, an evolution period of less than
           6 hours after symptom onset until randomization process, and, at least, one of the
           following alterations:

             1. ST-elevation >=2 mm in 2 or more precordial leads

             2. ST-elevation >=1 mm in 2 or more anterior leads

             3. Complete de novo (or probably de novo) left bundle branch block (LBBB)

        3. Subject should be able to give informed consent prior to randomization process and
           should agree to fulfill all procedures described in the protocol, including follow-up
           after hospital discharge. A written consent signed by a close relative with witness is
           also acceptable.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Documented contraindication to the use of fibrinolytics. 1.1. Internal active bleeding
           or known history of hemorrhagic diathesis 1.2. History of previous CVA of any kind or at
           any time 1.3. Intracranial tumor, arteriovenous malformation, aneurysm or cerebral
           aneurysm repair 1.4. Major surgery, parenchymal biopsy, ocular surgery or severe
           traumatism in the 6 weeks prior to randomization 1.5. Unexplained puncture in a
           non-compressible vascular location in the last 24 hours prior to randomization 1.6.
           Confirmed arterial hypertension with a reliable measurement of systolic AP >180 mmHg or
           diastolic AP >110 mmHg 1.7. Known thrombocytopenia < 100.000 platelets/mL 1.8. Prolonged
           (>20 minutes) or traumatic cardiopulmonar resuscitation (CPR) in the 2 weeks prior to
           randomization 1.9. History or signs suggesting aortic dissection

        2. Cardiogenic shock

        3. Estimated door-to-needle time >120 minutes

        4. Administration of fibrinolysis in the 14 days prior to randomization

        5. Administration of any glycoprotein IIa/IIIb inhibitor in the 24 hours prior to
           randomization

        6. Administration of any Low Molecular Weight Heparin (LMWH) in the 8 hours prior to
           randomization

        7. Actual oral anticoagulant treatment

        8. Suspected AMI secondary to occlusion of one lesion treated previously with a
           percutaneous coronary intervention (within the previous 30 days for angioplasty or
           conventional stent and within the previous 12 months for coated stents)

        9. Dementia or acute confusional state at the time of randomization

       10. Subject incapacity or unwillingness to give informed consent -at least, verbally

       11. Known renal failure (basal creatinine> 2,5 mg/dl)

       12. Reduced life expectancy (<12 months) due to advanced or terminal concomitant condition

       13. Subject participation in another clinical trial (assessing a drug or a device) in the 30
           days prior to randomization

      Diagnostic criteria for the pathologies of the study

      Patients with a diagnosis of AMI presenting with:

        -  Chest pain or any symptom of myocardial ischemia of, at least, 20 minutes of duration,
           not responding to nitrate therapy and an evolution period of less than 6 hours after
           symptom onset until randomization process, with, at least, one of the following
           alterations:

        -  ST-elevation >=2 mm in 2 or more precordial leads

        -  ST-elevation >=1 mm in 2 or more anterior leads

        -  Complete de novo (or probably de novo) left bundle branch block (LBBB)

      Estimate of sample size For the following conditions: α = 0.05 (2 tailed), power: 80% (β =
      0.20) and assuming a composite event incidence rate (death, reinfarction and disabling CVA)
      based on previous registries (21.7% in the fibrinolysis group and 12.8% in the PA group), a
      sample size of 282 patients per group is needed to demonstrate that difference (8.9% in
      absolute terms and 40% in relative terms). Assuming a loss to follow-up rate of 1%, the total
      number is 570 patients

      Estimated loss of patients prior to randomization During a period of 3 months all patients
      meeting inclusion criteria who, for any reason, are not enrolled in the study will be
      included in a registry with an abbreviated CRF recording inclusion/exclusion criteria, the
      reason for non-enrollment and follow-up at 30 days and 12 months.
    
  