
    
      In the United States, almost 9 million children have been diagnosed with asthma. It is a
      leading cause of hospitalizations and school absenteeism among children. Asthma symptoms are
      often seasonal, with the greatest number of exacerbations occurring in autumn and the fewest
      in mid-summer. Elementary school children are the most vulnerable to these seasonal changes,
      and many children experience an increase in exacerbations at the beginning of the school
      year. Recent research suggests that this seasonal peak in exacerbations is primarily caused
      by viral respiratory tract infections that are spread among children in school. Regular
      handwashing has been widely recognized as the most effective way to stop the spread of
      viruses and infectious illnesses. However, effective handwashing methods among school-age
      children can be inconsistent. Time constraints, a frequent lack of soap and towels,
      inconveniently located sinks, and water-saving faucets are all barriers to thorough
      handwashing. Improving hand hygiene through the use of antimicrobial rinse-free hand
      sanitizers in school classrooms may be a simple and effective way to reduce the risk of
      transmitting viruses that can cause asthma exacerbations. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of a school-based hand sanitizer program at decreasing
      exacerbations in children with asthma.

      This study will enroll children with asthma who are attending one of the 32 participating
      schools. Each school will be randomly assigned to either use their usual hand hygiene
      practices in Year 1, followed by a two-step hand hygiene program including hand washing plus
      hand sanitizer in Year 2, or vice versa. Each participant will log in to an Internet-based
      data collection system on a daily basis to document their asthma symptoms and peak flow meter
      readings. Teachers will also log in daily to verify participants' data and to document
      participants' absences and the reason for the absence. Quick relief medication use will be
      recorded and measured through the use of a Doser device on participants' inhalers.
    
  