
    
      1. OBJECTIVES The objective of this study is to demonstrate the superiority of Sodium
           nitroprusside enhanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation (SNPeCPR) on optimized standard
           cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

           SNPeCPR includes two components:

             1. a mechanical component: cardiopulmonary resuscitation with automated mechanical
                external chest compression and an impedance threshold device

             2. a pharmacological component: sodium nitroprusside, an effective arterial
                vasodilator that decreasing vascular resistance, facilitates flow elevation in
                vital organs.

           1.1. Main Objective : Assess the interests of the administration of sodium nitroprusside
           during enhanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

           1.2. Secondary Objectives : To evaluate the effect of sodium nitroprusside on various
           parameters before and after the return of spontaneous circulation.

           1.3. Outcome Measures : In this declaration, all the criterions measures before ROSC
           have been note as t=0 minute.

           For the elements were the timeframe is a variable, ICU and hospital discharge, they have
           been declare at 1 and 2 weeks respectively.

        2. NAME AND DESCRIPTION OF THE INVESTIGATIONAL DRUG Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) is a potent
           vasodilator that we will use in cardiac arrest to optimize vital organs perfusion. The
           purpose of CPR is to provide oxygenated blood to vital organs that are most susceptible
           to ischemic insult (brain and heart). Since the mechanical combination (cardiopulmonary
           resuscitation with automated mechanical external chest compression and an impedance
           threshold device) provides excellent perfusion pressure, the flow should be optimized
           pharmacological with vasodilation. The SNP reduces arterial vasoconstriction and
           enhances microcirculation. Furthermore, SNP significantly reduces vascular resistance
           and decreases cardiac ejection afterload. Therefore, SNPeCPR can significantly increase
           the flow of blood and optimize carotid and coronary flow.

        3. PROCEDURE During cardiac arrest resuscitation, patients will be included in the study
           after the investigator has verified the inclusion and non-inclusion criterion. A sealed
           box containing SNP or the placebo will then be open in the increasing numbers of
           randomization list.

           Whatever the allocated treatment (nitroprusside or Placebo [5% glucose solution]),
           cardiopulmonary resuscitation protocol will be realize as recommended by the 2010
           European Resuscitation Council and described as follows:

             -  cardiopulmonary resuscitation will be performed continuously without posing for
                control pulse until the first defibrillation attempt. As soon as possible manual
                CPR will be replace by automated mechanical external chest compression (LUCAS® -
                Lund University Cardiopulmonary Assist System) and an impedance threshold device
                (ResQPOD®).

             -  placement of a peripheral intravenous (IV) or intraosseous (IO) line. This
                placement will be privileged to intubation,

             -  when the peripheral intravenous or intraosseous line is set, 1.96 mg sodium
                nitroprusside (SNP) / placebo will be injected, followed by injection of 10 ml
                saline for intravenous flush (t = 0 minutes).

             -  1 mg of epinephrine will be injected at t = 2 minutes,

             -  an external electric shock (EEC) will be realized at t = 3 minutes when the
                electric heart type allows it (ventricular fibrillation or ventricular
                tachycardia),

             -  0.98 mg sodium nitroprusside / placebo will be injected at t = 4 minutes, followed
                by an injection of 10 ml of saline for intravenous flush.

             -  1 mg adrenaline will be injected at t = 7 minutes, the injection will be repeated
                every 5 minutes until return of spontaneous circulation or ending of the
                resuscitation decided by the emergency physician.

             -  an external electric shock (EEC) will be realized at t = 6 minutes when the
                electric heart type allows, then external shock will be repeated every 3 minutes
                until return of spontaneous circulation or ending of the resuscitation decided by
                the emergency physician.

           During that resuscitation the following parameters will be collected:

             -  The type of cardiac arrest (place of cardiac arrest [home, public place, stadium
                …], cardiac arrest before a witness or prompt rescue team, cardiac massage by the
                witness or prompt rescue team, durations between collapse and the start of
                resuscitation, non-specialized / specialized resuscitation, defibrillation shock by
                the witness or prompt rescue team), ETCO2, blood pressure and SpO2.

             -  the initial electrical rhythm (defined by ECG) by the mobile intensive care unit
                (MICI) and ECG 5 minutes after return of spontaneous circulation.

             -  arterial blood gas lactate

             -  troponin (24 hours after ROSC)

             -  liver function (24 hours after ROSC)

             -  creatinine (24 hours after ROSC)

             -  echocardiography (4 and 24 hours after ROSC)

        4. EXPECTED DURATION OF PARTICIPATION OF PEOPLE AND DESCRIPTION OF THE TIMING AND DURATION
           OF THE RESEARCH.

           Duration of intervention: 4 minutes Inclusion time: 30 months duration of participation
           (+ monitoring treatment): 6 months Total duration of the study: 3 years

        5. RANDOMIZATION Randomization will be realized by block and will be stratified by center.
           The boxes are numbered and contain drugs specified by the randomization arm.
           Randomization will be done by assigning at each inclusion a box taken in order of
           increasing numbers of the randomization list. The randomization list will be established
           under the responsibility of the clinical research unit.

        6. MONITORING COMMITTEE A monitoring committee will conduct an interim analysis after the
           inclusion of 50% and 75% of patients and will decide to stop or continue the study.
    
  