
    
      The study will be performed as a dose-escalation protocol. Due to the relatively low
      incidence and prevalence of cluster of differentiation 4-positive (CD4+) hematological
      malignancies and the associated aggressive nature of these diseases and the sequel of
      treatment failure, the investigators expect to recruit 20 subjects at Stony Brook with an
      expected dropout rate of 25% primarily due to rapid progression or death and screen and or
      manufacturing failure. Taking this into account, the investigators expect to treat 15
      patients. The study will utilize autologous CD4CAR T-cells that are engineered to express a
      chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting CD4 that is linked to the cluster of
      differentiation 28 (CD28), 4-1BB, cluster of differentiation 3-zeta (CD3ζ) signaling chains
      (third generation CAR).

      At entry, disease status will be staged and investigators will determine if the subject has
      the minimal T cell number adequate for apheresis (screening step) and for manufacturing
      CD4CAR cells. qualifying subjects will be leukapheresed to obtain large numbers of peripheral
      blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) for the manufacturing. Next, participants will receive
      conditioning chemotherapy. If tumor burden is sufficiently reduced (screening step),
      participants will receive CD4CAR cells by infusion on Day 0 of treatment.

      For cell harvest, 12-15-liter apheresis procedure will be performed at the apheresis center
      with the intention to harvest at least 50x10^9-nucleated cells to manufacture CD4CAR T-cells.
      A portion of the pheresed cells will also be cryopreserved for FDA look-back requirements and
      for further research. The T-cells will be purified from the PBMC, transduced with CD4CAR
      lentiviral vector, expanded in vitro, and then frozen for administration. Each dose will be
      stored in either one or two bags. The route of administration is by IV infusion and the
      duration of infusion will be approximately 20 minutes. Each bag will contain an aliquot
      (30-50 mL) of liquid suitable for freezing, and containing the following infusible grade
      reagents (% v/v): 62.5cc Plasmalyte-A 5% dextrose; 7.5cc Pure dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), 20cc
      of 25% Human Serum Albumin, and 10cc Dextran 40. The cell product is expected to be ready for
      release approximately 3-4 weeks after apheresis.

      If the disease progresses during the manufacturing period participants may be excluded from
      the study. Minimal chemotherapy to keep the disease under control in the meanwhile is allowed
      if deemed necessary by investigators.

      A single dose of CD4CAR transduced T cells will consist of the cell number for the dose level
      to be infused.

      Post-infusion monitoring: on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 14, and 28 following infusion of CD4CAR
      T-cells, evaluation of leukemic cell killing and CD4CAR Trafficking will be done. Cytokines
      levels will be evaluated on Day 2, 4, 7, 11, 14, 21, 28 and every 8 hours during active
      cytokine release syndrome (CRS). Active monitoring of fungal and viral infections during
      treatment while utilizing standard prophylaxis recommended for HIV-positive patients with
      T-cell aplasia and those undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplant. Investigators plan to
      collect data about clinicoradiologic measurements of residual tumor burden starting on day 6
      and weekly afterward until remission and then monthly for 6 months. This will be followed by
      quarterly clinical evaluations for the next two (2) years with a medical history, physical
      examination, and comprehensive blood testing. After these short- and intermediate-term
      evaluations are performed, these patients will enter a rollover study to assess for
      disease-free survival (DFS), relapse, and the development of other health problems or
      malignancies for annual where follow-up will by phone and a questionnaire for an additional
      thirteen (13) years. The treating physician will decide to proceed with allogeneic or
      autologous transplant when needed.

      Dose of CD4CAR description: the main objective of this study is to establish a recommended
      dose and/or schedule of CD4CAR. The guiding principle for dose escalation in phase I is to
      avoid unnecessary exposure of patients to sub-therapeutic doses (i.e., to treat as many
      patients as possible within the therapeutic dose range) while preserving safety and
      maintaining rapid accrual. Investigators will use the rule-based traditional Phase I "3+3"
      design for the evaluation of safety. Based on lab experience in mice the starting dose (dose
      level 1) for the first cohort of three patients in phase I portion of the study will be
      8x10^5 cells. The dose escalation or de-escalation will follow a modified Fibonacci sequence
      as below.

      If more than one patient out of the first cohort of three patients in dose level 1 experience
      dose limiting toxicity (DLT), the trial will be placed on hold. If zero or one out of three
      patients in the first cohort of dose level 1 experience DLT, three more patients will be
      enrolled at dose level 1; the dose escalation continues until at least two patients among a
      cohort of six patients experience DLT (i.e., ≥33% of patients with a DLT at this dose level)

        -  If one of the first three patients in dose level 1 experiences a DLT, three more
           patients will be treated at dose level 1.

        -  If none of the three patients or only one of the 6 patients in the dose level 1
           experiences a DLT, the dose escalation continues to the dose level 2

        -  If one of the first three patients in dose level 2 experience a DLT, three more patients
           will be treated at dose level 2

        -  If none of the three patients or only one of the 6 patients in the dose level2
           experiences a DLT, the dose escalation continues to the dose level 3

        -  If one of the first three patients in dose level 3 experiences a DLT, three more
           patients will be treated at dose level 3

        -  If none of the three patients or only one of the 6 patients in the dose level 3
           experiences a DLT, dose level 3 will be declared the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and
           will be used as the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) for the phase II portion of the
           study.

      In summary, the dose escalation continues until at least two patients among a cohort of six
      patients experience DLT (i.e., ≥33% of patients with a DLT at that dose level). The
      recommended dose for phase II trials is defined as one dose level below this toxic dose
      level. Since some grade 3 and possibly 4 toxicities are highly likely to be reversible, grade
      3 infectious, hematological and vascular toxicities will not be considered DLTs mandating
      dose reduction. Also allergic or infusion-related reactions ≤ grade 3 will not be counted as
      DLTs. There will be no intra-patient dose escalation or reduction.

      To allow for full spectrum toxicity duration evaluation and reporting, no patients within the
      same or a different cohort will be initiated on lymphodepleting chemotherapy sooner than 28
      days from the initiation date of the preceding patient.
    
  