
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA), one of the most commonly performed operations in orthopaedic
      department, has been a successful intervention for patients with end-stage knee arthritis.

      Rehabilitation after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) routinely starts immediately after surgery
      on the postoperative ward and therefore requires adequate analgesia. An ideal analgesic
      modality for post-TKA rehabilitation should permit adequate knee flexion with minimal pain
      without motor impairment, resulting in successful mobilization. Pain control plays an
      essential role in the overall postoperative period for the patients undergoing TKA.

      Effective pain relief allows the patients to obtain early knee mobilization and optimal
      rehabilitation and thus improves the patient satisfaction.

      The aim of perioperative pain control is to minimize delays in recovery, postoperative
      delirium and pain-related stress responses that can lead to serious morbidity and poor
      outcomes. Numerous approaches to effectively control postoperative pain in TKA patients have
      been evaluated, as poorly controlled acute postoperative pain can be associated with
      persistent pain. Furthermore, increased pain intensity after surgery on the second knee seems
      to be closely associated with chronic post-TKA pain, with similar mechanisms underlying
      hyperalgesia or chronic pain.

      Traditionally, the degree of knee flexion has been used as an outcome measure after TKA to
      evaluate functional recovery and the success of the type of analgesia used.

      Several methods such as intravenous opioids, extraarticular and intraarticular injection,
      epidural analgesia and femoral or sciatic nerve blocks are currently used for postoperative
      pain management.

      However, each method is reported with potential side effects, for example, opioid drugs
      caused vomiting, nausea, constipation, dizziness and urinary retention, epidural analgesia
      with urinary retention, respiratory depression and spinal headache, femoral or sciatic block
      with diminished muscle control and possible nerve damage.

      Periarticular multimodal drug injection in TKA is a technique that patients received
      intraoperative drug injection in the periarticular fields such as posterior capsule, medial
      and lateral collateral ligaments, quadriceps mechanism and peripatellar tissue at the end of
      the surgery. Multimodal drugs mainly consist of local anaesthetics, non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs, opioids, epinephrine with or without corticosteroid.

      Genicular nerve block (GNB) and ablation have been used for managing chronic pain from knee
      osteoarthritis with good success.
    
  