
    
      This study will investigate personalized trimodal prehabilitation for patients undergoing
      gastrectomy for gastric cancer.

      Prehabilitation group:

      Patients will undergo 6 Minutes Walking Test (6-MWT), spiroergometry (VO2 max; AT), a grip
      strength test, a timed Up & Go (TUG) test, 10 m sprint test and sit to stand test before and
      after prehabilitation. The trimodal intervention will involve:

        1. Nutritional intervention: The dietetic physician will perform physical examination and
           evaluation of the nutritional status to provide individualized care to each patient.
           Patients will receive personalized recommendations for the prevention or correction of
           malnutrition.

        2. Psychological intervention: Patients will undergo consultation by specialized
           onco-psychologist. The anxiety and depression level will be evaluated by HAD score and
           patients will be trained to perform techniques, such as relaxation to reduce and manage
           anxiety on at home basis.

           The psychologist also will enhance patients' motivation to comply with the exercise and
           nutritional aspects of the intervention.

        3. Exercise intervention: Patients will be consulted by PM&R physicians and
           physiotherapists and personalized exercise plans will be developed according to the
           results of 6MWT, AT and VO2peak. Exercises will focus on skeletal muscles and
           cardiopulmonary function training and the exercises feasible at home basis will be
           selected. All patients will undergo three supervised training sessions to learn the
           correct exercise techniques.

      All patients will be routinely contacted to ensure compliance with prehabilitation program.

      Patients scheduled for surgery first by multidisciplinary tumor board will undergo 4 weeks
      prehabilitation program, while patients scheduled for perioperative chemotherapy will undergo
      prehabilitation while neoadjuvant treatment will be administered.

      Control group:

      Patients will also undergo 6 Minutes Walking Test (6-MWT), spiroergometry (VO2 max; AT), a
      grip strength test, a timed Up & Go (TUG) test, 10 m sprint test and sit to stand test before
      surgery or before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Patients will not undergo
      prehabilitation.
    
  