
    
      The proposed study will include 3 large diverse healthcare systems and randomize a minimum of
      30 clinics equally within each system to receive the OUD-CDS intervention or UC. In
      intervention and UC clinics, the OUD-CDS will identify study-eligible patients, those who are
      at high risk for OUD or diagnosed with OUD; and will use data stored in the EHR to assemble
      treatment recommendations tailored to the needs of each study-eligible patient. In
      intervention clinics, these treatment recommendations will be displayed via the OUD-CDS user
      interface. Finally, data from all targeted visits in all randomized clinics will be stored in
      a data repository for analysis and reporting needs. The targeted visits for each
      study-eligible patient in all randomized clinics will be the index visit, the first visit at
      which the OUD-CDS identifies that the patient is study eligible, and all post-index visits
      through the end of the intervention period, regardless of continued eligibility. This
      pragmatic cluster-randomized design is the optimal design to effectively and efficiently
      implement this tool in primary care clinics while protecting against study contamination and
      allowing for collection of process and outcome data at UC clinics.

      Mixed Methods Approach: Virtually every evidence-based intervention in medicine has turned
      out to be difficult to implement and maintain in real life practice and to fall far short of
      fidelity to the process used in randomized trials. As a result, a whole new field of
      dissemination and implementation research has been developing over the last 20 years. These
      studies have now gone well beyond the previous paradigm of focusing on changing the attitudes
      and behaviors of individual physicians to a growing awareness that the need instead is to
      alter the environment in which physicians work so that it is easier to do the desired
      evidence-based thing than to stick with old established habit patterns. That means focusing
      change efforts on organizational factors and practice systems. The Solberg conceptual
      framework has proven to be particularly helpful in clarifying this new approach.

      Simultaneously, there has been increasing interest in transitioning effectiveness clinical
      trials from traditionally highly selective and controlled circumstances to pragmatic trials
      that make use of normal care delivery processes and patients.[35] The measurement of such
      trials has been facilitated by the development of a conceptual framework called RE-AIM, an
      acronym for 5 key facets of such studies - Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation,
      and Maintenance. Recently, the developers of RE-AIM have recognized the need for more
      flexible use of this framework, greater use of qualitative methods to understand why
      interventions are not used consistently, and making adaptations in the implementation
      approach based on such understandings. The investigators propose to use the RE-AIM framework
      to guide (1) a monitoring system for intervention problems, (2) a mixed methods evaluation of
      the reasons for those problems, and (3) modification of the intervention to reduce those
      problems. These steps will be reiterated in a cyclic fashion, resulting in a more
      sophisticated approach to the long-standing quality improvement emphasis on Plan-Do-Study-Act
      rapid cycle tests of change. Furthermore, the team will take advantage of the staggered
      implementation of the study through three different care systems to ensure that the solutions
      for intervention problems in Site 1 are not assumed to be the same as the approach in
      subsequent sites without further RE-AIM monitoring and evaluation.
    
  