
    
      This research study will occur at six schools dedicated to children with IDD that are a part
      of the Special School Districts in St. Louis, MO. Additionally, surveys, focus groups, and
      fuzzy cognitive mapping sessions will be conducted at these six schools and at schools within
      the Kennedy Krieger School Programs in Baltimore, MD. Finally, a national survey will be
      administered to families, teachers, and staff of the 67 University Centers for Excellence in
      Developmental Disabilities (UCEDD) which is sponsored by the Association of University
      Centers for Disability (AUCD).

      The first aim will involve focus groups of parents/guardians, teachers, and school staff to
      identify the barriers and facilitators to frequent SARS-CoV-2 testing, impressions of
      COVID-19, and best messages and implementation strategies to promote increase testing and
      vaccination. A formal process for developing two types of messages (general versus focused)
      will be performed using focus group data and involving key stakeholders to test the messages.
      A cluster randomized adaptive clinical trial will then occur at the six special school
      district schools. In phase 1, the schools will be randomized initially to either the general
      or focused message to promote the adoption of weekly SARS-CoV-2 testing by the students and
      teachers. After 5 months, data analysis will be conducted to determine which strategy led to
      the highest percentage of testing. Phase 2 will begin at 7 months after the schools are
      randomized to either the best message determined from phase 1 or best message plus an
      augmented implementation strategy.

      The second aim will assess the national perspectives among parents of children with IDD and
      school staff regarding the impact of COVID-19 and importance of SARS-CoV-2 testing. Fuzzy
      cognitive mapping (FCM) and the administration of local and national surveys will be used to
      accomplish this aim. FCM will involve in-person sessions with parents from the 6 schools in
      aim 1 and 4 Kennedy Krieger Institute schools in Baltimore, MD for children with IDD. These
      sessions will help identify the facilitators and barriers SARS-CoV-2 testing and other
      mitigation strategies including COVID-19 vaccine. Since no accepted measures have been
      developed for understanding parent and school staff concerns for children with IDD around
      COVID-19, local (St. Louis and Baltimore) and national surveys will be conducted. Custom
      surveys will be deployed across two stakeholder groups: parent/guardians and school staff. We
      will administer the survey at baseline and during the trial across school settings (St. Louis
      and Baltimore). A national survey will also be administered across the UCEDDs. Psychometric
      analysis will be performed to help identify the questions for a national survey at the end of
      the study period. In addition to the custom surveys, NIH recommended parent-report surveys
      from the PhenX Toolkit will be used. The surveys to be used include the Psychological Stress
      Associated with the COVID-19 Crisis Scale and COVID-19 impact questionnaires.
    
  