
    
      Adolescents who have been hospitalized for suicidal behavior are at high risk for engaging in
      additional suicidal behavior. Following hospitalization, parents or guardians are typically
      tasked with helping to prevent further suicidal episodes by monitoring youth, ensuring safety
      in the home, helping youth receive needed care, and parenting in a way that balances
      expectations for appropriate behavior with recognition of the vulnerable status of the
      adolescents. Despite parental efforts, adolescents often have additional crises, which
      sometimes culminate in emergency department visits and repeat hospitalizations. Findings from
      the principal investigators' recent longitudinal study of mothers after adolescent
      hospitalization for suicide attempts (Impact of Adolescent Hospitalization on Parents)
      suggested that the period of time following discharge from the hospital can be a very
      important time for providing services and supports to youth and families. Parents in that
      study described emotional distress (e.g., depression, anxiety) and reduced parenting
      self-efficacy, and indicated a need for more information about suicidal youth and the
      treatment needs of these youth, parenting and monitoring of suicidal youth, and support in
      navigating the treatment system.

      Given these needs, the purpose of this study is to develop, refine, and preliminarily test an
      integrated electronic and care support service intervention for caregivers of adolescents who
      have recently engaged in suicidal behavior. It is expected that such an intervention will
      provide needed information and supports to parents, increase parenting self-efficacy,
      increase parents' ability to follow safety plans in the home, reduce parents' emotional
      distress, and help parents access needed services in the community. As a consequence of these
      proximal outcomes, it is expected that the intervention will help facilitate treatment
      engagement and follow through for youth and caregiver, and reduce use of emergency mental
      health services and hospitalizations.

      The primary aim is to obtain, in a pilot randomized controlled trial, preliminary estimates
      of treatment effectiveness relative to enhanced treatment as usual. The proposed adaptive
      services intervention development research is intended to demonstrate the feasibility and
      potential utility of an intervention that will be embedded in the existing care system
      (psychiatric inpatient unit) for suicidal youth and the families of these youth, and
      ultimately, improve engagement in services and client outcomes in high-risk families.
    
  