
    
      A proton beam is made up of charged particles that have a well-defined range of penetration
      into tissues. How deep it can penetrate is decided by both the beam's energy and the density
      of the tissue through which it passes. As the proton beam penetrates the body, the particles
      slow down, and the beam deposits its dose sharply near the end of its range. This is a
      phenomenon known as the Bragg peak. By adjusting the Bragg peak, the doctor can deliver a
      full, localized, uniform dose of energy to the treatment site while sparing the surrounding
      normal tissues. The proton beam is ideal for treatments where organ preservation is very
      important, such as lung cancer.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive 37 treatments of
      proton radiotherapy (Monday through Friday for 7 1/2 weeks). During the treatment, you will
      lie still on a table for about 30-45 minutes per day in the same position. The proton machine
      will deliver the dose according to the plan designed by the physician and controlled by a
      computer. You will not feel, see, or smell anything during the proton beam delivery. While on
      study, you will also be receiving weekly standard low-dose chemotherapy possibly followed by
      full-dose chemotherapy.

      During the treatment, you will be seen by a doctor and research nurse once a week to evaluate
      possible side effects. You will have a physical exam and you will have a medical history.
      About 2 teaspoons of blood will be drawn for routine tests.

      You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects
      occur. After finishing the treatment, 6 week follow up is recommended after completion of
      radiotherapy, then required every 3 months (+1 month) for 2 years, then every 6 months (+1
      month) for 3 years, and then once a year for 2 years. You will have imaging tests (chest CT
      or positron emission computed tomography (PET) scan) and routine blood tests (about 2
      teaspoons) at the follow-up visits.

      This is an investigational study. Proton radiotherapy is FDA approved for the treatment of
      lung cancer. A total of 65 patients will be take part in this study. All will be enrolled at
      MD Anderson.
    
  