
    
      Clinical practice guidelines recommend the use of double anti-aggregation with
      acetylsalicylic acid and a P2Y12 receptor inhibitor (P2Y12 i) in acute coronary syndrome
      (ACS) and in the choice of the latter it is very important to consider two opposing risks,
      Ischemia and hemorrhage. In the era of clopidogrel, platelet function tests (PFT) attempted
      to determine which patients were at risk of thrombotic events, but after the publication of 3
      randomized studies, the absence of benefit from the use of PFT was proven except in very
      selected cases. The TOPIC trial opened the door to the descaling strategy of P2Y12 i with a
      decrease in hemorrhagic events without increasing ischemic complications. In that study,
      where the randomization was not based on PFT, it was demonstrated that there is a subgroup of
      patients who with prasugrel and ticagrelor pose an excessive level of antiaggregation and
      carry a high rate of complications, as high as 33 % in the net clinical end-point of ischemia
      and bleeding BARC ≥ 2 at 1 year. Based on that data, the recently published guidelines of the
      non-ST acute coronary syndrome of the European Society of Cardiology recommend with class IIB
      that de-escalation of P2Y12 i maybe considered an alternative strategy, especially in ACS
      patients deemed unsuitable for potent platelet inhibition. De-escalation may be done based on
      clinical judgment, or guided by platelet function testing, or CYP2C19 genotyping depending on
      the patient's risk profile and availability of respective assays. In VERONICA, The
      researchers try to demonstrate with the current study the usefulness of PFT to diagnose
      patients with excessive level of antiaggregation and to see if in them a descaling strategy
      similar to that of TOPIC could be associated with a decrease in the combined ischemia and
      hemorrhage events. We propose a prospective, randomized and multicentre trial in patients
      with ACS who have been treated with acetylsalicylic acid (AAS) + ticagrelor or prasugrel.
      After 1 month of discharge, antiaggregation measurement will be carried out with the
      VerifyNow® device (Werfen, Spain) and those with PRU ≤30 will be randomized 1:1 to continue
      with ticagrelor or prasugrel(control branch) vs. de-escalation to clopidogrel (intervention
      branch) for the remaining 11 months. The primary end-point will be the rate of the combined
      net clinical benefit consisting of cardiovascular death, nonfatal acute myocardial infarction
      (AMI), nonfatal stroke and bleeding BARC ≥2 at 12 months. The total number of randomized
      patients will be 634 and there will be subgroup analysis of the primary end-point by
      diabetes, type of acute coronary syndrome or type of drug (ticagrelor or prasugrel).
    
  