
    
      To define the role of continuation electroconvulsive therapy (C-ECT) in relapse-prevention of
      seriously ill patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). To determine the relative
      efficacy and safety of C-ECT in comparison to the traditional approach of continuation
      pharmacotherapy (C-PHARM) to prevent relapses of MDD.

      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a highly effective treatment for MDD that is helpful for
      patients with the most severe forms of affective illness; however, relapse after successful
      acute phase ECT or pharmacotherapy remains a major public health problem. To prevent relapse
      in patients with MDD who have responded to ECT, the common practice is to prescribe an
      antidepressant (e.g., a tricyclic [TCA], a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor [SSRI], or
      lithium) as continuation therapy. Recent studies show an alarmingly high relapse rate after
      ECT despite conventional continuation pharmacotherapy (C-PHARM). Continuation ECT (C-ECT) is
      also in widespread clinical use; however, its efficacy and safety have never been rigorously
      tested.

      Investigators at four sites (Mayo Clinic, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School, Zucker Hillside
      Hospital, and University of Texas SW Medical Center, Dallas) randomize patients to receive
      either C-ECT or an aggressive pharmacological strategy (nortriptyline and lithium in
      combination, [NOR-Li]) for 6 months following response to acute phase ECT. Raters at each
      site evaluate symptoms and side effects. On the basis of edited videotapes obtained at
      regular intervals, a site-independent, blinded evaluator also assesses symptoms. A
      neuropsychological battery is administered prior to acute phase ECT, shortly after the ECT
      course, 3 months after the end of the acute phase treatment, and at the end of the 6-month
      continuation trial. These continuation therapies are compared in their effects on relapse,
      cognitive performance, global functioning, side effects, and perceived health status. NOR and
      Li levels are optimized by blood level monitoring. Bilateral ECT, at progressively increasing
      intervals, are used for C-ECT. Methods are included to ensure the integrity of clinical
      diagnoses, symptom severity assessment, data collection and entry, and treatment delivery. In
      all patients, surreptitious use of prescription or recreational drugs is monitored by urine
      testing.
    
  