
    
      Design: Prospective mixed-method assessment with iterative improvements for program
      implementation

      Populations: 1) Health care administrators and clinicians and 2) individuals taking ART

      Study site: Kabwohe Clinical Research Centre (KCRC)

      Approach The electronic adherence monitors to be assessed in this study are pill containers
      that record each opening as a proxy for pill taking behavior. They provide day-to-day
      information about adherence that can be used to provide informed counseling at clinic visits,
      as well as SMS reminders and notifications for missed or late doses. For Aim 1, the study
      team will recruit up to 35 health care administrators and clinicians from various levels of
      the Ugandan health care system (Health Center IV to the national hospital level), as well as
      15 individuals taking ART at the KCRC. Research assistants will conduct individual, in depth
      qualitative interviews to define a preliminary implementation strategy for these electronic
      adherence monitors to be used in routine HIV clinical care. In Aim 2 (iteration 1),
      investigators will deploy the electronic adherence monitors and associated interventions per
      the strategy identified in Aim 1 among 30 individuals taking ART at the KCRC. Study staff
      will monitor their adherence for 3 months, during which time they will quantify multiple
      metrics of the deployment. The investigators will review these metrics with the same health
      care administrators and clinicians from Aim 1, as well as up to 15 individuals who used the
      adherence monitors in the Aim 2 deployment. Research assistants will then interview both
      groups to develop an improved implementation strategy for deployment in a second iteration.
      In Aim 2 (iteration 2), study staff will utilize the revised implementation strategy to
      deploy the electronic adherence monitors and associated interventions among a new cohort of
      30 individuals taking ART at the KCRC. The study team will then repeat the assessment of the
      implementation strategy with the same health care administrators and clinicians from Aims 1
      and 2 (iteration 1), as well as up to 15 individuals who used the adherence monitors in the
      Aim 2 (iteration 2) deployment. The investigators will conclude the study with
      recommendations for wide-scale uptake of this technology in routine HIV clinical care.

      Aims Aim 1. Define a preliminary implementation strategy for real-time electronic adherence
      monitoring plus associated interventions for routine HIV clinical care in Uganda

      Aim 2. Deploy and optimize an implementation strategy for real-time electronic ART adherence
      monitoring plus associated interventions in routine HIV clinical care in Uganda
    
  