
    
      Potential research subjects will be sent a questionnaire (modified version of the ATS-DLD-78
      questionnaire) and study consent form. Individuals with no prior history of lung disease and
      a dyspnea score of 2 or less will be offered the opportunity to undergo further research
      evaluation, which will include HRCT scanning, pulmonary function testing (PFTs) and blood
      draw. Subjects with grade 3 or greater dyspnea or findings of extensive disease on HRCT scan
      (see below), will be recommended to undergo clinical diagnostic evaluation outside the study.
      For those subjects that participate in this study, demographic information will be collected
      and stored in a database, including past medical history, smoking history, medications, and
      occupational and environmental exposure history.

      At 5 year intervals after initial enrollment, subjects without clinical disease will be
      offered a repeat HRCT scan and PFTs.

      Each year after enrollment, the investigators will perform follow-up to ascertain whether
      subjects have: 1) developed respiratory symptoms consistent with FIP/IPF, 2) undergone
      additional diagnostic evaluations for lung disease, or 3) begun any new treatments for lung
      disease. Subjects who have developed respiratory symptoms will be encouraged to seek medical
      evaluation. For those who have undergone any new diagnostic testing or have been diagnosed
      with FIP, study coordinators will seek permission to obtain HRCTs, medical records, pulmonary
      function test results, and lung blocks for evaluation by investigators in this study.

      The investigators will use standard criteria established by the ATS/ERS to guide the
      diagnostic classification of patients who develop FIP. Information will be reviewed by a
      pathologist, a radiologist, and 3 clinicians. In all cases, the clinicians make the final
      diagnosis and after reviewing the clinical material (clinical/demographic data and pulmonary
      physiology), and the radiology and pathology data.

      HRCT: A single prone HRCT scan without intravenous contrast will be performed and read by an
      expert chest radiologist. He will assess the presence, extent, and distribution of areas of
      ground-glass attenuation, interlobular reticular opacities, irregular thickening of
      interlobular septa, traction bronchiectasis, and traction bronchiolectasis. The anatomic
      distribution of each finding will be classified in each lung in one of 4 zones from apex to
      base (upper, middle, lower, lowest). A score of 0 (absent), 1 (<5%), or 2 (>5% parenchymal
      involvement) will be given for each descriptor in each lung zone based on visual estimation
      (total score of 1-16). In addition, HRCT scans will be classified as: 1) normal, 2) abnormal,
      consistent with early FIP, 3) abnormal, consistent with extensive disease, or 4) abnormal,
      consistent with other diagnoses. Extensive disease is defined as >5% honeycombing in >2
      zones. Other diagnoses could include suspicious lung nodules, extensive emphysema, or other
      findings requiring clinical referral. Disease progression on HRCT is defined by an increase
      in the total CT score.

      Pulmonary function testing: PFTs will include spirometry, lung volumes, and DLCO.

      Specimen collection, processing, and banking: Each subject will have 20 ml blood collected on
      enrollment and on the day of repeat HRCT. Lymphocytes will be saved for generation of
      lymphoblastoid cells, DNA isolation, and telomere length analysis. Both serum and plasma will
      be saved for further studies.
    
  