
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of transcutaneous direct current
      stimulation (tsDCS) on locomotor function and rehabilitation outcomes in individuals with
      incomplete spinal cord injury (ISCI). tsDCS is a mild, non-invasive form of electrical
      stimulation that can alter spinal cord excitability.

      Specific Aim 1 (Cross-sectional): To test the hypothesis that tsDCS applied during walking
      will improve motor activation in adults with chronic ISCI. A random order, double blind
      cross-over study will be conducted across two test sessions to compare the immediate effects
      of two dosages of tsDCS during walking. To assess motor activation, the primary outcome
      measure will be lower extremity surface electromyography.

      Specific Aim 2 (Interventional): To test the hypothesis that tsDCS applied during 16 sessions
      of locomotor training will improve functional walking outcomes. Participants will be
      randomized to receive 16 sessions of locomotor training with one of the two tsDCS dosages.
      The primary outcome is walking function as measured by standardized clinical tests of walking
      speed and endurance.

      To address the aims of the study, the investigators will use a two-part study design.
      Following phone and in-person screenings and physician approval, individuals will provide
      informed consent to the study procedures. In the first part, participants will complete two
      separate testing sessions, presented in random order, that involve up to 30 minutes of tsDCS
      at one of two dosages levels while walking. The researchers will assess changes in motor
      activation before and at the end of the period of walking. For the second part, participants
      will be randomized to receive 16 sessions of locomotor training with one of the two dosages
      of tsDCS. Before and after the 16-session intervention (i.e., at baseline and post
      intervention), the study team will assess functional outcomes through standardized tests of
      walking speed and endurance.
    
  