
    
      Primary autonomic failure is a neurodegenerative condition characterized by loss of efferent
      sympathetic function and severe baroreflex impairment. The clinical hallmark of autonomic
      failure is disabling orthostatic hypotension, but at least half of patients are also
      hypertensive while lying down. This supine hypertension can be severe and associated with
      end-organ damage and worsening of orthostatic hypotension due to increased pressure
      natriuresis. It also complicates the management of these patients by limiting the use of
      daytime pressor agents for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension. Currently, no
      antihypertensive drug effectively lowers BP and prevents pressure natriuresis without
      worsening standing BP.

      It is well known that heat exposure (e.g. hot weather or a hot bath or shower) produces an
      acute and temporary worsening of orthostatic hypotension in autonomic failure patients.
      Factors that may predispose these patients to the lowering BP effects of heat stress include
      1) impaired heat dissipation due to inability to sweat, 2) preserved heat-mediated skin
      vasodilation, and 3) blunted sympathetic hemodynamic responses to maintain BP (increases in
      cardiac output, heart rate, and vaso- and venoconstriction). Our preliminary results showed
      that 2 hours of passive heat stress lowers BP in these patients through a decrease in central
      volume. In this study, we will assess the efficacy and safety of passive heat stress in the
      treatment of nocturnal supine hypertension in autonomic failure patients. Our hypothesis is
      that controlled local (abdominal) passive heat stress applied during the night will lower
      nocturnal BP in autonomic failure patients with supine hypertension.

      To test this hypothesis, we propose to compare the BP effects of passive heat applied during
      the night vs. a sham control in a randomized crossover study in autonomic failure patients
      with supine hypertension.
    
  