
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of permanent disability in the United States. In the absence of
      treatments to restore the lost tissue, clinical scientists have focused upon repetitive
      forced used of the paretic limb to promote neural reorganization in preserved tissue and
      reduce disability. However, forced use interventions are time intensive and the extent of
      functional recovery is variable. One potential contributor to this variability is the
      potential trade-off between compensatory cognitive motor control strategies and the extent of
      procedural learning that can occur. Compensatory strategies adopted by patients may produce
      quick short-term increases in performance but retard slower sustained improvements by
      interfering with development of procedural learning. Consistent with this hypothesis, the
      investigators' previous work documents an increased reliance upon dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex during performance of learned skills post-stoke. However, the investigators' previous
      work also demonstrates that the effect of increased activity in dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex may limit reorganization in important areas involved in the consolidation of practice
      thereby limiting functional recovery post-stroke.

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation offers a unique opportunity to investigate the relationship
      between dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activity and consolidation of motor
      practice/rehabilitaion post-stroke. Here the investigators' objective is to determine whether
      suppression of the contralesional dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, with continuous theta burst
      transcranial magnetic brain stimulation (cTBS), a form of transcranial magnetic stimulation,
      prior to motor practice enhances brain reorganization in critical areas and leads to greater
      sustained improvements in motor ability over time.

      The proposed work will enhance the understanding of motor learning post-stroke and provide
      preliminary evidence for the benefits of dorsolateral prefrontal cTBS as an adjunct to
      current rehabilitation interventions.
    
  