
    
      Background:

      Contemporary randomized trials of transfemoral carotid artery stenting (TF CAS) and carotid
      endarterectomy (CEA) have shown comparable long-term ipsilateral stroke prevention (>30 days)
      but have consistently demonstrated higher periprocedural (< 30 day) stroke rates, including
      contralateral stroke, compared with CEA, with the highest risk centered around "day zero".
      Potential etiologies for this excess risk likely relate to embolization during unprotected
      catheterization of the aortic arch and supraaortic vessels from a TF approach and/or
      suboptimal distal embolic protection during CAS. TransCarotid Artery Revascularization (TCAR)
      combines the surgical principles of neuroprotection with minimally invasive endovascular
      techniques to treat stenosis in the carotid artery. It involves surgical exposure and
      clamping of the proximal common carotid artery with continuous carotid blood flow reversal
      via an extracorporeal arteriovenous shunt from the target carotid artery to a femoral vein,
      during which carotid bifurcation/internal carotid artery stenting is performed. Thus, TCAR
      avoids catheter manipulation in the aortic arch and emulates the "clamp and backbleed" method
      of neuroprotection during CEA, but differs from CEA in that the carotid artery is accessed
      through a smaller, supra-clavicular incision below the main plexus of cranial nerves.
      Further, the direct transcarotid approach allows the use of larger bore sheaths and tubing to
      achieve higher reverse carotid artery flow rates than is possible with smaller transfemoral
      catheters.

      Published TCAR Data:

      The initial study of TCAR in patients deemed to be at high risk for complications from CEA
      have shown that TCAR appears to provide superior stroke and death outcomes when compared to
      prior registry results from both CEA and TF CAS. Schermerhorn, et al reported outcomes from
      the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) Vascular Registry in high surgical risk patients and
      found that in this real world registry, the 30-day stroke and death rates in symptomatic
      patients for CEA and TF CAS were 6.4% and 7.9% respectively. (Citation: Schermerhorn) In
      asymptomatic, high risk patients, the 30-day stroke and death rates for CEA and TF CAS were
      3.7% and 4.8% respectively. In contrast, a recent study of TCAR (ROADSTER pivotal trial) ,
      the 30-day stroke and death rates for both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were 2.8%
      and 2.9%, respectively. (Citation: Kwolek) While these initial results of TCAR are
      encouraging, they involved only 114 patients in the pivotal trial, such that further
      evaluation is clearly important.

      Objective:

      The objective of the VQI TransCarotid Artery Revascularization Surveillance Project is to
      evaluate the safety and effectiveness of TCAR in real world practice, using a contemporaneous
      comparison with CEA. Stroke and death outcomes data in TCAR and CEA patients deemed to be at
      high risk for complications from CEA will be collected and analyzed using the SVS PSO CAS and
      CEA Registries. High surgical risk is defined according to the CMS criteria published in the
      National Coverage Determination for Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty (20.7) and listed
      in the inclusion criteria. The evaluation of these alternate strategies for surgical
      treatment of carotid artery disease is central to the mission of the SVS PSO.

      Methods:

      All high surgical risk patients treated with TCAR and CEA in the SVS PSO CAS and CEA
      Registries will be included and separately analyzed as symptomatic and asymptomatic, with
      symptomatic defined as a history of ipsilateral stroke, TIA and/or amaurosis fugax within 180
      days of the procedure. 30-day and one-year outcomes will be analyzed in propensity matched,
      risk adjusted cohorts. Any FDA-cleared proximal embolic protection device and FDA-approved
      carotid artery stent system indicated for the transcarotid approach will be included in the
      registry. Sites participating in VQI are audited for consecutive case submission by
      comparison with claims data. A Steering Committee within the SVS PSO will monitor the quality
      and completeness of submitted data, and adjudicate any questionable outcomes by querying
      sites for clarifying information. This committee will be responsible for scientific analysis
      and periodic publication of the results.
    
  