
    
      Double blind comparative randomized study with placebo in two phases:

      Phase I: I: A pilot study to asses the virologic efficacy in 30 patients will be done. They
      will be under the same HAART regimen, and they will be randomized to receive:

        1. Group I: HAART + PIT (n= 15)

        2. Group II: HAART + placebo (non-hyperimmune plasma) (n= 15)

      Passive immunotherapy will consist in 500 cc of inactivated plasma with methylene-blue
      (standard inactivation method) from asymptomatic patients in early phases of the infection. A
      transfusion will be done, and a complete blood test including viral load and CD4+-T cell
      counts will be done at days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28. The non-hyperimmune plasma (Group II) will
      be inactivated by the same method.

      A second dose of hyperimmune plasma and placebo (Group I and Group II respectively) will be
      administered at +1 month from the beginning of the trial.

      A complete blood test including viral load and CD4+-T cell counts will be done at month +2,
      +3 and +4.

      Phase II: 30 patients under the same HAART regimen will be randomized to receive:

        1. Group I: HAART + PIT (n= 15)

        2. Group II: HAART + placebo (non-hyperimmune plasma) (n= 15)

      Passive immunotherapy will consist in 500 cc of inactivated plasma with methylene-blue
      (standard inactivation method) from asymptomatic patients in early phases of the infection,
      guided by the neutralization capacity of the plasma donors over the virus' receptor . A
      transfusion will be done, and a complete blood test including viral load and CD4+-T cell
      counts will be done at days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28. The non-hyperimmune plasma (Group II) will
      be inactivated by the same method.

      A second dose of hyperimmune plasma and placebo (Group I and Group II respectively) will be
      administered at +1 month from the beginning of the phase II.

      The patients will remain under HAART the next year. A complete clinical examination, and a
      blood test that includes hemogram and biochemical parameters (renal and hepatic function),
      and viral load will be done each month. Every three months, a CD4+/CD8+ T cell count will be
      done, and it will be obtained plasma and serum from each patient.

      Additionally, a genotype and a virtual phenotype of the HIV will be obtained at the beginning
      and at the end of the study.

      Study end-points:

      -Main end-point: Phase I: proportion of patients who reduce their plasma viral load > or = 1
      log after two infusions of hyperimmune plasma.

      Phase II: proportion of patients who reduce their plasma viral load > or = 1 log after a
      year.

      - Secondary end-points:

        1. Proportion of patients whose CD4+ T cell count is over 100 cells/mm3 after a year.

        2. Proportion of patients whose p24-antigenemia is below the limits of detection.

        3. Number of mutations conferring resistance to antiretrovirals at the end of the study
           compared to the mutations at the beginning.

        4. Type C events.

        5. Death.

        6. Toxicity.

        7. Adherence.
    
  