
    
      Hypotheses/Research questions:

      H1: There will be a significant decrease in emotion-regulation difficulties (DERS) and
      interpersonal problems from T1 to T2.

      Exploratory: Examine the difference in interpersonal problems and DERS among different
      sub-groups before and after the COVID-19 pandemic

      H2: Higher level at T1 and less reduction from T1 to T2 in emotion-regulation difficulties
      and interpersonal problems will be associated with less reduction in anxiety and depression
      from T1 to T2, above and beyond, demographic variables (age, gender, education).

      Exploratory: Explore the different octants of IIP as predictors of changes for anxiety and
      depression.

      This study is part of 'The Norwegian COVID-19, Mental Health and Adherence Project',
      involving multiple studies.

      Statistical models:

      Repeated surveys like the present one typically have high drop-out and substantial missing
      data. Therefore, we will use mixed models instead of paired t-tests, repeated measures
      ANOVAs, and ordinary linear regression to analyze the data. Mixed models use maximum
      likelihood estimation, which is the state of the art approach to handle missing data (Schafer
      & Graham, 2002). Especially if data are missing at random, which is likely in our survey,
      mixed models give more unbiased results than the other analytic methods (O'Connel et al.,
      2017).

      In preliminary analyses, and for each of the dependent variables (GAD-7 and PHQ-9, DERS ,
      IIP), the combination of random effects and covariance structure of residuals that gives the
      best fit for the "empty" model (the model without fixed predictors except the intercept) will
      be chosen. Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) will used to compare the fit of different
      models. Models that give a reduction in AIC greater than 2 will be considered better (Burnham
      & Anderson, 2004). The program SPSS 25.0 will be used (IBM Corp, 2018).

      First, H1 about decrease in DERS and IIP, GAD-7 and PHQ will be tested by using anxiety or
      depression as dependent variable in a model using time (T1 period = 0, T2 period = 1) as a
      predictor. Second, demographic group variables will be added as predictors. Third, the
      initial (T1) levels of DERS and IIP as constant covariates will be added, together with the
      interactions of these constant covariates with time. These interactions represent tests of H2
      about the covariates predicting change in anxiety and depression. Finally, the T2 levels of
      DERS and IIP as constant covariates will be added, together with the interactions of these
      constant covariates with time. These interactions represent tests of H2 about the change in
      the covariates from T1 to T2 predicting change in anxiety and depression from T1 to T2s.

      Transformations Depending on degree of skewness compared to theoretical possibilities and
      interpretations, variables will be assessed in their original and validated format as is
      recommended practice, as long as this is possible. As this study examines psychopathology
      levels amongst a general population (and not a clinical population), we do expect a skewed
      data. We will attempt to assess these variables in their original and validated format as is
      recommended practice, as long as this is possible. However, if this is not possible to the
      statistical assumptions behind the analyses, transformation may be needed to apply
      interval-based methods. Alternatively a non-parametric test will be used.

      Inference criteria

      Given the large sample size in this study, we pre-define our significance level:

      p < 0.01 to determine significance

      Missing data Maximum likelihood

      Sensitivity analyses Sensitivity analyses will be conducted after selecting a random sample
      of participants to reflect the proportion of subgroups in the Norwegian adult population.

      Exploratory:

      Questions addressed in the future paper which is not pre-specified will be defined as
      exploratory.
    
  