
    
      This was a long-term, open-label, multi-cycle extension study for patients in the Phase 3
      study TR02-108 and TR02-109 who had successfully completed the 168-day study period and met
      study safety criteria. As this was a safety and tolerability long-term extension study, no
      sample size calculations were performed. All patients who completed TR02-108, were compliant
      with the study protocol, and did not meet any of the criteria listed for study
      discontinuation (safety reasons or non-compliance) were able to participate in this
      open-label study.

      The end of study visit for TR02-108 was to serve as the baseline study visit (Day 1) for
      TR02-110 if the patient had signed the informed consent at least 4 days prior to the end of
      study visit and met all safety criteria for TR02-110. If the end of study visit was not used
      as the baseline visit, a separate baseline visit (Day 1) was to be performed within 14 days
      of completing TR02-108.

      Patients were to receive a delivered dose of 590 mg LAI QD via a PARI Investigational eFlow®
      Nebulizer System (eFlow®) for 28 days followed by a 28-day off-treatment period. This cycle
      (28 days on treatment, 28 days off treatment) was to be repeated for up to 12 cycles. The
      study was implemented as 2 consecutive extension periods, each consisting of 48 weeks
      (approximately 12 months). Patients were re-consented for the second extension period at the
      completion of the first extension period. The total study period was up to 96 weeks
      (approximately 2 years).

      During the first 28 days of treatment, patients were evaluated at the study site bi-weekly
      for safety, tolerability and efficacy. Thereafter, for the duration of the study, patients
      were evaluated at the study site on the first and last days of dosing during the on-treatment
      periods. During the study, starting with the off-treatment period of Cycle 1, patients were
      contacted by telephone once during every 28-day period to assess safety. A final site visit
      occurred 28 days after last dose of LAI. Arikace™, Arikayce™,Liposomal Amikacin for
      Inhalation (LAI), and Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension (ALIS) may be used
      interchangeably throughout this study and other studies evaluating amikacin liposome
      inhalation suspension.
    
  