
    
      This is a phase I patient-individualized multi-peptide vaccination study in combination with
      the novel TLR1/2 ligand XS15 in CLL patients under ibrutinib treatment and based on the
      following rationale:

      With the development and clinical success of targeted therapies, the treatment landscape for
      CLL, which is the most common leukemia in adults, has faced profound changes in the recent
      years. The disease control achieved by ibrutinib, an inhibitor of the Brutons tyrosine kinase
      (BTK), has led to its approval as first line therapy. However, in most cases only partial
      remissions are achieved, and so far perpetual ibrutinib treatment bearing the risk of side
      effects and development of drug resistance is required. Therefore, current efforts are
      focusing on the further reduction/elimination of residual CLL cells to allow for reduced
      treatment time as well as the achievement of long-lasting remissions. A rational and
      promising approach to achieve this goal is peptide-based immunotherapy, which represents a
      low side-effect treatment relying on specific immune recognition of tumor-associated HLA
      presented peptides. Several peptide vaccination studies have reported promising result in
      terms of in vivo immunogenicity, but so far lacked broad clinical responses. This likely is
      due to several so far unmet prerequisites for clinical effective peptide vaccination,
      including the selection of antigens, adjuvants, combinatorial drugs and vaccination time
      points.

      The investigators here adresse these issues as follows:

      The reportedly distorted relationship of gene expression and HLA-restricted presentation of
      the corresponding gene product requires direct methods for peptide target identification for
      vaccination approaches. This is realized by mass spectrometry-based analysis of the entirety
      of naturally presented HLA ligands, termed the HLA ligandome of cancer cells. In the recent
      years, the investigators worked intensively on the characterization of such TAA in HM based
      on the direct isolation of naturally presented HLA class I and II ligands from leukemia cells
      and the subsequent identification by mass spectrometry. To allow for the timely and
      cost-effective production of personalized vaccine cocktail for patients in clinical studies
      based on HLA ligandome analyses, the investigators have established a so called "warehouse
      concept" providing premanufactured highly frequent TAA for the formulation of personalized
      vaccine cocktails. The feasibility of such a warehouse concept, which is utilized in the
      iVAC-XS15-CLL01 study, was already proven by the investigator's first clinical peptide
      vaccination study (iVAC-CLL01, NCT02802943). The warehouse has been built based on
      comprehensive HLA ligandome analysis of CLL cells and composites of a modified cocktail used
      for the iVAC-CLL01 study as described above. On basis of the individual HLA allotype and a
      HLA ligandome analysis of CLL cells of the respective patient, 10 tumor-associated peptides
      are selected from the peptide warehouse. The so-called CLL peptide cocktails (drug substance)
      are designed to trigger the cellular part of the patients' immune system by activation of
      CLL-specific T cells. Once activated, these cells can destroy malignant cells presenting the
      respective antigens. Applying several CLL-associated antigens simultaneously increases the
      likelihood that a multi-clonal, broad and at the same time highly specific T-cell response is
      mounted, therebypreventing potential tumor escape mechanisms.

      Besides the selection of optimal antigen targets, a further important prerequisite is the use
      of suitable adjuvant drugs capable to induce potent and long-lasting immune responses. The
      investigators will use the novel TLR1/2 ligand (XS15, developed in Tübingen) that (i) is
      water-soluble and (ii) GMP-amenable, (iii) non-toxic and (iv) effective in inducing T cells
      specific for peptides in vivo.

      Another important factor for the clinical effectiveness of peptide-based immunotherapy is the
      rational combination with standard therapies. In this iVAC-XS15-CLL01 trial, peptide
      vaccination will be applied in CLL patients under ibrutinib treatment which have achieved at
      least a partial remission. The remission stage or, even better, the stage of MRD ensures an
      optimal effector to target cell ratio for peptide-based immunotherapy, as most of the tumor
      cells are eliminated and the T-cell compartment is recovered. Notably, several studies have
      proven that ibrutinib does not impair and even can show positive effects on T-cell response.
    
  