
    
      The objective is to conduct treatment in a minimally invasive manner (using the endoscope)
      and without the requirement for repeated doses of chemotherapy. The single dose of the drug
      used (15,000 IU/m2 x Body Surface Area of bleomycin) has been well tolerated in all patients
      treated previously with this approach to skin based cancers (in excess of 300 treatments
      since 2003 in our hospital). Therefore, it is anticipated that patients are unlikely to
      suffer side effects from the low concentration of drug used.

      There are no known side effects of the instrument being tested. The pulse generator used has
      been certified by European electrical safety bodies charged with assessing compliance of new
      equipment with the present security rules for electrical devices. The electrical pulse
      generator has the CE mark and is approved for use clinically; the endoscopic electrodes used
      are a prototype system and are not currently CE approved.

      The treatment is provided on an outpatient basis and does not involve an overnight stay. The
      procedure is very similar to a colonoscopy examination with the added element of a low dose
      chemotherapy drug being injected intravenously.

      It reduces operative time; therefore there are fewer anaesthetic risks

      At this time, the only option for patients with inoperable colorectal cancers is symptom
      relief e.g. a defunctioning colostomy or stent placement. Both carry a risk profile greater
      than the treatment with the EndoVe system.

      Quicker recovery time- This is beneficial for the patient in terms of reduced exposure to the
      hospital environment through a shorter in-patient stay.

      Research: The potential benefits of studying novel medical instruments in general include the
      development of new alternatives to conventional or existing therapies for certain cancers. In
      particular, the widespread availability of the novel instrument being tested here may lessen
      the requirement for more invasive procedures. It will reduce the amount of chemotherapy drug
      being used, therefore reducing the systemic effects as well as the side effects.

      The approach is currently being applied to inoperable cases but in the future it may
      potentially be applied to both earlier stage cancers and other internal cancers e.g.
      oesophagus, stomach etc.

      Because the treatment procedure is short (outpatient basis), it allows these patients greater
      time outside of the hospital environment to maximise and allowing for a greater quality of
      life (this for both individual patient and community at large).

      If this treatment approach is proven to be safe and effective, patients with inoperable
      colorectal cancers will have a minimally invasive option for palliation of symptoms.
    
  