
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of nivolumab with intracranial radiation
      and ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and intracranial radiation in non-small cell
      lung cancer (NSCLC) with brain metastasis. (Phase I) II. To determine the RP2D of nivolumab
      in combination with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). (Phase I) III. To determine the RP2D of
      nivolumab in combination with whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT). (Phase I) IV. To
      determine the RP2D of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and SRS. (Phase I) V. To
      determine the RP2D of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and WBRT. (Phase I) VI. To
      estimate the 4-month intracranial progression free survival overall and within each treatment
      group; nivolumab and SRS; nivolumab and WBRT; nivolumab + ipilimumab and SRS; nivolumab +
      ipilimumab and WBRT. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the potential neurocognitive changes in all treatment groups using the Hopkins
      Verbal Learning Revised (HVLT-R) total recall test. (Phase II) II. To estimate the rate of
      extracranial progression overall and within each treatment group. (Phase II) III. To estimate
      overall survival overall and within each treatment group. (Phase II) IV. To estimate the
      objective response rate of extracranial disease among all groups and within each treatment
      group. (Phase II) V. To estimate the duration of treatment response extracranially in
      patients who achieve an objective response. (Phase II) VI. To estimate steroid requirements
      in patients overall and within each treatment group. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of nivolumab followed by a phase II study.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes every 2 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo SRS once the day
      after nivolumab administration.

      GROUP B: Patients then receive nivolumab as in Group A. Patients undergo WBRT once daily for
      10 days.

      GROUP C: Patients receive nivolumab as in Group A and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 6
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo SRS
      once the day after nivolumab administration.

      GROUP D: Patients receive nivolumab as in Group A and ipilimumab as in Group C. Patients
      undergo WBRT once daily for 10 days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12
      weeks for up to 1 year.
    
  