
    
      1. Study design:

           This is a case study, including up to 10 patients with EPC or refractory SE that are
           admitted to the service in the coming 5 years.

           If circumstances permit so, a baseline evaluation of seizure frequency over 1 week and a
           24-hour baseline EEG registration will be obtained, as well as a baseline clinical
           neurologic exam. In case of therapeutic urgency, these baseline measurements will be
           omitted.

           The treatment itself consists of multiple stimulation sessions over multiple days,
           decided upon based on patient characteristics and the obtained effects. In absence of
           the desired effect, treatment will be repeated during 5 consecutive days at most.

           Patients will be followed-up clinically and electrographically. In case of therapeutic
           success, the treatment can be repeated over time when seizures reoccur.

        2. Objectives:

           The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of rTMS on the clinical
           status of patients with continuous refractory focal seizures (either EPC or SE). A
           beneficial effect on clinical status is defined as a decrease in seizure frequency or an
           interruption of continuous electrographic epileptiform activity, as well as an
           improvement in consciousness or other cortical functions that are disturbed by the EPC
           or SE (motor function, speech,...).

           As a secondary objective, the duration of the induced therapeutic effect will be
           evaluated, as well as the effect of rTMS on epileptiform discharges and the associated
           side effects and tolerability of the treatment.

        3. Stimulation:

           The exact stimulation protocol will be decided upon case per case, based on similar
           reports in literature. The optimal stimulation protocol is currently unknown.

        4. Rationale:

      Patients with EPC often have a high number of debilitating seizures per day that are hard to
      control with anti-epileptic medication. Some cases of SE also do not respond to standard care
      and require heavy sedation of the patient.

      Some of these patient may benefit from treatment with rTMS, which is painless, non-invasive
      and safe and can be administered at bedside. Moreover, in patients with EPC en SE, the
      (almost) continuous ictal activity allows an immediate effect evaluation.
    
  