
    
      Donor Description:

      Before taking part in this study, donors will have an evaluation that is the standard for any
      bone marrow or blood stem cell donor. These include standard blood tests, an
      electrocardiogram (EKG), and a chest X-ray. Donors will also be given a general health
      questionnaire that is given to all blood donors in the United States. It should take no more
      than 10 minutes to complete the questionnaire.

      Donors in this study will receive standard mobilization therapy with daily G-CSF every 12
      hours. The Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) will be given as an injection under
      the skin. The mobilization phase starts on the first day that donors receive G-CSF and
      continues until the final day of the stem cell collection process (leukapheresis).

      Donors in this study will receive Neupogen (white blood cell growth factor) to stimulate the
      immature blood cells. They will receive two injections, twice a day for four days. On the
      fourth day, assuming they have enough immature white blood cells, researchers will start the
      stem cell collection process (leukapheresis).

      The stem cell collection will go from 1 to 4 days until enough immature cells have been
      collected, but will not be done on any day the donor's platelet count falls below 75,000. The
      stem cell is called a CD34(+) cell. These cells will then be processed over a cell-processing
      machine to try to purify the immature fraction of cells and remove the T-lymphocytes that are
      part of the fatal graft versus host disease. The T-cell is called a CD3(+) cell.

      Leukapheresis, with later CD34(+) cell selection, will start on the day when circulating
      CD34(+) count is at a high enough level. Leukapheresis will continue until the appropriate
      count is reached. If the CD3(+) count is too high, adjustments will be made.

      For those donors who cannot reach the collection goal in one series of collection attempts,
      researchers will wait until the donor recovers from the first stem cell collection and try
      again. If the donor is unable to reach the collection goal again, another attempt will be
      made with a different donor.

      The blood thinner used for the procedure will be acid citrate dextrose (ACD). Heparin may be
      substituted when clinically needed. No additional blood thinners or additives should be added
      beyond those normally used during leukapheresis. A unique identification and labeling system
      shall be used to track the leukapheresis product from collection to infusion.

      Samples will be taken from each leukapheresis product pre- and post-selection for quality
      analysis.

      This is an investigational study. No more than 90 donors will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      Recipient Description:

      Before taking part in this study, recipients will have standard evaluations to determine the
      stage of their disease. These may include bone marrow aspirations and biopsies and if
      necessary, CT scans and chest x-rays. All recipients will go through cardiopulmonary
      evaluation.

      The recipients will have an allogeneic bone marrow transplant with pre-treatment of thiotepa,
      fludarabine, melphalan, and antithymocyte globulin. This will be followed by infusion of the
      peripheral blood progenitor cells.

      Recipients will have daily follow-up exams in the hospital. Recipients will be evaluated at
      least one to five times per week after they leave until Day 100. After that, they will have
      evaluations at least once every three months until about one year and then once every six
      months.

      The CliniMACS device is being provided by used of an investigational device exemption for the
      FDA. Without the CliniMACS device, this procedure would not be possible.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 40 patients will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  