
    
      The International Society of Peritoneal Dialysis (ISPD) guideline suggest to use combination
      of antibiotics to cover both of gram positive and gram negative bacteria. The usual regimen
      in Thailand is cefazolin plus ceftazidime. Despite combination therapy, monotherapy is also
      possible for empirical treatment of CAPD-associated peritonitis since it helps to lowering
      staff burden and lowering risk of contamination. Cefepime could be an ideal antibiotic for
      empirical treatment of CAPD-associated peritonitis as it is an extended-spectrum
      cephalosporin, forth generation, covering most of gram positive and gram negative bacteria.
      In addition, cefepime is not broken down by many of the beta-lactamases and less
      beta-lactamases inducer. This study aims to prove the noninferiority of cefepime monotherapy
      to cefazolin plus ceftazidime for empirical treatment of CAPD-associated peritonitis.

      CAPD-associated peritonitis was diagnosed by at least two of the following criteria:
      abdominal pain or cloudy peritoneal dialysis fluid (PDF); PDF white cell count > 100/μL with
      > 50% polymorphonuclear(PMN); and positive gram stain or culture. The patients were
      randomized into two groups by block of four randomization, sealed envelope. Treatment group
      was treated with intraperitoneal (IP) cefepime 1 g loading following by maintenance dose 250
      mg IP all exchanges. Control group was treated with cefazolin 1 g IP loading and ceftazidime
      1 g IP loading following by maintenance dose of cefazolin and ceftazidime 250 mg IP all
      exchanges. If a patient had residual urine ≥ 100 ml/day, dose of antibiotics would be
      increased by 25%.

      On the first day, the initial blood tests for complete blood count, electrolyte, BUN,
      creatinine, calcium, phosphate and magnesium were obtained. While peritoneal dialysis fluid
      were collected using two methods of bacterial culture, both of centrifugation of 50 ml
      peritoneal dialysis fluid at 3,000 g for 15 minutes and bedside 5-10 ml of peritoneal
      dialysis fluid inoculated into the blood culture bottles. PDF gram stain and bacterial
      culture were done. The patients were followed on day 3, 5, 10, 14, 21 and 28 days after the
      completion of antibiotic course. If clinical improved, the antibiotics would be adjusted
      according to the culture result and sensitivity after day 5. If clinical not improved the
      antibiotics would be step up and Tenckhoff catheter removal was considered (on any day of
      treatment). The patients were treated at least 14 days or 21 days depend on the culture
      result (as the recommendation of ISPD guideline 2010).
    
  