
    
      Seven clinically stable patients who have been undergoing CPD for at least six months will be
      admitted to the General Clinical and Research Center (GCRC) at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center for
      46 days. During this time they will be fed, under strict metabolic balance study conditions,
      a constant energy and protein intake designed to meet their previously ascertained
      nutritional needs. Their dietary intakes of phosphorus, calcium and magnesium will be
      maintained constant throughout the 46 days of study at 1100 mg/day, 1000 mg/day and 200
      mg/day, respectively. Patients will be treated throughout the study with a constant
      peritoneal dialysis regimen that consists of either continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis
      with four dialysate exchanges daily or automated peritoneal dialysis in which they will each
      receive about four dialysate exchanges per night; and possibly day-time dialysate exchanges.
      The number and volume of dialysate exchanges and the dialysate glucose concentration may vary
      among patients according to their metabolic and clinical needs, but will be constant for each
      patient. Patients will adhere to standard metabolic balance protocols as the investigators
      have conducted during our many previous metabolic balance studies. These protocols will
      include participating in prescribed daily exercise regimens that are designed to maintain the
      patients' physical activity at their prestudy, outpatient levels.

      All patients will first undergo a 10 day Baseline period for metabolic equilibration during
      which time they will not receive any phosphate binder. They will then receive three periods
      of Fosrenol treatment with three different dose levels for 12 days each. During each of three
      periods, the patients will receive, in random order, one or two Fosrenol tablets that will
      provide 500, 1000, or 1500 mg with each of the three meals that they will be fed each day.
      Thus these CPD patients will receive in random order 1500, 3000 and 4500 mg/day of Fosrenol
      each prescribed for one 12 day period.

      Outcome Measurements. All urine, collected in 24 hour urine specimens, and all feces
      excreted, collected over four day periods, will be obtained continuously. Every 4 days a
      duplicate 24 hour diet will be prepared for chemical analyses. The above specimens will be
      analyzed for phosphorus, calcium and nitrogen by spectrographic, atomic absorption
      spectroscopic and Kjeldahl analyses, respectively. Serum phosphorus, calcium, parathyroid
      hormone (PTH), fibroblast growth factor-23, 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25(OH)D3),
      1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25(OH)2D3), fetuin-A, urea and creatinine will be measured
      in the fasting state at the beginning of the 40 day balance period and every 5 days.
      Anthropometry and other standard measurements that are routinely conducted during metabolic
      balance procedures will also be performed.
    
  