
    
      NVP has several properties that make it an attractive candidate for antiretroviral therapy to
      interrupt HIV-1 transmission in the intrapartum and early postpartum period. The
      pharmacokinetic profile suggests that NVP would be rapidly absorbed by the mother and
      transferred to the infant in utero when given during labor and delivery. The HIV-1 antiviral
      activity is rapid with significant reduction in plasma virus occurring within a few days of
      drug administration. In addition, NVP has been shown to penetrate cell-free virions and
      inactivate virion-associated reverse transcriptase (RT) in situ. This property would be
      potentially useful in inactivating cell-free virions in the genital tract as well as in
      breast milk. These characteristics of NVP suggest that treatment of an HIV-infected pregnant
      woman in labor with an oral dose of NVP may provide a prophylactic level of NVP in the infant
      during the time of exposure to virus in the birth canal and/or in the maternal blood. In
      addition, NVP may inactivate the virion-associated RT present in cell-free virions in the
      genital tract or breast milk.

      Mothers are randomized to receive either a single oral dose of NVP during labor or the
      corresponding NVP placebo. Randomization occurs at any time after the 28th week of gestation.
      To assure balance between the treatment groups, the randomization is stratified using 2
      factors: (1) antiretroviral therapy during the current pregnancy (no antiretroviral therapy
      at all, monotherapy [with no multi-agent therapy] for any duration, or multi-agent therapy
      for any duration), and (2) CD4 cell count at the time of randomization (less than 200 cells,
      200 to 399 cells, or 400 cells or greater). Mothers are followed on-study for 4 to 6 weeks
      postpartum. All mothers are required to incorporate zidovudine (ZDV) into their current
      treatment regimen and should continue ZDV during delivery and give ZDV to their infants as
      recommended. ZDV will not be provided as part of the study.

      Infants receive a single oral dose of NVP (or the corresponding placebo) administered between
      48 and 72 hours of life. The infant's study drug is the same as the mother's randomized
      treatment assignment. Infants are dosed with study drug according to their randomization
      group regardless of whether the mother received study drug or not. Infants are followed for 6
      months of life and are tested for HIV at birth, 4 to 6 weeks of life, 3 months of life, and 6
      months of life.
    
  