
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the 3-year progression-free survival of patients with relapsed or refractory
           aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with high-dose chemotherapy and autologous
           hematopoietic stem cell transplantation with or without involved-field radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare 3-year progression-free disease within and outside radiotherapy fields in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      response to pre-salvage chemotherapy (primary refractory disease vs relapse), response to
      post-salvage chemotherapy (complete/unconfirmed complete vs partial), and participating
      center. Within 6-8 weeks after completion of autologous hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT) 5 days a week for 3-5 weeks
           in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo observation only. Quality of life in arm I is assessed at
           baseline, on day 1 of IFRT, at weeks 2 and 4 during IFRT, at 1 month, 4 months, every 3
           months for 2 years, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for 2 years. Quality of
           life in arm II is assessed at baseline, 1 month, 2 months, every 3 months for 2 years,
           every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for 2 years.

      Patients are followed at 1 month, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 1 year, and
      then annually for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 230 patients (115 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4.2 years.
    
  