
    
      The prevalence of detrusor underactivity/ underactive bladder (DU/UAB) increased with age,
      which is 9-28% in young men (<50 years), and is up to 48% in the elderly men (>70 years) with
      non-neurogenic lower urinary tract symptoms. In women aged >70 years, the prevalence of DU
      ranged from 12% to 45%. Currently, there is a lack of effective pharmacological or surgical
      treatment of DU/UAB. Previously we demonstrated that extracoporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT)
      was able to mediate a partial recovery in the contractility of cryoinjury induced DU/UAB
      model in rats. Wang et al. reported the therapeutic effect of ESWT in the streptozotocin
      induced diabetic underactive bladder rat model with significantly improved voiding function,
      enhanced detrusor contractility, increased muscle actin expression and muscle proportion of
      the bladder wall, and recovery of neuronal integrity and innervations. Taken together, these
      findings suggest that a potential clinical benefit of ESWT treatment for patients with
      DU/UAB.

      A total of 60 patients with DU/UAB will be enrolled to receive ESWT once a week for 6 weeks
      or placebo treatment. Patients with DU/UAB symptoms with post void residual (PVR) ≥ 100 mL
      and proven of DU/UAB without bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) by urodynamic study. Patients
      should not have uncontrolled acute urinary tract infection, and should not have treated with
      an investigational device, drug, or procedure for UAB within the last 3 months. Retreatment
      with ESWT at 3 months if patient reports ineffective will be allowed.

      Primary end-point is the change of PVR volume (mL) from baseline to 1 month after treatment.
      Secondary endpoints include daily frequency, nocturia and FBC as record in 3-day voiding
      diary, Qmax, Pdet@Qmax, voided volume, PVR and global response assessment (GRA). One visit is
      required at baseline screening (before first treatment), treatment 1 (V1), treatment 2 (V2),
      treatment 3 (V3), treatment 4 (V4), treatment 5 (V5), treatment 6 (V6) and 1 month post V6
      treatment (V7, primary end-point), and 3 months post V6 treatment (V8). Urine samples will be
      collected at each time-point for NGF and cytokines tests. Cystoscopy bladder biopsy will be
      performed at baseline and at 3 months post treatment, optional.
    
  