
    
      The primary goals of this project are to: 1) develop and validate a rapid, portable,
      cost-effective, screening method for sarcopenia using diagnostic ultrasound (US), and 2)
      determine if the US screening method provides viable estimates of intramuscular adipose
      tissue (IMAT) since muscle tissue age-related changes in muscle composition are associated
      with low muscle torque and metabolic dysfunction. The proposed US screening method may be
      used as a proxy measure of LBM and provide estimates of skeletal muscle composition that
      relate to IMAT, lipid metabolism, insulin homeostasis and inflammation - important factors
      that may impact impaired mobility and metabolic dysfunction in older African American
      Veterans.

      Aim 1:

      Determine the association between a proxy measure of LBM obtained via portable, diagnostic,
      musculoskeletal US and LBM as determined by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA).

      The working hypothesis is that a 6-muscle model of LBM derived from US and DXA LBM values
      will exhibit a significant positive association and attain a coefficient of determination >
      .80.

      Aim 2:

      Determine the association between US echointensity features and IMAT as determined by CT
      scan.

      US echointensity values will be acquired from the rectus femoris and analyzed to determine
      the association with IMAT. The working hypothesis is that higher echointensity values
      measured with grayscale analysis will be negatively associated with the Hounsfield units
      obtained from the CT scan (p < .05).

      Aim 3:

      Examine the association between US echointensity values and biologic factors that impair
      insulin sensitivity.

      Excessive IMAT and intra-myocellular triglyceride levels result in increased levels of
      biologic factors such as inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α and IL-6), which may affect insulin
      sensitivity. The investigators hypothesis is that proxy measures of IMAT via echointensity
      values will be positively associated with biomarkers of inflammation and insulin homeostasis.
    
  