
    
      Background:

        -  Birt-Hogg-Dube (BHD) is a hereditary cancer syndrome with clinical manifestations
           including cutaneous fibrofolliculomas, lung cysts/pneumothorax, and renal cell carcinoma
           (RCC). RCC occurs in approximately 30% of patients with BHD. It presents at an early age
           of onset and is commonly bilateral and multifocal.

        -  Tumors associated with BHD can have variable histology, however approximately 85% of
           these tumors have a chromophobe component (either alone or part of a hybrid tumor mixed
           with elements of oncocytoma).

        -  The current management includes surgical resection with partial nephrectomy when tumors
           reach 3 cm. While significant morbidity can be associated with repeat, partial
           nephrectomy with this approach, most patients can maintain renal function and do not
           develop systemic disease. There are no proven systemic therapy options for BHD to date.

        -  Germline mutations in the gene Folliculin (FLCN) are the genetic hallmark of BHD and can
           be found in greater than 90% of patients. FLCN is believed to function like a classic
           tumor suppressor gene with a second hit in the wild type allele (somatic mutation or
           loss of heterozygosity) occurring in the majority of renal tumors.

        -  BHD is in the family of hamartomatous disorders similar to Tuberous Sclerosis Complex
           (TSC) and Cowden Syndrome, and studies have found activation of the phosphoinositide
           3-kinase (PI3K)/mTOR pathway in BHD renal tumors. FLCN is believed be part of a complex
           that interacts with 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and is involved with
           regulation of mTOR activity. In vitro and in vivo models of FLCN loss demonstrate
           activation of both mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) and mTOR complex 2 (mTORC2).

        -  Preclinical data from conditional FLCN knockout mice demonstrate that treatment with
           sirolimus can reverse renal manifestations.

        -  We hypothesize that mTOR inhibition with everolimus treatment will be clinically active
           in BHD associated RCC.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the overall response rate with everolimus treatment in subjects with
      BHD-associated renal tumors.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) associated with Birt-Hogg-Dube Syndrome (BHD).

      Design:

        -  This is an open label, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of everolimus
           therapy in patients with BHD associated renal tumors. Up to 16 evaluable patients will
           be enrolled.

        -  Tumor response rate will be measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
           (RECIST) and efficacy analysis will be done.

        -  Secondary endpoints will evaluate growth rates (cm/year) while on therapy.

        -  Additionally, reduction in the size of lung cysts and cutaneous fibrofolliculomas will
           be evaluated.
    
  