
    
      Progestogen-only pills (POP) prevent pregnancy by thickening the mucus in the cervix to stop
      sperm reaching an egg and assumed to increase Fallopian tubal peristalsis so the fertilized
      oocyte reaches the endometrial cavity too early for implantation. However, this assumption
      has no scientific documentation so far. We succeeded to document visualization of peristalsis
      of the proximal part of the Fallopian tubes and anatomic tubal patency as well (Darwish test)
      via hysteroscopy.

      Aim of study: to evaluate Darwish test (office hysteroscopic bubble suction test and proximal
      tubal peristalsis) in women using minipills.

      Intervention:

      It will include women using any form of minipills (Desogestrel 75 µg, or Norethisterone 350
      µg) complaining from abnormal uterine bleeding in the form of menorrhagia, metorrhagia,
      intermenstrual spotting or or postcoital bleeding. They will be assigned as group A. Group B
      will include women subjected to office hysteroscopy for different indications but not using
      any form of hormones or systemic or local hormonal contraception. Preoperative counseling of
      all patients followed by an informed written consent taken from those who will agree. The
      included patients subjected to complete history taking and meticulous physical examination. A
      suspected pregnancy, heavy vaginal bleeding, active pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), severe
      co-morbidity, e.g., severe cardiac, neurologic, or chest disease, and other medical
      contraindications to pregnancy will be exclusion criteria of this study. Selected cases will
      be subjected to office hysteroscopy.

      Sample size calculation is based on our previous study on the prevalence of tubal peristalsis
      seen via hysteroscopy. If it is supposed that tubal peristalsis would be positive in about
      40% of apparently normal FT and it would be positive in about 80% of cases taking minipills,
      sample size in each group would be 73 cases in each group. This means 73 or more
      measurements/surveys are needed to have a confidence level of 90% that the real value is
      within ±5% of the measured/surveyed value ( α error of 0.05 (the real value is within ±5% of
      the measured/surveyed value). The vulva, vagina and the thighs will be disinfected with a 10%
      povidone-iodine solution. Sterile draping will be applied.

      Office diagnostic hysteroscopy will be performed using a 2.6 mm 30° rigid scope with a 3.2mm
      outer sheath (Karl Storz, Tutlingen, Germany). At the beginning in all cases vaginoscopic
      approach is tried but if any difficulty will be encountered, grasping of the anterior lip of
      cervix with a volsellum will be done. Thereafter, the uterus will be distended with normal
      saline at 100-150 mmHg generated from a pneumatic cuff of sphygmomanometer wrapped around the
      500-cm3 infusion bottle. As attached to a 250-W Xenon light source, the scope will be
      introduced gently through the cervical canal and internal os. To perfectly perform
      hysteroscopic Darwish test the following tricks should be followed. Clear view of the
      endometrial cavity should be achieved on panoramic view by placing the hysteroscope at
      internal os waiting for a while to achieve homogenous distension. The uterine cavity should
      be systematically examined starting by its anterior and posterior walls, the fundus, and the
      borders. Examination will be considered complete if the both tubal ostia will be reached
      describing any gross pathology, e.g., septum, adhesions, polyp(s), myoma, and any growth.

      Prerequisites for a successful access to evaluate fallopian tubes via hysteroscopy include
      utilization of a 300 telescope with gaining skill of its rotation to reach both cornea and
      most importantly orientation with a fundamental anatomic triad (Darwish triad) (DT). The most
      proximal corneal fine wide circle is the ostium (the end of the endometrial cavity)
      representing a base of a cone which is followed by a shallow conical groove (the first
      millimeters of the intramural part of FT). Finally, a distal pinhole dark spot (the narrowest
      part of the FT) representing the tip of the cone. Putting DT (ostium, intramural part and
      dark spot) in mind is the key step to evaluate tubal patency and physiology via hysteroscopy.
      If DT is clearly accessible, the hysteroscopist should comment on this. If there are some
      osteal lesions like tiny polyp(s) or fine adhesions that may hinder proper evaluation of the
      tubal anatomy and physiology, the hysteroscopist should notice and document. Passage of any
      air bubbles in the irrigating fluid towards DT is reported. If no observed air bubbles, the
      hysteroscopist should inject just 2 ml of air into the rubber end of the sterile infusion
      set. Hysteroscopic bubble suction test is considered positive if air bubbles are sucked by DT
      within 1 min. During this period, neither injection of air nor increased pressure will be
      done. If no suction of gas bubbles occurred, the examiner should wait for 1 min more to
      exclude tubal spasm. Again, if no suction of the bubbles by DT and their accumulation at the
      corneal end, the test will be considered negative. Simultaneously, careful visualization of
      any change in the shape of the ostium and intramural part of FT particularly during suction
      of the air bubbles will be recorded in all cases. Tubal peristalsis is defined as observed
      osteal and intramural tubal rhythmic opening and closing on maintained intrauterine pressure,
      i.e., periodic changes of DT in the form of widening followed by collapse on meticulous
      observation. If the ostium and intramural part of the tube is obviously opened followed by
      collapse and non-visualization of the pinhole dark spot of DT for a while, positive
      peristalsis will be reported. The same steps will be repeated on the contralateral side and
      reported.
    
  