
    
      The Stony Brook University (SBU) clinical psychology doctoral program is currently ranked 4th
      among the top clinical psychology doctoral programs in the country (2016, U.S. News and World
      Report, Best Graduate Schools) and is accredited by both the APA Committee on Accreditation
      (APA CoA) and the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System (PCSAS). The Krasner
      Psychological Center (KPC) is a psychology training clinic housed in the Department of
      Psychology and associated with the doctoral program in clinical psychology at SBU. The
      mission of the KPC is twofold, namely, (a) to provide high quality experiential training in
      the delivery of psychological services to trainees in the associated 3 doctoral program, as
      well as to externs, doctoral interns, and post-doctoral residents; and (b) to provide
      evidence-based mental health services to the nearby communities. All supervisors at the KPC
      are doctoral-level psychologists. Psychotherapy services at the KPC are based on
      Cognitive-Behavior Therapy models and include weekly, outpatient psychotherapy for a wide
      range of problems in children and adults; therapy is designed to be short-term, personalized,
      and effective in empowering clients to manage their symptoms and distress.

      The telehealth-single-session consultation, a one-time service provided to adolescents and
      adults (13+) on the clinics' waitlist (which may extend from 2 to 6 months), includes
      components of Solution-Focused Brief Therapy (SFBT). SFBT lends itself naturally to the
      single-session format in that it focuses on the present and future, targeting the desired
      outcome of therapy, a future in which the primary problem is absent or less influential.
      Importantly, SFBT providers focus on the factors that maintain/underlie solutions rather than
      the factors than maintain/underlie problems.

      GENERAL SCREENING PROCEDURES

      When individuals seeking services at the KPC express interest in scheduling an appointment
      with a clinician, they are first instructed (by phone) about the clinical and research aims
      by the clinic's staff. The clinical staff is a trained, independent member and is not
      involved in the provision of psychotherapy or single-session consultation services. The
      clinical staff conducts a standardized, structured phone screen with the individual to
      identify primary reasons for seeking mental health services and to assess the appropriateness
      of presenting concerns for treatment at the KPC. If the individual is eligible to receive
      services at the KPC (i.e., if their concerns fall within the scope of clinical problems
      treated; if the individual/family is English-speaking; and if problems are not so acute as to
      require immediate hospitalization, in which case they are referred to the nearest emergency
      room), the client is placed on the waitlist for psychotherapy services.

      During the same phone call, if the identified patient is 13 years or older, the clinic staff
      then introduces the opportunity to participate in the telehealth-Single Session Consultation
      (SSC) service at the KPC.

      The clinic staff indicates that as part of telehealth-SSC service participation the client
      will be asked to complete questionnaires in order to provide their clinician with information
      about their current mental health, and for the purposes of planning and assessing the
      usefulness of services. The clinic staff will also indicate that the individual may opt to
      allow or not allow us to use this data for research purposes. They will be informed that if
      they do choose to allow their data to be used for research, it will be de-identified and
      combined with other patient data for the purposes of understanding how well our treatment
      programs work for different types of individuals. The staff will emphasize that their choice
      to participate, or not participate in research will NOT impact their eligibility for the
      telehealth-SSC service or longer-term psychotherapy in any way.

      The clinician will obtain fully informed consent via Qualtrics prior to the SSC appointment.
      Adult patients (or adolescent patient and her/his parent) can either agree or disagree to
      allow the research team to use their clinical data for research by checking the appropriate
      check-box on the consent form. Patients will also be able to elect to participate in the
      specific study described in the consent form and/or to have their de-identified data added to
      a registry for future unspecified research projects.

      DATA COLLECTION PROCEDURES SPECIFIC TO THE TELEHEALTH-SINGLE-SESSION CONSULTATION SERVICE

      Immediately prior to telehealth-SSC participants will be asked to complete the following via
      a Qualtrics survey:

        -  PHQ-9

        -  GAD-7

        -  Beck Hopelessness Scale - 4 item

        -  Readiness for Change Rulers

      Immediately following the one-hour telehealth-SSC session, participants will be asked to
      complete the following via a Qualtrics survey:

        -  Consultation Feedback Form

        -  Working Alliance Inventory Short Form - client

        -  Beck Hopelessness Scale - 4 item

        -  Readiness for change Ruler

      Finally, two weeks after completing the telehealth-SSC, participants will be followed-up with
      a Qualtrics survey containing:

        -  PHQ-9

        -  GAD-7

      NOTE 1: A client may reschedule an SSC session if they are unable to attend it. The KPC will
      not limit the number of times a client is permitted to reschedule an SSC session, should they
      remain interested in receiving one. Additionally, if clients endorse significant clinical
      risk (to themselves or others) while participating in the study, study procedures may be
      interrupted (e.g., an SSC session may be terminated in order to address urgent clinical
      needs). If a client's initial SSC session is interrupted or terminated due to a need to
      address urgent clinical risk, the client will be permitted to reschedule their SSC session
      for a later date.

      NOTE 2: If a participant does not respond to the clinic's requests for a 2-week follow-up
      within two weeks of being contacted, per KPC policy, it will be assumed that the client is no
      longer interested in services and will be removed from the waiting list. Pre-to-post SSC data
      for these clients will still be used for analyses unless they request that their data not be
      used in the study.

      NOTE 3: The lead investigator (Jessica Schleider) will train all SSC clinicians prior to
      their delivering SSC sessions with clients. This training will be approximately 2 hours in
      length and will review the principles and key elements of the SSC protocol, in addition to
      challenges that might emerge while delivering the SSC.
    
  