
    
      Investigators will collect qualitative interview data from HCT survivors, caregivers, and
      clinicians to inform the development of a new mHealth intervention. Then, this new
      intervention will be developed by adapting existing interventions that were originally
      designed for other cancer and non-cancer populations.A virtual reality relaxation component
      will also be developed as an adjunct to the mHealth stepped-care intervention.

      Intervention participants will complete a baseline survey via the internet about their
      demographics, health, and well-being. The baseline survey also includes questions about their
      sleep and will take approximately 1 hour to complete.

      Participants will then be provided brief behavioral therapy through the mHealth intervention.
      Participants would be monitored passively via actigraphy for the next 30 days. Those who
      continue demonstrating clinically significant sleep disturbance 30 days after starting the
      intervention would then receive a more intensive therapy with a trained therapist via
      videoconferencing. This videoconferencing therapy, adapted from cognitive behavioral therapy
      for insomnia, will also be a built-in part of the mHealth intervention. Thus, the new mHealth
      intervention will be delivered via mobile device to enhance disseminability and improve
      access for survivors who typically live long distances from their HCT center.

      Then Sixty HCT survivors with clinically significant sleep disturbance will be recruited 90
      days after HCT and be block-randomized based on sex to receive usual care (n=20), the new
      mHealth stepped-care intervention (n=20), or the new mHealth stepped-care intervention
      +virtual relaxation component (n=20). Outcomes will be assessed before randomization as well
      as 30 and 60 days later. Participants will complete a validated self-report measure of sleep
      disturbance, and for objective measurement of sleep participants will be asked to wear a
      Fitbit and allow Fitbit data to be uploaded to the intervention for customizing individuals'
      interventions.

      After the intervention, participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire to provide
      feedback on the intervention and participate in a post-intervention interview with a member
      of the study team.
    
  