
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Over the last forty years, epidemiologic studies have made basic contributions to knowledge
      of the etiology and natural history of the chronic diseases -- cardiovascular diseases,
      diabetes, and cancers. Findings from the epidemiologic studies have provided practical
      foundations for the development of prevention and control programs to improve life styles and
      to control high blood pressure by drugs, when indicated. These developments and their impact
      on life styles and risk factors have probably contributed to the marked decline in mortality
      rates from coronary heart disease, stroke, all cardiovascular disease, and all causes
      throughout the 1970s and 1980s.

      The four epidemiologic studies have as their foundation the major contributions of the
      earlier 'first generation' epidemiological studies including the Albany Civil Servant Study,
      the Charleston Study, the Framingham Heart Study, the Tecumseh Study and others. The
      significance of these studies lies in their potential for elucidating key 'second generation'
      issues in the epidemiology of the major cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular chronic
      diseases.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in Industry: Employees of 85 firms in the greater
      Chicago area were screened between the Fall of 1967 to early 1973. The total labor force
      among these companies was over 75,000 persons. The volunteer rate for the screening was 55
      percent. All employees were encouraged to participate irrespective of job type or shift
      worked. At each employment site data were collected on smoking habits, previous medical
      diagnosis, current treatments for hypertension, heart disease and diabetes, height and
      weight, age, sex, race, heart rate.

      Peoples Gas Company: All data on the two cohorts were collected as part of the periodic
      medical examination program for all employees in the Medical Department of the Company by its
      full-time staff of physicians. Data were collected on age, race, height, weight, blood
      pressure, serum cholesterol, smoking history, heart rate, resting ECG, medical and family
      history, alcohol and coffee and tea consumption, education, military service, occupation,
      physical activity, diet, and glucose and serum uric acid levels. Repeat exams were scheduled
      yearly for men 50-59, every two years for men 40-49, and every four years for men 25-39.

      Western Electric Company: This longitudinal study of coronary heart disease was initiated in
      1957 at the Hawthorne Works of the Western Electric Company in Chicago. The male subjects
      were free of coronary heart disease at baseline. The medical history and physical examination
      were modeled after the Framingham Heart Study. Data were collected on diet, physical
      activity, electrocardiogram, blood hemoglobin and blood cholesterol levels, body fatness,
      blood pressure, height, weight, lipoprotein lipase, glucose level, and smoking.

      The study was renewed in FY 1992 and again in FY 1998. The 1998 renewal used data and
      analyses from the four cohorts. It focused on six specific aims: factors influencing coronary
      heart disease-cardiovascular disease risk long-term in young adult women and men (ages 18 to
      39 at baseline); factors influencing coronary heart disease-cardiovascular disease risk
      long-term in African-American women and men; factors influencing coronary heart
      disease-cardiovascular disease risk during both earlier and later follow-up (first 15 years
      and beyond 15 years of follow-up); impact of baseline low risk status on long-term risk of
      mortality from coronary heart disease, cardiovascular disease, non-cardiovascular disease,
      and all causes; relationship of habitual intake of multiple food groups to 10 year change in
      serum cholesterol, blood pressure, weight, and to 30-year risks of death from coronary heart
      disease, cardiovascular disease, cancers, and all causes; differences in risk factors impact
      between groups based on sex, race, age, or risk factor status.

      The study has been extended through July 2005 and uses data and analyses from the Chicago
      Heart Association Detection Project in Industry cohort. The study focuses on three specific
      aims: factors influencing coronary heart disease and cardiovascular disease risk long-term in
      young adult women (ages 18-39 at baseline); factors influencing coronary heart disease and
      cardiovascular disease risk long-term in young adult and middle-aged African American men and
      women; and the impact of baseline "low risk" status on long-term mortality from coronary
      heart disease, cardiovascular disease, non-cardiovascular disease, and all causes in young
      adult women (ages 18-39), including African-American and white women.
    
  