
    
      Postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) are major causes of postoperative morbidity,
      mortality, and prolonged hospital stay. The incidence of PPCs was found to vary from 2 to
      19%, but this rate might be as high as 41 to 75% in patients after intrathoracic and
      intraabdominal surgery. According to Canet's model, the predicted incidence of PPCs in
      high-risk patients (ARISCAT risk index >= 45 points) is 42.1%. Use of effective strategies to
      prevent PPCs is essential for these patients.

      Strategies that have been proved to be beneficial in decreasing PPCs include smoking
      cessation, proper management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease before surgery, as well
      as use of lung-protective ventilation and goal-directed fluid therapy during surgery.
      Besides, bronchodilator inhalation is also helpful. Studies showed that, in high-risk
      patients undergoing intrathoracic surgery, airway resistance was increased due to bronchial
      hyperresponsiveness, which increased the risk of PPCs. Inhalation of anticholinergic
      bronchodilator can reduce the activity of vagus nerve and relieve high airway resistance,
      which may decrease the risk of bronchospasm and other PPCs.

      It has been shown that M1, M3-receptor selective blockers have better effects than
      β2-receptor activator in dilating bronchia. Global Strategy for the Diagnosis, Management,
      and Prevention of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (updated 2014) published by Global
      Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) recommend the use of M1, M3-receptor
      selective blockers to relieve acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD) and improve pulmonary function.

      Penehyclidine hydrochloride is a new anticholinergic agent, which selectively blocks M1 and
      M3, but not M2 receptors. Preclinical studies found that it also has anti-inflammation
      effects. In a pilot study of the investigators, prophylactic inhalation of penehyclidine
      decreased the incidence of bronchospasm and the use of aminophylline in elderly patients
      after long-duration surgery. The investigators propose that prophylactic inhalation of
      penehyclidine might decrease the incidence of PPCs in high risk patients.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate whether prophylactic penehyclidine inhalation
      could decrease the incidence of PPCs in high-risk patients after major intrathoracic and
      upper intraabdominal surgery.
    
  