
    
      Study Drug Administration and Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 4 tablets of
      vemurafenib by mouth 2 times each day for 56 days. You should take each dose about 12 hours
      apart. If you miss taking the drug at a scheduled time by more than 4 hours, you should skip
      that dose and wait until the next dose.

      After 56 days, the treatment you receive will depend on what group you are assigned to:

        -  If the disease has spread outside the neck, you will be in Group A.

        -  If the disease is able to be entirely removed through surgery, you will be in Group B.

        -  If the disease is unable to be operated on, you will be in Group C.

      Study Visits:

      At all visits, you will be asked about any side effects you may be having and about any other
      drugs you may be taking.

      Before you take the study drug (Baseline):

        -  You will have a procedure called a laryngoscopy, in which a tube with a small camera in
           inserted into the nose to inspect your sinus, throat, and voice box.

        -  You will have a colonoscopy if you have a history of abnormal growth in the bowel
           (polyps or colon cancer). During this procedure a tube with a small camera is inserted
           in the anus to inspect your large bowel.

      At Day 28:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will have an EKG.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Within 1 week before Day 56, you will have CT scans of the neck, chest, and abdomen to check
      the status of the disease.

      At Day 56, if you are in Group A or B, you will have surgery to remove the tumor. You will
      sign a separate consent form that describes this surgery and its risks. If you are in Group
      C, you will have a core biopsy. During the surgery/biopsy, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will also
      be collected for biomarker testing.

      Follow-Up:

      Your follow-up after the surgery/biopsy will depend on which study group you are in.

      Groups A and C:

      If you are in Group A, you will stop taking the study drug for about 2-4 weeks after you have
      surgery. If you are in Group C, you will not stop taking the study drug. Every 4 weeks (after
      you resume taking the study drug if you are in Group A, and after the biopsy if you are in
      Group C):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and a skin
           exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any other drugs you may be taking and about any side effects you
           may be having.

        -  If you are in Group A, these tests will also be performed the day you start taking the
           study drug again. You will also have an EKG.

      Additionally, every 8 weeks (if you are in Group A or C), you will have CT scans of the neck,
      chest, and abdomen to check the status of the disease. Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will also be
      drawn for biomarker testing at the first of these visits.

      About 1 year after your laryngoscopy and colonoscopy, these procedures will be performed
      again to check for side effects related to the study drug. If you did not receive a baseline
      colonoscopy, this procedure will be performed about 1 year after starting vemurafenib. If you
      continue on study drug for more than a year, you will have a laryngoscopy every 12 months.

      At any time the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a colonoscopy and
      laryngoscopy.

      About 1 year after the surgery/biopsy, you will return to clinic to check if the disease has
      come back. At this visit, you will have a CT scan or ultrasound of the neck, and blood (about
      1 tablespoon) will be drawn for tests of your thyroid function.

      If after 4 months the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you will only need to
      have study visits every 8 weeks. You will still have blood (about 1 tablespoon) drawn for
      routine tests at a local lab and you will be called by the study staff to check on you. Each
      call will last about 5-10 minutes.

      If you are in Group C, and if during follow-up the study doctor decides that the disease can
      be operated on, you will be crossed over to Group A or B. You will have surgery and have the
      follow-up visits described for that study group.

      Group B:

      If you are in Group B, you will have a follow-up visit about 2 weeks after surgery. The
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any other drugs you may be taking and about any side effects you
           may be having.

      You will have a second follow-up visit about 8 weeks after surgery. You will have a CT scan
      of the neck to check the status of the disease. You will have the option of continuing to
      receive vemurafenib if your doctor thinks it is in your best interest. If you do continue on
      vemurafenib, you will follow the Group A follow-up schedule (above).

      About 1 year after your laryngoscopy and colonoscopy, these procedures will be performed
      again to check for side effects related to the study drug. If you did not receive a baseline
      colonoscopy, this procedure will be performed about 1 year after starting vemurafenib.

      At any time the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a colonoscopy and
      laryngoscopy.

      About 1 year after the surgery/biopsy, you will return to clinic to check if the disease has
      come back. At this visit, you will have a CT scan or ultrasound of the neck, and blood (about
      1 tablespoon) will be drawn for tests of your thyroid function.

      Length of Study:

      If you are in Group A or C, you will continue to take the study drug for as long as the study
      doctor thinks it is in your best interest. If you are in Group B, you will take the study
      drug for 56 days and will no longer take it after surgery. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are
      unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over when you have completed the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Study Visit/Call:

      After you stop taking the study drug, you will have an end-of-study visit or phone call. You
      will be asked about any other drugs you may be taking and about any side effects you may have
      had. If you are called, the call will last about 5-10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Vemurafenib is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of late-stage melanoma. It is investigational to use this drug to treat thyroid
      cancer.

      Up to 22 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  