
    
      1. To evaluate the incidence of disease flare after cessation of anti-TNF therapy in
           patients that meet sustained clinical and instrumental remission criteria together with
           reconstitution of the CD4+CD25highCD127low/- Tcell population respect to those patients
           in the same remission status with persistent low CD4+CD25highCD127low/- Tcell
           population.

        2. Assessment of CD4+CD25highCD127low/- Tcell population behaviour induced by different
           drug treatments (anti-TNF vs DMARDs) in patient with RA who have achieved a prolonged
           remission status.

        3. To assess the predictive value of modifications of CD4+CD25highCD127low/- Tcell
           population in patients who relapse.

      Study design: all RA patients satisfying inclusion criteria will undergo to a baseline
      clinical, instrumental and immunologic evaluation. Peripheral CD4+CD25highCD127low/- Tcell
      population will be checked for and patients will be stratified in 2 groups:

        -  Group A: patients on treatment with TNF-blockers plus DMARDs

        -  Group B: patients treated with DMARDs only (Methotrexate/Leflunomide), never treated
           with anti-TNF In addition a cohort of healthy subjects matched for sex and age will be
           used as a control.

      Patient's blood samples will be centralized at the "Laboratories of Technology for Advanced
      Therapies" of the University of Ferrara (www.ltta.tecnopoloferrara.it) directed by Prof.
      Paola Secchiero.

      In group A anti-TNF drugs will be withdrawn and patients will be followed up. Patients
      belonging to the group B will be followed up without any further intervention. A tight
      clinical monitoring will be instituted and disease flares-up will be recorded. In case of
      disease flare therapeutic adjustment will be provided to the patients by the attending
      specialist team accordingly to the current standard of care.
    
  