
    
      Selective mutism (SM) is a childhood behavior disorder that interferes with social and
      educational development. It is characterized by a persistent failure to speak in specific
      social situations, despite being able to speak in other situations. Children with SM
      typically speak when they are at home with immediate family, but fail to speak in other
      settings. Behavior therapy (BT), commonly used for treating anxiety disorders and phobias, is
      a type of treatment that uses training and desensitization methods to help patients become
      more comfortable in situations that cause anxiety. Based on available evidence, integrated
      BT, which involves parents, teachers, and the therapist, may be an effective treatment for
      SM. This study will determine the effectiveness of integrated BT in treating children with
      selective mutism.

      Following a diagnostic assessment to determine eligibility, participants in this single-blind
      study will be randomly assigned to receive BT either immediately upon study entry or after a
      3-month waiting period. BT will consist of 20 1-hour treatment sessions over 6 months. In BT,
      children will practice speaking to people with whom it has been difficult to speak in the
      past. Parents, teachers, and children will be taught about anxiety related to SM, setting
      treatment goals, monitoring anxiety, learning skills to relax, and gradually entering
      situations that may trigger anxiety. These skills will be practiced during treatment
      sessions, in school with other children and teachers, and at home on a daily basis. Both
      parents and teachers will record activities that children have been able to accomplish. In
      addition, participants will attend study visits at Weeks 8, 12, and 24 for assessments of
      outcomes.

      Participants who are assigned to the waitlist group will not receive treatment during their
      first 3 months in the study. They will attend study visits at Weeks 8 and 12 to assess any
      improvement in symptoms. Participants whose symptoms do not improve by the end of the 3-month
      period may either stop participation or receive 6 months of BT.

      All participants will attend one 2- to 3-hour follow-up visit 3 months post-treatment. This
      visit will include interviews and questionnaires about SM symptoms.
    
  