
    
      -  All patients will receive trastuzumab then be randomized into one of two arms. Arm A:
           Trastuzumab in combination with weekly vinorelbine and Arm B: Trastuzumab in combination
           with a weekly taxane-based regimen, either paclitaxel or docetaxel, chosen at the
           discretion of the investigator.

        -  Treatment is administered on an outpatient basis. Trastuzumab is administered weekly.
           There is a one-time loading dose for the first week of the first cycle. For that initial
           treatment, only, the trastuzumab dose is 4mg/kg. The dose for all subsequent weekly
           trastuzumab treatments is 2mg/kg.

        -  Arm A: vinorelbine is administered every week and the dose is adjusted based on the
           absolute neutrophil count for that week. Vinorelbine is given after trastuzumab.

        -  Arm B: Either paclitaxel given weekly (dose bases on absolute neutrophil count) or
           docetaxel given on weeks 1,2,3,5,6,7 of each 8-week cycle (dose based upon absolute
           neutrophil count). Patients on paclitaxel will also receive dexamethasone,
           diphenhydramine and ranitidine to help prevent allergic or hypersensitivity reactions.
           Patients on docetaxel will receive dexamethasone to help reduce fluid retention or
           edema.

        -  Every 8 weeks the patients cancer will be re-evaluated to see if the treatment is
           working. If the treatment appears to be working, treatment will continue. Standard
           radiological testing (x-rays, CT scan, radioactive drug scans, or MRI's) will be used to
           follow the disease treatment.

        -  Heart function will be measured after 16 weeks to be sure it is safe to continue
           treatment.

        -  Every 8 weeks, patients' will be asked to complete a brief written survey that asks
           about symptoms and side effects.

        -  Patients' will remain on the treatment as long as there is no disease progression or
           unacceptable side effects.
    
  