
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and feasibility of whole-body magnetic resonance imaging
      (WB-MRI)-guided intensity modulated radiation therapy delivered concurrently with systemic
      chemotherapy to sites of metastatic disease in patients with relapsed, refractory and/or poor
      risk Ewing sarcoma.

      II. To assess the safety and feasibility of a novel consolidation regimen consisting of
      busulfan, melphalan and topotecan (topotecan hydrochloride) followed by autologous stem cell
      rescue, to be administered immediately after completion of radiation therapy in patients with
      relapsed, refractory and/or poor risk Ewing sarcoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the timing of myeloid and platelet engraftment.

      II. To estimate the overall and progression free survival probabilities.

      III. To estimate the cumulative incidence of relapse/progression and non-relapse related
      mortality.

      IV. To report the overall response rate (overall response rate [ORR]: complete response
      [CR]+partial response [PR]) and response duration.

      V. To descriptively compare the diagnostic imaging results (number and site of bone
      metastases) of whole-body MR imaging to those obtained by skeletal scintigraphy.

      OUTLINE:

      BLOCK I: Patients receive etoposide intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours and ifosfamide IV over
      1 hour on days 1-5. Patients also undergo WB-MRI-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      twice daily (BID), 5 days a week, for approximately 4 weeks. Patients may also undergo 4
      fractions of stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT) every other day (QOD), 3-8 fractions of
      stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) QOD, or 10 fractions of 3-dimensional radiation
      therapy (3D RT) daily to sites of metastatic disease.

      BLOCK II: Patients receive high-dose chemotherapy comprising topotecan hydrochloride IV
      continuously over 24 hours on days -8 to -4, busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours on days
      -8 to -4, and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -3 and -2. Patients undergo autologous
      peripheral blood or bone marrow stem cell infusion on day 0.

      After the stem cell infusion, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.
    
  