
    
      Trial Design The study is a cluster randomized controlled trial.

      Aims Aim 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of the LEAPS Programme on school readiness of
      children, CYLs, families and services 1.1: To determine whether children who participate in
      LEAPS preschools led by CYLs will achieve significantly better scores in assessments of
      school readiness indexed by motor development, social-emotional development, emergent
      literacy and language, emergent numeracy, approaches to learning and executive functions than
      children in a control group.

      1.2: To identify the moderating and mediating variables (child, CYL, family and community
      characteristics) for school readiness outcomes among children enrolled in LEAPS preschools.

      1.3: To describe the effects of intervention on CYLs' knowledge (ECD and education),
      competencies (approaches to teaching) and personal/professional growth (executive
      functioning, aspirations for parenting, family life and career, and autonomy).

      1.4: To determine whether LEAPS community engagement strategies to address barriers to
      scale-up of ECD programmes are effective with respect to family engagement with preschool,
      support and intent for timely primary school enrolment, family utilization of child services,
      service provider coordination, knowledge, participation in demand-side platforms and
      demand-side creation.

      Aim 2: To evaluate fidelity and compliance to the LEAPS Programme among community
      stakeholders 2.1: To evaluate the fidelity of implementation and compliance to the LEAPS
      preschool programme by the participants.

      2.2: To explore stakeholder experience of the preschool programme and community-based
      strategies to understand facilitators, challenges and learn lessons for scale.

      Aim 3: To determine the cost effectiveness of the LEAPS Community-based preschool and
      community engagement strategies on children's and community readiness for learning and
      school.

      Clusters Ten clusters were randomly selected from a list of 20 clusters part of Responsive
      Stimulation arm (Yousafzai, A. K., Rasheed, M. A., Rizvi, A., Armstrong, R., & Bhutta, Z. A..
      Effect of integrated responsive stimulation and nutrition interventions in the Lady Health
      Worker programme in Pakistan on child development, growth, and health outcomes: a
      cluster-randomised factorial effectiveness trial. The Lancet, 384(9950), 1282-1293. 2014)
      using A-cluster software. Strata were rural/peri-urban. The inclusion criteria of including
      the cluster in the randomization were: a functioning LHW and a functioning primary school in
      the village. Five clusters were assigned each for intervention and control arms via simple
      randomization.

      Sample Size The sample size has been estimated as 30 children per cluster with a total of 300
      children, which will be adequate taking into account an estimated 10% attrition rate.

      Subject Enrolment Control Arm: Children of age as defined by inclusion criteria will be
      identified from a list of registered children with the Lady Health Worker (nearest record
      possible). The sample will be stratified by the same age groups as described for the
      intervention group.

      Experimental Arm: A list of children meeting the inclusion criteria was available from the
      LHW. Any additional child will be verified with the respective LHW prior to enrolment.
      Enrolment for children in experimental group is defined as child having registered and
      attended at least 3 days of preschool in week 1.

      Data Collection Instruments All instruments were developed in English in the first instance
      and then translated to Sindhi (with back translations) and piloted prior to use in the study.
      A systematic adaptation protocol was followed.

      Quality Assurance The following strategies are being used

        -  A 10% sample of assessments are being observed by the field supervisor and scored
           simultaneously for inter-rater agreement. This shall be followed by a feedback session
           with the assessor.

        -  Daily debriefing meetings are held where challenges and solutions will be discussed and
           will also be used as an opportunity for learning.

        -  A 10% sample of classroom observations are being video recorded for coding by experts.

        -  Anthropometry equipment is calibrated daily.

      Data Management Forms are being checked prior to entry. The data entry softwares include
      checks to minimize errors. Data entry is being done at the data entry office located at the
      field office. All forms are being data entered. A weekly report on status of data entry is
      being shared by the data entry office.

      Data Analysis Plan: An intention to treat model.
    
  