
    
      Objectives To explore the feasibility and benefits of a 'Nurse-led Family and Network
      Consultation' (FNC) that seek to identify and address patients' symptoms/concerns and
      caregiver burden on one side and identify the resources and opportunities to ease their
      burdens on the other side.

      To explore the impact of these nurse consultations on the nurses' perception of autonomy,
      self-esteem, and confidence, representing their professional identity.

      Methods This is a feasibility study in two parts: 1) a sample of patients with HGG (n=30) and
      their caregivers (n=30) recruited for informing the study about the family function, support
      and caregiver burden and 2) a sample of patients with HGG (n=30) and their caregivers (n=30)
      recruited for intervention group (IG) with 'Nurse-led Family and Network Consultations' using
      pretest and posttest measures.

      Part two applies a Mixed Method convergent design with a QUAL + QUAN design.

      Nursing BA students at Metropolitan University College will carry out affiliated bachelor
      projects within CARES.

      Theoretical framework Biopsychosocial Model International Classification of Functioning,
      Disability and Health (ICF) Use of narratives within neuro-oncology Feedback models and goal
      setting Symptom management theory The integrated Framework of Family System Nursing; Calgary
      Model Model of levels of personal and professional change

      Intervention: FNC IG will receive four family consultations over 52 weeks relying on the
      Calgary model and Patient-reported outcome on symptom management and concerns.

      Measurements

      Test time points:

      Post 1. FNC (week 1-2), post FNC 2 (week 8-10) and post FNC 3 (week 28-30) and post the 4.
      FNC (week 50-52).

      Part 1, questionnaires for cohort patients (n=30) and caregivers:

      The Caregiver Burden Scale (only caregivers) Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
      (HADS),(only caregivers)

      The ICE Family Perceived Support Questionnaire (ICE-FPSQ) (caregiver and patient,
      individually) Psychometric development of the Iceland-Expressive Family Functioning
      Questionnaire (ICE-EFFQ) (caregiver and patient, individually)

      Part 2, questionnaires for IG patients (n=30):

      The M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory-Brain Tumour Module (before FNC) HADS The Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br) ICE-FPSQ ICE-EFFQ

      Questionnaires for IG family members (n=30):

      The Caregiver Burden Scale HADS ICE-FPSQ ICE-EFFQ

      Material from the FNC Written resume of each consultation (n=120)

      Interviews:

      Semi-structured telephone interviews with IG patients (n=30) and IG family member (n=30) post
      FNC 2 and post FNC 4 Focus group interview with project nurses post FNC 5 (n= 5 nurses)

      Analysis The MDASI-BT, HADS, FACT-Br, the ICE-EFFQ, the ICE-FPSQ and Caregiver burden scale
      to be analysed separately.

      Thematic analyses of interviews, field notes and resume according to Braun and Clarke.

      The Mixed Methods analytic approach is interpretive integration, which merges, compares,
      contradicts and discusses the data sets in order to achieve analytic integration in
      meta-inference.

      Time schedule May 2017 - December 2017: The preparatory phase February 2018 -August 2019:
      Cohort data collection March 2018- July 2018: Education of the project nurses August 2018 -
      February 2020: Intervention (1-year intervention with 6 months recruitment)

      Clinical and research implications New model of care in expanded nurse-led consultations
      relying on FNC may be powerful way to facilitate strategies to improve symptom management,
      emotional well-being and reduce concerns among families.

      This study will take at neurosurgical department and oncological department at Copenhagen
      University Hospital, Rigshospitalet in cooperation with neuro-oncological specialist team.
    
  