
    
      Title: A Single Arm Phase II Study of Pembrolizumab in combination with Lenvatinib in
      Patients with Advanced Cholangiocarcinoma after Progression on Standard Systemic Therapy
      Study Description: The prognosis for unresectable and metastatic biliary tract cancers (BTCs)
      including cholangiocarcinoma is poor with first line gemcitabine and cisplatin offering a
      median overall survival of 11.7 months. There is no standard second- or third-line therapy
      for advanced BTC, and this represents an unmet medical need for novel therapies. The immune
      system plays a critical role in the development of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) and chronic
      inflammation is a common underlying risk factor for CCA. VEGF signaling in CCA may lead to an
      immune suppression via inadequate tumor antigen presentation and an impaired T cell-mediated
      immune response directed against tumor antigens. Lenvatinib significantly decreased the
      population of immunosuppressive tumor-associated macrophages and increased
      interferon-γ-producing CD8+ T cells. Addition of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors helps reverse
      VEGF-mediated immune suppression, restore T cell function, and promote T cell tumor
      infiltration. The combination of lenvatinib and pembrolizumab has demonstrated promising
      activity with manageable adverse events in various solid tumor types.

      The investigators will assess the efficacy and safety of the combination of pembrolizumab and
      lenvatinib in patients with advanced CCA who failed standard therapy in this phase II study.

      Objectives and Endpoints:

      Primary Objective: Evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) (RECIST1.1) of lenvatinib in
      combination with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced CCA after progression on standard
      systemic therapies Secondary Objective: Evaluate the safety and tolerability of
      lenvatinib+pembrolizumab in this population; Determine the duration of response (DOR),
      progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS); Determine the ORR, PFS and OS of
      subgroups stratified by molecular signatures (tumor mutation burden, PD-L1 expression,
      microsatellite instability (MSI) status, isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) or FGFR
      mutation/fusion status) in a pre-planned post-hoc analysis; Define molecular correlates of
      response, including circulating biomarkers and tumor tissue biomarkers Study Population: The
      study will enroll 40 patients who have unresectable or metastatic, histologically-confirmed
      advanced CCA. Both male and female patients age of 18 years or older who have failed standard
      systemic therapy for advanced CCA with measurable disease, adequate bone marrow reserve and
      hepatic/renal function, and ECOG performance status (PS) 0-1 could be eligible to participate
      in the study after completing the study enrollment screening tests and procedures.

      Phase: II Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants: The study will be conducted
      at Jiahui International Cancer Center, Shanghai Jiahui International Hospital, in
      collaboration with Zhongshan Hospital.

      Study treatment/Intervention: Each cycle is defined as 21 days treatment of Pembrolizumab in
      combination with Lenvatinib. Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis:

      Pembrolizumab 200mg IV day 1 of every 21 day-cycles; Lenvatinib 20mg PO once daily for 21-day
      cycles Study Duration: 24-36 months Participant Duration: up to 24 months
    
  