
    
      Major depression is one of the most common psychiatric disorders experienced by adolescents.
      Even adolescents with depressive symptoms below the level of diagnosis are at increased risk
      of a range of future problems, such as psychiatric disorders, impaired social functioning,
      and substance abuse.

      Depression prevention therapies have had mixed results. Those that are implemented
      universally have shown little efficacy, although those that specifically target adolescents
      at risk of depression have shown greater efficacy. A large scale effectiveness trial-one that
      applies treatments outside of a lab in "real world" settings-of a targeted depression
      prevention therapy has not been conducted. This study will test the effectiveness of two
      therapies for preventing depression in adolescents. The first is a brief, group
      cognitive-behavioral depression prevention program, and the second is bibliotherapy, which
      involves giving participants a self-help book for depression. Bibliotherapy has shown
      efficacy in previous research but has not been examined in an effectiveness trial.

      Participation in this study will last 24 months. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      one of three conditions: a six-session, cognitive-behavioral depression prevention group; a
      bibliotherapy group; and an assessment only group. Participants in the cognitive-behavioral
      group will meet with a study therapist and other group members to learn strategies for
      preventing depression. Participants in the bibliotherapy group will be given a self-help book
      titled "Feeling Good" with information on preventing depression. Participants in the
      assessment only group will receive a pamphlet on depression symptoms and treatment. All
      participants will complete assessments at baseline; after the cognitive-behavioral group has
      been completed; and at 6-, 12-, 18-, and 24-month follow-ups. These assessments will include
      an interview about depression symptoms and a survey about thoughts, feelings, actions,
      depression, and substance abuse.
    
  