
    
      Up to 120 patients with chronic hepatitis C will be enrolled in a study of viral kinetics and
      liver gene expression before and during combination therapy with peginterferon and ribavirin.
      Adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection who have compensated liver
      disease and have not received interferon in the past will be randomized into two groups;
      group A will undergo liver biopsy before starting peginterferon therapy and groups B will
      undergo biopsy 6 hours after the initial dose of peginterferon. All patients will receive the
      standard recommended doses of peginterferon alfa 2a (180 mcg sc weekly) and ribavirin (1000
      or 1200 mg daily for genotypes 1, 4-6 and 800 mg daily for genotype 2 and 3) for up to 48
      weeks (24 weeks for genotype 2 and 3). After the initial peginterferon injection, patients
      will have blood taken and symptoms recorded at 6, 24, 48, 72 hours and weekly thereafter for
      four weeks to assess viral kinetic response. Liver biopsy tissue taken before or 6 hours
      after the initial dose of peginterferon will be assessed by standard light microscopy and
      also subjected to RNA extraction and microarray analysis of mRNA expression. Patients will be
      monitored carefully during therapy and tested regularly for HCV RNA levels. Therapy will be
      given for 48 weeks, but will be discontinued early for patients with genotype 1 infection if
      HCV RNA levels do not decline by at least 2 log10 IU/ml by week 12 (lack of an early
      virological response) or do not decline to undetectable levels by week 24 (lack of HCV RNA
      clearance). Patients with other genotypes with be treated for a full course of therapy
      regardless of early responses. After completing therapy, patients will be followed at 4 to 8
      week intervals and undergo repeat medical evaluation with liver biopsy 24 weeks after
      stopping therapy.

      The primary clinical criterion for success of therapy is a sustained virological response, as
      marked by the absence of HCV RNA from serum at least 24 weeks after stopping. The focus of
      this study, however, will be on viral kinetics and gene expression studies assessing the
      effects of peginterferon on intrahepatic mRNA profiles by comparing Group A and B. Results
      will also be compared between different HCV genotypes. These studies are aimed at assessing
      the mechanisms of action of peginterferon and ribavirin against HCV and evaluating the basis
      for the lack of virologic response to combination therapy.
    
  