
    
      Early and specific detection of dysfunction in kidney diseases and differential diagnosis of
      potential complications in the renal allograft are fundamental to initiate appropriate
      treatment. In addition, determination of renal function may reveal physiological mechanisms
      that may prove useful for future therapeutic procedures. Currently, used methods to access
      renal function like ultrasound, radionuclide imaging, and laboratory methods have several
      disadvantages, as they are nonspecific, require radioactive contrast agents or are limited in
      spatial information. Therefore, alternative non-invasive methods to detect early
      morphological and functional changes are required. Recently, a variety of very promising
      advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods have evolved to obtain functional
      information of different organs. These methods include MR angiography, diffusion, perfusion
      and Blood-Oxygenation Level Dependent (BOLD) imaging. In addition to MRI, MR spectroscopy
      (MRS) provides renal functional information. In abdominal organs like the kidney,
      respiratory, and cardiac motion and susceptibility artifacts have limited the use of these
      functional MR methods for clinical applications. However, this may be overcome with the
      advent of greatly enhanced hardware, allowing very fast imaging times. Besides these in vivo
      techniques, novel processing algorithms for complex ex vivo MR spectra of body fluids have
      emerged recently. These methods, labeled "Metabonomics", access renal function by obtaining
      metabolic profiles that are indicative for renal dysfunction.

      The researchers hypothesize that these non-invasive methods correlate with histology as "gold
      standard" and compete favorably with conventional in part invasive evaluation methods, and
      thus provide specific and early detection of kidney diseases of various etiologies, drug
      toxicity or renal allograft dysfunction.
    
  