
    
      This is a prospective, multicentre, open-label, single-armed, non-interventional
      observa-tional clinical investigation in aged patients (≥80 years) undergoing PCI using at
      least one Supraflex sirolimus eluting stent as per current practice. The registry is an
      observational study and patient's participation in this study has no impact on his or her
      indication for treatment, diagnostics, or therapy. Subjects are supposed to be treated
      according to cur-rent guidelines and the site's internal directives.

      Inclusion in the registry is completely independent of the medical treatment. All products
      used for the medical treatment should be administered as stated in their SmPCs (Sum-mary of
      Product Characteristics) and/or Instructions for Use (IFU). Treatment pattern and treatment
      initiation, continuation, or changes are solely at the discretion of the physician and the
      patient. There will be no attempt to influence the treatment patterns of any indi-vidual
      treating physician. All drug subscriptions applied will be in the usual standard of care.
      Participation in the registry will in no way influence payment or reimbursement for any
      treatment received by subjects during the study.

      The study will be conducted about 37 sites in Germany, Switzerland and Austria and 2000
      subjects will be included. A total study duration of about 39 months is assumed, of which
      about 18 months account for enrolment and 12 months for the follow-up.

      Eligible are all patients with chronic- (CCS) or acute- Non-ST-elevation coronary syndrome
      (NSTE-ACS) and target lesion suitable for PCI with drug-eluting stent (see section 6.3 for
      detailed eligibility criteria) undergoing PCI using at least one SUPRAFLEX CRUZ™ Sirolimus
      eluting coronary stent system as per current practice, who will visit consecutively a
      partici-pating investigation site. It is planned to enroll about 2000 patients in total.

      Following discharge, patients will be treated according to clinical routine/guidelines.
      Hence, no study-specific pre-planned procedures will be performed.

      To assess the primary endpoint, all patients will receive telephone calls at 6 and 12 months
      following index procedure and will be interviewed by means of a standardized patient
      interview by the investigation sites.

      On-site monitoring will be performed (about 1.5 visits per site; risk-based approach).
      Dur-ing on-site monitoring, the monitor will verify patient informed consent documentation
      and perform source data verification against the patient's medical records. In addition, an
      attempt will be made to check the consecutiveness of patient enrolment at the site, fully
      respecting privacy and personal data of subjects who are not enrolled in the registry and
      consequently have not given informed consent.

      Data will be captured at three time points:

        -  Baseline (e.g. site and patient characteristics, index procedure, events, etc.),

        -  6-months FU (e.g. vital status, endpoint-related events, quality of life, adverse
           events, etc.) and

        -  12-months FU (e.g. vital status, endpoint-related events, quality of life, adverse
           events, etc.)
    
  