
    
      Since the seminal paper by Ross and Braunwald, the development of symptoms has been regarded
      as one of the most important precursors of a poor outcome in aortic stenosis (AS), and is
      today half a century later, still the leading reason for referral for aortic valve
      replacement (AVR). The development of symptoms is however often preceded by structural
      changes in the left ventricle (LV).These changes including concentric remodeling and LV
      hypertrophy have been regarded as compensative measures to adapt the LV to increased
      ventricular afterload. Although LV hypertrophy may preserve wall-stress in the normal range
      and increase contractility allowing the preservation of stroke volume, this occurs at the
      expense of increased filling pressures. Diastolic dysfunction with increased filling pressure
      lead to left atrial (LA) dilatation and significantly contributes to the development of
      symptoms.

      Despite successful surgery, AS patients have increased long-term mortality and morbidity
      compared to the general population, and the outcome is largely determined by the degree of
      preoperative structural LV and LA alterations. This has led to the theory that AVR prior to
      the development of symptoms could improve outcome, a view supported by prospective and
      retrospective studies.These studies were however small, with some important limitations. In
      addition, there has been a concern that operative risk and prosthetic valve related long-term
      morbidity and mortality does not justify surgery on every asymptomatic patient with severe
      AS. Numerous studies have suggested that markers of LV structure and function, particularly
      LA volume index,E/e' and brain natriuretic peptides (BNP) all reflecting LV filling pressures
      may identify patients with benefit of early AVR. Accordingly, the most recent European
      guideline for management of valvular disease has implemented BNP as a class IIa
      recommendation for AVR in asymptomatic AS patients,although no randomized studies have
      demonstrated that early surgery based on these markers improve prognosis.

      The purpose of this study is thus to evaluate if early AVR in patients with signs of elevated
      LV filling pressuresmay improve long-term outcome in patients with asymptomatic severe AS,
      compared to conventional symptom-guided surgery.
    
  