
    
      About 70% of critically ill patients require antiinfective therapy. Optimal antibiotic dosing
      is key to improve patient survival, reduce toxic effects and minimise the emergence of
      bacterial resistance. However, there is a growing body of evidence demonstrating the
      existence of significant changes in pharmacokinetics (PK) in intensive care patients,
      particularly those with extracorporeal therapy (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO),
      continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT)). Existing antiinfectivedosing regimens assume a
      "normal" PK; currently there are no evidence-based antiinfective dosing guidelines for
      critically ill patients available. The current recommendations of the Paul-Ehrlich Society
      and the Surviving Sepsis Campaign therefore recommend explicitly appliance of a therapeutic
      drug monitoring (TDM) for intensive care patients to individually adjust dosing and to avoid
      potential over- or underdosing. To characterize the effects of extracorporal therapy for
      critically ill patients, we designed a prospective pilot observational study using a drug
      monitoring. Six antiinfectives (meropenem, teicoplanin, linezolid, piperacillin / tazobactam,
      levofloxacin and aciclovir) will be investigated as index substances for the various
      antiinfective groups. A total of 100 patients, divided into 5 groups of 20 patients, will be
      examined in this study: 1. venovenous (vv)-ECMO, 2. venoarterial (va)-ECMO, 3. vv-ECMO +
      CRRT, 4. va-ECMO + CRRT, 5. control group. Sampling for determination of trough and peak
      levels of the study substances will take place during the different dosing intervals.
      Patients will be included at the beginning of ECMO therapy within 24-48h after start of an
      antiinfective therapy with at least one of the index-substances; observation period will be a
      total of 5 days. The collected data will be analyzed to identify covariates associated with
      changes in PK for the 6 different antiinfectives in critically ill patients receiving
      extracorporeal therapy. Using the comprehensive data set collected, the pharmacokinetic
      profile of the 6 antiinfectives as well as other influencing factors will be constructed to
      assess the need for dose adjustment of antiinfective agents in these patients. This
      prospective observational trial addresses the current knowledge deficiency with the aim to
      derive relevant effects of extracorporeal therapy and clinical patient characteristics for
      the treatment with meropenem, teicoplanin, linezolid, piperacillin/tazobactam, levofloxacin
      and acyclovir. With these relevant results, adapted dosing of antiinfectives can probably be
      improved in critically ill patients with extracorporeal therapy in future.
    
  