
    
      Cancer at the back of the mouth and throat is usually discovered after it has spread to lymph
      glands in the neck. Treatment therefore involves dealing with both the original tumour (in
      the mouth/throat) and the spread cancer in the lymph glands. This type of cancer sometimes
      spreads to both sides of the neck, not just the side on which the original tumour was
      located. The decision as to whether to treat the other side of the neck as well depends on
      various factors including the aggressiveness of the tumour, whether the patient smokes and
      whether or not the HPV virus is present in the tumour. This is inevitably inexact, and
      assessing the likelihood of the cancer spreading to the other side of the neck always
      involves an element of estimation. Some patients end up being treated unnecessarily on both
      sides (often with severe and lasting effects on swallowing, meaning they have to use a
      feeding tube), while others receive treatment on one side only but the cancer comes back on
      the other side.

      This study will provide more accurate information on which to base the decision as to whether
      to treat the other side of the neck. The study will use a procedure known as sentinel node
      biopsy (SNB) to establish (with a high degree of accuracy) whether or not the cancer has
      spread to the other side of the neck. The study will be in two stages. The first stage is the
      imaging stage. A radioactive substance called Lymphoseek will be injected into the tumour.
      Lymphoseek moves quickly into the lymph nodes and can then be detected using a handheld gamma
      camera. The first nodes that Lymphoseek moves into are the "sentinel" nodes. Patients already
      undergo an examination under anaesthetic (EUA); the patients participating in the study will
      have the Lymphoseek injected additionally and the sentinel nodes detected during this EUA.
      The use of the handheld camera is relatively new; so, all of the patients in the study will
      also have a CT scan the next day to double check whether the handheld camera identified the
      sentinel nodes correctly. The second stage of the study, the surgery stage, will involve a
      new group of patients having the imaging procedure. Those who do have sentinel nodes in the
      other side of the neck will have them removed during the EUA. Those nodes will then be
      examined thoroughly for signs of cancer. A separate limb of stage one of the study will
      involve some patients whose main tumours are easily accessible also having their tumour
      injected with Lymphoseek under local anaesthetic in an outpatient clinic. In the study this
      will take place several days after the initial injection with Lymphoseek. If this procedure
      is found to be acceptable to patients, it would mean that patients could have the Lymphoseek
      injected before the EUA, thereby allowing time for the sentinel nodes to be identified by CT
      scan so that they can be removed during the EUA. This will provide a way to ensure that, even
      if the handheld camera cannot be used, the sentinel nodes can still be removed while the
      patient is under anaesthetic for the EUA. If the study is successful, the patient will be
      able to have much more accurate information about whether their cancer has, or might, spread
      to the other side of the neck, without having to undergo an additional general anaesthetic.
    
  