
    
      The investigator is comparing FDA-approved DermaPure with patient's own native tissue for the
      repair of pelvic organ prolapse. Please see below for detailed objectives and endpoints for
      our measuring parameters:

      Objectives

      Specific Aim #1:

      To determine the relative safety and efficacy of anterior and multi-compartment vaginal wall
      prolapse repair augmented with decellularized human dermal allograft (DermaPure®) versus
      anterior and multi-compartment repair employing native tissue.

      Specific Aim #2:

      To evaluate bulge symptoms, quality of life, sexual function, and patient satisfaction

      Our hypothesis is that pelvic organ prolapse repair augmented with DermaPure® will provide
      superior anatomic outcomes as compared to native tissue controls with a non-inferior safety
      profile.

      Endpoints

      Safety Endpoint #1:

      The relative proportion of allograft, native tissue, and procedure-related SAE's at 12
      months.

      Safety Endpoint #2:

      The relative proportion of allograft, native tissue, and procedure-related AE's of interest
      at 12 months, which include:

        -  Vaginal shortening

        -  Vaginal scarring or banding

        -  De novo vaginal bleeding

        -  Atypical vaginal discharge

        -  Fistula formation

        -  De novo dyspareunia

        -  Pelvic pain

        -  Peri-operative infection

        -  Vaginal infection

        -  UTI

        -  Neuromuscular disorder

        -  SUI (worsening or de novo)

        -  UUI (worsening or de novo)

        -  Difficulty emptying bladder (worsening or de novo)

        -  Graft exposure (into vagina)

        -  Graft erosion (into viscus)

      Efficacy Endpoint #1:

      The proportion of patients in each group at 36 months with prolapse of the target compartment
      beyond the hymen.

      Efficacy Endpoint #2:

      The proportion of patients in each group at 36 months with bulge symptoms attributable to the
      target compartment as determined by PFDI-20 question number 3 ("Does the participant usually
      have a bulge or something falling out that the participant can see or feel in the vaginal
      area") answering "yes" and >= 2 (responses of "somewhat", "moderately", or "quite a bit").
      (Barber)

      Efficacy Endpoint #3:

      The proportion of patients in each group at 36 months requiring re-treatment for recurrent
      prolapse of the target compartment (to include surgery, physical therapy or pessary
      insertion).

      Efficacy Endpoint #4:

      Change in quality of life in each group from baseline to 36 months as measured by the PFDI-20
      and the PFIQ-7. (Barber)

      Efficacy Endpoint #5:

      Change in sexual function in each group from baseline to 36 months as measured by the
      PISQ-IR. (Rogers)

      Efficacy Endpoint #6:

      Patient satisfaction in each group at 36 months as measured by the SSQ-8. (Haff)

      Efficacy Endpoint #7:

      Patient impression in each group at 36 months of postoperative improvement by the PGI-I
      (Srikrishna)
    
  