
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR THE STUDY Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most frequent
      causes of death and disability in developed countries. The main diagnostic method for
      detection of CAD is a coronary angiography (CAG. However, the correlation between CAG and
      proven hemodynamic significance in borderline stenosis (40-70% of lumen narrowing) is only
      about 50%. The main method for detection of flow-limiting lesions is fractional flow reserve
      (FFR). FFR is calculated as distal pressure (Pd) divided by proximal pressure (Pa). The
      cut-off for hemodynamic significance is 0.8 and less. The use of FFR for lesion assessment
      has a level of recommendation of I A in European guidelines for coronary interventions from
      2014. The FAME trail revealed that routine usage of FFR measurement decreased the costs of
      coronary interventions over two years. The reasons are smaller quantity of implanted stents
      and decreased number of procedures for in stent restenosis as a direct result of the lower
      incidence of initial stent implantation. FAME-2 trial has shown lower incidence of urgent
      revascularization in patients with FFR less than 0,8 treated by coronary intervention
      compared to those treated conservatively. This study was preliminary halted before reaching
      mortality endpoint for safety reasons.

      Critical condition for proper FFR measurement is maximal vasodilatation. Since we do not have
      marker for this condition based on pressure measurement only we can only presume that it was
      reached by adenosine administration. There are a lot of limitations for this assumption.
      Foremost, technique for proper intravenous and intracoronary adenosine administration must
      follow strict rules and therefore can be done incorrectly and leads to wrong result in same
      cases. Furthermore, impaired endothelial function leads to lower response to adenosine
      administration. This situation can leads to false negative FFR result. The patients with CAD
      have frequently significant endothelial dysfunction causing lower response to vasodilatation
      stimuli. Endothelial dysfunction will be analyzed by a system named EndoPAT (Itamar Medical,
      Israel) that measures ischemia induced vasodilatation on fingers. The hypothesis that has
      never been tested is how polymorphism in genes for enzymes playing an important role in
      proper endothelial function (HO-1, hemoxygenase-1 and ENOS, endothelial NO synthase) can
      influences adenosine-induced vasodilatation and subsequently FFR measurement. These
      polymorphisms are not infrequent in population with CAD (they can be found in 40-50% in such
      patients).

      Another possible limitation for FFR measurement is type of blood flow in coronary arteries.
      In presence of coronary stenosis, plaque roughness or sharp angle of a lumen the type of flow
      can be changed from laminar to turbulent. This type of flow is even accelerated during
      hyperemia induced by adenosine administration. It leads to lose of energy and exaggerates
      pressure drop behind stenosis that - for this reason- may not be proportional to stenosis
      severity. This situation can theoretically causes false positive FFR measurement. To answer
      this question the investigators will analyze the endothelial shear stress (ESS) that can
      distinguish laminar and turbulent flow and morphological indices (plaque surface, plaque
      eccentricity, lumen volume and lumen shape) by optical coherence tomography (OCT).

      The new index able to identify physiologically significant stenosis has been recently
      described. It is instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR). This technique uses a pressure gradient
      as well, but -unlike to FFR- iFR compares pressures (proximal and distal to stenosis) only in
      a specific phase of diastole (so called "wave free period"), where microvascular resistance
      is naturally low and stable .

      The cut off point for iFR is 0.9. The correlation between FFR and iFR is between 80% and 90%
      in all lesions. However, the correlation between FFR and iFR close to their cut-off point is
      only 50%-60%. It is substantial caveat, because to estimate hemodynamic significance of
      borderline lesions is the main indication for these techniques. Discrepancies between FFR and
      iFR can be very confusing a discouraging for lesion hemodynamic assessment.

      Nowadays, FFR is the only invasive method for stenosis hemodynamic assessment supported in
      the guidelines. However, the iFR is faster, easier and cheaper, and for these reasons it can
      be used for more lesions in more patients, which can improve the situation of poor
      penetration of hemodynamic guidance for coronary intervention in daily practice. Moreover, an
      increasing number of evidences implies that iFR concept can be closer to real situation in
      coronary arteries (avoiding non-physiologic vasodilatation). It has been shown that FFR
      itself has a factor of variability of 10%. This means that around the cut-off points the FFR
      can be just as wrong as the iFR, perhaps even more so. Moreover, the latest study has shown
      that iFR provides better pressure-derived diagnostic agreement with CFR (coronary flow
      reserve) than FFR. The investigators have been developing, in close cooperation with The
      University of Iowa, new technique that improves the quality of flow measurement. It was
      successfully tested it in a animal trial. It is a novel way of intravascular Doppler signal
      processing resulting in more reliable velocity curve envelope acquisition. This software
      improvement allows instantaneous monitoring of real time microvascular resistance during any
      phase of cardiac cycle. Detection of during instantaneous wave free period can serve as
      verification of the proprietary iFR calculation. The system may also improve iFR measurement
      itself, because it can measure precisely in-phase with the lowest microvascular resistance.
      The measurement of resistance during wave free period is named iMR (instantaneous
      microvascular resistance) and it has never been measured during previous trials. This index
      can greatly help to distinguish which method (FFR or iFR) measures the pressure gradient
      during lower resistance.

      Further target is to develop next generation of the software that can detect lowest
      microvascular resistance based on pressure measurement only, without necessity of using
      Doppler. It could offer very precise and simple methods for hemodynamic assessment of
      coronary lesions. This software must be tested and verified in a human study, which will be
      done in the General Teaching Hospital (where both intracoronary pressure and flow will be
      measured). Its clinical availability will be tested and verified by the international
      cooperating centers (where only pressure indices, FFR and iFR will be measured). The foreign
      centers will also examine coronary OCT that will be sent to corelab in The University of
      Iowa, collect blood samples for genetic analysis that will be done in Prague and, depend on
      their possibilities, also endothelial dysfunction by EndoPAT.

      The University of Iowa, Iowa, USA will analyze OCT measurement and perform 3D vessel
      reconstruction. This university has a world known team for the unique 3D reconstruction of
      coronary arteries based on angiography and optical coherence tomography. This institution
      will do an automated analysis of plaque surfaces as well.

      HYPOTHESES:

        1. The level of microvascular resistance can be used to distinguish which type of
           measurement (FFR or iFR) was done during the lower and more stable stage of
           microvascular resistance. This comparison can possibly explain discrepancies between FFR
           and iFR measurements.

        2. Based on new software, using pressure measurements only, it will be possible to
           automatically detect the time period with the lowest microvascular resistance. This
           could improve accuracy of both FFR and iFR measurements.

        3. Plaque ruptures, erosions, irregularities of plaque geometry and plaque located near to
           bifurcations cause turbulence in blood flow. This accelerated pressure drop can lead to
           a false positive FFR.

        4. Inadequate vasodilation caused by endothelial dysfunction can lead to false negative
           FFR.

        5. Endothelial dysfunction can be more frequently found in patients with the risk type of
           polymorphism in genes playing an important role in vessel vasodilatation (ENOS, HO-1)

      AIMS AND EXPECTED IMPACT ON CLINICAL PRACTICE

        1. To use new software (developed at the author's workplace in cooperation with The
           University of Iowa) to determine which of two methods for the functional assessment of
           coronary stenosis (FFR and iFR) perform their measurements during a lower level of
           microvascular resistance. This software can measure microvascular resistance in real
           time.

        2. To develop a new version of software for the detection of microvascular resistance
           level, based only on intracoronary pressures without flow analysis. This could
           substantially improve the accuracy of both pressure-based measurements, and potentially
           increase the correlation between pressure based measurements and flow-based CFR.

        3. To study the potential influence of endothelial dysfunction and plaque morphology on
           discrepancies between FFR and iFR during functional assessments of coronary stenosis.

        4. To study the influence of gene polymorphisms on endothelial dysfunction

      METHODS Study design Patients with stable angina pectoris with suitable for coronary
      angiography will be suitable for the study. We plan to include 250 patients to the study (50
      from General University Hospital in Prague and 200 from cooperating centers).

      Functional examinations of coronary arteries. Coronary angiography will be performed as a
      first procedure for detection of severity and extent of coronary atherosclerosis. Stenosis
      between 40-80% (based on CAG) will be suitable for morphological and functional examinations.
      Combo wire (Volcano Corp., USA) for pressure and flow measurement will be introduced behind
      the lesion and basal indices will be measured during basal flow condition: basal flow speed,
      pressure gradient (Pd/Pa), iFR, Pd/Pa during lowest microvascular resistance proven by
      Doppler analysis, iMR. Adenosine will be administered either intracoronary as a bolus (240
      ug) or in continual infusion (140 μg/kg/min) based on local practice. The hyperemic indices
      will be measured: maximal flow speed, CFR, FFR, HSR (hyperemic stenosis resistance.
      Cooperating centers will perform pressure measurements (FFR, iFR, Pd/Pa) only and they will
      send a raw data for further analysis (off-line calculation of iFR using the new software) in
      General Teaching Hospital in Prague.

      Morphological examinations of coronary arteries Morphological assessment of the lesions will
      be done by OCT (St. Jude Medical, Inc). Catheter will be placed behind stenosis. Pullback
      will be done during flushing of contrast dye. OCT measurement will help to choose optimal
      treatment strategy by proper measuring of lumen size in a lesion and in the reference
      segments. PCI will be done according to local practice. OCT can be use after procedure for
      checking results, but this second examination is not part of the study.

      More detail analyze will be done from 3D vessel reconstruction in The University of Iowa that
      is well know center for 3D coronary reconstruction. Scientific team from this university have
      received two US patents for 3D coronary reconstruction.

      The methodology of 3 D reconstruction of coronary arteries The two-plane angiograms will be
      taken immediately prior to the pullback start and cover at least one heart cycle each. They
      will be used to extract the catheter path automatically along the expected pullback
      trajectory by a dynamic programming approach. From the known imaging geometry, an accurate
      3-D model of the catheter path within the respective vessel segment is generated for
      end-diastolic heart phase. For OCT acquisition, motorized pullback ensures a constant
      pullback speed, thus allowing to asses each OCT image frame a specific location on the 3-D
      catheter trajectory model. The relative and absolute orientations of the OCT frames will be
      determined using previously reported system for establishing the absolute orientation in 3-D
      on IVUS (intravascular ultrasound) images. Visualization will be based on automated encoding
      of the derived contour data in VRML (Virtual Reality Modeling Language). Quantitative data
      can be derived from the contour data, such as luminal dimensions and plaque-cap thickness,
      actually considering the vessel curvature in contrast to conventional OCT reconstruction
      systems. The space between adjacent contours is interpolated to form a volume element. In
      locations of the plaque cap, integrating over an entire vessel segment or any part thereof
      yields the total plaque cap volume enclosed by the inner and outer cap surfaces. The
      quantification values can be included into the VRML model by color per vertex encoding, thus
      allowing an easy and fast visual assessment of the lesion or the results of the intervention
      by the physician.

      Endothelial shear stress analysis. A steady flow computational fluid dynamics (CFD) analysis
      will be performed in the reconstructed arterial segments in order to analyze for the local
      fluid dynamic characteristics along the vessel segment.

      Examination of endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial dysfunction will be measured by a system
      named EndoPAT (Itamar Medical, Israel). EndoPAT uses peripheral artery tone signal (PAT) for
      non-invasively measuring arterial tone changes in peripheral arterial beds17.

      Genetic analysis of polymorphisms in gene for HO-1 and ENOS Patient's DNA will be isolated
      from peripheral blood leukocytes using standard techniques.

      Statistical analysis Data will be prospectively stored in a database and will be processed
      using the software JMP®10.0.0, Copyright © 2012 SAS (Statistical analysis software) Institute
      Inc. (http://www.jmp.com) in collaboration with a professional statistician.
    
  