
    
      This is a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study consisting of a
      screening period of up to 4 weeks (with the exception of subjects on primidone at baseline
      who will be allowed 6 weeks of screening to allow for safe discontinuation). Screening
      results from all patients meeting the eligibility requirements will be further assessed by
      the sponsor medical personnel for final approval of suitability for inclusion in the study.
      Randomized subjects will enter a 4 week double-blind dose-titration treatment period,
      followed by a 1 week safety follow-up period following the last dose of study medication, and
      a scheduled follow-up safety telephone call one week later.

      Subjects will be randomized to one of two treatment groups. Group A will receive titrating
      doses of CX-8998 up to 10 mg BID and Group B will receive placebo. Subject randomization will
      be stratified by presence or absence of a single concomitant anti-tremor medication and by
      site-type (sub-study vs non sub-study).

      Tremor will be assessed via The Essential Tremor Rating Assessment Scale (TETRAS) and
      accelerometry. To reduce the potential for bias in the assessments of efficacy, all subjects
      will be videotaped during the TETRAS performance scale testing according to a consistent
      script. The videotapes will be rated in a blinded manner by qualified, independent raters. A
      subset of subjects will participate in a digital biomarker sub-study.

      Subjects will be screened up to 4 weeks prior to initiation of dosing. Subjects taking
      primidone at screening who are otherwise deemed eligible for participation and are willing to
      discontinue primidone will be allowed an additional 2 weeks of screening (a total of 6 weeks)
      to ensure safe primidone discontinuation. At Baseline, subjects will undergo safety and
      tremor assessments prior to dosing, will receive their first dose of study drug and will be
      monitored for safety for one hour following dosing. For one week subjects will receive 4 mg
      (or matching placebo) twice daily. Subjects will return to the clinic on Day 8 for safety
      monitoring and dose up-titration to 8 mg (or matching placebo) twice daily. At Day 15 (Week
      3) subjects will return to clinic for safety and efficacy assessments and final dose
      up-titration to 10 mg (or matching placebo) twice daily. The final efficacy visit will occur
      at Day 28 (Week 4). A final safety visit will occur at Day 35 (Week 5). Should subjects
      experience intolerable adverse events (AEs) at 4 mg BID, 8 mg BID or 10 mg BID, the dose may
      be decreased at Day 8 or Day 15 to the next lowest dose one time (or 2 mg BID in the case of
      the 4 mg BID dose.
    
  