
    
      Background Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is characterized by significant difficulties in
      social interaction and communication as well as routine boundaries and constraints in
      behavioral patterns. People with ASD have difficulties in the ability to mentalize, i.e.
      difficulties in understanding how another person feels and thinks. Another characteristic of
      persons with ASD is that they are detailed in their way of processing information and
      therefore have difficulties in generalizing and managing changes in everyday life. Lacking in
      planning, organizing, evaluating and adjusting their behaviors can lead to extensive needs of
      support. About 40% of adult patients with ASD exhibit depressive symptoms. Different types of
      anxiety disorders are also very common as well as obsessive compulsive disorder and eating
      disorder. Many people experience constant stress and vigilance following efforts to behave
      socially adequately and managing unpredictable situations.

      In contrast to the common belief that people with ASD are uninterested in others, they are in
      fact often eager to fit in, acquire friends and engage in relationships. However, the
      majority live alone. The uneven profile of strengths and weaknesses is often combined with
      chronic stress and experience of failures and misunderstandings. In addition to having
      difficulties in socializing, many also have difficulties in initiating and solving problems,
      which contributes to unemployment.

      Psychological treatment Many people with ASD find it difficult to identify and express
      feelings and thoughts, which is a common element in psychotherapeutic treatment. This can
      hinder psychological treatment from progressing as expected. The goals of treatment are often
      to increase the person's quality of life and ability to live an independent life, and a major
      focus in treatment for children with ASD is on psycho education, cognitive interventions and
      social skills. Treatment of adults with ASD is less explored. Experience from clinical
      practice suggests that psychological interventions should be practical and focused on
      behavioral change strategies, but to date, few treatments using Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
      (CBT) have been scientifically evaluated for persons with ASD.

      A group format has been considered to have several benefits in psychological treatment for
      adults with ASD. It offers an opportunity for participants to discover that they are not
      alone in their quest to fit in socially. A group also provides the opportunity to reproduce
      problematic social situations, provide behavioral feedback and enable exercises of skills in
      a structured environment.

      In several studies, internet based psychological treatment has proven to be effective in
      treating a variety of psychiatric diagnoses. Courses and information-based training materials
      have been offered in some regions in Sweden, but only for children and adolescents with ASD.
      Until now, no internet based cognitive behavioral treatment (ICBT) has been used for treating
      adults with ASD. Since many with ASD have severe social anxiety or having difficulty with
      travel, it seems important to be able to offer a web-based treatment option. This could
      enable social interaction, learning and a sense of belonging, regardless of where they live
      and the ability to leave the home as well as contributing to a more equal care.

      Earlier study Susanne Bejerot, a Swedish psychiatrist and psychotherapist with CBT focus,
      has, together with colleagues, developed a new group based CBT manual (called ALMA) for
      adults with ASD. The treatment aims to give participants a deep understanding of the
      diagnosis and increase their quality of life. A randomized controlled study of this treatment
      has been published in a reputable journal . Groups of 6-8 adults with ASD received the
      intervention for a total of two semesters. The treatment significantly improved the quality
      of life (Cohen's d = 0.43) and in a cumulative long-term follow-up (> 8 months), it was found
      that the improvement was lasting. In addition, 88% of the participants gained increased
      self-understanding, higher self-acceptance (72%) and increased well-being (67%).

      Current study

      The current study originates from the above-mentioned ALMA treatment. The CBT based material
      used in ALMA will be transformed and adapted to an internet-based format. The effects of the
      internet-based version will be evaluated using the same population as in the ALMA study -
      i.e. adults with ASD.

      Purpose The purpose of the study is to investigate whether Internet-based CBT is an effective
      method of raising the quality of life and improving the mental health of adults with ASD.
      Whether the occurrence of schizotypal personality traits predicts outcome or dropout will
      also be investigated. Since internet based treatment is relatively unexplored for patients
      with ASD, the research Group will also investigate the patients' subjective experience of
      such treatment, as well as systematically investigate what the written communication between
      patient and therapists will contain.

      Research questions

        1. Will adults with autism spectrum disorder follow an internet-based individual therapy
           that includes the possibility of participating in group sessions online for two
           semesters and, if so, will they experience it as meaningful?

        2. Will an internet-based treatment lead to a greater increase in quality of life compared
           to an active control group, and will this difference remain at follow-up after 6 and 12
           months?

        3. Will an internet-based treatment lead to decreased symptoms of depression and anxiety
           and better knowledge of autism compared to an active control group and will this
           differences remain at follow up?

        4. Will the number of days in psychiatric inpatient care two years before and two years
           after the intervention differ between the group receiving internet-based CBT and the
           active control group?

        5. How do participants experience internet-based treatment?

        6. What content does the written communication between therapists and participants have?

        7. Will schizotypal personality traits predict dropout or outcome?

      Method

      Design and selection Randomized controlled treatment design with two conditions. The
      experiment group receives internet-based individual treatment with the possibility of
      participating in group discussions online. An active control group reads two books about ASD,
      one describing ASD and the other are stories of individuals who themselves have ASD. 84
      persons with ASD between 16 and 55 years will be recruited from all over the country (with
      priority from Örebro and Uppsala regions). Exclusion criteria are ongoing psychotherapy with
      CBT or social behavior training, serious mental illness, mental developmental disorder or
      high risk of suicide. Additional exclusion criteria include inability to fill out forms and
      answer questions on the internet, inability to read and understand the Swedish language, as
      well as reported threatening behavior.Participants will either be randomized into the
      intervention group or active control group.

      Recruitment Information about the project is given to personnel working with the patient
      group in psychiatric and habilitation centers. Information will also be available in waiting
      rooms of healthcare facilities, in social media and on websites for psychiatric and
      autism-related associations, as well as through local press advertising. Information will
      clearly indicate how to apply for interest to the study. Potential participants will
      themselves submit an application of interest to participate via 1177.se, the website for
      Swedish healthcare e-services. Assessment interviews will be conducted through video link and
      symptoms of depression and other forms of psychopathology will be assessed through MINI-7
      interviews.

      Intervention

      The control group receive 36 modules of internet based CBT (ICBT). Theoretical base and tasks
      in each module will be presented in text. Each participant has a personal therapist who
      guides the participant throughout the treatment and provides support and feedback linked to
      each completed module of the treatment. The modules contain the following themes:

        -  Psychoeducation - diagnostic criteria, symptoms, mentalization, perception etc

        -  Social interaction - relations, communication

        -  Mental health/illness - depression, anxiety

        -  Goal settings- individual goals, what can i change?

        -  Behavioral change - problem solving strategies, energy prioritizing

        -  Life quality - food, sleep, physical activity

        -  Stress management - relaxation, mindfulness

        -  Everyday strategies - facilitate everyday life, structure and organization

        -  Social and civil rights - housing support, job opportunities, law and ethics

      The sessions with group discussions will be held at a certain time every 3rd week. The
      discussions revolve around specific questions linked to the theme of the current treatment
      week. The discussions will be supervised and led by a therapist and are held through a closed
      discussion forum online.

      Control group The control group is offered self-studies by reading the book "What does the
      disability mean ?: Living with autism / Asperger syndrome", as well as a book containing
      biographical stories from people who themselves have ASD. The first book will be read during
      the first half of the project, and the second will be in the second half.

      Data Collection Each potential participant will initially be asked to answer a questionnaire
      online. The questionnaire includes questions about psychiatric symptoms, quality of life,
      demographic variables, employment and knowledge about ASD etc. Information that verifies the
      ASD diagnosis is obtained from the patients' medical record with the participant's consent.
      An interview via video or telephone is conducted with all potential participants and they are
      interviewed with a structured assessment tool for psychiatric diagnostics (M.I.N.I. version
      7). Information about prior treatment will also be collected, as well as a summary of prior
      amount of care utilization, in order to enable a health-economic analysis. A questionnaire
      that focuses on the participant's level of knowledge about ASD is distributed before and
      after treatment, to investigate whether participants have acquired knowledge of ASD during
      the course of intervention. Information about the patient's expectations of treatment is
      obtained before start. Data on patient satisfaction with treatment and possible side effects
      are obtained after the end of treatment.

      Power Calculation The experience of treatment for adults with ASD is very limited, and
      therefore, there are quite few previous results to be based on when making assumptions about
      the expected effect. However, a previous study of adult patients with ASD found an effect
      size of d = 0.43 (SD = 1.68) on self-assessed quality of life, measured before and after CBT
      in group. To get 80% power to find a difference of that size (given an alpha level of 0.05),
      42 participants will be recruited. In the previous study (on site) there was a loss of 17%.
      It is difficult to estimate how much the loss occurs when the treatment is administered
      through internet, but if assumed that the loss is 50%, the intention is to include at least
      84 participants in order to answer the scientific questions. The calculations are made using
      the PS - Power and Sample Size Calculations software.

      Measurement Quality of life is measured by Brunnsviken Brief quality of Life questionnaire
      (BBQ) and RAND-36 before and after the end of treatment and in a 6-month and one-year
      follow-up. Clinical Global Impression (CGI) is used to measure global mental health and its
      change after treatment. EQ-5D and Sense of Coherence Scale (SOC) measure overall health and
      experience of context. Depression and anxiety are measured with Hospital Anxiety Depression
      Scale (HADS), schizotypic traits with SPQ and obsessive symptoms are assessed with BOCS.
      Suicide thoughts are examined using one item in PHQ-9 in addition to structured questions
      about suicidal thoughts included in the structured diagnostic interview material M.I.N.I.
      (version 7.0.0). The self-assessment form RAADS - Ritvo Autism-Asperger's Diagnostic Scale is
      used to measure autistic traits and the level of participant autism is evaluated by clinics
      before and after the intervention. Participants expectations on the treatment are assessed at
      the beginning. Expectations are measured with Patient Prognostic Expectancy Inventory and
      PATHEV. Knowledge about autism is measured before, during and after treatment using Autism
      Knowledge questionnaire, which is a questionnaire created for the project. Self-acceptance,
      self-awareness, mood and ability to ask for help, as well as the extent of social contacts,
      sickness absence, and occurrence of work / studies will be measured after the intervention
      using a collection of follow-up questions compiled for a previous project. Satisfaction with
      the treatment is measured with CSQ and negative side effects are measured through Negative
      Effects questionnaire (NEQ) after the end of treatment.
    
  