
    
      DHA (Docosahexaenoic Acid ) is a long chain omega-3 fatty acid important for brain and eye
      development and function throughout life. It also supports heart health. DHA is the most
      abundant omega-3 in the brain and retina and is naturally found in breast milk. EPA
      (Eicosapentaenoic Acid ) is a long-chain omega-3 fatty acid important for overall health.
      However, unlike DHA, the body does not store EPA in significant quantities in the brain or
      retina (DHA is found in every cell throughout the body, EPA is not). These Omega 3 fatty
      acids are considered essential due to the inability of the human body to create them and the
      need to consume them from nutritional source. Food that is considered rich in omega 3 fatty
      acids are fat fish and green vegetables. Omega-3 fatty acids are "good fats," and are among
      the most important nutrients lacking in Western diets today. The average person in developing
      countries consumes less than 100 mg of DHA daily. With increasing awareness of the importance
      of DHA, many people realize that they need to make a change in their diet by adding DHA-rich
      foods or supplements.

      Alpha Linolenic Acid (ALA) is a shorter-chain omega-3 that serves as a source of energy and
      as a building block for long-chain omega-3 fatty acids (DHA and EPA). This precursor for
      omega 3 fatty acid is abundant in falx seeds. The mother and the fetus has the metabolic
      mechanism that enables them to transform ALA into EPA,DHA endogenously.

      Women during pregnancy are predisposed to a reduction in unsaturated long chain fatty acid
      (Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid = PUFA) from the omega 3 group . Lately, a new hypothesis
      claiming that a reduced level of this essential acids expose the fetus later in his adult
      life to a spectrum of metabolic and cardiovascular disease. New publication on animal models
      showed higher rates of obesity, insulin resistance diabetes and cardiovascular damage on mice
      exposed short chain fatty acids compared to those treated with enriched ALA diet
      supplementation. Different nutritional and gynecological health organization around the world
      including the FDA, recommend incorporating omega 3 fatty acids supplementation to daily diet
      and specifically in pregnant women in order to raise their blood levels for the developing
      fetus. However, normal fatty acid profile of the omega 3 group in mother and fetus haven't
      been described yet. Furthermore, the total effect and future benefit to fetus haven't been
      thoroughly studied and is based mainly on presumptions.

      The aim of this study is to learn the effect of different supplementations from the omega 3
      group on the maternal and fetal fatty acid profile during pregnancy and to study their
      epigenetic influence.

      Study methods:

      Women 12 weeks of gestation visiting high risk unit and fitting inclusion criteria will be
      offered to participate in the study. Demographic, medical and obstetrical information will be
      collected from medical files after giving signed informed consent .

      Each participant will be randomly assigned to one of three arms of the study based on the
      order of being recruited (1- to first group, 2- to second group, 3 - to third group, 4- to
      first group, etc.). Randomization will be done by the principal investigator that is not one
      of the high risk unit team, and will be blinded to the participants and the treating doctor.

      Group 1: Enriched diet with 2 capsules of ALA supplementation a day - 630 mg in each capsule.
      Total amount of 1260 mg (Daily recommended dose is 1-2 g).

      Group 2: Enriched diet with 2 capsules of DHA+EPA supplementation a day (Each capsule consist
      of 240 mg DHA and 360 mg EPA) Group 3: Control group - Will receive 2 placebo capsule a day
      (All products will be supplied by the same company that is approved by the FDA and the
      Israeli health ministry) Follow up will take place on every visit to the high risk unit that
      is 3 and 2 weeks apart at the second and third trimester, respectively. On each visit one
      blood tube that include 5cc of blood will be taken for fatty acid profile analysis and on
      labor 2 blood tubes will be taken from the mother and from the umbilical cord after
      separation of the placenta : 1- for fatty acid analysis , 2- for PCR evaluation of mRNAs of
      genes that were found correlated in animal models to be influenced by maternal diet during
      pregnancy and are connected to metabolic syndrome pathologies in adulthood ( including -
      FASn, Elov6, PPAR (α, β/δ, γ), SCD1, Fads2, SREBP-1 Ppargc1alpha, Lpin1, Plin5 , MAPK/PGC-1α.
      (
    
  