
    
      The present protocol seeks to advance our understanding of sclerosing glomerular and
      tubulointerstitial kidney diseases, including but not limited to variants of focal segmental
      glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and chronic kidney disease of unknown etiology (CKDu). This
      protocol will encompass studies of the natural history, pathogenesis and treatment of these
      chronic kidney disorders. It will also allow us to: (1) provide second opinions to referring
      physicians about management of subjects with these relatively rare kidney diseases; (2)
      collect research samples (e.g., blood), urine, and kidney tissue obtained from
      clinically-indicated or from research renal biopsies); (3) and treat these subjects with
      standard or other approved therapies; or (4) invite selected subjects patients to participate
      in limited pilot studies of novel combinations of standard therapeutic agents, such as
      rituximab and cyclosporine. (5) Agricultural worker chronic kidney disease of undetermined
      etiology (CKDu) is a growing problem in tropical countries in the Americas and Asia,
      including Sri Lanka where collaborators are located. We will receive kidney tissue from 25
      CKDu cases for pathologic examination and transcriptional profiling and blood, plasma, serum,
      urine for metabolomic and genetic analysis from 50 cases and controls. Subjects were
      consented and samples were collected under a protocol approved by the University of Colombo
      IRB. These studies may provide the opportunity to generate new hypotheses regarding
      pathogenesis and treatment that would be candidates for testing in other research protocols.

      Subjects with known or suspected forms of sclerosing glomerular or chronic, fibrosing
      tubulointerstitial kidney diseases will undergo routine medical evaluation, laboratory
      testing, imaging procedures and kidney biopsies as medically indicated. Selected subjects
      will be invited to provide informed consent to undergo a kidney biopsy for research purposes.
      Blood, urine, and tissue samples will be evaluated both for standard diagnostic purposes and
      for research purposes using specialized molecular methods that may provide insights into
      specific disease pathogenesis. Subjects may elect to receive the results of their kidney
      disease evaluation, NIH treatment recommendations, and return to the care of their referring
      physicians. Other subjects may be treated with either conventional or approved agents, or
      (with separate consent) with a novel combination of conventional therapies (rituximab and
      cyclosporine) as part of pilot studies that would involve long-term follow-up care at the
      NIH.
    
  