
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the appropriate dose of IMC-A12 (cixutumumab) to use in combination with
      gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) and erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride). (Phase I)
      II. To assess progression-free survival in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer treated
      with IMC-A12 plus gemcitabine and erlotinib compared to those treated with gemcitabine plus
      erlotinib alone. (Phase II) III. To assess overall survival in each of the two treatment arms
      in this group of patients. (Phase II) IV. To assess the total response probability (confirmed
      and unconfirmed, complete and partial responses) in each of the two treatment arms in the
      subset of this group of patients with measurable disease. (Phase II) V. To assess the
      qualitative and quantitative toxicities in each of the two treatment arms in this group of
      patients. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of cixutumumab followed by a
      randomized, phase II study.

      Patients are initially enrolled into the phase I portion of the study to determine the
      recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of cixutumumab. Once the RPTD is determined, patients are
      enrolled into the phase II portion of the study.

      PHASE I (LIMITED INSTITUTIONS): Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once
      daily on days 1-28, gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1,
      8, and 15, and cixutumumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II (ALL SWOG MEMBERS): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and cixutumumab
      at the RPTD as in phase I.

      ARM II: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride and gemcitabine hydrochloride as in arm I.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Previously collected tumor tissue is obtained for gene expression analyses by RT-PCR, RNA
      isolation, and cDNA synthesis. Blood samples are collected periodically for correlative
      studies. Samples are assessed for the potential relationship between gene expression levels,
      germline polymorphisms, Ras and P13K mutations and progression-free survival and overall
      survival.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for up to 3 years.
    
  