
    
      Mal-nutrition is a significant problem in the developing world, with serious consequences for
      human health and socio-economic development. It is estimated that over 43% women of
      reproductive age suffer from anemia. In Pakistan, about 35% non-pregnant and 51% pregnant
      women are suffering from anemia. Prevention and control against anemia rely on iron
      supplementation and food fortification on large scale. Both these methods are not affordable
      and feasible for poor people. Previous studies have shown that about 97% females do not meet
      their iron requirements. The possible reason to this can be iron losses from body including
      menstruation. To overcome these problems, culturally accepted, inexpensive and modified
      recipes were used to supply iron with addition of Moringa oleifera leaves (rich and cheap
      source of iron). In the study 34 of ages between 13-30 years were selected (excluding
      pregnant and lactating women) and were intervened with value added supplement " Moringa
      oleifera" for a period of three months. These recipes were made part of the diet by giving a
      dose of three meals per day on regular basis. Each recipe contained about 15 g of Dried
      Moringa powder. After the intervention, out of total 34, 3 females achieved normal Hb level
      of 12 g/dl. Overall, 94% cases of the study showed improvement of 1.8 g/dl (on average) in Hb
      level after intervention. There was a significant increase in blood Hb level (p<0.000) and
      both the var5iables were strongly and positively correlated (0.928). Variables of age and
      levels of education were weakly but significantly related to each other (p<0.001) in
      improving Hb after intervention.

      Females with higher levels of education showed better response towards intervention.

      After intervention with Moringa oleifera, an average increase of 1.5 g/dl in Hb was observed
      in the entire population whereas, members of Group B (ages above 18) showed more increase of
      14.96% in their Hb level as compared to members of Group A (ages below 18) showing an
      increase of 12.96% in Hb level.
    
  