
    
      An Electronic Privacy Information Center(EPIC programmer who works with the Inpatient Tobacco
      Treatment Program will identify potential participants using electronic health record (EHR)
      data each week.

      Eligible patients who are interested in the study and provide informed consent will be
      randomized and informed of the randomization assignment by the research assistant. We will
      stratify randomization by participants' response regarding their plan to quit smoking ("in
      the next month" or "more than a month from now"). A computer-generated sequence of random
      numbers will assign treatment groups. Participants will be randomized to one of two treatment
      arms: (1) standard of care, or (2) PN: a patient navigator to coordinate tobacco treatment
      with the smoker's outpatient healthcare team and address any underlying social determinants
      of health that are barriers to cessation (identified using a validated social determinants of
      health screening tool).

      Assessments. A trained research assistant will administer these assessments either in-person
      or over the phone. The assessments require under 30 minutes to complete. The PI will also
      conduct an in-depth interview with the patient navigator to explore barriers to successful
      navigation. Outcome assessments will be conducted at baseline (prior to randomization) and at
      3-months after randomization. Participants will be assessed at 3-months, for self-report of
      quitting, use of smoking cessation medications, and use of counseling in the outpatient
      setting.

      Enhanced Traditional Care: Participants randomized to this group will receive a resource card
      that has information on quitlines, Boston Medical Center (BMC) outpatient program number, and
      websites for smoking cessation.

      Patient Navigation Intervention: This intervention is based on the Social Contextual Model, a
      multi-level approach to health education which stresses the influence of life experiences
      (e.g. stress and financial problems) and social relationships (e.g. social networks and
      family roles) on the practice of health behaviors. Participants randomized into this group
      will meet the trained navigator in person if she is available, or will be introduced by
      telephone. Participants will receive up to ten hours of patient navigation, in person or over
      the phone, over a three-month period. Patient navigation contacts will involve individual
      counseling to help the patient achieve abstinence from smoking. Navigators will also screen
      participants for social determinants of health which may be preventing them from quitting
      smoking, using an adapted version of a validated social determinants of health screening
      tool. Patient navigation intervention calls will use motivational interviewing (MI)
      strategies to do the following: (1) Assess stage of change for smoking cessation; (2) Assess
      and reinforce any prior abstinence from smoking and/or any efforts made to reduce or quit
      smoking; (3) Explore the patient's motivation to quit smoking, drawing on recent illness,
      financial situation, and family situation as appropriate; advise about the risks of smoking
      and benefits of quitting (4) Discuss past experience with utilizing cessation support; (5)
      Explore potential barriers to using smoking cessation medications (e.g. lack of trust, cost,
      misconceptions about treatment (e.g. that nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) is more harmful
      than cigarettes); (6) Brainstorm strategies to address identified barriers; (7) Elicit
      commitment to accept another patient navigation counseling call, discuss timing.

      Minimum navigation intervention dose: completion of social determinants of health screener
      and at least part of MI script (at least 1 item)

      Navigator Training and Evaluation. A standard, validated motivational interviewing (MI)
      booster training program will be provided to one navigator. Training will include information
      about 1) tobacco dependence and treatment; and 2) barriers to treatment engagement among
      poor/minority patients. Our navigator will also be trained in MI. This additional training
      will take place over a half day and will focus on reviewing MI skills and delivery of the
      navigator intervention. MI skills will be reviewed through didactics, demonstrations,
      role-plays, and video. The navigator will be evaluated on both process (helpfulness, warmth,
      empathy), and content (intervention adherence). Following training the principal investigator
      (PI) will meet weekly with the navigator to ensure skill maintenance by reviewing audiotapes
      of intervention calls and providing corrective feedback.

      Preserving Internal Validity/Treatment Fidelity, and Program Tracking. The intervention is
      manual-based. After each patient interaction, the navigator will complete a checklist of
      intervention components that were delivered. We will use these checklists to ensure that the
      intervention is delivered as intended, and to estimate intervention "dose" and treatment
      exposure. 5 participant interactions will be audio taped with permission from the
      participant. the PI will monitor tapes for protocol adherence.

      Chart review. The research assistant will review participants' medical record to see if they
      have talked to their doctor about quitting smoking, if they have been prescribed medications
      to quit smoking, if they have attended a smoking cessation group at Boston Medical Center, if
      they received tobacco counseling from TTS, and if they have reduced the number of cigarettes
      or have quit smoking. We will collect data on mental health and substance use diagnoses. The
      investigators define mental health and substance use as the presence of diagnosed mental
      illness/substance use on the problem list/ annotations to problem list. the investigators
      will also determine whether participants have participated in any smoking cessation
      counseling sessions over the phone from the Massachusetts Quitworks Program.
    
  