
    
      Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is a rare genetically inherited disorder seen in
      1:100,000-150,000 people and is often underdiagnosed in children. PH1 is characterized by
      abnormally high levels of oxalate in the blood and urine, crystals in the urine, frequent
      formation of kidney stones, and hardening (calcification) of the kidneys called
      "nephrocalcinosis." Identification and evaluation of proteins and peptides (biomarkers) in
      the urine of PH1 patients may provide insight into the process of kidney damage that occurs
      over time in PH1 by evaluating these markers at some point after diagnosis and over
      long-term. By studying biomarker patterns in the urine of PH1 patients that are collected
      over the course of their disease, information about changes in biomarker patterns over time
      may provide important clues about those patients at a higher risk for faster progression to
      end stage kidney failure and may serve as important outcomes for new therapies in the future,
      too.

      Primary study objective: Identify the unique urine proteomic markers of PH1 versus healthy
      intra-familial sibling controls of PHI patient specimens at one point in time
      (cross-sectionally).

      Secondary study objective: Determine change over time in urine proteomic patterns, their
      association with change in estimated (calculated) kidney filtering function, and the relative
      risk for progression of PH1 and kidney disease progression.

      Tertiary study objective: Establish if and when, in the course of PH1, the protective effects
      of the body (and kidneys) for normal kidney tissue healing are decreased/ lost as evidenced
      by the long-term change in biomarker patterns.

      The primary endpoints of this study include standard clinical endpoints (data that a kidney
      doctor would look at as a PH1 patient would be followed over time in the clinic), as they
      best reflect PH1 disease progression: (a) estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), known
      as kidney filtering function; (b) urine oxalate; and (c) plasma oxalate (when eGFR < 40
      ml/min/1.73 m2, which is when kidney function is significantly decreased).

      The goal of the Rare Kidney Stone Consortium (RKSC) is to advance understanding and treatment
      of severe, rare forms of nephrolithiasis that cause marked excretion of insoluble minerals
      important in stone formation in which patients experience recurring stones from childhood
      onward and are at risk for chronic kidney disease. End state renal disease is common in PH1.
      Importantly, these conditions are rare enough that there has been minimal sharing of
      information and expertise among clinicians and scientists, a situation that has slowed
      progress toward effective treatments. Over the last 6 years, RKSC has formed secure,
      web-based registries and tissue banks open for collaborative projects.

      About this Study: This is a pilot investigation using previously collected and archived (1)
      cross-sectional 24 hr. urine samples from PH1 patients (n=20) and healthy sibling controls
      (n=18) and (2) longitudinally collected 24 hr. urine samples from patients with PH1 enrolled
      in the RKSC registry bank (n=55). No new samples will be collected.

      Additional information that will be collected (or provided with the urine specimens) as part
      of this study: De-identified data from each patient's health history, medications and
      supplements taken; history of kidney stones (and their chemical make-up); gender, current
      age, height, weight; old measurements of urine acidity, and blood oxalate, urine oxalate,
      calcium, citrate, and creatinine (from muscle breakdown) concentrations, and urine super
      saturation.
    
  