
    
      Study area and population

      The study will be carried out in the communities of Tambai and Micheu1, locality of Bebedo,
      district of Nhamatanda, Sofala province, Mozambique. The communities are covered by the Vinho
      Health Center.

      Study design

      A prospective experimental Before-After-Control-Intervention test will be carried out with
      two groups: a) Intervention (community of Tambai): with indoors and outdoors spraying with
      IR3535 (3-(N-acetyl-N-butyl) aminopropionic acid ethyl ester) and b) Control (community of
      Micheu1): without spraying. This longitudinal study will last for 2 years. Mosquitoes will be
      captured indoors and outdoors to determine entomological indicators relevant to transmission.
      Mosquito breeding sites in the communities will be mapped using "Participatory Mapping". The
      prevalence of malaria in children under five will be determined in the control and in the
      intervention communities, at the beginning, middle and end of study. A KAP survey on malaria
      to Tambai and Micheu1 householders and health professionals and key community actors.

      Population interventions and procedures

      Initially, the Beira Operational Research Center (CIOB) and the Institute of Hygiene and
      Tropical Medicine of the Nova University Lisbon (IHMT-NOVA), in collaboration with the Vinho
      health center, Provincial Directorate of Health of Sofala and the Directorate district health
      district of Nhamatanda, will present the intervention in a participatory manner and explain
      the approach directed to the community in order to guarantee its appropriation by the
      community from the beginning of the study. Before conducting the study, communities will be
      informed, and the local structures will be briefed in order for the community to understand
      the objectives of the study.

      Surveys on community knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP).

      Three KAP surveys will be carried out, at the start (baseline), at the end of the first year
      and at the end of the second year. The study population will comprise all households at these
      communities. Household data will be collected using a questionnaire designed for tablets,
      with Android system, through the ODK application. Interviews to the head of household will
      take place at their homes or at a location proposed by them. The KAP about malaria and the
      different aspects related to the acceptability of the use of repellents will be complemented
      by focus groups and interviews to local key actors. The collection of the data will be
      carried out based on two techniques: a) semi-structured interviews (Flick, 2006) to health
      professionals at the Vinho Health Center (a Maternal and Child Health Nurse and a preventive
      medicine professional), two activists and local leaders; b) focus groups (Flick, 2006) with
      matrons and practitioners of traditional medicine from the two communities under study. All
      participants in this component of the study will be selected intentionally (Hancock,
      Ockleford and Windridge, 2009). Participation will be made by signing the informed consent.

      Malaria prevalence in Tambai and Micheu1

      The malaria prevalence will be determined in children under 5 years of age in both locations
      Tambai (intervention) and Micheu1 (control) at the beginning of the study, at the beginning
      of the second year and at the end of the second year (end of the project). Consent will be
      requested to the legal responsible for the child. Capillary blood will be collected using a
      sterile pipette and individual lancet from all children in the study aged 6-59 months of age
      for: a) Rapid Diagnostic Test (RDT) for Plasmodium falciparum; b) blood drop smears and c)
      filter paper for nucleic acids extraction (FTA Cards ThermoFisher). The samples will be
      coded, and information about the coordinates of the associated household will be recorded.
      The initial sample processing will be carried out at the laboratory of the Health Center of
      Ponta Gea - Beira, and the molecular analyzes at IHMT-NOVA - Lisbon, as defined in the MTA.
      Identification of Plasmodium will be done by PCR and genotyping by whole genome sequencing
      (Ocholla et al. 2014). Children who are diagnosed with malaria by RDT during the study will
      be referred to the Vinho Health Center for treatment.

      House Spraying with repellent

      The spraying with IR3535 will start at the beginning of the study and will be performed
      monthly during the first 3 months, bimonthly during the next 6 months and then quarterly
      thereafter. The spraying will be carried out inside and outside the houses during the
      morning. Spraying will only be carried out in the Tambai community (intervention), while in
      Micheu1, there will be no spraying.

      Entomology

      For entomological study households will be randomly selected. In case of failure of satellite
      imagery and geographical analysis (Wampler et al. 2013, Escamilla et al. 2014), a classic
      approach based on household inventories in each community will be used manually. Using local
      mapping and numbering, two lists of numbered households will be created. After a random
      number generator (e.g., Random.org) will be used to randomly select the households from each
      list (Wampler et al. 2013). Mosquitoes will be collected twice a month inside and outside the
      houses at the selected households for 2 years in the communities of Tambai (intervention) and
      Micheu1 (control). Inside each household, resting mosquitoes that fed the previous night will
      be collected using a Prokopak aspirator. Outside the residences, CDC- light traps will be
      placed in the early evening and collected at the following morning. The traps will be placed
      outdoors, in places equidistant from the buildings (houses) that compose the household. The
      physiological state of the mosquitoes will be determined, and the females classified as
      unfed, partially fed, fed, semi-gravid or gravid (Detinova, 1962). Mosquito females will be
      identified morphologically and confirmed by the PCR (Abilio et al. 2015). The density of
      mosquitoes caught in the control and intervention communities will be estimated using
      Williams' geometric mean. GEE and LMM will be explored to compare the two groups along time.
      The rate of infection will be determined by detecting and quantifying sporozoites in
      mosquitoes. The mosquitoes' heads and thorax will be removed and prepared to isolate DNA
      (Abilio et al. 2011). Sporozoites will be detected and quantified by quantitative PCR (qPCR)
      as described in (Marie et al. 2013).

      Breeding sites mapping

      The mosquito breeding sites will be mapped using the "participatory mapping" approach (Dickin
      et al. 2014). The method will be used to identify the spatial perceptions of malaria risk in
      the community, based on the spatial identification of existing breeding sites. Interview
      participants and focus groups will be invited to draw a map of the areas they associate with
      breeding in communities and describe the important features of the map. These maps can then
      be digitized on a geographic information system (GIS) to create a georeferenced map of
      community knowledge.

      Malaria cases in the community

      During the study, cases of malaria in the locality of Bebedo will be monitored through
      patients who visit the Vinho Health Center. Patients of all ages from the communities with
      suspected malaria will be recruited. A questionnaire will be administered. A RDT, a thick
      drop and blood smear will be performed, and a drop of blood collected for subsequent
      molecular diagnosis by PCR (as described above). Enrolment and consent will be asked after
      the patients have received all the care they need in the health unit. Written informed
      consent will be obtained from the participants or their legal representatives for patients
      under 18 years old.

      Study variables

      The study variables can be divided into variables from the survey (questionnaire) and
      semi-structured interviews. Variables can be grouped into the following categories:

        -  Socio-demographic variables: Age; Sex; Marital status; Profession; Education level;
           Degree of kinship to the householder; Household size (nº of houses, area); Number of
           rooms in the house; nº of people per division; Type of construction.

        -  Ownership and use of mosquito nets: Ownership of mosquito nets; Use of mosquito nets;
           Mobility and activities of household members.

        -  Malaria knowledge, attitudes and practices: Malaria knowledge level; Malaria attitudes;
           Mosquito control and bites; Ownership, conservation and use of mosquito nets; Knowledge
           about repellents; After analyzing the questionnaire data, the variables are deduced;
           Level of knowledge, attitude and practices about malaria (score categorized as: bad (>
           50%), medium (50% -74%) and high (≥75%)).

      Variables of the study will also be those resulting from the collection of biological
      material (peripheral blood and mosquitoes):

        -  Malaria cases in children under five (RDT, optical microscopy and PCR);

        -  Malaria cases attending the Vinho Health Center;

        -  Mosquito density inside and outside homes; Percentage of infected mosquitoes;
           Distribution of mosquito species inside and outside homes;

        -  Breeding site (participatory mapping)

      Sample size for KAP

      Approximately 164 householders will be surveyed (according to the National Institute of
      Statistics of Moçambique (INE) report, 2017) corresponding to the total number of households
      in the communities under study. The chosen locations are comprised of only 164 households,
      therefore everyone contacted will be included to participate in order to guarantee a maximum
      power for the study.

      Prevalence of malaria in the intervention and control community

      According to the INE report, 2017, the total number of the population in the two study
      communities is 721 inhabitants. To calculate the number of children under 5 years of age, the
      total population was multiplied by 17.5%, so the sample will consist of about 126 children.
      The attempt to include all children aims to try to obtain a sample size that guarantees us
      the highest possible power.

      Sample size and statistical power for entomological indicators

      Different scenarios and programs were explored to calculate the sample size. Initially, a
      scenario corresponding to a sample size of 40 households (20 in each community) followed for
      48 moments was considered as being feasible. The statistical power was calculated using the G
      * Power v.3.2 program (Faul et al. 2007, 2009), with a correlation between measurements made
      at different times 0.2; with effect of size f = 0.25; a type I error probability equal to
      0.05. A statistical power of 91.1% was estimated. Conversely, for the same parameter values,
      fixing the power at 95%, in the perspective of using ANOVA for repeated measurements, 24
      aggregates were obtained in each community. However, if the assumptions of ANOVA for repeated
      measurements fail, LMM or GEE models will be used, so it is important to have an idea of the
      statistical power for these models. Using the Longpower package
      (https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/longpower/versions/1.0-19/topics/longpower-package)
      of the R software, the power associated with the GEE and LMM models, for the previous
      scenario (24 households), would not be satisfactory. Considering the possibility of missing
      values (up to 20% in the last visit), a more realistic autoregressive correlation matrix for
      measurements in each visit, several scenarios were explored in Longpower to guarantee at
      least powers of 80%, for the various types of models. Thus, also keeping the budget and human
      resources available, we have 40 households in each location (80 households in total), with a
      monthly visit to each household.

      Data analysis

      The data will be analyzed using SPSS version 25.0 and R package. Initially, descriptive
      statistics and exploratory analysis will be performed. Parametric and non-parametric tests
      will be used, either for independent samples (for example, comparing the two communities at a
      given time), or for paired samples (comparing each community at the beginning, middle and end
      of the study). The Chi-square or Fisher's test will be used to test the association between
      qualitative variables or to compare proportions between independent groups. For paired
      qualitative data, the McNemar test and Cochran's Q test (for binary data) will be applied.
      For quantitative variables, the comparison of two independent groups will be performed using
      the T-Student test, in case of compliance with the assumptions of normality and homogeneity
      of variances, or alternatively the Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon test. ANOVA or Kruskal-Wallis test
      will be used for more than two groups. Signs, Wilcoxon and Friedman tests will be used to
      compare two or more paired samples. If the sample sizes allow, generalized linear models can
      be used to jointly analyze several explanatory variables for some events of interest (for
      example, use of repellent). For the longitudinal comparison between the intervention and
      control groups, as for entomological indices, Mixed Linear Models and Generalized Estimation
      Equation Model or a Nonparametric Analysis of Longitudinal Data in Factorial Experiments
      (nparLD) approach will be applied, using several packages of the R. software. The
      (CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) CONSORT2010 standards, an intention-to-treat
      (IT) analysis will be used, and there may be a need to proceed previously with a treatment
      for missing values. Differences and associations will be considered statistically significant
      when p <0.05. In order to estimate the prevalence or other proportions of interest, 95%
      confidence intervals will be obtained by Wald method or alternatively the Wilson or Jeffreys
      methods.

      The sporozoite rate (% of mosquitoes with sporozoites in the salivary glands) will be
      compared between the control and intervention community and the percentage of reduction
      determined. The temporal and spatial distribution of the different mosquito species and their
      densities will be explored using ArcGIS 10 with Spatial Analysis and Statistical Tools) and
      compared between the 2 locations (control x intervention).

      In the qualitative component, after recording the interviews, their full transcription will
      be carried out. Data processing and analysis will be manual, using the content analysis
      technique.

      Data management - Questionnaires

      The Open Data Kit (ODK) will be used for data collection and its quality control. The
      supervisor will review the interviews on a daily basis, before sending them to the secure
      server located at the CIOB for storing. The server will be accessible only to the data
      manager and the team of researchers. The transferred data does not include the names of
      participants, only their codes. The data manager will clean and validate the data daily and
      provide feedback to the field staff. All physical documents such as informed consents, data
      collection forms and electronic devices (GPS and tablets) will be stored and only accessible
      to the CIOB Principal Investigator. The paper documents will be kept for 5 years after the
      study is completed and then destroyed.

      Data Management - Prevalence and entomology

      The data will be collected through a paper data collection form. Every day, each data
      collector must enter all data in a database available on a computer and send it to the data
      manager, after a careful revision by responsible of the team. After the data manager receives
      the data, she/he can create a password protected folder to archive the data on a daily basis.

      Quality control and monitoring - Training of staff

      Study personnel will be properly trained by the study's research team. The field team will be
      subdivided into three (3) groups:

        -  Collecting blood samples and administering the survey to householders and conducting
           interviews with health professionals. The team will consist of 3 health technicians with
           experience in research.

        -  Mosquitoes collection and breeding sites mapping. The team will consist of 2 entomology
           technicians.

        -  Sprayers that will be spraying houses with repellent. The team will consist of 4 people.

      The training will be focused on ethical aspects, selection of households, children aged 6-59
      months, conducting interviews, blood sampling procedures, good clinical and laboratory
      practices, mosquito collection, manipulation, identification, processing and storing,
      breeding mapping and spraying techniques and safety.

      Quality control and monitoring - Supervision of field work

      The teams will have a field coordinator who will be responsible for monitoring the field work
      and ensuring data quality. During the study, a team of supervisors will periodically visit
      the field teams to ensure proper practices. The quality control (QC) of the data will start
      in the pilot phase, with the identification and replacement of unclear terms and study
      questions. The field coordinator will also continuously assess compliance with standard
      operating procedures (SOP) and ethical principles.

      Data quality and quality assurance

      The baseline study will include a pilot that will be conducted during training in a community
      that is not part of the study. The pilot will have the following objectives (i) to evaluate
      and validate the contents of the data collection instruments, (ii) to ensure compliance with
      the ethical aspects related to the study. The pilot will help to identify the difficulties
      and omissions during the questionnaire. The pilot will analyze the fieldwork strategy, team
      composition, staff responsibilities and time required to complete all activities.

      The field coordinator will do the quality control of the inquiries made before they are sent
      to the CIOB and in addition to the quality control done by the field coordinator, the main
      investigators will also do the supervision to guarantee the quality of the data.

      Storage of Data

      The data will be stored at the CIOB. Study documents and data collection instruments,
      including informed consent in physical format, that will be placed in file folders and kept
      locked, with restricted access to researchers. All documents related to the research will be
      filed according to the rules of the legislation and will be kept at CIOB for a period of 5
      years.

      Storage of Biological samples

      Part of the blood and mosquito sample will be processed in the laboratory of IHMT-NOVA,
      Portugal, for that purpose a material transfer agreement (MTA) has been signed between CIOB
      and IHMT-NOVA, Portugal. Part of the blood sample will be kept in the CIOB for future
      analysis in the scope of PhDs and/or Master programs, explicitly referring to the present
      project. The samples will be kept in a freezer at CIOB at -80 ° C, for 5 years after the end
      of the study. Biological samples that will not be used for further analysis will be destroyed
      at the end of the analysis within the study.

      Ethical review

      This study protocol has been submitted for ethical approval to the Institutional Committee on
      Bioethics for Health of the National Institute of Health (CIBS-INS) and to the National
      Committee on Bioethics for Health (CNBS) - Clearance Ref. 63/CNBS/20. The study will be
      carried out in accordance with the rules of "good clinical practice (GCP)", "good clinical
      and laboratory practice (GCLP)" and all applicable regulatory requirements, such as the
      Declaration of Helsinki 2013, at its 64th General Assembly.

      Informed consent

      The consent from the heads of households, parents or legal representatives of the children
      and health professionals selected for the study will be obtained by trained interviewers.
      They will be fluent in the local languages (Sena and Ndau) or accompanied by an interpreter
      during the request for informed consent and interviews. All participants will be informed
      about the objectives of the study, procedures to be performed during the study and potential
      associated inconveniences, as well as the possibility of leaving the study even after signing
      the informed consent without any implications for them.

      The participant will have the right to privacy during the moment of the interview, it will be
      held in a place where the participant feels comfortable, explaining that all the information
      provided by him will be confidential, authorization for audio recording of the interview will
      be specifically requested. Permission from the householder will be ask, for the collection of
      a finger prick blood sample from the children in the household aged 6-59 months. If the
      child's legal representative is different from the head of household, informed consent will
      also be administered to her/him. If the child's parent/legal guardian is under 18, informed
      consent will be administered to authorize the child to participate.

      Authorizations for periodic visits throughout the study will be requested while explaining
      the importance of the procedures for:

        -  spraying of their homes (indoor and outdoor) with mosquito repellent (monthly). Only in
           Tambai;

        -  collection of mosquitoes from the interior and exterior of their houses (twice a month)
           in two localities.

      The inquirers and each participant will sign 2 copies of the informed consent form, in which
      one copy will remain with the participant and the other will remain with the inquirer for
      later filing in the study folder. The contact of the principal investigator of the study is
      an integral part of the document. The informed consent form will serve as proof that the
      participant accepted to be part of the study by their own free will. In order to guarantee
      confidentiality, each participant will be assigned an identification code for the
      questionnaire. Each questionnaire made will have a code corresponding to consent.

      Participation risks

      The risks of participation are minimal, but in the event that a participant feels
      uncomfortable during the interview with any question, they can ask to pass the question on.
      During the blood sample collection, there may be same risk of bleeding or inflammation from
      the collection site. To minimize that adequate material will be provided to collect capillary
      blood (sterilized lancets and disposable gloves) through health professionals trained for
      that specific activity. Regarding the spraying of houses with repellent, participants will be
      informed about potential rare adverse effects. If someone in the residence, where the
      spraying was carried out, has any reaction, which is suspected to be associated with the
      product, the spraying will be interrupted in that residence and the individual referred to
      the health service.

      Benefits of participation

      Frequently, after carrying out interviews, an increase of knowledge in the communities is
      noted. This is due to the fact that often those who apply the questionnaire can alert to best
      practices, which can contribute to improvements in the health of the community. One of the
      benefits will be knowing whether or not you have malaria, plus children diagnosed with
      malaria will be able to benefit from treatment.
    
  