
    
      The role of topical beta-blockers in promoting wound healing is currently emerging in the
      international literature. β2-Adrenergic receptors (B2AR) are the only subtype of
      beta-adrenoceptors expressed on skin. They can be found in secretory coil of apocrine glands,
      keratinocytes, fibroblasts and melanocytes. The distribution of these receptors provides
      insight on dermatological disorders that may be affected by β-blockers. Keratinocyte
      migration occurs by the facilitation of chemotaxis, the polarization of cells, and activation
      of extracellular signal-related kinases essential in the signaling of promigratory pathways.
      The B2AR activation inhibits keratinocyte migration by activating the serine/threonine
      phosphatase-2a, which downregulates phosphorylation of extracellular signal-related kinases
      necessary for migration. Therefore, B2AR antagonists prevent the phosphorylation of
      phosphatase-2a and have the downstream effect of extracellular signal-related kinase
      promotion, inducing a promigratory pathway in keratinocytes. Keratinocyte migration also
      occurs by galvanotaxis, a phenomenon in which cells migrate in response to electric stimuli.
      Keratinocytes can be stimulated to migrate with the formation of electrical poles and the
      application of electrical fields. The B2AR antagonists improve the ability of keratinocytes
      to respond to such migratory cues, whereas the B2AR agonists decrease keratinocytes' ability
      to respond, further implicating the use of topical timolol for recalcitrant wounds.
      Angiogenesis and dermal fibroblast proliferation are also regulated by B2ARs. The B2AR
      antagonists have been found to promote angiogenesis in chick chorioallantoic membrane assays
      and in vivo murine wound models. Dermal fibroblast migration is also increased (by 27%) when
      exposed to B2AR antagonists, and epidermal differentiation is improved with B2AR antagonists
      and β1- and β2-receptor antagonists.

      Full-thickness skin grafts (FTSG) are one of the most commonly performed procedures in
      dermatologic, plastic and burn surgery. Various experimental approaches to optimize the
      healing of FTSG receiving sites have been described; however, no clearly superior and easily
      applicable method has gained wide acceptance in daily practice.

      As indicated by preliminary evidence in other wound healing endeavors, 0.25% timolol gel may
      represent a commercially available, safe and simple, painless and relatively inexpensive
      treatment for improving healing of FTSG receiving site, as well as for improving cosmetic
      long term outcomes.

      To assess the efficacy and safety of topically applied 0.25% timolol gel in promoting wound
      healing in FTSG receiving site versus standard of care (SOC) by:

        1. Evaluating healing in response to treatment with 0.25% topical timolol gel versus SOC in
           terms of wound surface area and Graft Take Score at the receiving site of a FTSG at 7
           and 14 days;

        2. Evaluating cosmetic outcomes of the receiving site of a FTSG in terms of blinded
           physician (Vancouver Scar Scale, VSS) and patient (Visual Analogue Scale, VAS)
           assessment at 3 and 6 months' follow up;

        3. Evaluating the need for further scar revision (dermabrasion or pulsed dye laser [PDL])
           at the 6-month follow up;

        4. Evaluating patient discomfort during the healing process by means of a patient pain VAS;
           and

        5. Determining the side effects associated with 0.25% timolol gel versus SOC
    
  