
    
      BACKGROUND: Recent reviews show that popular mobile apps for weight loss and weight
      management embed elements that are commonly associated with behavior change, such as setting
      goals, self-reporting and monitoring behavior, and prompting feedback on performance. These
      technologies show good potential for developing interventions for the prevention of
      noncommunicable diseases. Despite their potential, little is known about how these changes
      can occur and the way end-users perceive and use these apps. Few studies tested if commercial
      apps for weight management can be used in interventions for behavior change.

      PURPOSE: To assess the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of a self-directed weight-loss
      intervention targeting employees of an academic institution, using consumer mobile
      applications for weight loss (Lark and MyFitnessPal).

      SETTING: American University of Beirut campus and Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon.

      PARTICIPANTS: Employees (adults aged 18+), with criteria of being able to read, write, and
      understand English, being owners of a mobile phone with either Android (v4.4 or above) or
      iPhone operative system (v8 or later); in better controlling their weight, and provide
      written informed consent to participate in the trial.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: The study is a single-center, parallel randomized controlled trial with two
      study arms (intervention and control). The intervention arm will use Lark, a mobile coach
      app, which provides a just-in-time adaptive intervention (JITAI) by providing motivational
      feedback, goal setting, and emotional social support, among other change techniques. The
      control group will use MyFitnessPal, a calorie-counting app, which does not include JITAI
      components, but allows users to keep track of their caloric intake and energy expenditure.

      EXPECTED IMPACT: This project will provide preliminary evidence on the efficacy of weight
      management apps, promoting behavior change among employees of an academic workplace. The
      results will inform larger scale studies targeting this population in Lebanon, and will be
      used as benchmark for further investigations in other settings and with other target groups.
    
  