
    
      This study will be conducted in a 26-bedded clinical oncology ward, a university teaching
      hospital in the Hong Kong Island of Hong Kong.

      The patients consecutively admitted to clinical oncology ward from 18 January to 7 February
      2015 are included in the study, the patients was counted 7 day mortality or 7 day ICU
      admission from the on set of reaching the MEWS Alarm. The patients with incomplete MEWS or
      discharge data are excluded.

      A pilot study was conducted from 13 July at the time of 0am to 18 July at the time of 0am,
      2014, 41 patients were admitted consecutively to the clinical oncology ward during the study
      period. 10 of them were excluded because of their incomplete MEWS chart, leaving 31 patients
      in the pilot study. 18 of them are male and 13 of them are female. 1 patient was transfer to
      ICU on her second day from admission, as the MEWS score increased by 3 from initial. Six
      patients had 7 day mortality with MEWS alarm and one patient had 7 day mortality without MEWS
      alarm in the study period. According to the sample size formulas and the calculators, the
      estimated sampling is 171 patients from 18 January to 7 February 2015.

      MEWS is a standard nursing routine measurement by calculating the sum of five physiological
      parameters: systolic blood pressure, pulse rate, respiratory rate, body temperature and level
      of consciousness. The calculated MEWS score is being charted on an observation chart sheet.
      Nursing staff routinely collect MEWS score on admission and then once every day during
      hospital stay. The date of admission to ICU, and date of death are also collected .

      In detail, blood pressure and pulse rate are measured electronically (Dinamap Pro 200
      Critikon Vital Signs Monitor, U.S.A). The respiratory rate is counted over one minute. The
      tympanic temperature is recorded (ThermoScan, Type 6014, Braun, Germany), and the level of
      consciousness is based on the AVPU score: A is 'alert', V is 'response to verbal', P is
      'response to pain' and U for 'unresponsive').

      The MEWS score is counterchecked by doctors after doctors' assessment on admission and at the
      doctors' round everyday.

      An ethical approval will be acquired from the CUHK and Queen Mary Hospital Clinical Research
      Ethics Committee. All the participants involved in the study will not experience any harm.
      Potential participants will be given written information regarding the nature of the study
      and the assurances confidentiality for the data collected. Written Consent will be signed.
      All report copies collected will be kept confidential. Patient can choose whether or not to
      be in this study. If they volunteer to be in this study, they may withdraw at any time
      without consequences of any kind of loss or benefits.

      For data analysis, the 7 day mortality with reaching MEWS Alarm will compare with the ones
      without reaching MEWS Alarm by Chi-Squared Test. The relationship between MEWS and the
      mortality is statistically significant if the P value is lower than 0.05. Besides, same
      method of data analysis is used on ICU admission with or without reaching MEWS Alarm.
    
  