
    
      Background:

      Nursing Home Acquired Pneumonia (NHAP) causes excessive morbidity, mortality,
      hospitalization, and loss of function. At any given time, 1.1-2.5% of veterans who reside at
      nursing home care units (NHCUs) and State Veterans Homes (SVHs) are ill with pneumonia.
      Multi-faceted implementation of evidence-based guidelines has been shown to be feasible in
      the private sector. Retrospective studies demonstrate an association between guideline
      adherence and improved survival.

      Objectives:

      Assess the feasibility of a QUERI-like strategy to translate the guidelines into practice at
      VA-affiliated nursing homes through focus groups, interviews, and a small intervention trial.

      Methods:

      Nursing staff focus groups, key informant interviews, and tests of academic detailing
      (educational outreach) scripts were conducted at five facilities. Based on the information
      gathered, the QUERI-like intervention was modified and tested at the Florence, Colorado SVH
      during one influenza season compared to no intervention at a nearby SVH. Forty random SVH
      nursing staff took an anonymous telephone survey of knowledge and attitudes about NHAP twice
      prior to the intervention. A second randomly selected group of CNAs and nurses took the
      survey after the intervention. Research assistants enrolled residents with NHAP, interviewed
      them and their nurses about their quality of life, assessed their function and reviewed their
      medical records. The intervention was multifaceted, including (1) a formative phase to tailor
      implementation and foster staff investment in process and outcomes, (2) institutional level
      change to facilitate immunization and use of appropriate antibiotics and tests; (3)
      interactive educational sessions to improve nursing assessment; and (4) academic detailing to
      physicians to impact diagnostic and prescribing practices. Data were analyzed by Template
      Analysis Technique for qualitative data; test-retest reliability of the knowledge and
      attitude survey; exploratory bivariate comparison of intervention delivery and uptake,
      process of care and outcomes between the intervention and control facilities.

      Status:

      Project work is ongoing.
    
  