
    
      Relevance:

      Many users of a myoelectric arm prosthesis do not use their device because they find it too
      difficult to control the prosthesis. This may be due to the fact that patients cannot
      contract their muscles in the residual limb in a sufficiently controlled manner. Exactly this
      circumstance is trained during the physiotherapy with the patients. But at home many patients
      lack the motivation to continue the exercises from physiotherapy. Mobile games on the
      smartphone can provide patients with long-term motivation to continue the repetitive
      exercises that prepare the muscles for controlling a prosthesis at home.

      Aim:

      The aim of this study is to support patients in training at home with a game on their
      smartphone. This should increase motivation and improve the ability to control a prosthesis
      efficiently.

      Design:

      The Smartphone App is a rhythmic, music-based game consisting of different game modes. It has
      not only a display for real-time bio-feedback, but also many other audiovisually motivating
      incentives to continue playing the game. Similar to the classical control of a commercial
      prosthesis, the muscle signals are measured by two surface electrodes and, in this case,
      transferred to the app instead of the prosthesis. With these 2 electrodes the game is
      controlled. Test persons receive feedback on their performance through the constantly
      displayed bio-feedback, but also through high scores of the various levels and user
      statistics. By testing the muscle coordination twice a week, the neuromuscular improvements
      in the control of the game can be monitored.

      Method/Procedure:

      Eight transradially (below the elbow) amputated patients participate in this study. The
      intervention consists of playing with the smartphone training program using the muscle
      signals picked up by surface electrodes. The study will run over a period of 5 weeks, with
      participants playing with the training program at home for 4 weeks. The program should be
      used 5 times per week, therefore the intervention takes place 20 times in total. In the 5th
      week the final assessment, a final evaluation and the return of the devices take place. All
      usage data, such as starting and exiting the program and the duration of use, are recorded by
      the program itself and treated anonymously.
    
  