
    
      A chronic total occlusion (CTO) is the complete obstruction of a coronary artery that has
      been established from more than 3 months with TIMI (Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction) 0
      flow. This is a frequent pathology, demonstrated in 20% of patients studied with a coronary
      angiography. The patients affected by an isolated CTO or by a multi-vascular coronary disease
      with one or more CTO are an heterogenous population in relation to age, co-morbidity, risk
      factors.

      The treatment of this disease is medical, interventional or surgical. The interventional
      option is often the first choice in case of symptoms or ischemia associated with viability of
      the myocardial wall, originally perfused by the occluded segment. Medical treatment is often
      not enough to reduce symptoms and to improve quality of life. Surgery is very invasive,
      especially for patients with mono-vascular disease, not always possible, especially in case
      of distal diffuse disease or heavy co-morbidity.

      The Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) is a good option thanks to the improvement of
      materials and recanalization techniques (anterograde, retrograde and dissection re-entry).
      However, the procedure is often long, expensive, using a lot of contrast medium and X ray.

      At the diagnosis stage of a CTO, the Japan Chronic Total Occlusion (J-CTO) score defines the
      complexity of the procedure : 0 easy, 1 intermediate, 2 hard, ≥ 3 very hard. The score is
      actually calculated with the angiography data after evaluation of the occlusion's proximal
      cap shape, presence of calcifications in the occluded segment, tortuosity of the occluded
      segment and length of the occlusion.

      In addition to the angiography data, a CT scan of coronary artery can be performed as part of
      Standard of Care. In the study's coordinating center, more than 2000 CT scans are performed
      by the team of interventional cardiologists. Data generated from last generation CT scan are
      then interpreted to extrapolate informations about the occluded segment, the occluded artery
      and the contralateral artery.

      CT scan is able to identify very well the calcium distribution in the occluded
      segment/artery, the true length of the occlusion, bends, collateral branches, distal vessel
      anatomy, coronary path and more, solving ambiguity of proximal cap and showing the shape of
      the distal cap. Thanks to this investigation, the investigators can better evaluate the J-CTO
      score and the CT Rector score. The CT Rector score is helping to grade the CTO difficulty
      before the PCI by predicting time-efficient guidewire crossing. The investigators can
      calculate the calcium score of the occluded artery to detect a critical value for the success
      of CTO PCI. The best strategy with appropriate material can then be chosen for the procedure
      PCI.

      In this study, the investigators would like to demonstrate the interest in performing a CT
      scan as a part of the pathology diagnosis before the PCI in more complex occlusions (J-CTO
      score ≥ 2). The investigators think that the CT scan, with a last generation GE Revolution
      256 slice machine, is actually the best method to evaluate the J-CTO score, the CT Rector
      score and to obtain other important information like anatomical position of the occluded
      artery and presence of side branches in the occluded segment.

      A better evaluation of J-CTO score and complex anatomy will then allow the selection of the
      best technique for the procedure with probably a better success rate, lower radiation, lower
      contrast injection, and a faster and more cost-efficient procedure.
    
  