
    
      Exogenous erythropoietin (EPO) is currently used to reduce or prevent the need for red blood
      cell transfusions in preterm infants. Just two decades ago, erythropoietin (EPO) receptors
      were first identified in the brain, and astrocytes were found to be capable of synthesizing
      EPO . Subsequently, it was found that cultured hippocampal and cerebral cortical neurons
      exposed to EPO were spared some of the glutamate-induced cell death seen in neurons not
      exposed to EPO. Thus began the concept that EPO protects the brain against adversity. Several
      follow-up studies of children who had participated in trials of recombinant EPO for the
      prevention or treatment of anemia, term newborn encephalopathy,or retinopathy of prematurity
      have also provided evidence of neuroprotective effects.

      In the ELGAN (Extremely Low Gestational Age Newborn) study, abnormal brain structure and
      function were associated with intermittent or sustained systemic inflammation (ISSI) . Since
      EPO has anti-inflammatory properties in the kidney and in muscle as well as growth/trophic
      properties, we reasoned that elevated circulating levels might convey information about
      reduced risk of brain damage in ELGANs.

      Although major neurodevelopmental disabilities such as cerebral palsy (CP), mental
      disabilities, and learning and attention deficits during school age figure prominently in the
      outcomes of ELBW infants, successful neuroprotective interventions have yet to be developed.
      Investagators designed a prospective, randomized, masked study to evaluate rhEPO during
      initial hospitalization and follow up, and hypothesized that rhEPO recipients would receive
      fewer transfusions during initial hospitalization in extremely preterm infants. Based on its
      potential for neuroprotection, our study was designed to determine whether rhEPO (500 u/kg)
      was also effective in improving developmental outcomes for extremely low gestational age
      newborns.

      The neurodevelopmental outcomes of rhEPO in treating extremely preterm infants are not clear.
      Investigators propose an early-childhood neurodevelopmental follow-up study to compare
      long-term effects of the rhEPO as measured by, Bayley Scales of Infant Development III. We
      plan to follow extremely low gestational age children around 24 months' corrected age (CA)
      who are enrolled in this study.
    
  