
    
      The research is cross-sectional. The expected duration of the survey is at least 18 months.
      Assuming that the characteristics of the auditory evoked brainstem potentials are correlated
      with salivary cortisone concentration with a correlation coefficient of 0.4, a test power of
      80% and a significance level of α = 0.05, at least 46 subjects should be included in the
      study. Test power analysis was performed using MedCalc Statistical Software, version 19.1
      (MedCalc Software bv, Ostend, Belgium; https://www.medcalc.org; 2019). According to the data
      distribution (Kolmogorov-Smirnov test), appropriate parametric and / or non-parametric
      statistical tests will be applied in accordance with the obtained results. The data will be
      presented in tables and graphs. Numerical variables will be represented using the range,
      arithmetic mean and standard deviation, respectively, the median and the interquartile range,
      in cases of distribution that does not follow the normal distribution. The categorical
      variables will be presented using absolute frequencies and their respective proportions.
      Differences in the values of the numerical variables between the test groups with a defined
      hearing threshold will be analyzed by parametric Student's t-test for independent samples,
      and non-parametric Mann-Whitney U test for independent samples. Differences in categorical
      variables between the examined groups will be analyzed by chi-square test or Fisher's exact
      test in cases where the number of subjects in each group is less than 5. The corresponding
      correlation coefficients (Pearson's or Spearman's) between individual clinical variables will
      be calculated. An appropriate regression model for the prediction of belonging to a group
      with a defined hearing threshold shift will be made, which will include those that have a
      significance level of P≤0.20 in the previous statistical analyzes. In the above tests,
      significant P values will be considered to be less than 0.05. The statistical analysis of
      data will use IBM SPSS Statistics licensed software version 25.0.

      Material:

        1. Audiometer Audiometer AC40

        2. DD45 audiometric headphones

        3. Interacoustics AZ26 tympanometer

        4. Equipment for testing auditory evoked brainstem potentials: ABR Interacoustics Eclipse,
           EPA Preamplifier, 3M E-A-RTONE Insert Earphone ABR

        5. Cortisol-Salivette Cotton Salad Carrier

        6. High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC)

        7. validated questionnaire in the Croatian language - assessment of psychosocial risk
           factors in the HSE workplace 8th validated questionnaire in Croatian - The scale of
           stress experienced

      Research plan:

      An employer finds workers who meet points 1-5 of study inclusion criteria. A head of the
      research checks their medical history and includes them in the study if they do not meet any
      of first six exclusion criteria. A head of the research orally informs these workers at the
      meeting and helps them to understand and sign a written informed consent for participation in
      the research. Each of them receive an information about the date of arrival at the place of
      research and also a unique password that encodes saliva samples, completed questionnaires and
      electronic and printed findings derived from the assessment of hearing health. The research
      leader, research mentors, and occupational safety manager, who is responsible for supervising
      the sampling and storage of saliva samples in the refrigerator at +4 ℃ in the workplace, know
      the password and associated name.

      A participant is expected to:

        1. Give three saliva samples at the workplace immediately after the morning shift. The
           first saliva sample was given 3 days (Tuesday) before arrival at the research place, the
           second sample 2 days (Wednesday) before arrival, and the third sample 1 day (Thursday)
           before arrival at the research site. One hour before saliva sampling, a respondent
           should not brush his/her teeth nor eat nor drink. Fifteen minutes prior to sample
           administration, the subject should rinse his/her mouth with a cold water. Then head of
           the research analyses coded saliva samples in laboratory by using High Performance
           Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) at the Translational Medicine Division of the Srebrnjak
           Children's Hospital. After processing and preparing each of the saliva samples for HPLC,
           the native sample no longer exists. After the analytes will be detected in the isolate,
           all the material will be completely eliminated as infectious waste.

        2. Collaboration in the process of assessing hearing health at the research place. The
           assessment includes: otoscopy, tympanometry and audiometry. Subjects who do not meet
           point 6 and 7 of the inclusion criteria or who meet point 7 of the exclusion criteria
           will not be tested for auditory evoked brainstem response. Other subjects will be tested
           for auditory evoked brainstem response in only one ear, with a more regular hearing
           threshold.

        3. Self-assessment of perceived stress and psychosocial risk factors in the workplace by
           completing a questionnaire at the research site.

      A researcher conducting this research and the research participants will not receive a
      financial fee for their participation.

      Expected scientific contribution of the research:

      Quantification of the association of auditory evoked brainstem response characteristics with
      salivary cortisone concentrations among workers exposed to noise.

      Possible risks of participating in the research:

      This research involves no risk other than the usual daily risk.
    
  