
    
      STUDY POPULATION: Patients diagnosed COPD using the criteria established by the ATS (American
      Thoracic Society) and the SEPAR (Spanish Society of Pneumology and Thoracic Surgery)
      obstruction presenting moderate to severe airway obstruction (FEV1 <60%) and a clinical
      impact of their disease. Patients should be stable and appropriate therapy, and must not have
      suffered exacerbations of the disease over a period of three months before the study, and
      without treatment with oral corticosteroids for at least the same period.

      SAMPLE SIZE: 30 patients diagnosed at the Department of Pulmonology, Hospital Virgen del
      Rocío de Sevilla, informed consent.

      Sample size calculation: Analyzing the effect size at the expense of an improvement in the
      work achieved over 15 W in the stress test, and considering a standard deviation of this
      parameter + / - 10W, allowing to detect differences in metabolic variables muscle, taking
      some risks alpha <0.05 and beta < 0, 2 and calculating a percentage of losses of 15%, the
      investigators estimate a sample size of 15 patients for each group (PC-size).

      EXIT CRITERIA OF THE STUDY:

        -  patient's clinical decompensation

        -  Loss of 3 or 5 consecutive sessions of the training program discontinued.

        -  On the initiative of the patient

      CHARACTERISTICS OF GROUPS AND STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a prospective case-control, with a double oriented ex vivo and in vitro.

      Patients differ in COPD "dominance emphysema" (15 patients) or COPD without "predominantly
      emphysema" (15 patients) achieved according to objective criteria for quantitative methods of
      a Computed Tomography High Resolution.

      The study will follow the recommendations of the Helsinki Declaration on human
      experimentation and security levels of data protection required by Law 15/1999 of December
      13. The study was approved by the ethics committee of our institution and will obtain the
      informed consent of the individuals recruited.

      TRAINING PROGRAM OF THE YEAR:

      All patients underwent a training program to be held for 12 weeks in sessions of 60 minutes:

        1. .- 20 minutes of bicycle ergometer with an initial load level of about 70% of baseline
           peak oxygen consumption, increasing the load every two weeks as tolerated.

        2. - Weightlifting in 2 sets of 6 reps of 5 simple exercises. These are held at a station
           multigimnastyc (CLASSIC Fitness Center, KETTLER) and comprise: or simple arm flexion
           (pull cable to the chest "Chest pulls"): effects on the latissimus dorsa, deltoids and
           biceps. Sitting facing the tower drive, approaching the bar to the chest and then
           extending your arms after you return to the starting position.

      or simple extension of the arms ("Shoulder press"): Effects on the deltoids and triceps.
      Sitting upright on the bench and held the weight to shoulder height, there will be extending
      your arms above your head, slowly returning after bending arms to the starting position.

      or arm flexion and extension against resistance (Butterfly "Butterfly"): Effects on the
      pectoral and deltoid muscles. Sitting upright on the bench with your forearms and elbows on a
      lever, takes it to the midline, giving way slowly to the starting position.

      or leg stretching ("Leg extension"): Effects on the quadriceps. Sitting on the bench leg
      extension is performed against resistance.

      or squats ("Leg curls"): Effects on the biceps femorals and calves. Lying prone on the bench
      legs are bent against the weight.

      The resistance will be increased gradually from 70% of the maximum weight you can lift the
      patient in a single maneuver (Test 1RM). Every two weeks the maximum weight is re-evaluated
      to adjust the training load in each patient.

      VARIABLES, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT:

      All patients underwent baseline and after the training program the following tests.

        -  Analytical elemental, 12-lead electrocardiogram

        -  Spirometry and bronchodilator test simple: be held in a Datospir 92 at baseline and
           after administration of 200 micrograms of salbutamol

        -  Blood gases

        -  static lung volumes (FRC, RV, TLC) by plethysmography.

        -  Study of diffusion (DLCO) by single breath technique (equipment Masterlab).

        -  maximum muscle pressures both inspiratory and expiratory, using a specific gauge (Micro
           Medical, Rochester, USA) connected to a pressure transducer and a digital recording
           system.

        -  chest CT (only at baseline): Phillips Tomoscan with Easy Vision workstation version 4.2
           that allows densitometric analysis of lung parenchyma. Quantitative analysis of the
           degree of emphysema was performed using the software 3D MeVisPULMO (MeVis Research,
           Research Partner, University of Bremen, Germany). This is a prototype of software that
           allows functional diagnosis based on CT images and in relation to the anatomical
           compartments of the lung. Includes automated segmentation of the airway, lungs, lung
           lobes and segments sublobar approach. This feature makes it especially useful to enhance
           the diagnostic process in severe lung disease. The analysis software provides a regional
           assessment MeVisPULMO allows proper parameters measured by CT lung, such as: the total
           volume, mean density, pixel index or index of bullae (7.22).

        -  Assessment of muscle strength:

             1. Test one repetition maximum (1 RM test) measures the maximum amount of weight (in
                kg) that can be raised in a single maneuver using a multigimnastyc station (Classic
                Fitness Centre, Kettler, Postfach, USA). It can for each of the five exercise of
                upper and lower limbs that are developed (chest pull, butterfly, shoulder press,
                leg extension and leg curls).

      maximal isometric quadriceps b.strength dominant. There will be a quad chair specially
      prepared for this procedure (HUR Labs, Sanro) and using a dynamometer cable (Performance
      recorder). There will be at least 3 maneuvers of maximal isometric force of 5 to 10 sec
      duration. They are valid exercises that present a variability of less than 10%. The highest
      value is taken as maximum force.

        -  Body composition: body compartments estimated greasy, non-fat and body water by
           bioelectrical impedance power (Bodystat 1500, Isle of Man, United Kingdom). The BMI is
           calculated by dividing weight (Kg) to height (m2) fat-free mass, Fat Free Mass (FFM) and
           fat (FM) measured by bioimpedance (). FFM index (FFMi) ratio is calculated by the FFM
           (kg) and height (m2). The loss of muscle mass is defined as FFM index <16 kg/m2 for men
           and <15 kg/m2 in women.

        -  Exercise Test:

             1. Máximal with cycle ergometer and methodology already known (20), including:
                Determining, from the respiratory gases, oxygen consumption, carbon production and
                indirect anaerobic threshold, breathing pattern (minute ventilation, tidal volume,
                frequency breathing), electrocardiographic monitoring and pulse oximetry during
                exercise with heart rate control, blood pressure and dyspnea Borg scale.

             2. Submáximal of resistance cycle ergometer at 70% load achieved in the ultimate test,
                with time control of resistance primarily, distance walked and control saturation
                (pulse oximetry) and heart rate achieved.

             3. Test of the 6-minute walk, according to standard guidelines of the ATS.

        -  Assessment of dyspnea and quality of life:

             1. Indices of dyspnea and transition rate measures the functional deterioration, the
                magnitude of the task and the magnitude of effort (Test of Mahler).

             2. Evaluation quality of life based on the specific questionnaire (CRDQ) proposed by
                Guyatt for COPD patients and modified for your understanding in Spanish-speaking
                subjects.

        -  Evaluation of markers of inflammation and catabolism: It will perform a white blood cell
           count by flow cytometry and measured the levels of CRP in blood samples by quantitative
           real-time PCR. The detection of various cytokines, IL6, IL8, IL10, IL12, TNF alpha,
           IGF-1 and MIC-A and MIC-B circulating is carried out by immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
           using specific kit for each markers.

        -  Quadriceps Muscle Biopsy: Biopsies were performed in the middle of the thigh, obtaining
           samples of the vastus lateralis of the quadriceps muscle. Samples were obtained in an
           outpatient setting. Some of the biopsies were fixed in formalin and included in paraffin
           blocks and some will freeze with liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 ° C for subsequent
           use in genetic and immunohistochemical study.

      For analysis of expression of genes selected, proceed to extract RNA from tissues previously
      frozen in liquid nitrogen. This will be used Trizol Reagent (Invitrogen). From isolated RNA
      was performed reverse transcription using Superscript II RNase kit reverse transcriptase
      (Invitrogen) and the resulting cDNA was used to carry out real-time quantitative PCR. The PCR
      reaction was carried out by using fluorochromes such as SYBR Green or Taqman probes (Applied
      Biosystems). The following will be evaluated based on their genes into the muscle
      transcriptome:

        -  TNF-alpha and its two receptors (TNFR-I and TNFR-II), the two isoforms muscle IGF-1
           (IGF-1EA and FGM) and its specific receptor (IGF-1R).

        -  Genes linked to the biogenesis: Paired box gene 7 (Pax7), M-cadherin and Myo-D.

        -  Markers-cellular stress injury: adult isoforms demiosina heavy chain, both embryonic
           (MyHC-emb) and perinatal (MyHC-peri).

      Immunohistochemical studies were performed in 5 um sections of paraffin tissue blocks
      previously. These studies will detect markers such as myosin heavy chains (MyHC) I and II
      (for typing and morphometric study fibrillar) N-CAM/CD 56 and Met (for quantification of
      satellite cells in muscle tissue) and desmin (for determining the origin muscular). For
      detection using the standard technique of immunoperoxidase-biotine.avidins (DakoCytomation,
      Dako Denmark) with antibodies specific for each of the markers.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      For comparison of numeric variables between groups used nonparametric or parametric tests,
      depending on their distribution (analysis of variance, Student's t test and Mann-Whitney). To
      analyze the influence of training on the functional and morphometric variables were also
      conducted an analysis of the percentage change [(post value - value pre / pre value) x 100].
      To examine the relationship between different variables using the Pearson correlation
      coefficients or Spearman, according to the distribution thereof. There will also be a
      multivariate analysis, multiple regression. Be considered statistically significant at p
      <0.05. The dispersion of a mean value is expressed as mean ± standard deviation.
    
  