
    
      Background:

      The current standard to improve resident outcomes in VA nursing homes combines educational
      programs and quality improvement processes. These educational programs typically focus on
      individual staff members' behavior and mastery of content, and use such instructional
      techniques as didactic modules, audit and feedback of individual performance, and academic
      detailing by influential peers. However, social constructivism theory and complexity science
      suggests that learning is a social process that occurs within the context of the
      relationships and interactions of the individual in their environment. Thus, traditional QI
      educational programs will not result in optimal changes in staff behavior unless a context is
      present which allows social learning to occur.

      Objectives:

      Based on social constructivist theory, complexity science, and prior research we have
      developed an educational intervention (CONNECT) that teaches staff to improve connections
      within and between disciplines, improve information flow, and seek out cognitive diversity in
      problem-solving about resident issues. The objectives of this study are to: (a) determine
      whether CONNECT improves staff interaction measures, fall-related process measures, and fall
      rates when combined with standard training on fall risk factor reduction, and (b) use the
      insights gained about social constructivist learning in CLCs to develop other educational
      interventions that address multi-factorial geriatric syndromes and system issues such as
      patient safety in VA nursing homes.

      Methods:

      To achieve these objectives we are conducting a randomized, controlled, single-blind study in
      which nursing homes receive either CONNECT plus a falls QI educational intervention (FALLS)
      or FALLS alone. Four VA CLCs in VISN-6 will participate, with an estimated n=144
      participating staff members, and n=340 unique individuals with falls. The CONNECT
      intervention will be delivered over 3 months, and includes interactive in-class learning
      sessions, unit-based mentoring, and relationship mapping, all focused on helping staff build
      networks and relationships for problem-solving. The FALLS intervention will be delivered over
      3 months either alone or after the CONNECT intervention. It includes web-based modules, audit
      and feedback, and academic detailing, all focused on individual fall reduction behaviors.
      Measurement is performed prior to intervention (all measures), at the conclusion of
      intervention (staff interaction measures, work environment measures, and social
      constructivist learning focus groups), and 6 months after the intervention (fall-related
      process and outcome measures). Analysis will use mixed models to account for the complex
      nesting of patients and staff within facilities.

      Status:

      Funding will begin on August 1, 2009 with anticipated intervention start time of January,
      2010.
    
  