
    
      The project is monocentric, interventional, non-pharmacological, non-profit. Patients will be
      enrolled in hospital for confirmed COVID-19 infection (with reverse transcriptase-polymerase
      chain reaction on the airway swab) but with normal basal blood glucose and no previous
      history of diabetes or impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance. Patients will
      be compared to a control group of healthy volunteers, not affected by COVID-19 and with no
      previous history of diabetes or impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance.
      Patients will be also compared with a group of patients with type 2 diabetes but without
      COVID-19. Once the informed consent has been signed, the clinical parameters and biochemical
      parameters will be collected according to the time points provided by the protocol in
      positive COVID-19 patients, in healthy volunteers and in patients with type 2 diabetes.

      COVID-19 positive patients and healthy controls as well as patients with type 2 diabetes,
      will undergo a stimulation test of β-cell function (evaluation of the secretive response of
      insulin to the stimulation test with arginine infusion) and the monitoring of glycemic values
      through a professional retrospective continuous glucose monitoring. For the test, an infusion
      solution containing 25% arginine hydrochloride will be used, arginine is an insulinogenic
      amino acid, useful to verify the possible existence of damage to the cellular beta function
      induced by COVID-19 infection, clinically observable with changes in insulin secretory
      response. Given the usefulness of the test, performed for diagnostic purposes, this protocol
      is identified as "non-pharmacological". The test is contraindicated only in patients with
      severe hepatic and renal insufficiency, in all other subjects the side effects are minimal
      and spontaneous resolution before the end of the test (flushing 33%, oral paraesthesia 46%,
      nausea 12%, dizziness 14%). For the stimulation test with arginine infusion, after the basal
      sampling at (0 minutes), an intravenous injection of arginine 5 grams will be practiced in 60
      seconds followed by serial withdrawals at +2, +5, +10 and +30 minutes. The following analytes
      will be assayed on the basal sample: glycosylated hemoglobin, glycaemia, insulin,
      pro-insulin, C-peptide, glucagon, serum inflammatory cytokines (Il1β, IL-2, IL-6, IL-7,
      IL-10, TNF- α, IFN-γ, MIP-1β, MCP-1, GM-CSF, G-CSF Insulin, C-peptide and glucagon will be
      dosed on all points of the curve.
    
  