
    
      Subject recruitment procedures:

      Recruitment of participants will be conducted by using bulk electronic mails, promotional
      brochures, posters and campus booths. An invitation card with a QR code of the web-based
      intervention will be used for inviting female university students to enrol the study. Online
      enrolment will be done for screening participants for eligibility. From the investigators'
      past experience in recruiting university students, the investigators shall be able to reach
      over 30,000 female university students in five universities.

      Participants will be asked to complete the web-based baseline survey at enrolment. The
      web-based questionnaire will be set up under an online platform. Participants may use their
      mobile devices including laptop computers and smartphones to complete the questionnaire.
      Participation is entirely voluntary. Written informed consent will be obtained via the
      web-based platform before completing the baseline questionnaire.

      After completion of the questionnaire, the recruited students will then be randomized to
      either intervention group or control group, according to a list prepared by blocked
      randomization of a size decided by a randomizer. The block size and order of allocation will
      be kept securely in the randomizer to avoid selection bias. Allocation concealment will be
      done at the online platform according to the participants' enrolment sequence. The
      participants will then be guided to a web-page according to their group allocation.

      At 3-month and 6-month after the entry of the study, participants will receive a link through
      their e-mail to complete a follow-up questionnaire (T2). Three months later, another e-mail
      link will be sent to participants for completing the last follow-up questionnaire (T3). If no
      response from a participant, a follow-up telephone text-message and/or telephone call will be
      sent after 1 week as a reminder.

      Sample size assessment:

      Female university students (n = 500), across disciplines and year of study, will be recruited
      from five universities with dormitory or residential halls in Hong Kong. The sample size
      calculation is based on the primary comparison of behavioural change in consistency of condom
      use. A previous study showed the mean percentage of condom use was 67.8% (SD 39.3%) in people
      under an ICBI and 23.5% (SD 35.3%) in those under usual care, corresponding to a moderate to
      large Cohen effect size of 0.6.(20) To detect a conservative small Cohen effect size of 0.3
      with 80% power and maximum 5% false positive error rate by a two-sided two-sample t-test, the
      investigators need a total of 352 (176 per group) female university students. Assuming 30%
      attrition based on a previous study using web-based intervention (21), the investigators plan
      to recruit a total of 500 female university students.

      Quality assurance plan:

      The web-based intervention is password-protected and "Pseudo-Codes" will be used to ensure
      anonymity and confidentiality to minimize social desirability of the responses. By asking the
      participant to create his/her own "pseudo-code", a code that can be accurately retyped each
      time the participant completes pre-test and post-test. There will otherwise no other
      vulnerable subjects involve in the study.

      Data check and analysis method:

      To assess the efficacy of ICBI in increasing consistency of condom use, a linear mixed
      effects model will be adopted with intervention group and baseline consistency of condom use
      as the covariates. The group by time interaction shall be assessed for changes of ICBI
      effects over time. When the interaction effect is insignificant, it will be removed from the
      model and the overall ICBI will be estimated. Otherwise, liner contrasts will be used to
      assess the ICBI effect at each time epoch. In case of baseline imbalance, additional analysis
      with adjustment of variables that show imbalance at baseline will be performed. The mixed
      effects model was to take account of the extra covariance of repeated measurements at 3 and 6
      months. The intention-to-treat principle will be adopted and all study subjects will be
      included in the analysis. Missing values at 3- and 6-month follow-up will be replaced by the
      last observed value and multiple imputation. The analysis will be repeated on the
      per-protocol set comprising individuals without missing values.

      For secondary outcomes that were assessed approximately on a continuous scale, the same
      analysis approach as mentioned above will be adopted. For those assessed on a dichotomous
      scale, e.g. sexual coercion, similar approach by a non-linear mixed effects model with a
      logit link will be used.

      The analysis will be performed by using the IBM SPSS (IBM Corp, Armonk, NY, USA). Each
      estimated effect will be accompanied by a 95% confidence interval and 5% level of
      significance.

      Data collection and management:

      The investigators and the research assistants of the research team are responsible for data
      collection and they will be permitted to access to source data and study record. Daily logs
      will be recorded by the research assistants to monitor the study progress including the
      number of respondents approached, interviews completed or refused and incomplete interviews.
      All data entered in the database will be verified and cleaned. After completion of data
      entry, computer logic checks will be run for consistency of related code. Necessary
      corrections will be made to the database.
    
  