
    
      It is difficult in the majority of cases to estimate the correct intra-operative mass of
      fluid therapy for each patient und needs a high degree of clinical experience. Among
      circumstances and problems of surgery (kind of surgery, length of time, bleeding, loss of
      liquid via wound) and kind of anesthesia, are also the concomitant diseases of patients
      relevant for the action of all anesthetists. These concomitant diseases correct to detect and
      to deduce corresponding consequences calls likewise for high clinical experience.
      Furthermore, the pre-operative fasting is an important fact.

      Considering all these influencing factors the anesthetist tends rather to apply to much
      volume during surgery, followed by much more problems in PACU and / or intensive care unit.

      However, how much volume is correct for which patient during which kind of surgery? How could
      the investigators estimate the really intra vessel volume deficit? Which available parameters
      are helpful, which monitoring is useful? These questions confront daily every anesthetist.

      Monitoring of clinical "traditional" factors such as diuresis, blood pressure und heart rate
      are from experience to inexactly. Actually exist in the experts no uniform opinion about the
      kind and amount of fluid administration, which to apply, as well as the adequate monitoring.
      The central venous pressure, a commonly used parameter, is falling more and more behind.

      Cardiac filling pressures correlate bad with filling volume and are unsuitable parameters for
      fluid therapy. It seems that dynamic parameters such as stroke volume (SV) and stroke volume
      variation (SVV) are better markers. SV and SVV could be measured by usual invasive blood
      pressure via LiDCO- or FloTrac-Monitoring.

      In the study the investigators would show, that it is necessary to optimize processes already
      in the anesthetic ambulance, to evaluate patients with theirs concomitant diseases correctly
      followed by an improvement of intra-operative processes.

      With the help of questionnaire is to be better structured and classified the cardiac risk of
      patients in accordance with the actually ACC / AHA guidelines (8). Depending surgery risk,
      the development of intra-operative monitoring happens standardized preoperatively (NIBP vs.
      IBP vs. SVV via FlowTrac or LiDCO). The intra-operative fluid regime will be performing in
      the group of NIBP and IBP on the basis of standard operating procedures (SOP) as well as in
      the group of SVV on the basis of a targeted-volume protocol.

      There are a lot of surgeries with an increased fluid turnover and increased risk for cardiac
      complication. This demonstrated study limits the kind of surgeries on orthopedic operations
      with different requirement of intra-operative volume.

      Hypothesis The daily challenge of each anesthetic is the correctly estimate of volume status
      during surgery. Multiple factors such as concomitant diseases, pre-operative fluid fasting,
      anesthesia as well as circumstances of surgery inclusive bleeding risk have an important
      influence followed by difficult peri-operative management.

      The aim of this study is the improvement of peri-operative fluid management due to process
      optimisation already in the anesthetic ambulance included cardiac risk factors of patients
      followed by intra-operative fluid protocol. Primary outcome parameters are administered fluid
      volume (including blood transfusion), and secondary measured by amount of blood loss,
      postoperatively frequency of PONV, delir as well as PACU and ICU stay.

      The investigator believes that the investigators could reduce the intra-operative fluid
      volume as well as blood loss due to these process optimization followed by increase patient
      satisfaction. Furthermore, the investigators could possibly reduce the PACU and ICU stay.
    
  