
    
      Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease characterized by
      axial inflammation and with unknown aetiology. The immune system dysregulation is known,
      where genetic factors play a key role, in particular, the susceptibility associated to the
      HLA-B27 allele. The presence of this genetic marker, seems to trigger an abnormal response of
      the individual, under the action of determine microorganisms, and probably, the combination
      of these two factors may contribute to the manifestation of the disease, through the
      induction of an immune and cytolytic response, leading to tissue injury and promoting the
      inflammation. Intestinal microbiota involvement in spondylarthritis is a controversial issue,
      however, was observed an increased concentration of Klebsiella pneumoniae bacteria in the
      faeces of AS patients. It has been suggested that an intervention aiming these bacteria's
      starving could benefit the reduction of the inflammatory processes and be a part of AS
      treatment. The bowel microflora depends on dietary intake, like undigested starch, for their
      growth. Some studies have highlighted the relation between the intake of starch and the
      disease activity. The modulation of the microbiota, particularly, the reduction of
      Klebsiella, may be beneficial as a complementary approach to AS therapy.

      A sample of 300 patients with AS, followed-up at Portuguese Institute of Rheumatology in
      Lisbon, will be randomly assigned in two groups. The group A will adopt a balanced diet based
      on the general recommendations for healthy eating by the World Health Organization, for a
      period of 6 weeks. In Group B will be implemented an individual balanced low starch diet,
      which is characterized by the significant reduction of starchy food, of at least 40% of the
      total daily ingested starch.

      The change in biometric data, body composition, intestinal Klebsiella will be related to food
      intake, disease activity and quality of life assessments. These data will be compared between
      the 2 groups (diet A versus diet B), obtaining measures on the effect of each diet on the
      analyzed variables.
    
  