
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma treated
           with active symptom control (ASC) alone vs ASC and mitomycin, vinblastine, and cisplatin
           vs ASC and vinorelbine.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare symptom palliation (chest pain, breathlessness, malaise, and sweating attacks)
           in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the performance status of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare analgesic usage in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tumor response and progression-free survival of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive active symptom control (ASC) through regular visits at a
           specialist clinic. ASC may include steroids, analgesics, appetite stimulants,
           bronchodilators, and/or palliative radiotherapy, when required.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive ASC and chemotherapy comprising mitomycin IV, vincristine IV,
           and cisplatin IV on day 1. Chemotherapy repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 courses.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive ASC and vinorelbine IV over 5 minutes weekly for 6 weeks.
           Vinorelbine repeats every 55 days for a total of 2 courses.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 3 weeks for 21 weeks, and then every 8 weeks
      thereafter.

      Patients are followed at 15, 18, and 21 weeks, and then every 8 weeks thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 840 patients (280 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  