
    
      Patients will be recruited using continuous sampling, and will be approached either in
      connection with being discharged after a heart failure (HF) related event or upon visiting an
      out-patient HF clinic if the patient has been admitted for HF at least once the last year.

      After written consent has been given, demographical data will be noted, and the patient will
      complete forms: the European Heart Failure Self-care Behaviour scale 9-item questionnaire
      (EHFScB-9) and self-assessment of symtoms (NYHAclass). Expected time for this is 20 minutes.
      The baseline demographical data will include age, gender, ejection-fraction, New York Heart
      Association (NYHA)-class, blood pressure, heart rate, HF aetiology, and other routine tests
      for HF visits as outlined in the European guidelines for HF treatment.

      After the patient has filled out the forms, the patient will be randomized to the control
      group (CG) meaning standard care, or the intervention group (IG). Patients allocated to the
      IG will be equipped with the home based self-care enhancement tool OPTILOGG. OPTILOGG assists
      the patient with symptom monitoring and flexible diuretics regimen, as well as education
      about living with HF. It consists of a specialized tablet computer wirelessly connected to a
      weight scale. OPTILOGG is CE-marked. The intervention will be deployed for eight months.
      After the eight months, the patients will be called to a follow-up visit. During the visit
      all data that was collected at baseline/recruitment will be collected again. All
      cardiovascular events for each patient will be retrieved, for the eight months during which
      the intervention was deployed, but also for the following 12 months. These events include
      hospital admissions, ER-visits and number of in-hospital days.

      Based off of previous findings in the literature, target for enrollment was set at 70 + 70
      patients, to achieve statistical significance with 80% power.
    
  