
    
      Introduction Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI) is a genetic disorder caused by mutations to the
      alpha-1 or alpha-2 chain of type I collagen. There are eight forms of OI, ranging from type I
      through VIII, however in types V to VIII the symptoms and severity fall within the range of
      the first four types. Clinically, the disorder is characterized by bones that fracture
      easily, often from little or no apparent trauma. These patients require special care and
      handling to minimize risk of fracture, and often undergo multiple surgeries to stabilize
      fractures and prevent or correct bone deformities. However, specific guidelines and
      restrictions for care, including clinical and postoperative care, vary between patients and
      among institutions. Some institutions perform blood pressure monitoring with a
      circumferential cuff, while other institutions avoid this method due to concern for
      iatrogenic fracture. Instead, they utilize alternative forms of monitoring such as an
      arterial line. Currently at Nemours, children and adults with OI have arterial lines placed
      in the OR for the purpose of BP monitoring. These more invasive methods come with their own
      risks, including thrombosis, decreased perfusion, and pain. In addition, arterial lines
      require intensive (and more expensive) monitoring in a pediatric intensive care unit due to
      risk of dislodgement and rapid blood loss. These blood pressure monitoring recommendations
      for patients with OI do not appear to be based on strong evidence. Anecdotally, some patients
      and healthcare professionals report hearing about individuals with OI who have suffered
      fractures from blood pressure cuffs. However, this is not well supported in the literature.
      Regular and accurate blood pressure monitoring is particularly important in the postoperative
      period, due to blood loss and fluid shifts, as well as utilization of advanced pain
      management techniques that can potentially impact blood pressure.

      Aim of the study: In this observational study, we intend to evaluate the feasibility of
      non-invasive cuff blood pressure monitoring in a select group of patients with OI in the
      inpatient postoperative period.

      Materials and Methods Following Nemours IRB approval and consent from the parent or legal
      guardian, fifty children with OI scheduled for lower extremity surgery with subsequent
      in-hospital admission will be enrolled in the study. Since we performed preformed lower
      extremity surgeries on thirty patients in each of the past two years, we anticipate the study
      will take two years to complete.

      A group of registered nurses would be educated about the study and equipment used, review of
      appropriate blood pressure cuff size selection, blood pressure monitoring protocol, signs and
      symptoms of adverse events, and steps to take if an adverse event occurred.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients of all ages with OI who are admitted at our institution to the inpatient,
           non-ICU setting, in the postoperative period following an orthopedic surgery.

        -  Must be able to tolerate upper extremity blood pressures.

        -  Medical clearance by OI physicians (Kruse, Franzone) after review of fracture history,
           surgical procedures, x-rays.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Parent or child refusal, uncooperative child.

        -  History of frequent upper extremity fracture, recent upper extremity fracture (< 8
           weeks, or upper extremity fracture that is not yet completely healed).

        -  Thrombocytopenia, admission or transfer to PICU.
    
  