
    
      The study will be a prospective, randomized, double blind placebo-controlled trial. The study
      population will include males and females, ages 18-65, who fulfill criteria for primary DSM-5
      OCD as determined by a structured interview. At screening, patients must have a YBOCS score
      ≥20 and a MADRS score ≤18.

      If deemed eligible, patients will provide a stool sample for microbiome profiling and a blood
      sample for the inflammatory marker analysis. They will return for their first visit where
      clinician and self-rated symptom severity scales will be completed and patients will begin
      their randomly assigned treatment condition. Contents of two sachets (probiotic or placebo)
      will be consumed daily with or just after breakfast.The participants will attend 3 additional
      study visits, once every 4 weeks and one phone visit at week 6. During these visits, the same
      clinician and self-reported questionnaires will be completed. At week 6, patients will be
      contacted by phone to complete the YBOCS and will also provide a midpoint stool sample. At
      the final visit (week 12) patients will provide a third stool sample for microbiome profiling
      and a blood sample for inflammatory marker analysis.

      Participants will be assessed using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI)
      to determine whether criteria for a primary OCD diagnosis is met alongside any additional
      comorbid disorders.

      Participants will complete a number of clinician and self-rated symptom severity scales as
      listed below:

        1. Yale Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) - Clinician-rated

        2. Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) - Clinician-rated

        3. Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory - Revised (OCI-R) - Self-rated

        4. Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS-21) - Self-rated

        5. Dutch Dimensional Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (DDOCS) - Self-rated

        6. Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) - Self- rated

        7. Quality of Life and Enjoyment Satisfaction Questionnaire - Short Form (Q-LES-Q-SF),
           Self-rated

           They will also complete additional questionnaires pertaining to their diet and bowel
           functioning:

        8. Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale (GSRS)

        9. Short-form Leeds Dyspepsia Questionnaire (SF-LDQ)

       10. Rome III criteria for Irritable Bowel Syndrome

       11. Assessment of diet using the EPIC-Norfolk Food Frequency Questionnaire.

      Subjects will also be asked to provide background information regarding travel in the past 4
      months and current place (and duration) of residence as these factors may potentially affect
      the microbiome profile.

      Patients will be weighed and their height measured to determine body mass index (BMI).

      Those who meet study criteria will be provided with a collection kit and instructed on
      appropriate fecal sample collection. Participants will also be given a lab requisition and
      instructed to have blood drawn at a local lab. This blood sample will examine serum levels of
      IL-6, IL-1β, IL-10, IFNγ, TNF- α and CRP. Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS)
      will be used for a kynurenine/tryptophan analysis.

      Fecal Sample Collection Patients and healthy controls will collect fecal samples at home
      using our well-established protocol. During the recruitment visit, the subjects will be
      provided a kit containing a single 50-ml sterile vial with an air-tight sachet, and a cooling
      pad. The stool sample will be brought to the MacAnxiety Research Centre, where it will be
      stored in -80ºC freezer until the samples are analyzed. All participants will be asked to
      freeze their samples and deliver them to the MacAnxiety Research Centre 2 weeks following
      sampling, or earlier.

      The visits will be organized as follows:

        1. Baseline Visit (visit 1): once blood and stool samples have been collected the patients
           will be randomized to probiotic or placebo treatment. At this visit patients will begin
           their randomly assigned treatment condition to probiotic (Lactobacillus helveticus R0052
           and Biﬁdobacterium longum R0175) or placebo. The patients will be provided with 60
           sachets (probiotic or placebo) and instructed to consume 2 daily sachets with or just
           after breakfast. At each of the following visit they will be provided with additional 60
           sachets.

           In this visit the clinician will also complete the following scales:

           i. Clinical Global Impression - Improvement (CGI-I) - Clinician-rated ii. Clinical
           Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S) - Clinician-rated iii. Y-BOCS iv. MADRS

           Participants will complete the following scales:

             -  Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory - Revised (OCI-R)

             -  Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS-21)

             -  Dutch Dimensional Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (DDOCS)

             -  Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS)

             -  Q-LES-Q - short form

        2. During the 12 week period of probiotic treatment, subjects will attend 3 additional
           visits, once every 4 weeks. During each visit (visits 2-4) participants will be assessed
           by the study physician.

           In each visit the clinician will also complete the following scales:

           i. Clinical Global Impression - Improvement (CGI-I) - Clinician-rated ii. Clinical
           Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S) - Clinician-rated iii. Y-BOCS iv. MADRS

           Participants will complete the following scales:

             -  Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory - Revised (OCI-R)

             -  Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS-21)

             -  Dutch Dimensional Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (DDOCS)

             -  Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS)

             -  Q-LES-Q - short form

        3. At week 6, patients will provide a midpoint stool sample as per the sample collection
           protocol outlined above. A member from the research team will also contact the patient
           via telephone to complete the YBOCS.

        4. Visit 4 (week 12): Participants will undergo usual assessment, treatment response will
           also be determined at this visit (CGI-I score ≤ 2 as well as a 30% drop in YBOCS score).
           Participants will also complete the Quality of Life and Enjoyment Satisfaction
           Questionnaire. Patient diet will be assessed using the EPIC-Norfolk Food Frequency
           Questionnaire. At visit 3, participants will be provided with a collection kit and
           instructed on appropriate fecal sample collection (as outlined above). The sample should
           be collected on the prior day to visit 4. Blood samples will be drawn again be drawn at
           a local lab to examine levels of IL-6, IL-1β, IL-10, IFNγ, TNF- α and CRP. Liquid
           Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS) will again be used for a kynurenine/tryptophan
           analysis.
    
  