
    
      We plan to enroll women and men undergoing outpatient plastic surgical procedures under
      general anesthesia. Patients who are scheduled for outpatient plastic surgery will be
      contacted by one of the investigators, who would be involved in the care of the patient, as
      soon as they come to the hospital on the day of surgery. The patient will be given
      information regarding the study. After hospital registration and ample time to consider the
      study, the patient will be re-approached, and written informed consent will then be obtained.
      After informed consent is obtained, patients will be screened by one of the investigators for
      study eligibility.

      Patients will be screened to evaluate if they are at high risk for PONV. Moderate-to-high
      risk for PONV includes having at least 2-3 of 5 risk factors. These five factors are: 1)
      female gender, 2) history of PONV, 3) history of motion sickness, 4) nonsmoking status, and
      5) postoperative use of opioids. Women who report 3 of the 5 risk factors, and men who report
      2 of the 5 risk factors, will be considered eligible for the study. As is the standard of
      care at Magee-Womens Hospital, all women of reproductive age are routinely screened for
      pregnancy and any patients who are pregnant will be informed and excluded from the study.
      Patients who are known in advance to be admitted (to either 23 hour observation or a formal
      hospital admission) will also be excluded from the study.

      This is a prospective, randomized, double blind trial. Patients will be randomized by a
      computer generated number table to one of two groups (Group 1 - aprepitant, or Group 2 -
      placebo) within 3 hours before induction of anesthesia, consistent with the product package
      insert for aprepitant.

      The standard of care in patients at moderate-to-high risk for PONV is to give prophylactic
      intravenous 5HT-3 antagonists (i.e. ondansetron). Therefore, all patients will receive PONV
      prophylaxis (ondansetron 4 mg intravenously) on induction of anesthesia.

      All patients will receive a standardized general anesthetic which will include the following.
      Midazolam (2 mg) will be given intravenously for anxiolysis premedication. Medications used
      for induction of anesthesia will include; propofol (2-3 mg/ kg), rocuronium (0.6-0.8 mg/kg),
      and ondansetron (4 mg). Maintenance of general anesthesia will consist of sevoflurane (1.5 -
      2.5%) in oxygen, fentanyl as needed for analgesia (not to exceed 10 μg/kg). Incremental doses
      of rocuronium will be used as necessary for muscle relaxation. Muscle relaxation will be
      reversed at the end of surgery with glycopyrrolate (0.01mg/kg) and neostigmine (0.05mg/kg).
      Criteria for reversal with neostigmine will be standardized in order to avoid the possibility
      of a repeat dose of the neostigmine, which in repeated doses is known to cause emesis.

      Postoperative pain and nausea will be treated as required. If patients have PONV, all
      patients in both groups will receive the same rescue medications. No patient in either group
      will be denied rescue PONV medication. Refractory nausea and vomiting will be treated
      initially with an additional 4 mg dose of ondansetron (IV), then propofol (20 mg IV in
      divided doses), then haloperidol (2 mg IV), then dexamethasone (4 mg IV), then promethazine
      (6.25 mg IV, after re-verification of patency of the intravenous catheter), and
      metoclopramide (10 mg IV). Patients with continuing PONV refractory to these modalities will
      be admitted to the hospital for 23 hour observation.

      Postoperative pain will be treated with fentanyl IV, and doses will be recorded. When the
      patient is able to tolerate oral medications, ibuprofen 400 mg PO and acetaminophen 1000 mg
      PO will be prescribed every 8 hours around-the-clock (i.e., regardless of reported pain
      scores). Immediate-release oxycodone will also be prescribed, and patients will be instructed
      to take 5 mg increments as frequently as every 3 hours, if needed, commensurate with verbal
      pain scores. If the patient reports pain scores of 5-6 out of 10, then 5 mg will be taken. If
      the pain score is 7-9 out of 10, then 10 mg will be taken. If the pain score is 10 out of 10,
      then 15 mg will be taken.

      As is the standard of care at Magee-Womens Hospital, the intra-operative care, including
      administration of drugs will be provided by an anesthesiologist with or without the
      assistance of a nurse anesthetist. Nursing care in the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) is
      provided by recovery room nurses, under supervision of the anesthesiologist. All drugs used
      in this study are approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and are routinely used
      at Magee-Womens Hospital for the management of patients undergoing anesthesia for surgery and
      treatment of PONV. The use of additional antiemetics and their dose will also be recorded for
      each patient. Time to discharge, delayed discharge and admission due to nausea and vomiting
      will be recorded.

      As is the standard of care at Magee-Womens Hospital, the intra-operative care, including
      administration of drugs will be provided by an anesthesiologist with or without the
      assistance of a nurse anesthetist, or anesthesiology resident. The care in the
      post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) is provided by recovery room nurses, under supervision of
      the anesthesiologist. All drugs used in this study are approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA), and are routinely used at Magee-Womens Hospital for the management of
      patients undergoing anesthesia for the indications described herein. Time to PACU discharge
      eligibility (based on a score of 8 or more on the Proposed Standardized PACU Bypass/Discharge
      Criteria and Scoring System for Outpatients,7 time to hospital discharge eligibility (based
      on a score of 9 or higher on the Post-Anesthesia Discharge Score,8 and any unplanned hospital
      admissions (including those for PONV) will be recorded. Patients with unplanned admissions
      will not be excluded from further study proceedings.

      Patients will be evaluated for nausea using a visual analog scale (VAS); 0 = no nausea and 10
      = worst nausea ever. The presence of retching or emesis (vomiting) will be evaluated as yes
      or no. Nausea and vomiting will be evaluated on admission to the PACU, and at hourly
      intervals until discharge from the hospital. While at home; patients will be asked to fill
      out a structured diary to rate their nausea (0 to 10), if they retched or vomited (or not),
      and analgesics consumed. Patients will be asked to fill out their structured diary every four
      hours while awake for up to 24 hours after the first day of surgery, and every 8 hours while
      awake during the second day after surgery (48 hours). The information from the patient diary
      will be obtained by a follow-up phone interview.

      This will be a randomized double blind trial. Patients will be randomized by computer program
      (Quattro Pro, Corel Corporation) into one of two groups, and will have a 50% chance of being
      in either group (Group 1 - Aprepitant or Group 2 - placebo). Both the investigator recording
      the observations in the PACU and the patient will be blinded to the treatment group. Data
      will be collected in the PACU by a blinded investigator. The patient will maintain a daily
      log for 48 hours and this information will be obtained by a follow-up phone interview by a
      blinded investigator.

      Data collected from the patient's medical record will include demographic data (age, height,
      and weight) and these parameters will be compared using the student t test. Risk factors for
      PONV including (history of PONV or history of motion sickness, nonsmokers, postoperative use
      of opioids and female gender; descriptive statistics analysis). Other measured variables will
      include: incidence of nausea and emesis during the time periods described above (i.e. PACU
      admission and at hourly intervals until discharge, every four hours while awake for up to 24
      hours after the first day of surgery, and every 8 hours while awake during the second day (48
      hours) after surgery). Our primary endpoint will be the incidence of emesis at 48 hours after
      surgery and will be analyzed using Chi-square. Secondary endpoints will include the incidence
      of nausea (Mann-Whitney test) and emesis (Chi-square test) during the time periods measured
      above, the use and doses of rescue anti-emetics (use via Chi-square; dose via student t
      test), and analgesic requirements (use via Chi-squared; dose via student t test) during these
      time periods. Time to eligibility for PACU discharge and hospital discharged (student t test)
      using the aforementioned criteria will also be measured, and all unplanned hospital
      admissions (Chi-square) will be recorded.

      A sample size of 69 patients per group is necessary to detect a significant decrease in the
      incidence of emesis from 33% in the placebo group to 15% in the aprepitant group using a
      Chi-square test assuming an alpha value of 0.05 and power of 80% (NQuery 4.0™). To allow for
      patients who may not complete the study, 75 patients per group (150 total patients) will be
      studied.
    
  