
    
      This proposal extends the work accomplished in our initial study (project #B2405R, 'Effects
      of Strength Training on Upper-limb Function in Post-stroke Hemiparesis'). In the present
      study we will conduct a double-blind, randomized clinical trial of staged rehabilitation for
      the upper-extremity involving sequential delivery of functional therapy and high intensity
      resistance training. Therefore, this proposal directly compares the effects of functional and
      resistance training delivered individually. The researchers' previous work investigated a
      hybrid therapy of functional and resistance training against functional training alone. All
      subjects will participate in a 5 week run-in period of no treatment. This no-treatment block
      will afford multiple baseline measurements and, in addition, will provide information
      regarding the rate and magnitude of any spontaneous recovery without treatment. Following the
      second baseline measurement, all subjects will be randomized to upper-extremity
      rehabilitation in either: Order A - 10 weeks of functional task practice training (FTP)
      followed by 10 weeks of high-intensity resistance training (Power) or Order B - resistance
      training (Power) followed by FTP. Re-evaluation will occur following each block of
      treatment,and retention effects will be evaluated after 6 and 12 months with no additional
      treatment. Subjects will be evaluated with: outcome measures used broadly in Clinical
      Neurology and Rehabilitation, a battery of biomechanical performance measures including:
      strength, muscle activation, reflex modulation, and motor coordination, and with kinematics
      of free reaching movements. The researchers will investigate persons in the intermediate
      phase of recovery which they define as between 6 and 18 months post-stroke , having completed
      all inpatient and outpatient therapies, with remaining residual motor deficits.
    
  