
    
      The study compares 3 groups of nutrition intervention for severe acute malnourished children
      aged 6-59 months in terms of gastrointestinal tolerance (primary outcome) and weight gain,
      electrolyte profile, and amino acid profile (secondary outcomes).

      The gastrointestinal tolerance is examined by Bristol stool chart and vomit daily record
      during 14 days of intervention. Diarrhea is defined according to ESPGHAN, i.e. a decrease in
      the consistency of stools score (loose or liquid) and an increase in the frequency of
      evacuations (typically 3 or more in 24 hours). The duration of diarrhea, frequency of
      diarrhea, and consistency of each stool are recorded.

      Vomit will be counted as mean frequency of vomit per day during 14 days intervention. Volume
      of vomit is recorded. Only vomit due to milk intolerance is counted. Vomit due to irrelevant
      reasons, such as coughing and crying, will be excluded.

      To ensure accurate formula intake, nasogastric tube is placed and patient is admitted for
      observation for a few days, depending on clinical conditions. Patient is discharged to
      undergo home enteral nutrition after parent is trained to administer formula and to clean all
      feeding devices properly. Parents of group F-75/F-100 is trained to make F-75/F-100 at home
      with hygienic procedure.

      The volume of milk intake is recorded daily. Patient is advised not to eat food/drink milk
      other than the intervention formula.

      Protocol for formula advancement is as follows:

        -  Calorie requirement is calculated by multiplying ideal weight with daily energy
           requirement (recommended daily allowance, RDA).

        -  Ideal weight is the median weight for actual height based on WHO growth chart (weight
           for height/length).

        -  Height age is the median age corresponding to actual height of patient, based on WHO
           growth chart (height/length for age)

        -  The value of RDA is based on height age, which is 110 kcal/day for height age 0-12
           months and 100 kcal/kg/day

             1. On the first day: patient is given 50-75% of RDA (recommended daily allowance), the
                daily volume of formula (F75/standard energy ONS/high energy ONS) will be divided
                into 8 feeding sessions (every 3 hours). Complete blood count, electrolyte, and
                amino acid profile will be tested prior to administering formula.

             2. On the second day: patient is given 75-90% of RDA as F75/standard energy ONS/high
                energy ONS.

             3. On the third day: patient is given 100% of RDA as F100/standard energy ONS/high
                energy ONS. Serum electrolyte will be tested before administering formula.

      Should there be any electrolyte imbalance, the electrolyte level will be corrected according
      to the clinical guideline.

      Weight and height will be measured on the first day and day 14. Head circumference will be
      measured on the first day.
    
  