
    
      Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and psoriasis are characterised by immune, metabolic, and vascular
      dysfunction. There is an increase in Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events in people with PsA
      and psoriasis not explained by conventional cardiovascular risk factors. Furthermore, obesity
      in psoriasis is associated with increased risk of developing PsA3. Dietary interventions
      leading to weight loss >5% are associated with a higher rate of achievement of minimal
      disease activity in overweight/obese patients with PsA treated with TNF inhibitors.
      Phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibition with apremilast is licensed for the treatment of PsA
      and psoriasis and has been noted to be associated with weight loss. There is also data from
      animal models to suggest a role for PDE4 in glucose metabolism. However, the exact mechanisms
      underlying this are unclear and warrant investigation in humans. PDE4 may help explain the
      link between the immune and cardiometabolic dysfunction that characterises PsA and psoriasis,
      with pathogenic and therapeutic implications.

      This study aims to use apremilast as a clinical molecular probe to evaluate the effects of
      PDE4 inhibition on metabolic, vascular, and immune status in patients with PsA and psoriasis.
      The hypothesis is that PDE4 inhibition mediates profound and synergistic effects on immune
      and metabolic pathways in these conditions to improve metabolic status and normalise
      dysregulated immunity.

      Measurement of metabolic, immunological and vascular outcomes in 60 patients (40 with PsA and
      20 with psoriasis) receiving apremilast as part of their standard clinical care will be
      taken. A subgroup of 20 participants with PsA will also undergo more in-depth investigations
      including MRI of abdominal fat, subcutaneous fat biopsy, measurement of vascular endothelial
      function using EndoPAT and more detailed deep-immunophenotyping. Patients will be recruited
      from rheumatology and dermatology clinics in NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde (primary site) and
      two other recruiting sites in Scotland via the Scottish Collaborative Arthritis Research
      network (SCAR).
    
  