
    
      Accreditation by external audit to validate that healthcare organisations' operations and
      practices satisfy agreed high-quality service criteria are being conducted in more than 70
      countries (1,2). In 2003, the Danish government and The Danish Regions (responsible for all
      public hospitals) decided to implement a nationwide model of quality in healthcare which
      involves formal accreditation of all Danish public hospitals. In 2007, a national Institute
      for Quality and Accreditation in Healthcare (IKAS) was formed to develop The Danish
      Healthcare Quality Programme (DDKM); and since 2010, all public hospitals have been
      accredited based on announced on-site surveys which are conducted every third year (including
      a periodic midterm survey). Other types of healthcare institutions are now also included in
      the program and accredited on a regular basis (e.g. private hospitals covered by the extended
      free hospital choice, pharmacies, and nursing homes), and a plan for accreditation in general
      practices is currently (2014) being negotiated (3-5).

      The DDKM is based on announced surveys and the procedure of pre-announcing the dates for all
      surveys has been criticised for creating an "arranged reality" and for not reflecting the
      daily work with quality of care. This criticism is not unique to the Danish setting, but has
      been raised in a number of countries that operate accreditation systems based upon announced
      surveys (6,7). Another possible negative effect of announcing the surveys is the considerable
      amount of time and human resources that are used to prepare for the announced survey which
      implies that less time is available for patient care in the period of preparations (6). It
      has been proposed that unannounced accreditation surveys may be instrumental in alleviating
      these problems. An unannounced survey is an external visit paid to an organisation without
      prior notice of when the visit will take place (2).

      Unannounced surveys have been used for several years by The Joint Commission in the United
      States and the Aged Care Standards and Accreditation Agency in Australia, but to our
      knowledge no peer-reviewed literature has been published on the experiences of changing the
      procedure from announced to unannounced surveys (2,7,8). Only one project, launched by The
      Centre for Clinical Governance Research (CCGR) in Australia in 2012, encompasses an empirical
      test of short-notice surveys in two accreditation programmes. This study was conducted in a
      paired design where short-notice surveys are compared with the most recent and most advanced
      notification survey. The study found that use of the short-notice survey approach to the
      rating of organisational performance was less successful than the advanced notification
      survey (5% significance level, P=0.044) (9).

      The present trial is designed by IKAS and the Danish Center for Healthcare Improvements
      (DCHI) to inform a decision whether or not to implement unannounced accreditation surveys in
      the 3rd version of the DDKM in 2016. In September 2013, the IKAS Board of Directors decided
      to approve and finance the project, and it is expected that the results from the present
      trial will be available for the Board's decision in 2015.

      To provide the best possible basis for political decision-making, the present study is
      designed as a nationwide cluster-randomised, controlled trial including general hospitals,
      university hospitals, and psychiatric hospitals from all five regions in Denmark. The
      objective of this trial is to evaluate the effect of unannounced hospital surveys based on
      findings of a survey embracing an abbreviated set of the national accreditation standards and
      performance indicators from the DDKM version 2. We hypothesise that unannounced surveys
      produce less successful measures of organisational performance than announced surveys. This
      study defines less successful as less compliance with the included standards and performance
      indicators.
    
  