
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the feasibility of combination chemotherapy in young adult patients with
           acute lymphoid leukemia.

        -  To determine the complete response rate at the end of induction therapy in these
           patients.

        -  To determine the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To determine the disease-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To determine the event-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To determine toxicity of these regimens.

        -  To determine compliance related to dose intensity.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Steroids prephase therapy: All patients receive steroids (i.e., prednisone or
           methylprednisolone) and methotrexate.

        -  Induction therapy (induction Ia followed by Ib): Patients receive induction Ia
           comprising vincristine, daunorubicin hydrochloride, asparaginase, and prednisone. They
           then receive induction Ib comprising cyclophosphamide, mercaptopurine, and cytarabine.
           Patients who achieve hematological remission proceed to consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Patients receive consolidation therapy according to risk group.

             -  Standard-risk patients: Patients receive high-dose methotrexate and mercaptopurine.

             -  High-risk patients: Patients receive consolidation therapy in 3 steps.

                  -  Step 1: Patients receive dexamethasone, vincristine, methotrexate, cytarabine,
                     and asparaginase.

                  -  Step 2: Patients receive dexamethasone, vindesine, methotrexate, ifosfamide,
                     asparaginase, and daunorubicin hydrochloride.

                  -  Step 3: Patients receive dexamethasone, cytarabine, and asparaginase. After
                     completion of consolidation therapy, patients proceed to reinduction therapy.

        -  Reinduction therapy (reinduction IIa followed by IIb): Patients receive reinduction IIa
           comprising vincristine, doxorubicin hydrochloride, asparaginase, and dexamethasone.
           Patients then receive reinduction IIb comprising cyclophosphamide, thioguanine, and
           cytarabine.
    
  