
    
      Background Information: Everyday pain is common in children with intellectual/developmental
      disabilities (I/DD). Inadequately managed pain in this population is a common problem, and
      this is likely due to these children's inability to communicate pain effectively.
      Unfortunately, many of these children are unable to accurately self-report or effectively
      communicate the pain experience. Thus, caregivers are often responsible for assessing their
      pain. Research has focused on professionals and parents, but it is also common for children
      with I/DD to receive care from others including respite workers. The investigators recently
      found a difference between pain beliefs held by respite workers and individuals with little
      to no experience with this population. Specifically, respite workers believed that a
      significantly larger percentage of children with severe I/DD sensed less pain than typically
      developing children. This is contrary to research suggesting that children with I/DD have
      similar pain perception but communicate it differently (e.g., through idiosyncratic
      behaviours). Thus, it is possible that respite workers miss critical cues when children with
      I/DD are in pain. As such, the investigators have developed and successfully piloted a pain
      training program targeted to respite workers who support children with I/DD. This program
      demonstrated initial success in improving respite workers' pain-related knowledge, as well as
      their perceptions of the feasibility of and their own confidence and skill in pain assessment
      and management with this population of children.

      Within a randomized control trial, the objectives of this study are to further test the
      effectiveness of the Let's Talk About Pain respite worker training program on respite
      workers' (a) pain-related knowledge, (b) self-rated perceptions of the feasibility of and
      their own confidence and skill in pain assessment and management, and (c) use of pain
      assessment and management strategies specific to children with I/DD in respite settings.
      Participants will complete questionnaires immediately before and after provision of a pain
      training (or control training). Approximately one month after the training, participants will
      complete these questionnaires for a third time and participate in a focus group regarding
      their pain assessment and management strategy use.

      The long term objectives of this line of research are to: 1) increase pain assessment and
      management abilities of respite workers, and, consequently, 2) decrease levels of suffering
      and ill-managed pain in children with I/DD.
    
  