
    
      PART 1:

      Interview:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be interviewed about what it is like to
      have ovarian cancer and any symptoms that you may have experienced. This will be a 1-on-1
      interview with the study doctor or a member of the study staff. It will take place during 1
      of your regularly scheduled, standard of care clinic visit and should take about 30 minutes
      to complete.

      The interview will be digitally recorded. The electronic recording of the interview will be
      given a code number and stored on a password-protected computer at M. D. Anderson. No
      identifying information will be directly linked to your interview recording. Only the
      researcher in charge of the computer will have access to the code numbers and be able to link
      the interview recording to you.

      Questionnaires:

      After the interview, you will also complete a symptom questionnaire, a quality-of-life
      questionnaire, and a demographic questionnaire that asks questions about your age, race, and
      marital status. You will complete the questionnaires after the interview during the same
      clinic visit. It should take about 10 minutes to complete all 3 questionnaires.

      You should contact the study doctor or study nurse right away if at any time you are
      experiencing severe, troublesome, or intolerable symptoms. You should also remember to rate
      them on the symptom questionnaire.

      The questionnaires will also be given a code number and stored in a locked file cabinet at MD
      Anderson. No identifying information will be directly linked to your questionnaires. Only the
      researcher in charge of the study will have access to the code numbers and be able to link
      the questionnaires to you.

      Length of Study:

      After you have completed the interview and the questionnaires, your participation on this
      study will be over.

      Additional Information:

      Any information about your symptoms that is collected as part of this study is for research
      purposes only. All study materials, including the interview recording and questionnaires,
      will only be used for the purposes of this study and will be destroyed after the study
      results have been reported.

      If you rate a symptom as severe on the symptom questionnaire, a study staff member will ask
      you if you have already told, or plan to tell your regular care doctor or nurse about the
      symptom. If you have not already told you regular care doctor or nurse, a study staff member
      will tell your regular care doctor or nurse about the symptom for you.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 15 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.

      PART 2:

      Questionnaires:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete the following:

        1. A symptom questionnaire, 2 quality-of-life questionnaires, and a demographic
           questionnaire that asks questions about your age, race, and marital status. It should
           take about 20 minutes to complete all 4 questionnaires.

        2. About 1 to 5 days after you complete the first set of questionnaires, you will be asked
           to complete a questionnaire either through phone interview with the study staff or
           through a mail-in survey . If you complete the questionnaire by mail-in survey, the
           study staff will give you a copy of the questionnaire and a stamped pre-addressed
           envelope. The questionnaire will take 5-10 minutes to complete.

      You should contact the study doctor or study nurse right away if at any time you are
      experiencing severe, troublesome, or intolerable symptoms. You should also remember to rate
      them on the symptom questionnaire.

      The questionnaires will be given a code number and stored in a locked file cabinet at M. D.
      Anderson. No identifying information will be directly linked to your questionnaires. Only the
      researcher in charge of the study will have access to the code numbers and be able to link
      the questionnaires to you.

      Opinion Questionnaire:

      If you are one of the first 20 patients enrolled in the study, you will be asked questions
      about your opinion of the symptom questionnaire. For example, you will be asked if the
      symptom questionnaire was easy to understand and complete, and if there were any other
      questions that should be included. The study staff will use your opinion to decide if changes
      should be made to the questionnaire or if important symptom questions are missing from the
      questionnaire. This questionnaire should take about 5 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      After you have completed the questionnaires, your participation on this study will be over.

      Additional Information :

      Any information about your symptoms that is collected as part of this study is for research
      purposes only. The questionnaires will only be used for the purposes of this study and will
      be destroyed after the study results have been reported.

      If you rate a symptom as severe on the symptom questionnaire, a study staff member will ask
      you if you have already told, or plan to tell your regular care doctor or nurse about the
      symptom. If you have not already told you regular care doctor or nurse, a study staff member
      will tell your regular care doctor or nurse about the symptom for you.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 128 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson and
      Lyndon B. Johnson General Hospital.
    
  