
    
      New techniques such as robotically-assisted CABG surgery need proper evaluation to ensure
      potential benefits gained are not harmful to that which we know to be of significant benefit
      to the patients, that being the left internal thoracic artery (LITA) graft (one of the main
      coronary arteries supplying your heart with blood). We are therefore proposing a 5-7 year
      CT-Angiography (CTA) and Myocardial Perfusion Scintigraphy (MPS-MIBI) to assess the patency
      rate of the LITA graft in patients that have already undergone robotically assisted CABG.

      Between September 1999 and December 2001, a single surgeon performed robotically-assisted
      CABG surgery with LITA-to-LAD anastomosis on 151 patients with single vessel coronary artery
      disease at the London Health Sciences Centre, University Hospital. Patient consent and
      Research Ethics approval from The University of Western Ontario was acquired prior to each
      procedure. Sixty-one patients had robotically-assisted CABG surgery using the Automated
      Endoscopic Stabilizer for Optimal Positioning (AESOP) 3000 (Computer Motion, Goleta, CA),
      while 90 patients had robotically-assisted CABG surgery using the Zeus telemanipulation
      surgical system (Computer Motion, Goleta, CA). The AESOP 3000 is a single-arm robot that
      facilitates video thoracoscopic LITA dissection by providing steady images and
      voice-activated camera control. The Zeus telemanipulation surgical system is a multi-arm
      robotic telemanipulator that incorporates AESOP and allows control of surgical instruments
      within the thorax from a distant console.

      Postoperative angiography was completed prior to discharge whenever possible. Patients
      continue to be followed on an annual basis. Our intent to perform follow-up angiography and
      MPS-MIBI at 5 and 10 years duration to assess LITA graft performance was discussed with each
      patient at the time of the original surgery. Two late deaths unrelated to surgery have been
      recorded in this cohort.

      The 2-year study will be divided into three phases: Phase I - Patient Recruitment (4 months),
      Phase II - Patient Assessment with CTA, MPS-MIBI and Questionnaires (16 months) and Phase III
      - Data Analysis and Conclusions (4 months).

      Phase I - Chart Review and Patient Recruitment (4 Months) Upon receiving approval from the
      Research Ethics Board at The University of Western Ontario, charts will be reviewed on all
      151 robotically-assisted CABG surgery patients. Data on these patients is currently stored in
      a regularly updated database at our institution; however, a thorough review of all charts
      will be performed. Patient demographics and operative notes, as well as perioperative and
      postoperative complications will be reviewed. Hospital admissions, documented cardiac events
      and any subsequent deaths not previously documented will be recorded. Any additional
      pertinent data from the chart review will be entered into a study specific Microsoft Excel
      file maintained by a single qualified research assistant.

      All 149 living robotically-assisted CABG surgery patients will be contacted and their
      participation in the study requested. Patients will receive an initial request by mail, with
      an informative letter signed by the principal investigator outlining the purpose of the
      study, what participation in the study involves, and the specific aims of the cardiac team at
      the conclusion of the study. A follow-up phone call will be done within 3-weeks of mailing
      the letter to go over the content and answer any questions that patients may have.

      Phase II - Patient Assessment via CTA, MPS-MIBI and Questionnaires (16 Months)

      Robotically-assisted CABG surgery patients that agree to be a part of the study will have
      arrangements made for them to travel to LHSC. Patients will undergo a structured half-day
      (approximately 4-6 hours) at the hospital consisting of the following:

        1. Selective coronary artery and LITA graft check via CTA with a 64 slice CT scanner + Rest
           MPS-MIBI then Stress MPS-MIBI (4-6hrs)

        2. Completion of two validated health related quality of life questionnaires

             1. Seattle Angina Questionnaire

             2. 36-Item Short Form Health Survey
    
  