
    
      About 20 percent of women diagnosed with uterine cancer have spread outside of the uterus,
      mainly to the lymph nodes. If these metastases are recognized these women can still be cured
      with chemotherapy and radiation. Unfortunately different kind of imaging are not very
      sensitive in identifying patients with lymph node metastases and currently a complete removal
      of the lymph nodes in the pelvis and around the aorta is the gold standard diagnostic test.
      Sentinel node biopsy (SLNB) is a surgical technique that aims to identify the nodes that
      drain specifically the area were the tumor is located. A tracer is injected around the tumor
      and then the locoregional lymph nodes are tested for the presence of this tracer (blue dye
      and a radioactive substance). If the sentinel lymph node does not contain cancer, then there
      is a high likelihood that the cancer has not spread to any other area of the body.The
      benefits of doing sentinel node biopsy is that it decreases the potential complications
      associated with the removal of all the lymph nodes. This technique is the standard treatment
      for other cancers as breast cancer and melanoma and is emerging as a promising technique in
      gynecological cancers.

      There is no agreement regarding the best technique to do SLNB in women with uterine cancer
      and this procedure is still at the stage of determining feasibility. Since 1996, there have
      been publications aiming to determine the most appropriate way to do sentinel node in uterine
      cancer. As the uterus cannot be reached preoperatively for tracer injection, the standard
      approach for other tumor sites of preoperative peritumoral injection of Technetium 99
      followed by intraoperative injection of blue dye has needed to be modified. Blue dye with or
      without a radiocolloid have been administered either subserously (the uterus outer layer),
      cervically, dually, and hysteroscopically with a wide range of results in terms of
      identification rates of sentinel nodes. Certain factors as site of injection, volume and
      number of injections, interval time since injection to identification of sentinel nodes and
      surgical approach as laparotomy versus laparoscopy have been associated with the likelihood
      of identifying these nodes.

      This study plans to determine the pattern of lymphatic drainage for the cervix and corpus of
      the uterus by injecting a different tracer in these 2 sites and also to incorporate all
      factors that have been proved to be associated with a better identification rate of sentinel
      nodes in a protocol in order to determine if this technique is feasible and reliable.
    
  