
    
      Systemic sclerosis or scleroderma is a multisystemic disorder characterized by the excessive
      synthesis and deposition of extracellular matrix proteins that result in the fibrosis of skin
      and visceral organs (including gastrointestinal tract, lungs, heart and kidneys).The
      pathogenesis of scleroderma is complex and still poorly understood, but major pathways
      involved in the development of the condition are microvascular and immunological
      abnormalities, as well as dysregulation of fibroblast activity. One of the key molecules
      involved in the pathogenesis of skin fibrosis is the TGF-beta1; TGF-beta1 is a cytokine
      directly responsible for fibroblasts proliferation and collagen and extracellular matrix
      overproduction. The affected skin of patients with systemic sclerosis gradually becomes firm,
      thickened and eventually tightly bound to underlying subcutaneous tissue (indurative phase).
      It loses hair, oil, and sweat glands becoming dry and coarse. Changes begin distally in the
      extremities and advance proximally. Lesions develop over a period of time varying from months
      to a few years. In patients with limited scleroderma, only the skin of fingers, hands, face
      and lower arms and legs are affected. On the contrary, patients with the diffuse cutaneous
      disease, skin changes will become generalized, involving initially the extremities and
      followed by the face and trunk. Rapid progression of these changes over a 2 to 3 year period
      is usually associated with a greater risk of visceral disease. After several years of
      disease, the skin may soften and return to normal thickness or become thin and atrophic. The
      EMEA and FDA have granted P144 the orphan drug status for the treatment of systemic
      sclerosis. The primary objective is to assess the long-term safety of P144 crem topically
      administered in skin manifestations of systemic sclerosis patients in terms of the incidence
      of treatment related adverse events during the extension period of six months.
    
  