
    
      Problem Peek material is already used in the dentistry field, but proof on its long-term
      outcome in implant supported fixed rehabilitations is lacking.

      Objectives

        -  To evaluate the long term outcome of fixed prosthetic implant supported rehabilitations
           using peek material.

        -  To report the results.

      Significance This investigation is of interest, because it will provide an overview of the
      long term outcome of implant supported fixed prosthetic rehabilitations using peek material.

      Hypothesis The hypothesis that this study will evaluate, will be the distribution of survival
      and other variables of interest in implant supported fixed prosthetic rehabilitations using
      peek material.

      Materials and Methods Methodology This study will be performed at Malo Clinic in Lisbon. It
      is estimated to last for approximately 5 years. The study design to be used will be a
      prospective single cohort study to evaluate the long-term outcome of implant supported fixed
      prosthetic rehabilitations using peek material. The cohort will be evaluated in at least 5
      interventions (1 per year), regarding survival and the clinical/technical parameters
      established in this study. There will be no risk for the participants, has all procedures for
      collecting information will be minimally invasive and non- traumatizing.

      Population The population of this study consists in individuals rehabilitated with a fixed
      prosthetic rehabilitation supported by immediate function implants, of both genders, without
      age restrictions.

      Sample size It is expected that the sample will consist of 37 consecutively treated patients
      during the year of 2013.

      External variables:

        -  Withdrawal of the patients;

        -  The patient missing the control appointment;

        -  Interruption of the treatment by the patient;

        -  Patient deceased.

      Statistical analysis:

      In this study, the data will be treated by means of descriptive and inferential statistics.
      The data will be treated using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) for Windows
      version 17.0 ®. Survival will be estimated through life tables. Inferential analysis will be
      performed for characterization of the cohort and independent variables.

      Adverse events:

      An adverse event is defined as any undesirable clinical occurrence in a subject whether it is
      considered to be device related or not. If the adverse event is regarded as device related it
      is stated as an adverse device effect. An adverse event or adverse device effect may be
      serious\severe or non-serious\non-severe. If, as result of an adverse event during a clinical
      investigation, a subject has to be hospitalized, or their hospitalization is unduly prolonged
      due to potential disability or danger to life because an intervention has been necessitated
      or the event is terminal, the adverse event or adverse effect is regarded as serious. All
      serious adverse events must be reported to the Ethic Committee and without any delay.

      Ethical aspects:

      This investigation will be carried out in accordance to the ethical principles and guidelines
      stated in the Declaration of Helsinki. The Investigation should be evaluated and approved by
      a National Ethic Committee prior to including the first subject in the investigation. The
      application to the Ethic committee is to be made by the responsible investigators, and a copy
      of the approval should be sent to the monitor before the investigation starts. It is also of
      great importance that each subject receives oral and written information about the
      investigation, and that she/he must only participate if they truly want to do so. Also, the
      subjects must be aware of the fact that they can withdraw from the investigation at any time
      and for any reason without jeopardizing their future treatment.

      Furthermore, the subjects should be made aware of the fact that the data from his/her
      treatment will be registered in a computer database, but that she/he will only be registered
      through a code system. This means that the identity of each subject will be unknown to all
      others than the doctor performing the treatment. Each subject is entitled to take part of the
      information stored about her/his treatment. This information is to be handed out by the
      treating doctor.

      Database management:

      The data collected from the forms will be introduced in a digital database (Microsoft Office
      Excel 2003®). The database management will be the responsibility of the Malo Clinic.
    
  