
    
      Background:

        -  The prognosis for patients with B-cell lymphoid malignancies (BCL) with relapse or
           refractory disease after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AlloHSCT)
           is poor. Effective therapy for patients who fail withdrawal of immune suppression and
           administration of donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI) has not been identified.

        -  In the setting of recurrent or refractory BCL, the immunologic graft-versus-tumor (GVT)
           effect generated by unmanipulated donor lymphocytes is often not durable and can be
           accompanied by graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

        -  We have hypothesized that lymphocytes found in tumor after alloHSCT are of donor origin,
           and because they are tumor-derived, they may be tumor-specific in their homing and
           antigen specificity characteristics. Similarly, inpatients with bone marrow involvement
           with tumor, the marrow may be enriched with similarly tumor-specific T cells. Further,
           activation and expansion of these cells through CD3/CD28 costimulation may yield a more
           effective form of cell therapy than DLI after alloHSCT, with enhanced GVT effects and
           less GVHD.

      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the feasibility of isolating and expanding clinically relevant numbers of
           TDL from patients after alloHSCT.

        -  To determine the safety, vis-a-vis infusion toxicities and/or GVHD, of administering
           TDL.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults with B cell malignancies with tumor that has not responded to successful T cell
           engraftment after alloHSCT, withdrawal of immune suppression and administration of donor
           lymphocyte infusion will be eligible for this trial.

        -  Subjects must have a minimum of 1.5 cm of accessible tumor which is amenable to
           resection with minimal surgical morbidity and/or bone marrow tumor involvement.

      Design:

        -  Subjects will have accessible lesion surgically resected and/or harvested via bone
           marrow aspiration.

        -  Lymphocytes will be liberated and expanded using a co-stimulatory approach with
           anti-CD3/CD28 magnetic beads to generate TDL and/or marrow-TDL.

        -  1.0 x 10(6) - 1.0 x 10(8) TDL will be administered.

        -  Subjects will be monitored for the development of infusion reactions (in-hospital for 24
           hours after infusion), GVHD (weekly for four weeks then monthly) and tumor responses
           (monthly).

        -  Two cohorts will be enrolled, with an arm evaluating TDL from resected tumor and an arm
           to evaluate marrow-TDL from tumor-involved bone marrow. For the TDL arm, 15 to 18
           patients and up to 18 donors will be enrolled; for the marrow-TDL arem, 15 patients and
           up to 15 donors will be enrolled. Both arms will test the primary endpoints of
           feasibility (with at least 11 of 15 tumors yielding 1.0 x 10(6) TDL/kg meeting defined
           release criteria) and safety (primarily defined as having a no greater risk of
           developing grade II-IV acute GVHD by day 28 as standard therapy with unmanipulated DLI).
    
  