
    
      This study is designed as a randomized, open trial of intermittent continuous infusions of
      Interleukin-2 in HIV seropositive patients with a CD4 cell count between 200 and 500
      cells/mm(3). The goal of the study is to determine the optimal duration of each infusion, and
      the optimal interval between infusions. Thirty-six patients will be randomized to 3 groups:
      Group A will be the control group with a regimen of five day infusions of IL-2 every eight
      weeks; Group B will receive IL-2 infusions every eight weeks, however the duration of each
      infusion will be determined by parameters reflecting T cell proliferation, with
      discontinuation of each infusion at a point when the response appears to be maximized; Group
      C will receive five day infusions of IL-2; however the interval between infusions will be
      determined by the response seen to the prior infusion, with the goal of administering
      infusions while the CD4 cell count remains above baseline from the prior infusion. The dose
      of interleukin-2 to be used will be 9 MIU by continuous infusion daily. All patients will be
      evaluated at the NIH at least every 4 weeks, and at that time safety labs and immune studies
      will be performed. In addition, patients in Groups B and C will undergo a laboratory
      evaluation weekly, at which time immune parameters, including CD4 number and percent,
      spontaneous blast transformation, soluble IL-2 receptor levels, and viral parameters,
      including branched DNA assay and p24 antigen, will be determined. The study duration will be
      approximately one year.

      Significant modifications to the original protocol described above, have included:

        1. altering the number of cycles Group B and Group C participants receive at increased
           frequency or duration;

        2. dropping Group B from the original randomization process;

        3. providing continuing administration of IL-2 after the first year of the protocol;

        4. changing the target CD4+ count below which participants in extension will receive
           additional cycle(s) of IL-2;

        5. increasing the blood volume to be drawn at each visit to accommodate additional storage
           of plasma and serum;

        6. administering corticosteroids for up to 5 days during IL-2 administration to patients
           who fail to respond to IL-2 after at least one year of administration;

        7. providing for participants to receive intravenous IL-2 on an outpatient basis without
           the assistance of a caregiver;

        8. administering individualized IL-2 regimens for all patients after the first year of
           participation. It also provided for a revised patient monitoring schedule in keeping
           with other IL-2 protocols and for long-term monitoring of patients no longer receiving
           IL-2.

        9. modification of steroid administration to allow 7-day therapy and tapering schedule;

       10. allowing the use of non-licensed, but expanded access anti-retrovirals;

       11. allowing, in select subjects, at home (off-site) self-administration of IL-2.
    
  