
    
      Sleep disorders including poor quality of sleep are common in patients with heart failure,
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and, possibly, other chronic lung disorders.
      These patients complain of difficulty sleeping and sleep fragmentation, often related to
      symptoms such as cough, sputum production or shortness of breath. Patients with COPD and
      heart failure commonly have other abnormalities such as nocturnal oxygen desaturation that
      may further worsen sleep disturbances. Moreover, sleep disordered breathing (SDB), like
      obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSA), has been linked to higher morbidity and mortality if
      COPD is present (known as Overlap syndrome). In patients with COPD and heart failure,
      cardio-pulmonary rehabilitation has important health benefits such as improvement in disease
      related symptoms, exercise tolerance, and health-related quality of life. However, the effect
      of cardio-pulmonary rehabilitation on sleep quality is controversial. Disturbed sleep is
      associated with frequent exacerbations, increase in the severity of disease and increased
      mortality in COPD and heart failure patients.

      The investigators hypothesize that cardio-pulmonary rehabilitation results in improved sleep
      quality in patients with chronic lung disease and heart failure, this may be an important
      contributor to improved health outcomes after completion of cardio-pulmonary rehabilitation
      program.

      The study will use data from questionnaires filled by the patients before and after
      completion of cardio-pulmonary rehabilitation. A 3-month follow up survey using the same
      questionnaires will be conducted to determine the longevity of improved sleep quality (if
      present). The questionnaires that will be used include Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI),
      Epworth sleepiness scale (ESS), Berlin questionnaire, COPD assessment test (CAT) for COPD
      patients, Kansas city cardiomyopathy questionnaire (KCCQ) for heart failure patients,
      hospital induced anxiety and depression scale (HADS) and insomnia severity index (ISI).
    
  