
    
      Crohn s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), the 2 major sub-types of inflammatory bowel
      disease (IBD), are chronic, life-long conditions characterized by relapsing inflammation of
      the gastrointestinal tract. CD has a predilection for the small bowel and the proximal large
      bowel; however, it can affect the gastrointestinal tract discontinuously anywhere. UC mainly
      affects the distal colon but can involve the entire colon as well. In spite of advances in
      IBD therapeutics, a significant number of patients continue to have symptoms while on
      conventional medications. The current protocol proposes to study infusions of allogenic bone
      marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) for the treatment of active IBD.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of BMSC infusions in subjects with IBD
      and to examine the host clinical and immunologic response to BMSCs. BMSCs possess
      multi-lineage differentiation potential in bone marrow, and aid in the repair of damaged
      tissue. They suppress the lymphocyte immune response and target sites of inflammation to
      promote healing through tissue regeneration. Studies are underway examining the utility of
      BMSCs to treat several conditions including neurologic disorders, myocardial infarctions,
      rheumatologic disorders, and gastrointestinal disorders including acute
      graft-versus-host-disease and IBD. Progress in the understanding of the cell populations
      involved in the pathogenesis of IBD and the discovery of the potential immunologic and
      regenerative characteristics of BMSCs have created a new potential direction for IBD therapy.

      This phase I study will enroll subjects with moderate-to-severe IBD who are refractory to or
      intolerant of standard therapy. Under the guidance of the NIH Bone Marrow Stromal Cell
      Transplantation Center, the Cell Processing Section of the Department of Transfusion Medicine
      at the Clinical Center has developed a procedure for collecting, expanding, and
      cryopreserving clinical grade BMSCs under an FDA Drug Master File. Marrow will be aspirated
      from volunteer donors participating on protocol 10-CC-0053 who have passed the standard
      screening for blood and marrow donors; BMSCs will be expanded in vitro. Since it is not
      necessary to HLA-match BMSC donors with their recipients, a BMSC repository will be used as
      the source of BMSCs for this study.

      In Arm 1, the safety of the BMSC infusion dosage (4 x 106 cells/kg/dose 10%) and schedule
      (once a week for 4 weeks) will be evaluated in 3 non-overlapping IBD subjects. Once safety is
      established in these subjects, subsequent subjects in Arm 2 will be enrolled without overlap
      restriction. Subjects will return to the clinic for safety and response assessments at 28,
      56, 84, and 112 days after the first infusion. Additional safety visits will be performed at
      180, 360 and 720 days after the first infusion. Safety will be monitored by a Data and Safety
      Monitoring Board. Response to study drug will be assessed in all patients by changes in
      symptom scores, endoscopic/histologic findings, quality of life scores, and
      immunologic/laboratory parameters. Fifty subjects will be evaluated over a 5-year period.
    
  