
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the ability of Ibrutinib-based induction therapy to prolong progression free
      survival (PFS) compared to standard fludarabine phosphate, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab
      (FCR) chemoimmunotherapy for younger patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate overall survival (OS) of patients based on treatment arm. II. Monitor and assess
      toxicity of treatment with Ibrutinib-based induction relative to standard FCR chemotherapy.

      III. To compare quality of life (QOL) in CLL patients during the first 6 months of treatment
      among patients receiving Ibrutinib-based induction therapy relative to standard FCR
      chemoimmunotherapy.

      IV. To compare QOL over the long-term in CLL patients receiving continuous therapy using
      Ibrutinib to that of CLL patients who completed FCR therapy.

      V. Determine the effect of pretreatment clinical and biological characteristics (e.g. disease
      stage, immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene [IGHV] mutation status, fluorescent in
      situ hybridization [FISH]) on clinical outcomes (e.g. complete response, PFS) of the
      different arms.

      VI. Determine if the minimal residual disease (MRD) status as assessed by flow cytometry at
      different time points during and after treatment is an effective surrogate marker for
      prolonged PFS and overall survival.

      VII. Compare the genetic abnormalities and dynamics of intra-clonal architecture of CLL
      patients before and after treatment with chemoimmunotherapy (CIT) and non-CIT approaches and
      explore relationships with treatment resistance.

      VIII. Explore the effects of FCR and Ibrutinib-based therapy on T-cell immune function.

      IX. Conduct confirmatory validation genotyping of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
      associated with the efficacy and toxicity of fludarabine-based therapy as in a prior Eastern
      Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) genome-wide association study (GWAS) analysis in the E2997
      trial.

      X. Evaluate the ability of prognostic model that incorporates clinical and biologic
      characters to predict a response to therapy and clinical outcome (PFS, OS).

      XI. Evaluate signaling networks downstream of the B-cell receptor in patients receiving
      Ibrutinib-based therapy.

      XII. Collect relapse samples to study mechanisms of resistance to both FCR and
      Ibrutinib-based therapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Beginning course
      2, patients also receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on day 1 (days 1 and 2 of
      course 2 only). Treatment repeats every 28 days for 7 courses. In the absence of disease
      progression, patients may continue ibrutinib PO QD.

      ARM B: Patients receive rituximab as seen in Arm A and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30
      minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for 6 courses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 10 years.
    
  