
    
      This study will be conducted among approximately 8,200 HIV-infected individuals age 18 years
      or older who are stable on antiretroviral therapy (ART) in 30 clusters in Malawi and Zambia.
      Individuals will be screened at routine clinic visits and enrolled if they meet inclusion
      criteria. Enrolled individuals will receive standard of care at their site with the exception
      of their ART dispensing interval based on the assigned randomization. Outcomes will be
      assessed after 12 months, but all participants will be under observational follow-up for 36
      months, with annual re-assessment of retention, virologic suppression, and
      cost-effectiveness.

      There will be no contact with study participants during the period of follow-up.

      Endpoints will be determined by chart review after the primary endpoint is reached (12
      months). Endpoint data collection will include:

        1. Retention in care on strategy

        2. Suppressed viral load of <1,000 copies done as part of standard of care viral load
           monitoring

      In a subset of participants in Malawi (n=1,500), we will perform a review of participants'
      health passports, a record of patient clinic visits, general health information, and
      medications that is possessed by patients in Malawi, after the 12-month endpoint has been
      completed. Data will be collected on interim clinic visits, such as reason for visit/services
      received (sick, family planning, non-communicable disease treatment), frequency of visits,
      and location of clinic services.

      In a subset of participants (~240), we will perform a post intervention study visit after the
      12-month endpoint is completed. Qualitative interviews will be performed with a subset of
      participants and will focus on patient experience with assigned dispensing interval,
      including challenges/barriers and facilitators towards adherence and retention. Focused
      questions around endpoints (if default, reasons; if virologic failure, reasons including
      adherence) will also be addressed in the post-intervention visit.
    
  