
    
      In the VHA, over 50% of OEF/OIF/OND veterans who are seen in primary care settings report
      disabling pain symptoms. Although cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is now commonly employed
      within interdisciplinary pain management programs, access to these interventions is often
      limited due to the distance from clinical care and disabling impact of pain. In addition, the
      dropout rate in studies of face-to-face CBT for chronic pain further detracts from its impact
      in pain management. A telephone-delivered version of CBT for chronic pain overcomes these
      barriers to access.

      Primary Aim: to investigate the effectiveness of telephone CBT in the management of chronic
      pain with OEF/OIF/OND veterans enrolled in VA primary care clinics.

      Secondary Aim: to determine moderator and mediating factors by which telephone CBT
      facilitates pain management and successful adjustment of OEF/OIF/OND veterans to chronic
      pain.

      Major hypothesis:

      Hypothesis 1: Patients who receive telephone CBT will show significantly greater improvements
      in coping skills, reduced emotional distress, and increased quality of life compared with
      those who participate in telephone pain education (EDU).

      Hypothesis 2: The dropout rate for both of the telephone interventions in this study will be
      significantly lower than the attrition rate found in previous studies of face-to-face CBT for
      chronic pain.

      Secondary hypothesis:

      Hypothesis 3: An increase in use of coping skills will be positively associated with
      treatment outcome measures reflecting improved adjustment to chronic pain.

      Hypothesis 4: A decrease in catastrophizing will be positively associated with treatment
      outcome measures reflecting improved adjustment to chronic pain.

      To accomplish these aims, we conducted a randomized clinical trial comparing
      telephone-delivered cognitive behavior therapy and pain education control. A total of 42
      OEF/OIF/OND veterans with chronic pain were enrolled in the study and randomized into one of
      two treatment conditions. The study sample was recruited from primary care clinics at the San
      Francisco VA Medical Center and affiliated VA community-based outpatient clinics (CBOCs) in
      downtown San Francisco, Eureka, San Bruno, Santa Rosa, and Ukiah. Recruitment targeted
      OEF/OIF/OND veterans with pain disorders that involved muscle strain and inflammation, trauma
      to nerves, and/or central nervous system dysfunction. Both interventions were delivered by
      telephone and consisted of 12 sessions scheduled over a 20-week period. Pain management
      outcomes were measured at 10 weeks (mid-treatment), 20 weeks (post-treatment), 32 weeks
      (3-month follow-up), and 46 weeks (6-month follow-up). The sample size was chosen to provide
      greater than 80% power at a two-tailed alpha of 0.05. The study hypothesis, assessment
      methodology, and intervention procedures were based on the cognitive-behavioral model of
      chronic pain.
    
  