
    
      Bakground and study rationale: Left atrial (LA) thrombi are found in 2.5 - 18% of subjects
      with atrial fibrillation (AF) depending on the subject population. Subjects with LA thrombi
      have a particularly increased risk for cerebral and peripheral embolism. Consequently, oral
      anticoagulation is recommended in those subjects. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is
      suited and is capable of visualizing and deecting LA thrombi. Cranial magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) has a high accurancy for detecting ailent cerebral mircoembolism. However,
      under continued effective anticoagulation with the vitamin K antagonist (VKA) Phenprocoumon
      we have shown that only 56% of LA thrombi resolve during a 12 months TEE observational
      period. At 1 month only 16% of the thrombi disappeared. However, cureent treatment guidelines
      recommend 4 weeks of effective anticoagulations prior cardioversion, independent of LA
      thrombus. In our subject population 84% of LA thrombi would have still been presented at 4
      weeks VKA therapy and thus, would have had an increased risk of thromboembolism, if
      cardioversion, in accordance with current guidelines, would have performed. It is well known
      that thrombin plays a central role in the formation, growth, maintenance, and consolidation
      of thrombus. Direct thrombin inhibition has been shown to block these processes and leads to
      inhibition of thrombus. In vivo, it has been shown to reduce 90% of the preformed,
      half-hour-old-thrombus. This effect is probably due to better inhibition of the catalytically
      active clot-bound thrombin. Newer oral anticoagulants, like the direct thrombin inhibitor
      Dabigatran are therefore very promising for resolution of LA thrombi in comparison to VKA,
      which has not been investigated previously.

      Efficacy variables: Expliration of possible differences for the reduction of left atrial
      thrombus size evaluated by TEE (primary) and silent cerebral embolism (secondary) detected by
      cranial MRI at baseline anf after a 12 month treated period with Phenprocoumon or Dabigatran
      in order to gain mire detailed information and to generate valid hypotheses for further
      clinical trials.

      Overview: This is a single-center, randomized, two treatment groups, open, phase IV clinical
      study in subjects with atrial fibrillation and left atrial thrombus. At visit 0 (Screening
      visit) subjects with left atrial thrombus established in TEE are eligable to entry in the
      study. If the subjects fulfill all other in- and exclusion criteria and undersign the
      informed consent the baseline cranial MRI can be performed follwoed by randomization to one
      of the two treatment groups (Phenprocoumon or Dabigatran) at Visit 1 (Baseline visit). The
      subjects will be treated for 12 months with Phenprocoumon (INR adjusted once daily) or
      Dabigatran 150 mg twice daily. Routinly clinical follow up visits bill be done at week 4,
      month 3, month 6, month 9 and month 12. Follow up TEE will be performed after week 4 and
      month 12 also the follow up cranial MRI at this visit. If the subject was randomized in the
      VKA group routinely INR measurements will performed.
    
  