
    
      This investigation will comprise a mixed methods, before-and-after study. The particulars
      are:

      Format:

        1. Before intervention

             1. Analysis of retrospective MET activity and patient outcome data

             2. Surveying of staff for attitudes and perceptions of MET calls

        2. Intervention

             1. Twice-daily MET briefing meetings

             2. Formalised handover process for MET calls resulting in patients remaining in their
                current clinical area

        3. After intervention

             1. Analysis of prospective MET activity and patient outcome data

             2. Surveying of staff for attitudes and perceptions of MET calls

      Setting:

      Lyell McEwin Hospital, a 300 bed, university-affiliated, tertiary, metropolitan hospital
      located in Adelaide, South Australia. It has comprehensive in-patient medical and surgical
      services including a Level 3 Intensive Care Unit.

      Subjects:

        1. Patients - adult in-patients attended by the MET during the study period. This will
           include patients attended more than once during an admission, as all calls will be a
           separate datapoint. It is also possible for patients to have more than one admission
           during the study period, so each admission will be considered discretely.

        2. Staff - members of the hospital MET and ward staff that may call the MET. The MET
           composition is an ICU doctor, ICU nurse, medical registrar, intern and hospital manager.
           Due to rostering demands, this team is supplied from a pool of staff within each of the
           representative departments (approximately 10 ICU doctors, 30 ICU nurses, 30 medicine
           registrars, 36 interns and 8 duty managers).

      Data Collection:

        1. Characteristics and Outcomes

             1. Per-hospital admission data includes: age, gender, admission diagnosis, admission
                type, length of stay and mortality

             2. Per-MET call data includes: reason for call, location, duration of call,
                interventions performed, disposition and mortality

        2. Perceptions and Attitudes

             1. Ward staff question including around interactions with MET, involvement during MET
                calls, experience of repeat calling and reasons for repeat calling

             2. MET questions including around interactions with ward staff, involvement of ward
                staff during calls and resolution of calls.
    
  