
    
      Parenting a child with cancer is highly distressing. Both during and after cancer therapy,
      parents may suffer from poor mental health, risky health behaviors, and financial hardship,
      all of which may impact patients, siblings, and the family unit. Positive psychological
      resources can mitigate negative outcomes. In this regard, resilience is particularly
      important, describing an individual's ability to maintain psychological and/or physical
      well-being in the face of stress.

      The investigators have previously described the "Promoting Resilience in Stress Management"
      (PRISM) intervention for adolescent and young adult patients with cancer. This brief, 1:1
      intervention targets four "resilience resources" over approximately 3 months: skills in
      stress-management/mindfulness, goal-setting, cognitive restructuring, and meaning-making.
      Notably, every parent whose child received the PRISM requested a similar intervention for
      him- or herself. Hence, the investigators adapted two versions of the intervention for
      parents (the "PRISM-P"). First, using the same 1:1 format, they piloted the PRISM-P amongst
      12 parents of children with cancer. Feedback was highly positive; however, many parents
      requested additional group-based social support. Second, they conducted a half-day symposium
      and administered small-group adaptations of the PRISM-P to 70 parents of children with
      serious illness. Feedback was again positive; however, the opportunity to develop individual
      skills was limited.

      This application proposes a pilot Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT) to evaluate and compare
      these 2 formats of the PRISM-P with usual care, in order to determine optimal methodologies
      and preferences for future, larger studies. Consecutive eligible parents of children with
      newly diagnosed cancer will be randomly assigned to one of the 3 options (N=75 total, n=25
      per arm). Secondary aims will assess parent-reported stress, burden of care, hope, goals,
      optimism, benefit-finding, psychological distress, and health behaviors, and ongoing
      perceptions of usefulness, feasibility, and preference.
    
  