
    
      The trajectory of the HIV epidemic in coming decades will be determined by the degree to
      which we can identify infected persons and engage them in care - a point implicit in the
      ambitious UNAIDS "90-90-90" target, which sets 90% goals for HIV diagnosis, linkage of
      infected persons to sustained antiretroviral therapy (ART), and viral suppression in those
      treated. Meeting this target requires successful engagement of difficult to reach
      populations, such as people who inject drugs (PWID) and men who have sex with men (MSM), who
      bear a disproportionate share of the epidemic, particularly in low to middle income
      countries. Our team is nearing completion of a multi-site cluster-randomized trial in India
      to assess the effectiveness of integrated care centers (ICCs) for PWID and MSM compared to
      usual care. ICC process measures from the first year show robust uptake of HIV counseling and
      testing, the primary outcome for that trial, but slower than anticipated ART uptake.
      Demand-side interventions in public health (such as treatment incentives) can be particularly
      effective when paired with optimized treatment accessibility (i.e., supply). Consequently,
      the investigators propose to examine whether provision of HIV care and treatment incentives
      to ICC clients will improve overall utilization of the clinics and downstream HIV care
      continuum outcomes.

      The investigators propose a hybrid effectiveness-implementation design. This will include a
      16-site, pair-matched cluster randomized trial to compare the effectiveness of adding of HIV
      care incentives to ICCs (ICC+) versus standard ICCs on HIV care continuum outcomes, including
      ART initiation, adherence and viral suppression. Effectiveness will be compared at the ICC
      level (from a cohort of HIV-infected ART-eligible clients followed in each ICC and process
      measures deriving from all ICC clients) and at the community-level through a cross-sectional
      sample accrued via respondent-driven sampling (RDS) 2 years after initiation of the
      intervention. Because PWID and MSM will be sampled independently from the ICCs in the RDS, it
      provides an opportunity to characterize outcomes like community viral load and HIV incidence,
      reflecting impact within the broader PWID/MSM communities. As an exploratory sub-aim, we will
      use a rigorous scientific design to assess the effects of withdrawing (vs. continuing)
      incentives beyond the initial intervention phase. Additionally, the investigators will
      determine the cost-effectiveness of the ICC+ intervention.
    
  