
    
      The investigators propose a single center, randomized, controlled, open-label, crossover
      trial to determine if recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) dosed according to lean body mass
      (LBM) and ideal body weight (IBW) achieves a targeted FVIII recovery with better precision
      than based on total body weight (TBW). The investigators hypothesize the use of LBM and IBW
      to determine the dose of rFVIII necessary to attain a desired FVIII recovery of 2 +/- 0.2
      IU/dl per IU/kg (100 +/- 10%) in overweight and obese (body mass index greater than or equal
      to 25 mg/m2), adult males (age 18 or older) with hemophilia A (FVIII activity 40% or less)
      will result in a 50% greater proportion of subjects within this range when compared to TBW.
      Eligible patients receiving care at the Hemophilia Center of Western Pennsylvania (HCWP) will
      be enrolled during clinic visits. Following enrollment and completion of screening
      assessment, subjects will present to HCWP for three study visits with each study visit
      occurring on successive weeks. Subjects will not have received any rFVIII for a period of at
      least 72 hours prior to each study visit. Recombinant FVIII infusion based on TBW, LBM, or
      IBW will take place during each study visit, and the order will be determined by
      randomization. During each study visit, FVIII levels will be assessed by obtaining blood
      samples before and at 10 and 30 minutes and 1 hour after infusion. Outcomes include the
      proportion of subjects achieving a desired peak FVIII recovery value of 2 +/- 0.2 IU/dl per
      IU/kg (100 +/- 10%) at 10 minutes following infusion of rFVIII dosed according to LBM and
      TBW, IBW and TBW, and LBM and IBW. The investigators will use mixed effects logistic
      regression to investigate the effect of using different weight-based dosing methods on
      attaining target FVIII levels. We aim to have 24 subjects successfully complete the study.
    
  