
    
      This is a Phase I/II clinical trial to determine the efficacy and safety of a method of ex
      vivo gene therapy to treat both X-linked gp91phox deficient Chronic Granulomatous Disease
      (CGD) and autosomal recessive p47phox deficient CGD. CGD is an inherited immune deficiency in
      which blood neutrophils and monocytes fail to produce superoxide and other antimicrobial
      oxidants, and patients get recurrent life-threatening infections. 30 CGD patients of either
      sex at least 5 years of age may be enrolled in addition to the 5 patients enrolled in the
      first phase of this trial. Patients less than 16 years of age must have an active infection
      or a recent relapse of infection at the time of enrollment. Patients may receive up to 6
      cycles of stem cell mobilization for gene therapy at intervals of 4 weeks or longer. For up
      to first 3 cycles, a cycle of stem cell mobilization for gene therapy will begin with 8 daily
      subcutaneous injections of the combination of flt3-ligand (flt3L) at 50 micro g/kg/day plus
      granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) at 5 micro g/kg/day for
      mobilization of CD34+ cells. For 3 or more of the cycles of mobilization of CD34+ cells for
      gene therapy (up to the maximum of 6 cycles total), the mobilization will begin with 6 daily
      injections of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) at 10 micro g/kg/day. On the last
      two or three days of marrow growth factor administration for mobilization of CD34+ cells, the
      patients will have an apheresis procedure to harvest blood mononuclear cells, thus completing
      a cycle of mobilization and stem cell harvest. CD34+ progenitors will be selected from the
      apheresis collection using the Isolex(Registered Trademark) 300i anti-CD34 monoclonal
      antibody/magnetic bead selection system. The purified CD34+ cells may either be placed
      directly into culture or may be cryopreserved as per standard blood bank procedure (freezing
      in autologous serum with 10% dimethylsufoxide {DMSO}) and stored frozen at liquid nitrogen
      temperature until thawed for ex vivo culture and transduction. For a specific gene therapy
      treatment of intravenously infused, gene corrected stem cells, the purified CD34+ stem cells
      collected, purified and frozen from one or more cycles of mobilization will be thawed and
      then pooled at the time of placement into culture for transduction with the virus vector.
      CD34+ cells will be cultured in PL2417 gas permeable plastic containers that have been
      pre-coated with fibronectin fragment CH-296. The growth medium will be serum-free X-VIVO
      10(Registered Trademark) supplemented with 1% human serum albumin, 100 ng/ml flt3-ligand, 50
      ng/ml PIXY321 and 50 ng/ml stem cell factor (SCF). Cultured CD34+ progenitors will be
      transduced on each of 3 or 4 days with either MFGS-p47phox or MFGS-gp91phox retrovirus
      vectors. The retrovirus vectors are replication defective packaged in amphotropic envelope
      lines engineered with the CRIP packaging elements (5' LTR-gag-pol-3'SV40polyA;
      5'LTR-AMenv-3'SV40polyA). MFGS-p47phox is packaged in the murine psi-crip line, while
      MFGS-gp91phox is packaged in the human 293-SPA line. The clinical retrovirus vector supernate
      will be animal protein-free and serum free. Safety testing for endotoxin, sterility, and
      absence of replication competent retrovirus will be performed on the retrovirus producer
      lines, virus particle lots, and transduced cells. Transduced CD34+ cells will be infused into
      the CGD patient. Thus, there will be a total of up to six cycles of stem cell mobilization,
      but because the CD34+ cells from one or more cycles of mobilization may be cryopreserved and
      then later pooled for culture to produce a single gene corrected stem cell product for
      infusion, there may be fewer than six rounds (and possibly only one round) of gene therapy
      treatments for a patient who participates in this study. Blood will be tested periodically
      for the appearance and persistence of neutrophils that are functionally corrected by the gene
      therapy. The efficacy goal for this study is to allow CGD patients to produce autologous
      gene-corrected functionally normal NADPH oxidase positive neutrophils to a level of at least
      1 in 1000 circulating neutrophils for at least four weeks. This may provide clinical benefit
      in the form of increased host defense against an ongoing or potential infection. The clinical
      status of patients will be monitored for any evidence of toxicity. Information obtained from
      this study will provide information important for achieving the ultimate goal of the
      development of gene therapy for CGD that will be a permanent cure for this disorder.
    
  