
    
      Rationale: The clinical severity of right ventricular disease is largely determined by
      right-to-left ventricular dyssynchrony, i.e., delay of electrical activity between the right
      and left ventricles. Moreover, in patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension
      (CTEPH), we found that acute correction of this dyssynchrony by temporary pacing (prior to
      pulmonary endarterectomy, presently the therapy of choice for CTEPH) results in significant
      improvement in cardiac output. In this study, we aim to establish whether chronic pacing with
      the use of implanted pacemakers confers long-lasting improvements in cardiac output and
      functional class.

      Objective: To study whether chronic pacing with implanted pacemakers confers long-lasting
      improvements in cardiac output and functional class in severely symptomatic CTEPH patients
      who are not eligible for pulmonary endarterectomy, or those in whom pulmonary endarterectomy
      has failed.

      Study design: Chronic intervention study, double-blinded, randomized, cross-over.

      Study population: Adult CTEPH patients who are not eligible for pulmonary endarterectomy, or
      those in whom pulmonary endarterectomy has failed.

      Intervention (if applicable): chronic right ventricular resynchronization therapy (RVRT),
      i.e., chronic right atrial, right ventricular, and left ventricular pacing with the use of
      implanted pacemakers.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: (Duration of) improvements (in l/min) in cardiac output as
      measured using Doppler echocardiography, and functional class as measured using 6-minute
      walking distance (6-MWD), right and left ventricular dimensions and ejection fractions
      (99mTechnetium scintigraphy), biomarkers for heart failure (serum NT-proBNP levels), and
      quality of life (SF-36) questionnaire.

      Design: Randomized, double-blind, cross-over study with 2 arms of 10 patients each (arms 1
      and 2). In arm 1, RVRT is switched on immediately after pacemaker implant, is switched of in
      week 5, and switched on at the start of week 6 until study end (32 weeks). In arm 2, RVRT is
      switched at the start of week 5 after pacemaker implant until study end (32 weeks). At
      various follow-up visits at weeks 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 16, the main study parameters/endpoints
      (see previous paragraph) will be assessed.
    
  