
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the anti-tumor activity associated with trametinib monotherapy in patients with
      triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the anti-tumor activity associated with trametinib in combination with AKT
      inhibitor GSK2141795 after progression on trametinib in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      II. To determine the progression-free survival following the initiation of treatment with
      trametinib monotherapy in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      III. To determine the progression-free survival following the initiation of treatment with
      trametinib in combination with GSK2141795 in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      IV. To determine the overall survival following the initiation of treatment with trametinib
      with GSK214179 in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      V. To determine the nature and degree of toxicities associated with trametinib monotherapy
      and trametinib in combination with GSK2141795 in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      VI. To determine the biomarker potential of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) to predict
      response to single agent trametinib.

      VII. To determine molecular markers of sensitivity and resistance to trametinib monotherapy
      and trametinib in combination with GSK2141795 in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      OUTLINE:

      PART 1: Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who
      experience disease progression continue to Part 2.

      PART 2: Patients receive trametinib as in Part 1 and also receive Akt inhibitor GSK2141795 PO
      QD on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 52 weeks.
    
  