
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful and debilitating disease of the synovial joints, affecting
      the structural and functional integrity of articular cartilage, subchondral bone, synovium
      and the adjacent supporting connective tissue . It is a degenerative disorder characterized
      by cartilage loss with high prevalence in individuals over an age of 55 years. The most
      affected region in OA is the medial compartment of the knee. The symptoms of OA include joint
      pain, stiffness, and swelling which may lead to impaired physical function and muscle
      weakness . The etiology of the disease is multifactorial and not fully understood.
      Traditionally, OA was regarded as a "wear and tear" disease caused by ageing, but both
      non-physiological mechanical loading (e.g. malalignment, obesity, trauma or joint
      instability) of a normal joint or physiological mechanical loading of a pathological joint
      can induce OA .

      Joint misalignment has been identified as a potential biomechanical risk factor for
      development and progression of knee OA. Although determination of malalignment might provide
      important information about the load distribution in static conditions , dynamic loading
      parameters have been analyzed during gait to provide information about the total extrinsic
      load at the knee during the stance phase. According to Andriacchi, the external knee
      adduction moment can be used to predict load distribution between the medial and lateral
      compartments of the knee during dynamic activities. Increased external adduction moments are
      associated with increased joint forces on the medial plateau. During walking, forces are not
      evenly distributed across the joint surface and approximately 70% of the total load passes
      through the medial compartment. This may contribute to the higher prevalence of OA in this
      compartment . It can be expected that in patients with a varus deformity an even higher
      proportion of load is supported by the medial compartment. This may result in acceleration of
      articular cartilage degeneration.

      The link between mechanical loading and the severity and progression of medial OA has been
      shown by many studies. Disease severity was found to correlate with the knee adduction moment
      , knee adduction angular impulse and knee extension moment . Miyazaki et al. analyzed the
      disease progression of OA patients during seven years. Patients that showed radiographic
      disease progression in the medial knee compartment also presented more severe knee pain and
      greater knee adduction moment than patients without disease progression. Baliunas et al.
      observed a significant greater knee adduction moment in OA patients with different levels of
      disease severity, but no significant differences were found in the sagittal moments. Thorp et
      al. analyzed not only the knee adduction moment but also the knee adduction angular impulse
      for the stance phase in healthy subjects and OA patients with mild and moderate disease
      progression in the medial knee compartment. The peak knee adduction moment and the knee
      adduction angular impulse were significant different between the control group, mild and
      moderate OA patients. Furthermore, the parameter knee adduction angular impulse was
      significantly different between mild and moderate OA patients, suggesting that this parameter
      can describe functional changes between different stages of disease progression.

      While the relationship of varus malalignment and OA of the medial compartment is well
      described in the literature, little information is available if and how varus malalignment
      affects the lateral compartment. Fantini Pagani recently demonstrated that cartilage
      mechanical quality is not related to the knee adduction moment during gait in patients with
      severe OA.

      Authors further reported that mechanical properties of osteoarthritic cartilage are highly
      variable indicating a complex relationship between joint loading and tissue changes during
      degenerative processes of articular cartilage. In clinical practice, patients with an
      identical mechanical varus malalignement of the lower extremity may show either isolated
      osteoarthritis of the medial compartment of the knee (example 1), or OA of the medial,
      lateral and patellofemoral compartment (example 2). This entity suggests that osteoarthritic
      disease in varus malaligned knees, in which the medial compartment is submitted to excessive
      overload, progress from medial to lateral over time. It could be assumed that
      mechanobiological factors and inflammatory reactions rather than mechanical load transmission
      play a major role in disease progression in the osteoarthritic knee.

      Mechanobiological factors are thought to cause changes in articular cartilage thickness
      distributions in a joint throughout life . Healthy articular cartilage tends to be thickest
      in joints that experience high forces such as the knee. In addition, side differences in
      muscle cross sectional area positively correlated with side differences in articular
      cartilage morphology . Previous studies showed, that for healthy knees, the ratio of medial
      to lateral cartilage is greater in individuals that have a larger peak knee adduction moment
      during walking, suggesting that cartilage is thicker in areas where load is greater. These
      results are supported by those from animal studies in which articular cartilage increased in
      thickness by up to 19 to 23% when high mechanical loads were applied. An increase in
      cartilage thickness with exposure to higher loads may be off-set by a greater cartilage
      surface that may be caused by high physical activity during growth . Changes in tibio-femoral
      cartilage thickness are not dose-dependent suggesting that adult human cartilage morphology
      may not be sensitive to or improve with training .

      Previous studies on animals and humans have shown that disuse like immobilization or
      strenuous mechanical loading induces changes in cartilage morphology and biology.

      Cartilage composition and morphology is optimized for load-bearing function and characterized
      by the ability to sustain high and repetitive mechanical loads occurring during daily living.
      This mechanical function of cartilage is directly linked to the composition of the
      extracellular matrix (ECM). The synthesis and degradation of ECM molecules affect the
      mechanical properties of articular cartilage. The main ECM components are collagen II and
      non-collagenous proteins such as the proteoglycan aggrecan and other glycoproteins. Potential
      biological markers for cartilage metabolism include these matrix components and/or their
      breakdown products, cytokines, and proteases (eg. metalloproteases) and they can be
      quantified in serum, urine and synovial samples. Several serum biomarkers have been
      identified to monitor cartilage metabolism . One established biomarker for monitoring
      cartilage metabolism in relation to joint degeneration in OA , rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and
      injured knees is cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP). In addition, previous studies
      have reported an increase in serum COMP concentration immediately after exercise with the
      dose of mechanical loads determining the magnitude and duration of increased serum COMP
      concentration. Besides COMP, biomarker of collagen II and aggrecan synthesis and degradation
      are suitable to monitor cartilage metabolism. Moreover, microRNAs can play a pivotal role for
      extracellular matrix homeostasis and are detectable at specific stages during OA progression.
      So far, miR-140, miR-9, miR-98 and miR-146 were found to be upregulated in osteoarthritic
      patient material and their expression is linked to the IL-1 beta induced production of
      TNF-alpha and matrix degradation in osteoarthritic cartilage . miRNAs can be released to the
      serum in various diseases and may have prognostic potential to determine the onset and
      progression of cartilage degeneration during OA. Finally, mitochondria damage is linked to
      reduced ECM production, secretion and enhanced degradation in cartilage. Recent reports show
      that specific inhibitors of the mitochondrial respiratory chain can suppress the synthesis of
      the ECM in articular chondrocytes and induced the production of proinflammatory cytokines and
      multiple factors released from damaged mitochondria, e.g damage mitochondrial DNA, reactive
      oxygen species, cytochrome c, proline/hydroxyproline synthesis, ATP and lactate production,
      could act as biomarkers for OA.

      Inflammation within the joint of the knee is important in the pathophysiologic processes
      occurring after the onset of OA by high mechanical load. Cytokines are key players in the
      inflammatory mechanism and contribute to the progression of the cartilage damage. Therefore,
      the investigators focus on the effects of inflammation in OA and the role of pro-inflammatory
      and anti-inflammatory cytokines which can cause a deleterious or beneficial outcome.
      Investigation of the underlying mechanisms will help the investigators in understanding how
      cytokines contribute to the progression of OA and provide potential targets for novel
      therapeutics and biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of OA. Differences in the cytokine
      profile were reported for patients with OA, RA and healthy controls. Specific cytokines which
      are involved in OA were previously detected in blood as well as in synovial fluid . Cytokine
      expression in fluids may represent reliable diagnostic marker for early and late stages of
      OA. Recent data indicate potential correlations in the cytokine profile between blood and
      synovial fluid , which should be validated in the investigations. In addition, the
      investigators want to analyze the cytokine profile in tissue samples of OA and correlate the
      results with the profiles of serum and synovial fluid and clinical parameters. These results
      could link inflammatory reactions induced by the OA of the medial compartment to malalignment
      and to a progression of OA in the unaffected areas of the lateral compartments.

      In summary, greater knee adduction moment is associated with greater load transmission
      through the medial knee compartment. Numerous studies identified increased knee adduction
      moment in patients with medial knee OA and varus deformity compared to healthy subjects.
      However, it is unclear how varus malalignment and dynamic knee loading / adduction moment
      affects the cartilage of lateral compartment. Morphological and biochemical markers are able
      to analyse cartilage degeneration in vivo in humans in relation to mechanical loading, a
      potential biomechanical risk factor for development and progression of knee OA.
    
  