
    
      Up to a third of middle-aged people living with HIV infection (PLWH) experience falls each
      year. Falls are the most common cause of non-fatal injury in the US and the cost from
      emergency department visits and hospitalizations are enormous. PLWH are more susceptible to
      falls and their serious consequences because 1) despite control of HIV viremia, inflammation
      persists and underlies HIV-associated comorbidities and complications that occur at a
      relatively young age (so-called premature aging); 2) specific comorbidities (e.g.,
      neuropathy, osteoporosis) and complications (e.g., frailty and impaired physical function)
      make falls more likely and recovery from them more difficult; 3) alcohol use exacerbates
      inflammation, and may increase risk for comorbidities and complications; and 4) alcohol use,
      illicit drug use and polypharmacy can increase the likelihood of a fall. Despite this, fall
      prevention has not been extensively studied among PLWH. Interventions are needed to address
      falls in PLWH but none have been tailored for this population. Understanding risk factors and
      targets for intervention among PLWH are essential; cohort studies can provide the information
      needed for intervention development.

      This study is part the Consortia for HIV/AIDS and Alcohol-Related Research Trials (CHAART).
      It describes the continuation and expansion of a cohort that is one of three in the Uganda
      Russia Boston Alcohol Network for Alcohol Research Collaboration on HIV/AIDS (URBAN ARCH).
      The URBAN ARCH theme is to address consequences of alcohol use on HIV-associated
      comorbidities and complications to increase treatment availability and improve outcomes. In
      line with that theme the investigators will continue to follow and expand (to 400) an
      existing cohort of PLWH and a high prevalence of exposure to alcohol, illicit drugs, and
      polypharmacy (the Boston ARCH Cohort) in the Frailty, Functional impairment, Falls, and
      Fractures (4F study) to: (in 2 Primary Aims) 1) Test the associations between alcohol (and
      illicit drugs and polypharmacy) and falls (fractures secondarily); and 2) Test the
      associations between alcohol (and illicit drugs and polypharmacy) and acute healthcare
      utilization (emergency department use and hospitalization for falls and fractures). The
      investigators will examine the role frailty plays in these associations between alcohol,
      drugs and medications and the aforementioned clinical and utilization outcomes. By achieving
      these aims the investigators will gain substantially greater understanding of these
      comorbidities and complications in PLWH exposed to alcohol and other psychoactive substances;
      this knowledge will serve to inform the development of ways to identify, prevent and manage
      falls, fractures, frailty and functional impairment.
    
  