
    
      Movement disorders are a prominent cause of disability worldwide. In the United States, it is
      estimated that more than 4 million people suffer from Parkinson's disease (PD), essential
      tremor (ET), and dystonia, some of the most prevalent of neurologic disorders. Of these, PD
      is the most common, and is primarily characterized by tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia.
      However, many patients also have prominent non-motor features, including depression and
      cognitive impairment, with deficiencies in processing speed, memory, attention, and learning.
      One of the most debilitating cognitive deficiencies is in response inhibition (RI), or the
      inability to suppress a habitual action. PD patients have significant difficulty with RI, and
      report its substantial contribution in limiting their quality of life. While some studies
      show that dopamine can improve this aspect of cognitive function, many patients remain
      considerably impaired.

      RI manifests clinically in many different and important ways, with reduced mental
      flexibility, task-switching, and concentration. RI may also contribute to motor impairment,
      with gait dysfunction, falls, and freezing of gait. Unfortunately, these features of PD and
      RI are less well-studied and lack effective treatment options, necessitating that new
      treatments be investigated. Deep brain stimulation (DBS), while a highly effective treatment
      for motor manifestations, is essentially ineffective for, and can even worsen cognition, with
      few studies currently investigating how different parameters may improve NMS. In an effort to
      begin addressing these debilitating features of PD, the investigators propose to study RI in
      patients with movement disorders, and to correlate movement and cognition with underlying
      neural electrophysiology before and during tasks of motion and response inhibition.

      During routine DBS surgery, the stimulating electrode is implanted with the aid of
      intraoperative recordings in the awake state. These routine recordings enable neurologists
      and neurosurgeons to directly observe neuronal firing in the brain, identifying
      characteristic patterns to delineate anatomic structures. Once in place, the DBS electrode is
      tested using stimulation parameters known to be clinically efficacious for motor impairment.
      This allows acute, intraoperative testing for therapeutic benefit and side effects, and give
      information for how a patient will respond to the therapy once the cranial electrode is
      connected to the battery and turned on.

      In addition to this routine recording and stimulation, this setting also provides a unique
      opportunity to study neural electrophysiology, with minimal increased risk. By measuring
      brain activity in the outer layers (cortex) as well as from the DBS electrode itself, while
      patients perform various tasks, it is possible to correlate behavioral function and neural
      activity. Our center, and several others, already have research paradigms in place to achieve
      these goals, by placing a subdural strip electrode over cortex prior to placing the DBS lead.
      These strip electrodes lie along the surface of the brain, and have historically been used
      for several decades to perform seizure mapping, typically as an array of electrodes placed
      via a burr hole. Their use has only more recently been implemented for investigation of
      neural circuits during DBS surgery, however, their safety in this specific setting is now
      well-established, and their temporary placement is currently being performed in similar
      studies at this institution. However, though previous studies have placed these strips over
      prefrontal areas, the vast majority of research in this area is focused on motor circuits,
      with placement over sensorimotor cortex. In order to study NMS, strips will be placed over
      prefrontal cortex, with recordings made during various motor and cognitive tasks and during
      different stimulation patterns.
    
  