
    
      Intra-operative hypothermia increases the risk of a wide range of post operative
      complications; wound infection, damage to heart muscle, and an increased length of hospital
      stay.

      A range of technologies exist for maintaining the temperature of patients undergoing surgical
      procedures. Yet despite the frequent use of forced air warming devices, a significant
      reduction in core temperature can occur in the first 60 minutes of some major surgeries.

      This is an Observational Cross-Sectional Study, investigating patients undergoing elective
      surgery in two groups Group 1: Patients undergoing brief surgical procedures of >15 minutes
      for whom no warming devices are being employed.

      Group 2: Patients undergoing surgical procedures in which forced air warming, is being used
      Potential participants will first be approached by medical staff at their pre-operative
      assessment clinic. They will be screened for exclusion criteria before being given a
      participant information sheet, which will be explained to them. They will be invited to
      contact the researcher if they are interested in participating in the study.

      On arrival in hospital the day of their surgery, the patients will be met by their
      anaesthetist and a researcher who will provide any further information required about the
      study, and consent will be taken.

      Following receipt of informed consent, patients will be involved from 30 minutes before their
      surgery begins, until the end of their surgery.

      The null hypothesis is that there is no difference in the rate of flow of heat from the core
      to the peripheries between patients who receive warming during surgery, and those who do not.
      As it would be unethical to randomise a patient to not receive warming, we have designed an
      observational study to compare patients who are warmed / not warmed as part of their standard
      care. Patients undergoing surgery <30 minutes long are not routinely warmed during surgery.

      Potential participants will be informed of the study at the pre-operative assessment clinic
      in the weeks preceding surgery. Posters will be located in the clinic rooms and relevant
      areas, and subjects will be given information by the clinic staff to read prior to their
      surgery.

      Participants will be admitted to hospital the evening prior, or the morning of surgery,
      whereupon they will undergo standard admission processes, including pre-operative assessment
      by the anaesthetist assigned to that list. The anaesthetist and researcher will then explain
      the study again, reiterating the potential risks and benefits of the study to the patient
      themselves, and to the population as a whole. Written consent will be sought at this point.

      Participants will be weighed and four measurements will be taken, comprising : arm length,
      leg length, trunk length and maximum abdominal width. Participants will stand onto a
      bioimpedance machine, which will quantify their body fat and body water percentage.

      30 minutes before their operation, skin temperature sensors will be placed on the patient's
      forehead, forearm, finger, hip, calf and toe. An additional SpotOn temperature sensor, placed
      on the forehead will be used to non invasively measure core temperature.

      Measurement of blood pressure, cardiac output and systemic vascular resistance will be
      obtained by a finger cuff connected to a Nexin Noninvasive cardiac output monitor. These
      measurements describe the action of the heart and blood vessels. At the end of each surgery
      the data recorded on this device will be transferred via an encrypted USB key onto a data
      acquisition laptop.

      Temperature measurements from the seven of sensors will taken at 5 second intervals onto a
      data acquisition laptop.

      At 15 minutes intervals Infra red thermography images will be taken from a FLIR a320 device.
      This equipment will be mounted on a raised boom above the surgeons, in a sterile sleeve. This
      will not be held over the patient at any point, and will be moved away from the patient
      between measurements.

      Once the surgery has ended, and the patient has been transferred to the recovery area, all
      temperature sensors will be removed and the patient will exit the trial.

      A sample size of 24 patients will be recruited to quantify the effect of warming.
    
  