
    
      This is a prospective case-control study in which fetuses from normal pregnancies will be
      compared with fetuses with IUGR. Parents will be asked to participate in the study in
      connection with the routine ultrasound examinations at the department of obstetrics to where
      they have been referred because of suspected IUGR. The control group will be randomly
      selected among pregnant women who come for routine ultrasound during pregnancy at gestational
      week 18-20.

      Surveys will be performed in the third trimester and after delivery. During the ultrasound
      examinations standardized, moving sequences of the heart will be saved. Analyses will be
      performed off-line and analysed by vector velocity imaging software. With this technique, the
      investigator can quantify the chamber wall and myocardial movements. Speed (velocity),
      movement (displacement) and thickening/deformation (strain and strain rate) will be recorded
      in a structured and standardized manner.

      When performing the analysis the heart's walls are outlined and the software extracts the
      movement in different directions.

      Data will be obtained concerning the participating mothers previous illness, mothers' age,
      maternal smoking, BMI, any abnormalities during pregnancy, number of previous pregnancies.
      Other data that will be recorded are means of delivery and any abnormalities during previous
      pregnancies, such as hypertension, preeclampsia and pre-natal steroid treatment.

      Additional data to be collected from the participating fetuses are flow profiles in the
      umbilical artery, ductus venosus and middle cerebral artery. Abdominal circumference and
      estimated weight will be registered.

      Following delivery, the participating child's height, weight, head circumference and
      gestational age at birth are registered. Additional data that will be collected after
      delivery are umbilical vein and umbilical artery acid base values, Apgar score. If admitted
      to the pediatric ward the investigators will register the number of days hospitalized in the
      ward for post-natal care and diagnosis. The investigators plan to examine the participating
      baby with cardiac ultrasound between 12 and 72 hours after delivery and again when the
      participating child is 3-4 months old and at 7 years of age.

      The investigators will take a blood sample from the umbilical cord at birth and again at 7
      years of age. The investigators will analyse the blood for growth factors and cardiac
      markers. An additional ethical approval was accepted 2015 for analysing epigenetic factors in
      the participating children's DNA.

      Based on power calculation the investigators plan to examine between 20-30 fetuses with IUGR
      and 40-60 healthy fetuses in the control group.
    
  