
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in the world. In Taiwan, lung
      cancer is the second cause of cancer death in men and the first in women. Although the
      five-year survival rate in the early stage, operable non-small cell lung cancer patients was
      ranged from 60% in stage IA patients to 15% in stage IIIA patients, over 85% of patients were
      of advanced and inoperable stage at diagnosis. Their medium survival was around six to nine
      months. New generations of chemotherapy or newly developed target therapy can significantly
      prolong the medium survival in statistics but the range is only one to three months, which is
      of limited significance in clinical practice, suggesting a limitation of current modalities
      of treatment. Chinese herbal medicines have a long history and show effectiveness in
      benefiting the maintenance of health and the recovery from diseases. Among them,
      Astragalus-based Chinese herbs have shown to increase effectiveness of platinum-based
      chemotherapy when combined with chemotherapy in advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer.
      Despite the fact that many Chinese herbal medicines have shown a pro-apoptotic effect on
      tumor cells in vitro, none of them have been demonstrated a tumorocidal effect in clinical
      practice, when used alone. Moreover, Astragalus has revealed an anti-apoptotic effect on
      cells, suggesting a non-tumorocidal function of Astragalus formula in benefiting cancer
      therapy.

      Studies have shown that external or internal stimuli can induce cell transformation. As a
      result, dys-regulation in cell growth, DNA repair, cell proliferation and apotosis may occur.
      Normal committed tissue cells can transform into undifferentiated, multi-potential malignant
      cells. Normally, the competent immune system can recognize the transformed abnormal cells,
      undergo immune editing, activate cytotoxic cells to eradicate the abnormal cells and,
      finally, prevent malignant cell transformation. But through unknown mechanisms, the malignant
      cells may escape from immune surveillance, release chemokines, growth factors and other
      mediators to drive the change of inflammatory cells. Consequently, the anti-tumor function of
      immune cells is suppressed, leading to an environment in favor of development and metastasis
      of malignant cells. From the experiment of animal model and some observations on malignancy,
      researchers have suggested that malignant cells can release mediators, which can activate
      pre-myeloid suppressors and promote myeloid-derived suppressor cells development. The
      myeloid-derived suppressor cells can further trigger cytotoxic T cell apoptosis, and may
      shift the macrophages toward M2 subtype, inhibit the Th1 cell, and initiate other immune
      suppressive mechanism. The functions of NK cells and regulatory T cells are altered,
      resulting in a disturbance of anti-tumor immune function. All these can further create an
      environment with a benefit for malignant cell growth and advancement. Astragalus-based
      formula may confer its surval advantage in cancer patients through modulating the immune
      system and reversing the immunosuppressive microenvironment.

      The lung cancer study in the Department of Thoracic Medicine has demonstrated that the
      myeloid-derived suppressor cells, cytotoxic T cells, Treg cells and monocytes play a
      critically important role in mediating immune alterations in patients with advanced stage,
      non-small cell lung cancer. In this three-year proposal, we aim to study the role of one
      Astragalus-based formula : Qingshu Yiqi Tang in reversing the immune alterations in patients
      with advanced stage, non-small cell lung cancer who receive 1st line doublet chemotherapy of
      cisplatin plus doxetaxel（or Pemetrexed for adenocarcinoma）and 2nd line target therapy of
      erlotinib. We will target on the modulating effect of Qingshu-Yiqi-Tang on the expression and
      function of myeloid-derived suppressor cells, Th1, Th2, cytotoxic T cells, NK cells, and the
      subtypes of monocytes (M1-like vs M2-like). Flow cytometry will be used to study the cell
      subtypes. The related cytokines and growth factors in serum or supernatant of culture,
      including IL4, IL-6, IL13, VEGF, TGFb, GM-CSF, will be analyzed using ELISA and FACS
      microbeads array. The expression of iNOS and arginase I will be verified using WB, IP and
      RT-PCR. The molecular mechanism related to the cell function will be studied using ex vivo
      cell co-culture model. All the patients will be followed up for three years at maximum. We
      hope that, via this three-year proposal, we can explore the possible mechanism of the
      Astragalus-based formula : Qingshu-Yiqi-Tang(清暑益氣湯) in modulating and reversing
      immunosuppression in advanced stage, non-small cell lung cancer patients. Through this study,
      we would found a basis for further comprehensive research on the mechanism of other Chinese
      herbal medicines for benefiting lung cancer therapy.
    
  