
    
      The Autism Managing Eating Aversions and Limited variety (MEAL) Plan is a structured
      parent-mediated, group-based intervention to reduce mealtime disruptive behavior, expand
      dietary diversity and reduce parental stress associated with moderate food selectivity in
      young children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD).

      Children ages 3-8 with a diagnosis of ASD who present with moderate food selectivity and
      associated problem behavior will be screened for inclusion in the study. Following consent
      and screening procedures, parents of eligible children will be assigned to a group-based
      parent training (Autism MEAL plan) or group-based parent education. Each parent will receive
      1.5 hours of intervention per week for 10 weeks by a masters or doctoral level clinician.

      Data will be collected on parental compliance with the Autism MEAL plan and the food
      acceptance of the child as well as nutritional intake, and refusal behaviors. Child
      participants will also be included in parent-child dyad in-vivo feedback sessions. Parents
      assigned to parent education will be able to cross-over to receive the Autism MEAL Plan
      following completion of post-study measures.

      The first aim of the study is to finalize the Autism MEAL Plan materials (e.g., role-play
      activities, activity sheets and video examples). This includes standardizing therapist
      scripts in line with the revised curriculum and creating new video examples that coincide
      with practice worksheets. Home recording (e.g., personal camera phone) to document and
      present home meal data will also be added to the curriculum.

      The second aim is to evaluate the feasibility of the Autism MEAL Plan versus parent education
      in 40 children (20 per treatment assignment) with ASD and moderate feeding problems.

      The final study aim is to evaluate the preliminary efficacy of the Autism MEAL Plan in
      expanding food diversity, decreasing disruptive behavior and reducing parental stress
      compared to Parent Education. Methods of evaluating this aim include direct observation,
      parent ratings of behavior, food intake and stress, as well as blinded clinician ratings,
      height, weight and BMI.
    
  