
    
      Background

      The concept of venous retroperfusion in coronary artery disease Coronary artery disease (CAD)
      is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in industrialized countries despite advances
      in medical, interventional, and surgical revascularization therapies. The different
      strategies aiming at restoration of coronary blood flow and subsequent improvement of
      myocardial perfusion have led to increased survival rates of CAD patients with both acute
      myocardial infarction (AMI) and chronic stable disease. However, in both situations standard
      therapeutic approaches may fail to restore tissue perfusion: First, up to 20% of patients
      with chronic CAD may not be amenable to standard revascularization therapies and may suffer
      from refractory angina pectoris and/or chronic heart failure. Second, despite the high
      success rates of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in restoration of coronary artery
      patency following an acute vessel occlusion (AMI), blood flow of the infarct related artery
      is often still markedly impaired (TIMI≤2; no-reflow phenomenon, microvascular obstruction).
      As a consequence, the long pursued strategy of augmenting myocardial perfusion by diverting
      blood from the coronary venous system to an ischemic region (venous retroperfusion) has again
      gained attention during recent years. Already in 1898, the experimental work of Pratt
      suggested that venous retroperfusion may provide nutritional delivery to the myocardium. In
      the mid 20ieth century, the concept was followed by cardiac surgeons who introduced the
      coronary venous bypass graft for myocardial revascularization (CVBG; which was soon replaced
      by its arterial counterpart, CABG) and also used this protection technique during valve
      surgery. More than 25 years ago, occlusion of the coronary sinus (CSO) was introduced to
      provide retroperfusion by transient augmentation of coronary venous pressure. Since then,
      different devices using CSO have been invented and evaluated in animal models and small
      clinical trials, e.g. intermittent CSO (ICSO) and pressure-controlled intermittent CSO
      (PICSO; Miracor Medical Systems, Austria) as well as a coronary sinus reducer stent (Neovasc
      Medical, Israel). At least the systems using (P)ICSO seem to be effective for myocardial
      salvage; however, they are not yet employed in clinical routine, possibly due to their
      difficult usage and potential risks (sinus damage, thrombosis, stenosis, chronic myocardial
      edema). Importantly, the exact underlying mechanisms by which retroperfusion due to CSO may
      reduce myocardial ischemia are not yet understood. It has been proposed that aside from
      augmented delivery of blood to the ischemic region, the following mechanisms may play a role:
      a functional venous microcirculation, less blockade of the microcirculation, "washout" of
      reactive oxygen species (ROS), diminished granulocyte trapping, and improvement of
      cellular/interstitial edema. Importantly, it is very likely that the extent of coronary
      collaterals play a crucial role for the efficacy of (P)ICSO. However, only a limited number
      of experimental studies have addressed this issue so far.

      Coronary collateral circulation As "natural bypasses", coronary collaterals are anastomoses
      without an intervening capillary bed between portions of the same coronary artery or between
      different coronary arteries that represent an alternative source of blood supply to a
      myocardial area jeopardized by ischemia. In patients with CAD, a well-developed coronary
      collateral circulation contributes to reduction of infarct size, LV-dysfunction, and
      mortality. Collaterals of the heart can be assessed quantitatively by coronary flow velocity
      or pressure measurements, which have become the gold standard. The theoretical basis of this
      method relates to the fact that perfusion pressure (minus the central venous "back" pressure)
      or flow velocity signals obtained distal to an occluded stenosis originate from collaterals.
      The measurement of aortic and coronary pressure or flow velocity provides the basis for the
      calculation of a pressure- or velocity-derived collateral flow index (CFI), both of which
      express the amount of flow via collaterals to the vascular region of interest as a fraction
      of the flow via the normally patent vessel CFI measurements have been documented to be
      accurate with regard to ECG derived dichotomous collateral assessment, with regard to each
      other, but also to quantitative myocardial perfusion imaging by contrast echocardiography
      during balloon occlusion. Pressure- and Doppler-derived coronary collateral measurements are
      regarded as the reference method for quantitative clinical assessment of coronary collateral
      flow. Pressure- and Doppler-derived coronary collateral measurements are regarded as the
      reference method for quantitative clinical assessment of coronary collateral flow.

      As a consequence, it can be imagined that at the origin of preformed collateral channels in
      the non-ischemic area, blood is diverged away from the downstream microcirculation due to
      regionally augmented back pressure. At the orifice of the preformed collaterals, perfusion
      pressure as well as back pressure are low resulting in a low driving pressure, i.e., the
      necessary condition to receive blood from the collateral-supplying region (limited by
      increased wall stress, respectively by an extravascular tissue pressure above approximately
      27 mmHg).

      These theoretical considerations have been investigated only experimentally so far. Sato et
      al. performed regional myocardial blood flow measurements in dogs after ligation of the left
      anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) with or without coronary sinus pressure elevation
      to 30 mmHg. In this study, regional myocardial blood flow in the collateralized area was
      augmented by an elevation of coronary sinus pressure, however this effect was present only in
      the periphery of the ischemic region. Using a very similar model (namely LAD occlusion in
      dogs and sinus pressure augmentation above 30 mmHg by CSO), Ido et al. showed that CSO
      augments subendocardial but not subepicardial myocardial blood flow in the ischemic region
      (i.e. collateral flow). Interestingly, CSO also normalized the subepicardial blood flow in
      the non-ischemic region, which was increased by the LAD occlusion. Moreover, after maximal
      vasodilation with adenosine these effects were abolished and blood flow with CSO was
      decreased in the ischemic region, indicating collateral steal.17 In addition to these
      studies, Toggart et al. demonstrated years earlier in a pig model that ICSO (augmentation
      above 60 mmHg) increased the pressure distal of an occluded LAD, but did not improve blood
      flow or left ventricular function. Since pigs do not have preformed collaterals, this study
      importantly indicates a crucial role of collateral flow for the therapeutic efficacy of ICSO.
      Of note, the results of this study also argue against the proposed "washout" hypothesis. In
      conclusion, experimental studies and pathophysiologic considerations suggest a necessary role
      of the collateral circulation for the beneficial effects of coronary sinus occlusion observed
      in animals and humans; however, no clinical data are available so far on the effect of CSO on
      myocardial ischemia in the presence of varying collateral flow.

      Objective

      The purpose of this study in patients with chronic stable CAD undergoing elective coronary
      angiography is to determine the effect of CSO on the level of myocardial ischemia during a
      brief coronary occlusion and the influence of the collateral circulation on this effect.

      Methods

      Study protocol

        -  Diagnostic coronary angiography and LV angiography

        -  Administration of 5'000 units of heparin i.v. and 2 puffs of oral isosorbide-dinitrate

        -  Study inclusion if there is one stenotic lesion eligible for PCI

        -  Randomization for "CSO first" or "no CSO first" protocol

        -  Insertion of a 6 French Swan-Ganz balloon-tipped catheter into the coronary sinus

        -  Preparation for PCI of the coronary stenosis responsible for the patient's symptoms

        -  Installation of intra-coronary ECG via PCI guidewire

        -  PCI using a pressure sensor-tipped angioplasty guidewire

      CSO protocol:

        -  2-minute coronary artery balloon occlusion with intra-coronary ECG with CSO

        -  CSO: 2-minute coronary sinus balloon occlusion

        -  Collection of blood from the coronary sinus

        -  10-minute interval after the first balloon occlusion "no CSO" protocol:

        -  2-minute coronary artery balloon occlusion with intra-coronary ECG without CSO

        -  [no coronary sinus occlusion]

        -  Collection of blood from the coronary sinus
    
  