
    
      RATIONALE

      Dissemination is the planned process by which results of studies are communicated to the
      stakeholders of that research. Stakeholders can include health policy makers, academics,
      practicing clinicians and other health service workers, patients, the general public, and
      research funders. There are multiple ways to disseminate research findings and it is often
      considered a shared responsibility between funders and research investigators. Traditionally,
      the focus has targeted healthcare professionals, policy makers, and academics through journal
      publications and conference presentations. However, optimal knowledge translation depends on
      disseminating results to all stakeholders in a way that enables them to consider the
      implications of the results.

      Effective communication and active dissemination of research results to patients and the lay
      public is essential for making informed decisions and choices, but it is sometimes considered
      as an afterthought. Furthermore, there is no consensus on what dissemination to patients or
      members of the lay public means, what is the most effective dissemination process and whether
      research results should be disseminated to relevant patient groups and the wider public as
      well as the patients who took part in the studies.

      Only clinical trials indexed in PubMed 2014-15 where participants were enrolled into the
      study will be included. We will include screening questions at the start of the survey to
      exclude authors of non-randomised controlled trials, preclinical, and first-in-human trials
      and trials where there were no study participants.

      AIM

      To identify frequency and format of dissemination of clinical trial results to participants
      and to identify barriers to dissemination.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. To identify frequency of dissemination of recently published clinical trial results to
           participants;

        2. To explore the format of results disseminated to participants and describe researchers'
           perceived appropriateness and accessibility of the format;

        3. To identify how frequently research results are disseminated to patients beyond those
           taking part in the trials such as via advocacy groups;

        4. To explore the frequency of public/patient involvement for determining the format,
           content, and extent of the dissemination plans;

        5. To determine researchers' perceived confidence in disseminating results to participants
           and other patients.

      This research will contain a study within a study (SWAT) also known as a nested trial
      (ResponseQT).

      SWAT RATIONALE

      Written communication in questionnaire email reminders are without verbal or sensory cues and
      it is difficult to modify reminders without feedback from respondents. It would be helpful to
      know what kind of tone the researcher can take to increase recruitment rates.

      In questionnaires, the tone could be perceived as the perception of the researcher's attitude
      toward the reader and the subject of the message. The overall tone of a questionnaire
      reminder message may affect the reader just as one's tone of voice affects the listener in a
      verbal exchange. This could influence response and completion rates. Added to the complexity,
      tone can be interpreted differently by different individuals. Survey communications about
      reminders suggest two approaches appealing to a team victory with a sense of duty and benefit
      for others by participating or by building a sense of encouragement for participation. In
      addition, we will test whether introducing duty or encouragement in the second reminder
      (after a generic first reminder) makes a difference and whether someone who was exposed to
      duty or encouragement in the first reminder benefits from the reinforcement of a "nudge" from
      a generic reminder.

      METHODS

      This research involves exploring ways to increase recruitment rates through reminder emails
      that will be sent to those who were invited but have not yet responded to the questionnaire.
      A reminder will be sent to all non-respondents by email 14 days following the initial
      mailing. An additional reminder will be sent to all non-respondents by email 28 days
      following the first reminder. The nested trial (ResponseQT) will examine the evidence of
      effect for tone used within the questionnaire reminder emails. The group to which a
      participant is randomized will determine the tone of the questionnaire reminder emails.

      All potential respondents will be randomized to one of nine groups. They will receive the
      same questionnaire invitation email. Reminders for non-responders be assigned according to
      the group they were randomized to:

      Group A Tone = Duty x 2

      Group B Tone = Encourage x 2

      Group C Tone = Encourage + Duty

      Group D Tone = Duty + encourage

      Group E Tone = Generic tone reminders X 2

      Group F Tone = Generic + Duty

      Group G Tone = Generic + Encouragement

      Group H Tone = Duty + Generic

      Group I Tone = Encouragement + Generic

      All non-responders will receive a reminder to complete the questionnaire at fourteen days
      according to the group they are randomized to. At twenty-eight days remaining non-responders
      will receive the second reminder email.

      The outcomes of recruitment will be compared at three stages: initial response, following the
      first reminder and following the second reminder.
    
  