
    
      In this study we will prospectively collect relevant clinical data on 60 neurological
      patients, who are being referred for an elective lumbar puncture (eg. suspected multiple
      sclerosis, raised intracranial hypertension, etc). Each enrolled patient will be monitored in
      parallel to the lumbar puncture with the HeadSense ICP monitor. Subjects who meet the study
      inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study.

      Step 1: 10 minute measurement of HeadSense monitor. Once the patient is inclined with his
      upper body 30 degrees to the bed the pressure values, the clinical procedure can begin. The
      device must be preset in a continuous monitoring mode. The continuous monitoring allows a
      loop of measurements for an unlimited time in a rate of four measurements per minute.

      Step 2: 10 minute measurement of HeadSense monitor in supine position.

      Step 3: Patient will be placed in a left lateral position. The lumbar puncture will be done
      and CSF pressure will be measured following standard procedures.

      Step 4: 10 minute measurement of HeadSense monitor in supine position.

      Lumbar puncture and HeadSense measurement will be done by two different doctors and they will
      not share measurement values during the procedure.

      After the study the patient's ears will be examined for internal ear infection or irritation
      that might be caused by the ear buds. Patient adverse events will be documented on the case
      report forms in case they occurred and the family or advocate of the patient will be
      informed. In case of clinical relevant adverse events appropriate clinical action will be
      taken.

      As the procedure does not affect the patient management, there is no need to provide any
      specific medical care related to the trial. Patients will receive the relevant clinical care
      related to their clinical management, without any consideration to their participation in the
      trial.
    
  