
    
      Baseline Assessment Participants will first access the study online through web links posted
      to widely accessible websites such as Facebook, Reddit, and Craigslist, and through The
      University of Texas at Austin PSY 301 SONA pool. Participants will also be recruited through
      Amazon Mechanical Turk. Participants will provide informed consent and will complete
      eligibility criteria, which will take approximately 5 minutes. Participants who meet
      eligibility criteria will immediately complete a baseline assessment, which will take
      approximately 25 minutes, including a basic demographics questionnaire and a thorough
      assessment of psychopathology symptoms and safety behaviors.

      Randomization Immediately after baseline assessment, each participant will be automatically
      randomized into one of three study conditions. Randomization will be stratified based on
      number and severity of safety behaviors used and level of Acute Stress Disorder symptoms
      reported at baseline. Once randomized, participants in the two psychoeducation conditions
      will immediately receive psychoeducation materials, and all participants will receive
      rationale for their study condition, as specified below. All three conditions will complete
      the same schedule of assessments.

      Conditions

      Condition 1: Psychoeducation on trauma symptoms (PSYED-T) In Condition 1, participants will
      receive view a psychoeducation handout and video on trauma symptoms. Participants in this
      condition will also receive a rationale stating that learning about the nature of trauma
      reactions as well as monitoring trauma reactions and safety behaviors are important for
      preventing development of PTSD.

      Condition 2: Combined psychoeducation on trauma symptoms and fading safety behaviors
      (PSYED-T+SB) Participants in Condition 2 will receive view a psychoeducation handout and
      video on trauma symptoms and on safety behaviors and how to fade them. Participants in this
      condition will also receive a rationale stating that learning about the nature of trauma
      reactions, learning to eliminate safety behaviors, and monitoring trauma reactions and safety
      behaviors are important in the prevention of PTSD.

      Because it is expected that the psychoeducational information provided in PSYED-T+SB
      condition to be beneficial to participants, all participants will receive this information
      upon completion of the study.

      Condition 3: Monitoring-only control Condition 3 will be a monitoring-only control and thus
      will receive no psychoeducation handouts or videos. Participants in this condition will
      receive a rationale that monitoring trauma reactions and safety behaviors is important in the
      prevention of PTSD development.

      Psychoeducation At baseline, participants will receive a web link to the psychoeducation
      materials via email. Participants will then be instructed to carefully read the handout and
      watch the video and encouraged to revisit the materials throughout the course of the study.
      Immediately following baseline exposure to psychoeducation materials, all participants will
      complete a short quiz applicable to the psychoeducation and/or monitoring involved in their
      condition in order to ensure comprehension of the materials. Reading the psychoeducation
      materials, watching the video(s), and completing the quiz is expected to take participants
      approximately 30 minutes.

      Participants will have unlimited access to the handouts and videos through a web link for the
      entire course of the study. Using REDCap, researchers will monitor the number of times each
      participant accesses psychoeducation materials during the study.

      Weekly Assessments All participants will complete weekly assessments of trauma symptoms,
      threat appraisal, and safety behavior. Compliance with self-monitoring will be controlled for
      in all analyses.

      Weeks 4 and 8 Assessments At Week 4 and Week 8, participants will complete a comprehensive
      assessment of all primary and secondary outcomes. Because the timing of onset of PTSD is
      variable among patients (Frueh, Grubaugh, Yeager, & Magruder, 2009), PTSD diagnosis will be
      assessed at Week 4 and Week 8. The psychoeducation quiz will also be administered at Weeks 4
      and 8 to assess for comprehension and retention of the psychoeducational information.

      Phone Interview The PSSI-5 interview will also be conducted over the phone for any
      participants who screen positive for PTSD at Week 4 or Week 8 based on the PSSI-5 self-report
      scale. The PSSI-5 phone interview will take approximately 20 minutes at each administration
      and will be audio recorded in order to assess inter-rater reliability of PTSD diagnosis.
    
  