
    
      Subjects were grouped as CAD (+) or CAD (-) based on their coronary angiography outcomes.
      Participants were included in CAD (+) if they had more than 50% reduction in diameter in one
      or more major epicardial arteries, whereas patients with less than 50% reduction in
      epicardial artery diameter were enrolled to CAD (-) group.The extent of CAD was measured by
      the number of main coronary vessels with more than 50% stenosis and occluded left main
      coronary artery (LMCA) was also noted.Demographic and socioeconomic backgrounds, brushing and
      interdental cleaning habits, frequency of dental visits, levels of education and medical
      histories of participants were carefully recorded. Medical histories mainly included
      cardiovascular risk factors consisting of age, gender, family history of heart disease and
      myocardial infarction (MI), smoking habits, current medications, body mass index (BMI),
      hypertension, diabetes, high density protein (HDL) and CRP levels. BMIs of participants were
      obtained through dividing weight (in kilograms) by the square of height (in meters). Blood
      samples were collected before angiography in order to analyze biological parameters. Hospital
      records were consulted to obtain patient information such as existence of hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia, and diabetes mellitus. Education levels were evaluated based on the last
      school the patient had graduated from and categorized as no education, secondary school, high
      school and university.During the examination, remaining teeth count, plaque index (PI),
      gingival index (GI), bleeding on probing (BOP) and probing pocket depth (PPD) were analyzed.
      Periodontal measurements were recorded at four sites around each tooth (mesial, mid-buccal,
      distal, and mid-lingual) by a periodontal probe excluding third molars. Each patient was
      evaluated for PI, GI, PPD average scores (whole-mouth) and percent of BOP (+) sites. Oral
      status was categorized in three groups: Group 1 consisted of periodontally healthy subjects
      and patients with gingivitis. Patients having periodontitis were involved in group 2 and
      group 3 included edentulous subjects. Periodontal health was defined as the absence of
      gingivitis or periodontitis. Gingivitis was defined as BOP score of ≥ 10% and probing depth
      of ≤ 3mm. Diagnosis of periodontitis is based on multiple clinical and radiographic
      parameters. If a patient has one or more sites of inflammation (BOP), ≥ 2mm radiographic bone
      loss and ≥ 4mm probing depth; he/she will be diagnosed for periodontitis.

      For radiographic analysis, periapical radiographs were taken from teeth with ≥ 4mm PPD using
      a hand held intra-oral x-ray system operating at 60kVp, 1.5 mA by Dexcowin DX 3000 with a CCD
      based sensor Trophy RVG ver. 5.0 . The alveolar bone loss was measured by a personal computer
      with the Microsoft Windows XP operating system with original software. The site where
      periodontal ligament terminates at the surface of the root was labeled as the alveolar bone
      crest. Apart from the third molars, all teeth were examined to measure the interval between
      cementoenamel junction and interproximal alveolar crest, regarding both mesial and distal
      aspects of each tooth.
    
  