
    
      Hypoalbuminemia is common and is strongly associated with an increased risk for mortality in
      patients with end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). Inadequate dietary protein intake is
      well-known cause of hypoalbuminemia in dialysis population. Protein loss into dialysate and
      increased catabolic state due to uremic milieu or inflammation worsened hypoalbuminemia,
      hence high protein diet is recommended in PD patients. Although there is an increased daily
      calorie intake from absorption of dialysate glucose concentration, hypoalbuminemia ensues in
      a substantial number of PD patients. There is concern that a disproportionately increasing
      calorie intake from dialysate glucose with no change in dietary protein intake causes weight
      gain which in turn worsens sarcopenic obesity in PD patients. Achieving adequate dietary
      protein intake should be the priority in the management of hypoalbuminemia. It is feasible
      for PD patients to increase dietary protein intake through protein supplements. Among
      nutritional supplements, whey protein has several positive effects on carbohydrate
      metabolism, muscle building, immune function, and human health in various areas of disease,
      supported by well-performed studies. There are limited data available regarding the effects
      of nutritional counseling and whey protein supplements on the nutritional, body compositional
      status and immune function of PD patients with hypoalbuminemia. The recommendations from
      K/DOQI clinical practice guidelines for the amount of daily protein intake is based on expert
      opinion and the optimal daily protein intake in PD patients is not known.

      The aims of the study are to investigate the optimal dietary protein intake and to examine
      the effects of whey protein supplement on the change of nutritional, body composition and
      immune function in PD patients with hypoalbuminemia. Specifically, the investigators will
      compare the effect of nutritional counseling (1.2 g/kg protein intake) with that of
      nutritional counseling and whey protein supplement (1.5 g/kg protein intake) regarding the
      changes of nutritional, body composition parameters and immune function in PD patients. This
      is a quality improvement program to cope with the fact that the proportion of hypoalbuminemic
      PD patients sometimes does not meet the requirements set by Joint Commission of Taiwan, and
      to improve the nutritional status of PD patients in a feasible way of daily clinical
      practice.

      The investigators are going to conduct a randomized, controlled trial with cross-over design.
      Subjects with ESKD undergoing maintenance PD for more than three months, adequate dialysis,
      and hypoalbuminemia will be recruited. Those with non-dietary cause of hypoalbuminemia
      including untreated fluid overload, uncorrected metabolic acidosis, having active infection
      or inflammation, hospitalization within the past 4 weeks, having gastrointestinal bleeding,
      those who cannot cooperate with the dietary record, those who have poor adherence to whey
      protein consumption, history of psychiatric disorders and having mental retardation will be
      excluded. Participants will receive nutritional counseling with whey protein supplement or
      nutritional counseling alone for 3-month period, separated by 3-month washout period. The
      study outcome measures are difference in change-from-baseline nutritional, body composition
      parameters and immune function between the two study periods.
    
  