
    
      The recent increase in popularity of e-cigarettes for smoking cessation or in combination
      with conventional cigarettes has let to safety concerns regarding their potential role in
      respiratory disease. These tobacco alternatives devices were initially perceived as a "safer"
      alternative to cigarettes and were marketed without much known about their health effects.
      Increasing evidence that while they contain fewer toxins and carcinogens than conventional
      cigarettes, they do involve delivery of ultrafine particles to the lower airways and can
      contain heavy metals and other chemicals. Tobacco Smoke may augment allergic inflammation
      resulting from allergic rhinitis and/or asthma. Animal models of allergic asthma demonstrate
      aggravation of allergen -induced airway inflammation following inhalation of e-cig cartridge
      solution, with increased airway eosinophil infiltration, production of Th2 cytokines, and
      airway hyperresponsivness. In vitro studies in human tissues have demonstrated
      pro-inflammatory responses in a similar way as tobacco smoke, yet a head-to-head comparison
      of the effects of these two exposures has not been performed in humans.

      Use of tobacco products remains a pervasive problem in our society and around the world, with
      significant impact on respiratory health and quality of life. With the emergence of new
      non-tobacco based nicotine products like e-cigarettes, it is important to understand the
      impact these substances have on respiratory health and disease. The aim o f this study is to
      study the impact of these products on allergic inflammation in cat allergic subjects who
      already routinely use e-cigarettes and to compare their response to those of cigarette
      smokers and non-smokers. A thorough understanding of the potential health impacts of tobacco
      alternative substances in seeded, especially given the rising popularity of such products
      with adolescents and young adults to whom these substances have particular appeals given the
      purported safety: and variety of flavors to chose from.
    
  