
    
      Study Design A prospective, non-randomised, self-control study of unselected heart failure
      patients undergoing CRT implantation, all recruited within two years All participants having
      CRT implantation at University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire will be screened using the
      eligibility criteria (outlined below).

      Participants will have three assessments within six months (baseline, 6 weeks and 6 months
      approximately). All visits coincide with routine clinical visits for CRT implantation and
      interrogation. Assessments at all three time points will include clinical data (including New
      York Heart Association functional class), quality of life measurements (Minnesota Living with
      Heart Failure questionnaire), echocardiography data (left ventricular volumetric assessment,
      ejection fraction), electrocardiograph, functional capacity (6 minute-walk test) and body
      composition assessment (air displacement). Peripheral blood samples will be taken to examine
      novel vascular biomarkers and to examine renal function, full blood count, diabetic control
      (HBA1c - only diabetics) and Brain Natruetic Peptide. Coronary sinus samples will be taken
      for novel vascular biomarkers in a small proportion of the cohort.

      Blood Sampling and Storage

      Participants are asked to starve for two hours and rest for one hour before blood sampling.
      Coronary sinus blood sampling occurs at the time of coronary sinus cannulation before
      contrast is injected. Blood samples (serum/plasma) are taken in citrate and EDTA tubes. The
      samples stand at room temperature for a minimum of 30 minutes and undergo centrifugation
      within an hour. Centrifugation (3500rpm for 10 minutes) occurs at room temperature. Samples
      are then stored in -80 freezer.

      Laboratory Analysis

      Samples will undergo final analysis at the University of Warwick and Kings College London.
      Novel vascular biomarkers of heart failure that exist as proteins in the serum will be
      analysed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) techniques previously outlined in
      publications (3-6). The specific novel vascular biomarkers represent different aspects of
      adverse ventricular remodelling; myocardial stress [Growth Differentiation Factor-15] and
      extracellular remodelling [Matrix Metalloproteinases -2 & -9, Aminoterminal Propeptides of
      Type I Collagen (PINP), Aminoterminal Propeptides of Type III Collagen (PIIINP),
      Carboxy-Terminal Telopeptide of Type I Collagen (CITP)] (4-7). These markers will undergo
      quantification using ELISA techniques that have previously described in the literature (8,
      9).

      Micro Ribonucleic Acids (miRNA) profiling will be undertaken in coronary sinus and peripheral
      samples and will be compared to those taken after CRT implantation. Responders will be
      compared to non-responders to determine variation in profile between these two distinct
      groups. Profiling and quantification will be performed as described in previous publications
      (10-12). Specific cardiac miRNA will be pre-selected to screen and quantify, especially those
      have already been proven to have altered expression in heart failure (13-16).

      Device Implantation

      CRT devices (pacemaker of defibrillator) are implanted by two independent operators at our
      single centre in a standard fashion. CRT is implanted traditionally in the left deltopectoral
      groove. Venous access is via the cephalic>axillary>subclavian veins (all operators can
      cannulate either vein based on individual patient). Right ventricular lead for the majority
      of patients will be implanted at the right ventricular apex. Right atrial leads will be
      planned to be implanted in the right atrial appendage. Patients in permanent Atrial
      Fibrillation will not have a right atrial lead implanted. Coronary sinus will be cannulated
      and angiography performed to roadmap anatomy for lead deployment site. The most lateral
      position will be favoured in a basal/ mid-cavity position. At the point of coronary sinus
      cannulation blood samples (plasma/serum will be taken). Post procedure patients undergo
      targeted echocardiography and a chest x-ray film. Post procedure on the day of implant
      patients will undergo CRT interrogation and optimisation of programming.

      Echocardiography

      A focused echocardiographic study assessing the left ventricle will be performed to the
      recommended international standard (17). The left ventricular systolic and diastolic function
      will be fully assessed. Volumetric assessment will be performed using Simpson's method (17).
      Diastolic function will be assessed by performing volumetric assessment of the left atrium,
      measuring pulse wave inflow of ventricular filling and TDI of the lateral and septal walls
      [apical 4 chamber]. All scans will be performed on the departmental machines [GE systems,
      Vivid 7] and by the same operator. Scans will be performed independently and previous scans
      will not have been reviewed before this scan. Full analysis will be conducted once all scans
      have been performed.

      Inter- and Intra-Observer Variability Echocardiography Study

      An inter- and intra-observer variability study will be performed to ensure standardisation of
      echocardiographic examinations. Twenty percent of echocardiograms will be randomly selected
      to have measurements and conclusions reviewed. An independent cardiologist/ cardiac
      physiologist (accredited by the British Society of Echocardiography) will be blinded to
      selected echocardiograms and will validate reporting and measurements of these examinations.

      Body Composition

      Air-displacement plethysmography (Bodpod) is an easily accessible and safe tool to measure
      body composition (18). The assessment is reproducible and is comparable to other measures of
      body composition (18). The major advantage of Bodpod is that it is safe for patients who have
      had a CRT implanted. The University of Warwick and University Hospital Coventry and
      Warwickshire (UHCW) has one of the few facilities in their Human Metabolic Unit to perform
      Bodpod.
    
  