
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) predominantly affects women during their reproductive
      years. As SLE is associated with substantial fetal and maternal morbidity during pregnancy
      and beyond it is crucial to identify predictors of adverse pregnancy outcomes (APO) in SLE to
      appropriately counsel patients and guide monitoring during pregnancy. SLE pregnancies result
      in high rates of preterm birth, preeclampsia and fetal loss compared to pregnancies in
      unaffected women.

      As a prior effort to address this issue, team members performed a large prospective study
      (the PROMISSE study) to determine baseline predictors of APO in SLE women with inactive and
      mild/moderate disease activity. However, PROMISSE included a selected population, which might
      not be representative of all SLE women particularly those with severe disease activity and/or
      active nephritis. Furthermore new data suggest that antiphosphatidylserine/prothrombin
      antibodies (aPS/PT), which are antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL), are strongly associated
      with APO. These antibodies were not evaluated in the PROMISSE study, or any other study of
      SLE pregnancies to date. Moreover, despite evidence of the beneficial effect of aspirin (ASA)
      in non-SLE women at high risk of APO, there are currently no studies of ASA in SLE
      pregnancies. This is a critical knowledge gap as ASA could have a large benefit for SLE
      mothers and their offspring.

      The goal is to evaluate adverse pregnancy outcomes (APO), their predictors, and potential
      preventive therapies. The investigator aims to improve the outcomes for women with SLE and
      their offspring. Primary outcomes of this study are to determine the risk of APO in this
      cohort, as well as to evaluate the patterns of ASA use in the LEGACY cohort. Secondary
      outcomes will be to conduct pilot analyses to assess baseline predictors of APO determined in
      the PROMISSE study (i.e. lupus anticoagulant (LAC) positivity, antihypertensive use,
      platelets level, race/ethnicity, prior nephritis, disease activity), and to evaluate
      prevalence of aPS/PT in SLE pregnancies.

      Design: In order to achieve these objectives, clinical data and blood sample results obtained
      through the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC) LEGACY Biobank (directed by Dr. Evelyne
      Vinet) will be analyzed. Patient recruitment, consent, management and storage of data/samples
      will be done in accordance with the Biobank Management Framework. The LEGACY Biobank informed
      consent forms will be used to obtain participant consent.

      Methodology: Research activities will be conducted in accordance with the LEGACY Biobank
      Management Framework. English and French speaking pregnant SLE women will be enrolled up to
      and including the 16 6/7 weeks regardless of disease manifestations, level of disease
      activity and drug exposures. Pregnancies up to and including 12 weeks gestation will be
      targeted but pregnancies up until 16 6/7 weeks will be included. The attending staff or a
      nurse not involved with the study or the administrative assistant will introduce the study to
      pregnant women with Lupus. If patients are interested in learning more patients will be
      approached by coordinator who will explain the study in detail.

      The main outcome of interest will be APO, which will be defined (as in PROMISSE) as a
      composite of specific outcomes including either: 1) fetal death after 20 weeks gestation, 2)
      neonatal death due to preterm birth and/or placental insufficiency 3) preterm delivery or
      termination of pregnancy <36 weeks due to placental insufficiency, gestational hypertension,
      preeclampsia and/or eclampsia and/or 4) small for gestational age neonate (i.e. birth weight
      <5th percentile).

      Patients will be reassessed in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters and postpartum (8-12 weeks after
      delivery). The investigator will calculate the risk of APO as a function of gestational age,
      with the Kaplan-Meier estimator. The investigator will use descriptive statistics to measure
      the prevalence of ASA use at baseline and compare the prevalence of use across all
      trimesters. Exploratory analyses will examine correlates of ASA initiation and non-adherence
      during pregnancy, using univariate regression analyses, evaluating relevant baseline
      covariates. The investigator will calculate descriptive statistics to assess and compare the
      baseline prevalence of positive aPS/PT and LAC in SLE pregnancies with and without APO. In
      pilot univariate analyses, the investigator will evaluate if baseline covariates as
      determined in the PROMISSE study (i.e. LAC, antihypertensives, platelets, race/ethnicity,
      nephritis, disease activity) correlate with APO.

      Confidentiality: All data/samples used in this project will be obtained from the MUHC
      research ethics board (REB) approved LEGACY Biobank. Patient recruitment and informed consent
      will be obtained as per the procedures described in the management framework. This study will
      be conducted in accord with Tri-Council Policy Statement.

      Collection of socio-demographic, clinical data and reasons for refusal will be conserved
      anonymously from patients refusing to participate in the bank. This information will be
      included in the statistical analysis in order to assess selection bias, that is, if patients
      who refuse participation may be a little different (in terms of age, sex, socioeconomic
      status, etc) from those who do participate.Only data relevant to this study will be collected
      by the research team from the bank. All the information collected during the research project
      will remain confidential to the extent required and provided by law.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Estimating the Risk of APO (Primary Objective 1): The investigator will calculate the risk of
      APO as a function of gestational age, with the Kaplan-Meier estimator. By using gestational
      age as the time axis, the investigator appropriately uses a cohort of conceptions rather than
      a cohort of births as the study sample for fetal complications. This approach is referred to
      as the "fetus-at-risk" approach.

      Pattern of ASA Use (Primary Objective 2): The investigator will use descriptive statistics to
      measure the prevalence of ASA use at baseline and compare the prevalence of use across all
      trimesters. In addition the investigator will determine the proportion of patients who
      initiated ASA during pregnancy and the proportion of subjects already on ASA prior to
      pregnancy, exploring indications of use. The investigator will measure the frequencies of
      dosage used (i.e. 80 mg, 160 mg, and 325 mg). Exploratory analyses will examine correlates of
      ASA initiation and ASA non-adherence, during pregnancy using a univariate regression analysis
      estimated with the generalized estimating equation (GEE) method, evaluating the following
      baseline covariates: maternal age, race/ethnicity, obesity, aPL autoantibodies, prior
      preeclampsia, prior nephritis, and anti-hypertensive use.

      Estimates for Predictors of APO (Secondary Objectives): The investigator will perform pilot
      univariate Cox proportional hazards regression analyses with frailties, using gestational age
      as the time axis. As mentioned this approach called the "fetus-at-risk" approach refers to
      the use of cohorts of conceptions (by using gestational age as the time axis) rather than
      cohorts of births, as the appropriate study sample for fetal complications. In these pilot
      univariate analyses, investigator will evaluate if baseline covariates as determined in the
      PROMISSE study (i.e. LAC positivity, antihypertensive use, platelets level, race/ethnicity,
      prior nephritis, disease activity as measured by the PGA) predict APO, exploring additional
      risk factors such as nulliparity, maternal age, pre-gestational diabetes, obesity (BMI above
      30) and medication use (corticosteroids, antimalarials, immunosuppressive and low-dose
      aspirin).

      aPS/PT Prevalence (Secondary Objectives): The investigator will calculate descriptive
      statistics to assess and compare the prevalence at baseline of positive aPS/PT and LAC in SLE
      pregnancies with and without APO. In pilot analyses, the investigator will perform a
      univariate Cox proportional hazards regression analysis with frailties to explore if aPS/PT
      predict APO. These secondary analyses are not meant to be definitive but rather allow the
      investigator to make precise power calculations for a more definitive trial funded by future
      applications.

      Timeline: In the first 10 months patient recruitment and follow up will occur with concurrent
      data entry. In the following month the investigator will perform analyses assessing the risk
      of APO and the pattern of ASA use in ongoing and completed pregnancies. The investigator will
      also conduct pilot analyses to determine the baseline prevalence of aPS/PT in pregnant SLE
      women comparing those with and without APO. In last month the investigator will finalize
      interpretation of results and prepare results for presentation at national and international
      scientific meetings and complete at least 3 manuscripts for publication in a peer review
      journal.

      Dissemination of Results: The measurement of success will go beyond the timely completion of
      each objective, the publications anticipated from the investigator's research and the
      successful application to additional funding opportunities. The project will offer a unique
      opportunity of integrated knowledge translation (KT). The investigator will disseminate the
      data generated by the proposal at different levels (public, patients, government etc) through
      various venues (meetings, websites, publications etc). The investigator plans to hold one
      stakeholder workshop and engage with key stakeholders including patient advocacy groups such
      as Lupus Canada and Lupus Foundation of America and representatives of public health
      agencies. The investigator has a proven track record in this area. Dr Vinet is leading the
      subgroup dealing with reproductive issues in development of Canadian recommendations on the
      monitoring and care of patients with SLE. The findings will help inform these efforts.

      Possible Limitations: A possible limitation to the study is the lack of harmonization in the
      collection of samples/data. The team of investigators has a very long history (over decades)
      of working together in national (Canadian Network for Improved Outcomes in SLE, CaNIOS) and
      international (SLICC) groups. These research networks have established methods for
      standardized sample and data collection. However ongoing compliance of this standardization
      will be monitored to ensure that efforts will indeed yield results that are generalizable
      across SLE populations. The investigator will review sample and data collection protocols
      with investigators and coordinators offering monthly teleconferences and summaries of
      recruitment and data collection as feedback for investigators.

      Loss to follow-up is always a potential problem but in general loss to follow-up in SLE
      cohorts is low (due to the fact that patients are not only being studied but are receiving
      care) and in a pregnancy cohort, follow up is often very high, as pregnancy is a time when
      women are particularly inclined to be adherent to visits. In PROMISSE, loss to follow-up was
      very rare, occurring in less than 1% of subjects.

      Expected Outcomes: The investigator hypothesizes that APO rates will be higher in the LEGACY
      cohort (an unselected cohort of SLE pregnancies) versus the PROMISSE cohort. In addition
      despite the increased risk of APO, the investigator hypothesizes that at least one third of
      SLE pregnancies will not be exposed to ASA before 16 weeks of gestation. The investigator
      expects that the prevalence of aPS/PT in SLE pregnancies with APO will be higher than in SLE
      pregnancies without APO.
    
  