
    
      In recent years, a group of behavior changes collectively called Impulse Control Disorders
      (ICDs) have been identified in Parkinson's Disease (PD). ICDs have a broad range of possible
      symptoms such as compulsive gambling, shopping, hypersexual behavior, overeating; spending
      excessive amounts of time on hobbies, tasks, or other organized activities; walking or
      driving without a goal or purpose; hoarding or overuse of PD medications. It is estimated
      that as many as 30% of people with PD experience ICDs during the course of their condition.
      ICDs are believed to occur due to effects of dopamine enhancing medications in areas of the
      brain which regulate behavior (rather than their intended target areas that regulate
      movement).

      A reduction or discontinuation of PD medications can be helpful in reducing ICDs.
      Unfortunately reduction in medication is often impractical or not possible because people
      with PD rely on these medications to improve their movement symptoms. There are currently no
      scientifically proven treatments for ICDs except for PD medication reductions.

      Acetylcholine is a chemical in the brain which works to regulate the effects of dopamine. It
      has been known for many years that nicotine imitates many of the actions of acetylcholine. In
      preliminary studies, nicotine has been shown to reduce impulsive behavior in Attention
      Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. By administering nicotine across the skin using a patch, we
      hope to better understand whether nicotine may act to improve impulse control disorders in PD
      without needing to reduce or stop PD medications. Several studies have shown that nicotine is
      tolerated well by people with PD, and does not appear to worsen motor/movement symptoms. The
      amount of nicotine in each patch used in this study is the same as patches that are used in
      people who are trying to quit smoking.

      In this pilot within-subject crossover placebo-controlled study, subjects with a diagnosis of
      Parkinson's Disease who have recently experiencing an impulse control disorder will be
      enrolled. Subjects will randomized to one of two treatment groups. During the first portion
      of the study, the first treatment group will receive transdermal nicotine (nicotine by skin
      patch) and the second treatment group will receive an identical placebo patch which does not
      contain any nicotine. Over the course of the study, each of the two groups will switch to
      receive whichever treatment they were not initially receiving (for example-the first
      treatment group will later receive the placebo patch and the second treatment group will
      later receive the nicotine patch). Each treatment group will receive the nicotine patch or
      placebo patch for an equal number of weeks, but at different times during the study. Clinical
      and laboratory computer based measurements of impulsive and compulsive behaviors, memory
      testing, sleep quality/ sleepiness, and Parkinson's disease symptoms will be assessed at each
      visit.
    
  