
    
      Disease free survival of Hodgkin's disease (HD) patients has improved dramatically over the
      past few decades. With the dramatic advance in patient's survival, the prevention and
      treatment of long-term adverse effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy has become a major
      focus of interest. HD survivors have excess mortality compared with the age-matched general
      population, even after excluding disease relapse. A considerable proportion of the excess
      mortality is due to cardiovascular disease (CVD), principally ischemic heart disease and
      stroke.

      The proposed study will assess endothelial function in HD survivors, using the non-invasive
      technique of brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD), by high-resolution
      ultrasonography. We will also assess IMT. The results of these tests are independent
      predictors of atherosclerosis disease progression and cardiovascular event rates. This is a
      prospective study comprising 40 young-adult (aged 18-30 years) . The study will comprise 40
      survivors of HD: 20 patients treated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy to the chest and 20
      patients treated with chemotherapy alone. The patients will be compared to age and
      sex-matched patients from the data base of the endothelial function laboratory at the heart
      institute of the Sheba Medical Center. In addition to brachial artery endothelial function
      assessment, the patients will also undergo a physical examination including anthropometric
      measurements (height, weight, waist and hip circumference), and blood pressure. The
      evaluation will also include blood tests for glucose, lipid profile, CRP, AST, ALT and
      insulin. A medical history including smoking history and family history of CVD and
      dyslipidemia will be obtained.

      Patients treated with radiotherapy to the chest will be compared to patients treated with
      chemotherapy alone and both patients will be compared to healthy controls. The patients will
      be characterized by age, risk factors for coronary heart disease and endothelial function as
      assessed by brachial artery FMD. We will establish the rate of endothelial function
      abnormalities in survivors of HD and its correlation with the other risk factors.
    
  