
    
      If you and your caregiver agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of the coin) to be in 1 of 2 groups. Group A will receive standard of care
      provided at the palliative center at M. D. Anderson, but will not receive any phone calls
      from the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system. Group B will receive phone calls by the
      Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for 15 days.

      Once you sign this consent form, you will answer questions about your diagnosis, the
      medication that you take, and the symptoms that you are having (for example, pain, fatigue,
      anxiety, depression, and overall feeling of well-being). You will either be asked these
      questions verbally or you will complete a written questionnaire. This should take about 30
      minutes to complete.

      If you and your caregiver are assigned to Group A, you will continue with the standard of
      care provided at the palliative center at M. D. Anderson. On Day 15, both you and your
      caregiver will be seen in the outpatient clinic by the research nurse, and complete the same
      questionnaire you had at the beginning of the study, either verbally or written. This should
      take about 30 minutes to complete.

      If you and your caregiver are assigned to Group B, a research nurse will train you and your
      caregiver to operate the IVR system. The IVR call will be made to the preferred telephone
      number(s) provided by you and your caregiver. The telephone calls will be made 1 time a day
      at times chosen by you and your caregiver. You will both be given a 3-digit code number to
      enter as a way of confirming who you are.

      Once you have entered the requested numbers, the IVR system will ask you to answer questions
      about pain, fatigue, anxiety, depression, and your overall feeling of well-being. These phone
      calls should take about 3-5 minutes to complete. You should complete the phone calls
      separately and should not attempt to influence each others answers.

      A research nurse will review the answer in the IVR system. If you haven't responded to the
      IVR questions in 3 days, if you answer that you would like to be contacted by a nurse, or if
      a symptom has reached a concerning level, you and your caregiver will receive a phone call
      from the nurse. The nurse may ask about symptoms, medications being taken, concerns or doubts
      about the medication, and if you have any concerns about your physical or emotional well
      being. You will be reminded of the different telephone numbers you can use to receive
      assistance 24 hours a day. During the phone call, you will also be asked if you would like
      the nurse to contact your caregiver for information and support. If you agree, the nurse will
      contact your caregiver.

      On Day 8, both you and your caregiver will be contacted either in person or by phone by the
      research nurse and will complete the same questionnaire you had at the beginning of the
      study. On Day 15, both you and your caregiver will be seen in the outpatient clinic by the
      research nurse and will complete this same questionnaire again, either verbally or written.
      This should take about 30 minutes to complete each time.

      Your participation on this study will end on Day 15.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 68 patient-caregiver groups (or a total of 136
      participants) will take part in this study. All the participants will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  