
    
      The main aim of this effort is to test a physical activity intervention, for adult clinical
      care patients at risk of developing cardiovascular disease. The intervention includes 13
      weekly and 6 monthly social-cognitive theory-based sessions, remote coaching, a body worn
      physical activity tracker (PAT), and is delivered online over one year.

      A total of n=54 Clinical care patients aged 40-70 years of age with low physical activity
      (PA) levels (<150 minutes/week) at risk for cardiovascular disease will be recruited. Study
      outcomes will be measured at baseline, 6 months after intervention start and 12 months after
      intervention start.

      For the primary outcomes, the investigators hypothesize that participants randomized to
      ActiveGOALSv2 + PAT will have significantly larger (a) increases in step counts/day and %
      meeting moderate-vigorous physical activity goal of 150 minutes/week (to 12 months) compared
      to the active PAT control group. Descriptive analyses and graphic displays will be used to
      identify outliers, missing data, and pattern of attrition. To ensure rigor, the primary
      analytic strategy will be a linear or generalized mixed-effect models approach in which
      treatment group, time, and time by group interaction are treated as fixed effects, and
      subject is treated as a random effect to account for individual subject variability (two
      sided hypothesis test; .05 level). Mixed models are applicable to longitudinal datasets that
      contain missing observations, (assuming data is missing at random). Regression modeling will
      be conducted to adjust for important covariates. The investigators will perform similar
      analyses to examine changes in secondary outcomes. Descriptive statistics on patient
      experience, beliefs/attitudes related to maintenance of physical activity changes, and
      program cost will also be reported.

      Power and sample size: For a 2 sided test with alpha level set at .05, and assuming 20%
      attrition at 12 months, the investigators plan to recruit 54 participants to identify
      clinically relevant mean difference between randomized groups at 12-months of 2000 steps/day
      (with a power of .80), and 35% meeting MVPA goal (with a power of .80), given reference mean
      (sd) values were calculated from baseline waist worn accelerometer data from the current K12
      of: 5250 (2200) steps/ day and the investigators assume 5% meeting goal at baseline in the
      control group.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the total eligible population, those
      referred, and those referred who participated in the study; in order to determine program
      reach. Exploratory Analysis of Important Pre-Existing Factors: Factor analysis will be used
      to identify importance of factors related to physical activity levels/ activity goal
      achievement over the 12 month follow-up (Mplus) from participant EHR data collected prior to
      intervention start. Factor structures of how individual factors contribute to activity
      outcomes will be explored at each time point. The best factor structure will be determined
      with Eigenvalues and fit indices (RMSEA, CFI, and TLI). Factor structures at the 2 time
      points will be compared at three levels to establish measurement invariance: 1) Configural
      equivalence, number of factors/ pattern of factor-indicator relationships are identical over
      time; 2) Metric equivalence, factor loadings are equal over time; and 3) Scalar equivalence,
      means and values are equivalent over time. Finally, the investigators will use descriptive
      statistics to report presence/absence of data on physical activity levels, cardiometabolic,
      and patient-centered outcomes in the EHR. The investigators will apply the same regression
      approaches utilized in Aim 1a to determine differences between randomized groups for EHR
      reported outcomes.
    
  