
    
      Context Inadequate reporting is a frequent cause of waste of research. For example, essential
      information for evaluating the risk of bias such as the method of randomization is lacking in
      75% of published randomized controlled trials (RCTs), and over 30% of reports do not provide
      sufficient details to allow replication of the treatment evaluated in the trial in clinical
      practice. To overcome this issue, the CONSORT statement, an evidence-based, minimum set of
      recommendations for reporting RCTs was developed in 1996. These guidelines have since been
      updated in 2001 and more recently in 2010. In addition, extensions to the main CONSORT
      statement have been developed to give additional guidance for RCTs with specific designs (eg
      cluster), data (eg harm), and interventions (eg nonpharmacologic treatments). Many journals
      endorse the CONSORT statement. Some journals provide recommendations to authors to follow the
      CONSORT guidelines and some editors enforce the use of the CONSORT guidelines by requesting
      authors to submit a checklist in either the submission or acceptance stage. Nevertheless,
      inadequate reporting remains.

      Hypothesis We hypothesize that to improve reporting, the CONSORT guidelines must be
      implemented at the stage of the writing of the manuscript instead of at the stage of journal
      submission or peer review process. We developed a CONSORT based online writing tool to
      improve the completeness of reporting. This tool focuses on some domains of the methods
      section of a 2-arm parallel group randomized controlled trial evaluating pharmacologic or
      nonpharmacologic treatment.

      Objective Our objective is to evaluate the impact of the CONSORT based online writing tool on
      the completeness of reporting.

      Methods Study design: We will perform a "split-manuscript" randomized controlled trial,
      adapted from the split-body design. We will consider 6 domains of the methods section: trial
      design, randomization, blinding, participants, interventions, and outcomes. The unit of
      randomization will be the domain and the allocation ratio 1:1. Each study participant will
      receive the experimental intervention (the tool) for 3 of the 6 domains and the control
      intervention (no tool) for thther 3 domains.

      Participants: Masters and doctoral students Intervention: The use of the online writing tool
      for writing the methods section of an article from an RCT protocol.

      Comparator: The writing the methods section of an article from an RCT protocol with no
      specific support.

      Primary outcome: The primary outcome will be the average score for completeness of reporting.

      Number of participants expected: 40
    
  