
    
      Current methods for diagnosing infections typically require 2-3 days to produce results that
      can guide antibiotic choice. That is frequently too delayed to help clinicians make good
      treatment decisions. This also results in inappropriate or over-treatment with non-targeted
      antibiotics that are started while awaiting lab results. More rapid technologies that can
      accurately diagnose the specific cause of an infection could guide early, targeted antibiotic
      treatment. This would result in more effective early treatment of infection, decrease
      unnecessary exposure to excess antibiotics, and could slow the development of antibiotic
      resistance. By diagnosing infections earlier, we expect to reduce the complications and
      mortality of combat-related infections in Wounded Warriors and Military Veterans.

      We propose a new ultra-rapid technology (called MADM) that uses a digital microscope to
      detect bacteria growing directly from a patient's specimen, rather than waiting for growth in
      lab cultures. The innovative new method supports identification of the infecting bacteria
      within 2 hours of receiving a specimen. The technology also shows the effect of selected
      antibiotics on the bacteria including multidrug resistant bacteria so that doctors know
      within 6 hours from specimen collection which antibiotic kills the bacteria.

      This study involves collection of any excess volume of microbiology specimens after it has
      been determined sufficient sample is available for clinical care. All microbiological samples
      and results are being obtained for solely non-research purposes as part of usual care; only
      leftover/discarded materials from clinical or research procedures already performed will be
      used for this study. Samples will be tested in tandem with usual care on the new technology
      to test the accuracy and speed. Results obtained from the new technology will not be used in
      patient care or to make treatment decisions.
    
  