
    
      The study will enroll 32 patients with myofascial TMD. Patient will be aged 18-65. Exclusion
      criteria will include neuromuscular diseases, prior botox injections within previous 12
      months, pregnancy, and fibromyalgia. All patients will be selected from the outpatient
      clinic, complaining of TMJ disease associated with bruxism. Screening will include a thorough
      history and exam, and TMJ CT scan or MRI. Patients with neuromuscular disorders,
      musculoskeletal disorders, and prior Botox injections will be excluded. Patients who have not
      already undergone conservative treatment will be managed with 3 months conservative therapies
      prior to becoming eligible. All patients will be informed and consented for participation in
      the study and Botox injections. Baseline pain questionnaire, physical exam will be performed.
      Patients will be randomized to receive normal saline or botox injections. All patients will
      crossover for the second set of injections at 3 months. All patients will receive up to a
      total of 200 Botox units at either 0 or 3 month time points. In this regard, patients will
      act as their own placebo control. Botox will be prepared according to the manufacturer's
      instructions. Briefly, the lyophilized protein will be reconstituted with preservative-free
      normal saline and drawn into 1-mL syringe. While the patient is sitting in the office
      procedure chair, 25 to 50 U of Botox will be injected into each temporalis muscle and 25 to
      50 U of Botox will be injected into the each masseter muscle. The patient will be instructed
      to keep head elevated for 8 hours. Patients will be called 3 times after the first round of
      injections, to monitor for adverse events. Patients will be seen in clinic at 3 months and
      asked to fill out a second pain questionnaire. They will also undergo second physical exam,
      and then receive a second set of injections (crossover). Patients will be seen in clinic at 6
      months and asked to fill out a third pain questionnaire undergo third physical exam. Patients
      will be called 3 times after the second round of injections, to monitor for adverse events.
      Patients will be seen in clinic at 6 months and asked to fill out a third pain questionnaire
      undergo a third physical exam
    
  