
    
      Background:

        -  In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), ibrutinib
           resistance is predominantly caused by somatic mutations in BTK and PLCG2. Virtually all
           patients with detectable mutations eventually develop progressive disease. Patients who
           discontinue ibrutinib often have rapidly progressive disease that can be difficult to
           control. These observations suggest that BTK inhibitors still exert at least a partial
           anti-tumor effect. Outcomes after ibrutinib discontinuation are poor. Early detection of
           BTK and PLCG2 mutations represents an opportunity for preemptive intervention to
           eliminate the resistant clone.

        -  Duvelisib is a dual PI3K-gamma and zeta inhibitor. Duvelisib monotherapy improved
           progression-free survival and overall response rate compared to ofatumumab and had a
           manageable safety profile in subjects with previously treated CLL/SLL. Based on these
           results, duvelisib received US approval for CLL/SLL after at least 2 prior therapies.

        -  This study will assess duvelisib in patients who develop disease progression or BTK
           and/or PLCG2 mutations on ibrutinib. Duvelisib will overlap with ibrutinib for the first
           six 28-day cycles to prevent disease acceleration often seen in patients who discontinue
           ibrutinib.

      Primary Objective:

      -To investigate the rate of overall response to duvelisib in patients with
      ibrutinib-resistant CLL.

      Key Eligibility Criteria:

        -  Patients on current treatment for CLL/SLL with ibrutinib and at least one of the
           following:

             -  BTK and/or PLCG2 mutations

             -  Progressive CLL per iwCLL guidelines

        -  Patients with known Richter transformation will be excluded.

      Design:

        -  This is a single-center, single-arm, open-label phase 2 study with a safety lead-in
           cohort.

        -  Treatment plan: Duvelisib will be administered with ibrutinib for the first six28-day
           cycles then

      duvelisib monotherapy will be administered continuously until disease progression or
      intolerance.

      Study Duration: 5 years.

      Participant Duration: until disease progression or intolerance.
    
  