
    
      Study Design: Prospective observational study

      Primary objective: This is a data collection study where the main purpose is to collect
      information about the treatments that patients receive for their unresectable
      cholangiocarcinoma.

      Secondary objectives: To create an international Registry including patients undergoing
      locoregional treatments, to correlate tumour characteristics with outcome, survival and
      prognosis; to identify criteria for guiding therapy including TACE, chemoinfusion and other
      locoregional treatments

      Treatment modalities for TACE

      Day -1 Doxorubicina 50-75 mg/mq has been charged onto 2 ml of 70-150 µm M1 microspheres at
      Pharmacy.

      Day -1 : prehydration, antibiotic prophylaxis and setting up of a therapeutic scheme
      appropriate for analgesic prophylaxis (3-day duration) as previously reported 1 vial of
      tropisetron (diluted in 100ml of physiological solution) administered by slow drip Day 0:
      Upon admittance to the radiology room, the patient receive morphine hydrochloride 10 mgr
      diluted in 100 ml of salin solution i.v. (to be repeated one hour after the procedure and if
      necessary also after 6 hours).

      Tropisetron i.v. if needed. Intra-arterial premedication with 2.5 mgr of verapamil 2.5 mgr
      diluted in 4 ml of normal saline solution followed by 4 ml of lidocaine 2%.

      Selected arterial Infusion (considering tumor uptake and dominant disease) of doxorubicina
      50-75 mg preloaded into 2 ml of 70-150 µm M1 microspheres.

      Second infusion of doxorubicin at the same dose into 2 ml of 70-150 µm M1 microspheres can be
      administered in a further TACE (oncologist's planning of cure).

      Day +30: The above procedure is repeated. Day +90: In case of response, a third
      administration following the above procedures will be repeated

      Evaluation of response

      Response must be assessed by repeating the following examinations at Day 30, Day 90 and Day
      120 after start of treatment:

      Chest-abdomen CAT scan with and without contrast medium (refer to Section 4). Evaluation will
      be based on the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) cancer markers (CEA),
      Cancer Antigen (CA) 19.9)

      Assessment of quality of life The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) is used to
      monitor health conditions and quality of life.

      The questionnaire must be filled in by the patient unaided by family members or by health
      care personnel, over a period of about 15 minutes. Assessment of quality of life will be
      performed during the baseline visit and at Day 30, Day 60 and Day 120 from start of
      treatment.
    
  