
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      l. To determine if trastuzumab increases disease-free survival when combined with trimodality
      treatment (radiation plus chemotherapy followed by surgery) for patients with human epidermal
      growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-overexpressing esophageal adenocarcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if the addition of trastuzumab to trimodality treatment increases the
      pathologic complete response rate and overall survival for patients with HER2-overexpressing
      esophageal adenocarcinoma.

      II. To develop a tissue bank of tumor tissue from patients with non-metastatic esophageal
      adenocarcinoma.

      III. To determine molecular correlates of complete pathologic response, disease-free
      survival, and overall survival for patients with HER2-overexpressing esophageal
      adenocarcinoma treated with neoadjuvant and maintenance trastuzumab.

      IV. To evaluate predictors of cardiotoxicity in patients with esophageal cancer treated with
      trastuzumab and chemoradiation.

      V. To evaluate adverse events associated with the addition of trastuzumab to trimodality
      treatment for patients with non-metastatic esophageal adenocarcinoma.

      PATIENT-REPORTED QUALITY OF LIFE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of trastuzumab to trimodality treatment improves the
      patient-reported Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for Esophageal Cancer (FACT-E)
      Esophageal Cancer Subscale (ECS) score.

      II. To determine if an improvement in the FACT-E ECS score at 6-8 weeks post completion of
      neoadjuvant chemoradiation correlates with pathologic complete response.

      III. To determine if pathologic complete response correlates with the FACT-E ECS score at 1
      year and/or 2 years from the start of chemoradiation.

      IV. To determine if the addition of trastuzumab to trimodality treatment improves the Swallow
      Index and Eating Index Subscale scores of the FACT-E.

      V. To determine if the addition of trastuzumab to paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiation
      impacts quality-adjusted survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients also
      receive trastuzumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and
      57 and paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15,
      22, 29, and 36. Beginning 21-56 days after surgery, patients receive trastuzumab IV over
      30-90 minutes. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 13 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients also
      receive paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15,
      22, 29, and 36.

      Within 5-8 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, all patients undergo surgery.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 4 months for 2 years and
      then yearly thereafter.
    
  