
    
      All patients with critical illness and fulfilling the inclusion criteria should be screened
      for the study on two surgical ICUs at the university hospital of Rostock, Germany.

      The inclusion of patients will be started if written informed consent was obtained from all
      participants or their representatives (if direct consent could not be obtained).

      The aim of the study is a prediction or an earlier detection of CIP in critically ill
      patients before nerve conduction studies are able to diagnose CIP. We hypothesize that
      upregulated circulating neurotoxic factors in human serum of critically ill patients cause
      neuronal damage and play an important role in the pathogenesis of CIP. Time from upregulation
      of neurotoxic factors to the clinical appearance of neuronal damage (CIP) is unknown.

      An experimental part of the study aims at establishing enteric neuronal networks as
      functional bioassays for the qualitative detection of neurotoxic humoral factors. Human colon
      samples will be exposed to the serum of critically ill patients with and without CIP in an
      organ bath (100% serum) under standardized physiologic conditions. Alterations to neuronal
      functions (contractions, spontaneous activity) will be studied between serum from patients
      with CIP, without CIP and serum probes from healthy volunteers (without critical illness).

      In a clinical part of the study critically ill patients with and without CIP (detected by
      nerve conduction studies as the gold standard for the diagnosis of CIP) will be examined by
      neurologic examination, nerve conduction study and neuromyosonography of peripheral nerves.
      The incidence, the extent and the time from the beginning of critical illness to the clinical
      appearance of nerval alterations will be compared between the 3 diagnostic tests.

      From all patients basic demographic data, illness severity scores (APACHE-II, SOFA)
      laboratory results, pre-morbidity data and clinical outcome for the study cohort will be
      recorded. At day 3 and 10 patients will be examined by neurologic examination, nerve
      conduction study, neuromyosonography and laboratory tests (inflammation, coagulation, organ
      function, blood parameters including TNF-alpha, IL-6, S100b, oxidative stress markers,
      neurofilaments, C-type natriuretic peptide).
    
  