
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is considered a major cause of chronic kidney disease (CKD), where
      about 40% of the diabetics develop diabetic kidney disease (DKD) resulting in albuminuria,
      reduction of glomerular filtration rate (GFR), or both .

      Albuminuria was widely considered the first clinical sign of DKD, therefore, it has been used
      as a screening test for DKD. However, recent studies showed that a significant number of T2DM
      patients have a decreased GFR with normoalbuminuria, known as non-albuminuric DKD (NA-DKD) .

      The use of albuminuria as an early marker of DKD onset or progression requires a careful
      interpretation because in diabetics, albuminuria has a great tendency to return to normal
      spontaneously. Evidence based studies reported that about 18-51 percent of T2DM (followed
      during 2-10 years) present first with albuminuria turn to normoalbuminurics spontaneously
      during the period of follow-up .

      The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) reported that some diabetics pass
      directly from a normoalbuminuria to renal insufficiency (0.1% per year) .

      Albuminuria as a marker of glomerular lesion progression has some limitations because of its
      intra-patient variability and possibility of spontaneous regress (in >50% of the patients
      with low levels of albuminuria), in contrast with GFR that has low variability and infrequent
      improvement .

      Few of T2DM patients are presented without significant proteinuria but present with renal
      insufficiency and developed DKD (i.e., estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 60
      mL/min/1.73 m2), which was defined as normoalbuminuric diabetic kidney disease (NADKD) or
      diabetic kidney disease without proteinuria where albuminuria does not associate with
      impairment of kidney function .

      The ADA criteria for diagnosis of DKD now involve the presence of eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 or
      the presence of UAE > 30 mg/24 h. In patients with NADKD, the risk factors include obesity,
      hypertension, high TG levels, sex, smoking, poor glycemic control, and glomerular
      hyperfiltration which play a role in nephrosclerosis. Macroangiopathy is also prevalent in
      patients with NADKD .

      Intrarenal arteriosclerosis is the main cause of renal impairment in type 2 diabetic patients
      independent of albuminuria, and this partly cause eGFR decline in these patients. Several
      studies also suggest that decline in renal function is mainly due to interstitial injury (a
      pathological change in DN) as compared with glomerular injury .

      Normoalbuminuria is associated with Diabetic kidney disease (DKD), which is the commonest
      cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) all over the world. The clinical manifestations of
      DKD consist of a progressive increase in albuminuria and a decline in estimated glomerular
      filtration rate (eGFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 m2. Hence, the diagnosis of DKD in patients with
      declining renal function without albuminuria is more difficult. The decline of renal function
      is slower in normoalbuminuria .

      Tthe majority of patients with DKD had albuminuria, but a significant proportion had the
      normoalbuminuric renal impairment (46.6%) . The prevalence of NADKD ranges globally from
      14.29 to 56.6% among diabetic patients with different ethnicities .

      The prevalence of NADKD is about 23.3% to 56.6% in T2DM patients with a decline in the renal
      function presented with normal albuminuria . However, the prevalence at which the patients
      develop normoalbuminuric renal impairment in Type 2 diabetes are not completely defined.
    
  