
    
      This is a prospective, randomized clinical trial to evaluate the use of the X4 knee brace
      with the Motion Intelligence platform in patients having unilateral TKA. This brace is a FDA
      approved, marketed product being used as per the manufacturer's (DJO) marketed indications.
      This study is designed to determine if using a "virtual rehabilitation" device leads to
      enhanced recovery following total knee arthroplasty by improving patient objective and
      subjective outcome measures. These outcomes will be collected using a validated tool called
      the Knee Society Score (KSS). The KSS is a standard of care tool collected for all TKA
      patients pre-operatively and postoperatively at the 8 week visit.

      Patients will be randomized to one to 4 cohorts:

      Cohort 1- Study group-Home discharge. Patients randomized to this group will be provided with
      the X4 brace and trained on the use of Motion Intelligence platform.

      Cohort 2- Control group-Home discharge. Patients randomized to this group will serve as the
      control group. There will be no changes to the standard of care recovery for a TKA patient.

      Cohort 3- Study group-Inpatient rehabilitation. Patients randomized to this group will be
      provided with the X4 brace and trained on the use of Motion Intelligence platform.

      Cohort 4- Control group-Inpatient rehabilitation. Patients randomized to this group will
      serve as the control group. There will be no changes to the standard of care recovery for a
      TKA patient.

      The DJO X4 brace will be provided to the patient at no cost. Study visits, hospitalization,
      inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation costs are standard of care and will be the
      responsibility of the patient. There will be no payment for participation in this study.

      All study patients will complete a daily "Daily Patient Log" starting the day after discharge
      from the hospital until postoperative day (POD) 56. This log will document the patient's
      location:

        -  Rehabilitation center or

        -  Home physical therapy or

        -  Physical therapy center

        -  Hospital (re-admission)

        -  Return to work (if applicable)

      The study hypotheses is that the X4 brace with the Motion Intelligence platform will provide
      an enhanced, cost-effective postoperative recovery following total knee arthroplasty (TKA).
    
  