
    
      This clinical trial is a multi-center study to assess the performance characteristics of a
      rapid in vitro diagnostic assay, the Reveal G4 Rapid HIV-1 Antibody Test (Reveal G4).
      Specifically, the objective of this study is to determine the sensitivity and specificity of
      Reveal G4 in finger stick and venous whole blood, relative to FDA approved reference assays
      for the detection of HIV-1 antibodies.

      Approximately 1500-2000 subjects in total will be enrolled in the study across all sites,
      into three different study populations. Population 1 will be comprised of at least 500
      subjects from a population at risk of infection with HIV. Population 2 will be comprised of
      at least 500 subjects that are known HIV positive individuals. Population 3 will be comprised
      of at least 500 subjects from a population at low risk of HIV infection. Reveal G4 will be
      used to test fingerstick whole blood and venous whole blood samples from all study subjects.
      For enrolled subjects in Populations 1 and 3, who are of unknown HIV antibody status, a
      plasma sample prepared from the venous whole blood sample will also be tested with an
      algorithm of FDA-approved assays for the detection of HIV-1 antibodies. For Population 2
      subjects who are known HIV-positive individuals, results of previous HIV tests will be
      obtained from the subjects' medical records. The sensitivity and specificity of Reveal G4
      will be determined in fingerstick and venous whole blood relative to HIV-1 antibody status as
      determined by an algorithm of FDA-approved assays.

      The primary analysis will involve comparison of Reveal G4 results for anti-HIV-1 in each
      sample matrix (fingerstick whole blood and venous whole blood) with the subject's HIV-1
      antibody status as determined by FDA-approved assays. Based on the above, the sensitivity and
      specificity of Reveal G4 will be determined with corresponding two-sided 95% confidence
      intervals for both fingerstick and venous whole blood.
    
  