
    
      While the stroke risk amongst AF patients appears heterogeneous, patients with underlying
      valvular heart diseases particularly MS are at very high risk for stroke if left
      un-anticoagulated. However, this group of patients were typically excluded in randomized
      control trials. As a result, current international guidelines for management of AF do not
      recommend NOACs for stroke prevention in AF patients with underlying moderate or severe MS.

      In a stark contrast to developed countries, mitral stenosis remains prevalent in many Asian
      countries. Together with the much higher intracranial haemorrhage risk in Asians on Warfarin,
      NOACs appear to be a very attractive and promising alternative. Nonetheless off-label use of
      NOACs in patients with MS is not uncommon in the real world practice. This study refers as a
      prospective, randomized, open-label trial with blinded end-point adjudication, aiming at
      evaluating the safety and efficacy of Dabigatran for stroke prevention in AF patients with
      underlying moderate or severe mitral stenosis.

      Subjects enrolled in this study will be randomized into 2 groups in a 1:1 ratio, to receive
      either Dabigatran (150mg or 110mg according to creatinine clearance level, twice daily) or
      Warfarin (targeting in the international normalized ratio (INR) range 2-3) in an open-label
      design. Primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed, including ischemic stroke, systemic
      embolism, haemorrhagic stroke, intracranial haemorrhage, major bleeding and death. The
      estimated sample size is approximately 686 participants.

      The results will contribute to the stroke prevention strategy for patients with mitral
      stenosis and may be immediately translatable to real clinical practice. Ultimately, this
      study will provide the necessary evidence for establishing universal guidelines for this
      group of patients.
    
  