
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of vaccination comprising allogeneic sargramostim
           (GM-CSF)-secreting breast cancer cells with or without immunomodulation using
           cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin in women with stage IV breast cancer.

        -  Determine the doses of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin that maximize vaccine-induced
           immunity, in terms of immune response to HER2/neu, in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare in vivo immune response induced by these regimens, as measured by
           immunohistochemical analysis of vaccine site biopsies from these patients, with
           responses seen in prior preclinical and clinical studies.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the time to disease progression in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-finding study.

      The first 6 patients receive 1 of 2 doses of vaccine comprising allogeneic sargramostim
      (GM-CSF)-secreting breast cancer cells intradermally (ID) on day 0. Subsequent patients
      receive cyclophosphamide IV on day -1, vaccine at the higher dose ID on day 0, and
      doxorubicin IV on day 7. Treatment in all patients repeats every 4-6 weeks for 3 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or
      responding disease after the third course receive a fourth course of treatment at
      approximately 4 months after completion of the third course.

      Cohorts of 2-3 patients receive a fixed dose of vaccine in combination with escalating doses
      of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide. Doses of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin are escalated
      until an optimal dose of combination chemotherapy with a fixed dose of vaccine is achieved.

      Patients are followed at 1 month and 4 months after completion of study therapy and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 6-60 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  