
    
      Rationale Neonatal sepsis is an important determinant of adverse neurodevelopmental outcome
      [Adams-Chapman 2006, Stoll 2004]. A recent meta-analysis estimated that neonatal sepsis more
      than doubled the risk of adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in very-low-birth-weight (VLBW)
      infants (OR 2.09 [95%CI 1.65-2.65]), including cerebral palsy (OR 2.09 [95%CI
      1.78-2.45]).[Alshaikh 2013] When a baby with signs suggestive of sepsis, it is common
      practice to commence intravenous antibiotic treatment as soon as possible after cultures from
      blood and relevant additional sites have been obtained. However, cultures remain negative in
      an important subgroup of babies treated for sepsis, despite convincing clinical and/or
      laboratory signs of sepsis being present. Although there is some evidence to suggest that
      long-term outcomes following neonatal sepsis may differ according to whether or not the
      diagnosis was confirmed by culture,[Stoll 2004, Schlapbach 2011] to the best of the
      investigators' knowledge a direct comparison between these groups has never been made.
      Greater understanding of the impact of culture-positivity on long-term outcomes in the
      setting of clinical neonatal sepsis is essential to better inform parents about the future
      prospects of their child and to guide patient follow-up.

      Objective Investigate differences in neurodevelopmental outcome at two years after neonatal
      sepsis according to whether or not the diagnosis was confirmed by culture.

      Research questions Primary Are neurodevelopmental outcomes at two years different between
      babies with suspected versus culture-proven sepsis? Secondary Are neurodevelopmental outcomes
      at two years different between babies with suspected versus culture-proven sepsis when
      considered according to the underlying pathogen?

      Design Secondary cohort analysis of all babies included in the International Neonatal
      Immunotherapy Study (INIS) randomized controlled trial (RCT).[INIS Study Collaborative Group
      2008]

      Study population The study population consists of all babies included in the INIS trial. The
      INIS trial was an RCT of intravenous immunoglobulin (two infusions of 500 mg/kg body weight
      polyvalent IgG) versus placebo in the treatment of suspected or proven neonatal sepsis.[INIS
      Study Collaborative Group 2008] 3493 infants were included from 113 hospitals in nine
      countries.[INIS Collaborative Group 2011] There was no difference between the treatment
      groups in the primary outcome of death or major disability at the age of two years (RR 1.00
      [95%CI 0.92-1.08]), or in any of the secondary outcomes. Neither was an effect of
      immunoglobulin demonstrated in any of the pre-specified subgroup analyses. As the
      intervention under study did not have an impact on any of the outcomes, secondary
      observational analyses within the dataset are feasible.

      Exposure For the primary analyses two groups of babies with neonatal sepsis will be
      considered: those with proven sepsis and those with suspected sepsis. Sepsis will be
      considered proven when pathogenic organisms (i.e. bacteria or fungi) were cultured from blood
      and/or cerebrospinal fluid. All babies with clinical neonatal sepsis in whom cultures
      remained negative are considered to have suspected sepsis. In a secondary analysis,
      neurodevelopmental outcomes of babies with proven sepsis will be compared to those with
      suspected sepsis according to causative organism grouped as follows: coagulase-negative
      staphylococci (CONS); other Gram-positive bacteria; Gram-negative bacteria; fungi. Babies
      will be classified according to the sepsis episode at the time of inclusion in the INIS
      trail. The impact of any additional episodes of sepsis will be investigated in sensitivity
      analyses (see below).

      Outcomes The primary outcome of interest is death or major disability at two years of age.
      Secondary outcomes (all at two years of age) include: death; disability; and components of
      disability: neuromotor disability; disability due to seizures; hearing disability; visual
      disability; communicative disability; cognitive disability. All types of disability are
      categorised into major/non-major/no disability. The investigators used two questionnaires;
      the Health Status Questionnaire (HSQ) was completed by a pediatrician and the Parent
      Questionnaire (PQ) was completed by a parent or carer. A third questionnaire, the Short
      Health Status Questionnaire (SHSQ), was developed by the Project Management Group in order to
      capture the primary outcome for difficult to find children. These questionnaires were sent to
      general practitioners or health visitors.

      The disability classification for each domain (with the exception of the cognitive domain)
      was calculated from the answers to questions on the HSQ or the PQ [see INIS Collaborative
      Group 2011 (online supplement) for more detail]. If one questionnaire was missing, the
      calculation used only the answer on the other questionnaire. If the domain classification was
      unknown and a SHSQ had been received, the classification from that questionnaire was used for
      that domain only. Cognitive function was assessed in INIS by parents using the revised Parent
      Report of Children's Abilities questionnaire (PARCA-R1 [Saudino 1998]), as described
      previously [INIS Collaborative Group 2011 (online supplement)].

      Analyses The following characteristics will be compared between babies with proven and
      suspected sepsis in tabular form: baseline characteristics, clinical characteristics at
      presentation with sepsis, neonatal outcome at discharge; outcome at two years. Primary and
      secondary outcomes at two years will be compared between the two groups in univariable
      analyses using Chi square test. Multivariable adjustment for potential confounders around
      birth and at presentation with sepsis (including country and INIS study drug) will be
      performed using separate logistic regression models for each outcome. The logistic regression
      models will be considered the primary analyses. Separate models will be constructed for major
      disability and for any disability (major+non-major).

      Subgroup analyses Two sets of subgroup analyses will be undertaken. First, given the
      difference in aetiology between early onset (<72 hours after birth) sepsis and late onset
      (>=72 hours after birth) sepsis, the data will be re-analysed according to whether the sepsis
      episode was early or late onset.

      Second, as gestational age is a key determinant of adverse neurodevelopmental outcome, the
      investigators will undertake a subgroup analysis to investigate the impact of proven versus
      suspected sepsis on neurodevelopmental outcomes according to whether gestational age at birth
      was < or ≥ 30 weeks.

      Sensitivity analyses Missing values are present for a number of covariates to be included in
      the multivariable adjustment. By default, logistic regression analysis will be based on
      babies with complete data only on all variables in the model. The investigators will thus
      undertake a sensitivity analysis after multiple imputation of missing data on all covariates
      included in the primary model, creating and analysing five unique datasets.

      For the primary analysis of this study, only the neonatal sepsis episode at presentation
      (i.e. at inclusion in the INIS trial) will be considered to classify babies as having
      suspected or proven sepsis. An important subgroup of babies however, experienced one or more
      additional episodes of sepsis following inclusion in the study, which may affect the findings
      depending on whether or not these were culture-proven. The investigators will therefore
      undertake two additional sensitivity analyses to assess the impact of subsequent episodes of
      sepsis on the difference in neurodevelopmental outcome according to whether or not proven
      sepsis was present. In a first sensitivity analysis the investigators will exclude from the
      cohort all babies in whom additional episodes of neonatal sepsis were present following the
      initial presentation with sepsis. This will facilitate a fair comparison of babies with
      single episodes of proven versus suspected sepsis. In a second sensitivity analysis of the
      full cohort, the investigators will re-classify as proven sepsis all babies labeled as
      suspected sepsis based on the initial presentation, in whom subsequent episodes of proven
      sepsis were present. The investigators will then compare neurodevelopmental outcomes
      according to whether or not proven sepsis was present at any time point during initial
      hospital admission.

      Sample size The sample size of the cohort is based on the original RCT design.[INIS Study
      Collaborative Group 2008, INIS Collaborative Group 2011] For the purpose of this secondary
      analysis the cohort may thus be considered a convenience sample. To the best of the
      investigators' knowledge this cohort is the second largest to evaluate neurodevelopmental
      outcomes following neonatal sepsis.[Alshaikh 2013] In multivariate analyses of 6093
      extremely-low-birth-weight (ELBW) infants from the National Institute of Child Health and
      Human Development (NICHD) cohort followed up at two years of age, Stoll and colleagues were
      able to demonstrate clinically relevant differences (OR ≥1.3) in key neurodevelopmental
      outcomes between uninfected babies and different categories of babies with neonatal sepsis
      with statistical significance.[Stoll 2004] The same accounted for their subgroup analyses
      according to causative organism.[Stoll 2004] In much smaller studies, others have also
      demonstrated statistically significant impact of neonatal sepsis on neurodevelopmental
      outcome, as reviewed elsewhere.[Alshaikh 2013] The investigators therefore expect the INIS
      cohort to have sufficient power to detect clinically relevant differences (OR ≥1.3) in
      neurodevelopmental outcomes between VLBW infants with suspected versus proven neonatal
      sepsis.

      Ethical considerations The original RCT was approved by the national and local ethical
      committees of each participating hospital. Anonymised data were used for the purpose of this
      secondary analysis. According to UK and Dutch regulations, no formal ethical assessment is
      required for secondary analyses of anonymised data.

      Dissemination Findings will be reported in a manuscript to be submitted for publication with
      a leading medical journal in an appropriate field (i.e. paediatrics, infection/immunology,
      neurology), and may be presented at international clinical and research meetings.
    
  