
    
      Screening visit:

      For patients eligible to participate in the study, the following procedure will be done in
      the "screening visit" at the clinic:

        1. Patient will sign the IC (Informed Consent) form

        2. The following demographic and clinical data will be collected and registered in the CRF:

             1. Patient's DOB and gender.

             2. Patient's diagnosis in study eye(s), based on patient's medical record, including
                media opacity (e.g. cataract or corneal opacity, if exists).

             3. Bio-microscopy testing.

             4. Refraction correction by an optometrist.

             5. Habitual Snellen visual acuity

             6. Commercial OCT scanning using Zeiss Cirrus or Heidelberg Spectralis.

      OCT scanning pattern:

        -  Macular cube of at least 6X6mm (20 degrees)

        -  At least 40 B-scans per cube

      Setup and tutorial home visit:

      The device will be delivered to the patient's home with a setup guide attached to the
      package. The patient will read the setup guide instructions, unpack the device, place it on a
      table and connect it to a power supply. Upon first usage a tutorial clip, explaining how to
      operate the device and self-image the eyes, will be automatically displayed on the device's
      external screen. Following the tutorial patients will be instructed to scan their study
      eye(s). A remote support service, provided by the sponsor, will be available as needed. Its
      phone number will be given to the patient and will be attached to the device's base.

      Daily home testing:

      For each eligible eye, the following procedure will be done in the "Daily testing" at the
      patients' homes:

        1. The patients will be requested to self-scan their study eye(s) daily, using the
           NOTAL-OCT V3.0..

        2. The patient will be able call the sponsor's remote support service, during working
           hours, for assistance in case of questions or problems regarding the operation the
           NOTAL-OCT V3.0 device.

      Exit visit:

      For each eligible eye, the following procedure will be done in the "Exit visit" at the
      clinic:

        1. Bio-microscopy testing.

        2. Refraction correction by an optometrist.

        3. Habitual Snellen visual acuity

        4. Commercial OCT scanning using Zeiss Cirrus or Heidelberg Spectralis.

      OCT scanning pattern:

        -  Macular cube of at least 6X6mm (20 degrees)

        -  At least 40 B-scans per cube NOTAL-OCT V3.0 Scanning.

           6.Patient's experience questionnaire
    
  