
    
      Histological and radiographic observations have shown that root resorption is a frequent
      consequence of orthodontic treatment (Reitan, 1974; Rygh, 1977; Harry and Sims, 1982). In
      most patients this resorption is minor and of no importance. A few teeth however exhibit
      severe resorption. In a study by Goldson and Henrikson (1975) it was found that 6 per cent of
      924 teeth were resorped more than 2 mm after treatment with a Begg appliance and Malmgren et
      al. ( 1982) found a similar degree of root resorption in 10 percent of 264 incisors treated
      with an edgewise appliance and in 5 percent of 176 incisors treated with a Begg appliance(1).

      Root resorption resulting from undesirable orthodontic force is an unwanted sequele , that
      fears all orthodontists including their experts as well(2).

      DSP are non-collagenous dentin-specific matrix proteins postulated to be involved in the
      mineralization of pre-dentin into dentin (3,4) .Dentin undergoes continuous deposition
      throughout life as a secondary dentin only on the pulpal surface. Therefore, these proteins
      are not routinely released into the surrounding space as dentin does not undergo the process
      of remodeling as in bone. It is only in the presence of active external root resorption that
      these proteins could be freed into the periodontal ligament space(5).

      Since periapical -intraoral- radiograph gives a two dimensional information, which detect
      root resorption after 60- 70% of the mineralized tissue is lost. (6) So, it's not sensitive
      in detecting early root resorption so in this study the investigators introduce the
      biological marker DSP to monitor root resorption from its onset by collecting samples from
      the GCF -gingival crevicular fluid- for its detection.

      Calculating the amount of DSP -Dentine Sialo Protein- produced upon root resorption might be
      an indicative biological marker for root resorption.
    
  