
    
      Planning an Adaptive Clinical Trial of Cognitive Training to Improve Function and Delay
      Dementia: The ACTIVE MIND Trial.

      In the U01 phase, the primary objective is to design and pilot-test an adaptive, randomized
      clinical trial (RCT) of cognitive training (CT) combinations aimed to enhance performance of
      instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) among persons with mild cognitive impairment
      (MCI). The longitudinal endpoint goal is delaying dementia onset.

      The secondary objectives of the U01 phase are:

      - To pilot test a plan to recruit and enroll under-represented minorities with the goal of
      obtaining a sample representative of the USF population in race and ethnicity.

      With additional funding and extension of the study:

        -  To examine the efficacy of promising combinations of CT exercises to modify functional
           trajectories in MCI

        -  To examine the efficacy of promising combinations of CT to delay dementia onset

        -  To explore blood-based biomarkers as outcomes of CT

        -  To explore change in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 3 (ADNI-3) MRI
           protocol for neuroimaging to quantify brain structure, white matter hyperintensities
           (WMH), hippocampal size, cerebral microbleed and perfusion, white matter integrity, and
           resting state function as an effect of CT interventions.

      Design: The design is an adaptive randomized trial to identify the best combination of CT
      exercises to improve IADL function and thereby delay dementia onset among persons with MCI.
      Four arms of CT will be compared to an active control condition.

      Outcomes: Determine which combinations of CT are efficacious to improve IADL performance, and
      thereby most likely to reduce incident dementia.

      Everyday Function measures will include: Timed Instrumental Activities of Daily Living and
      iFunction. A composite of performance (measured by time and accuracy) will be derived from
      principal component analyses.

      Cognition measures will include: Useful Field of View test (UFOV), Graduated Continuous
      Performance Test (gradCPT), and Examiner. A composite will be derived from principal
      component analyses.

      Interventions and Duration Four combinations of computerized cognitive training and an active
      control computerized stimulation will be investigated. The five arms will be equivalent in
      terms of frequency and duration of each session (60 min/day, two-three days/wk, 16 weeks).

      Sample size: In-person screening of 100 potential study participants are planned to enroll up
      to 60 participants. The goal is to have at least 60 participants complete the U01 phase of
      the study. Individuals with a clinical diagnosis of MCI will be included in the study.
    
  