
    
      This study seeks to gather data on the effect of the OtoBand in participants who have
      reported symptoms of tinnitus. The study is designed to be conducted remotely using video
      conferencing between representatives of the manufacturer of the OtoBand and participants. In
      order to comply with requirements for non-essential contact due to the Covid-19 pandemic,
      there will be no in-person contact in the study.

      Otolith Sound (hereafter: "Otolith") seeks to recruit study participants via several online
      channels including Facebook and Google. Otolith will use online advertisements to inform
      potential participants about the study and ask them to volunteer for online screening and
      enrollment.

      Each participant will be enrolled in the study only after a successful video screening
      including agreement to participate. After a participant is enrolled, a device will be shipped
      to them via USPS or similar carrier. The participant will be instructed not to open the
      shipping box with the device until their initial study call with the study coordinator.

      During the initial study call, participants will be instructed on how to use the OtoBand and
      how to wear the device. There will be a total of four online meetings with each study
      participant. It is expected that a typical participant will be enrolled in the study for
      approximately 30 days - from consent to filling out the last questionnaire and online wrap up
      meeting. In these 30 days, the participant will be wearing a device for 30 minutes each day
      over the course of two times 5 days. In addition to online study calls, Sponsor will use
      email and text messaging to communicate with the participants. For example, if a study
      participant does not complete a study diary on a given day, a text message will be sent
      reminding them to do so.

      After the enrollment period, participants will be instructed to return the device in a
      pre-paid envelope. The devices will stop functioning 20 days after the first use.
    
  