
    
      Subjects

      This study is carried out on the Caribbean island Curacao and in the Netherlands. The
      population (approx. 150,000 inhabitants) of Curacao is mainly of Negroid descent.
      Participants were recruited from the Klinika Capriles, (the only psychiatric hospital on the
      island) the psychiatric ward in the prison (FOBA) and the psychiatric polyclinic on the
      island (Psychiaters Maatschap Antillen). The study protocol was approved by the Medical
      Ethical Review Board (Maastricht) and study participants gave written informed consent after
      explanation about the study.

      Inclusion criteria were: (i) An Antillean ethnicity, defined in line with the Dutch Central
      Bureau of Statistics as birth on the former Dutch Antilles and birth of at least one parent
      on the former Dutch Antilles. (ii) Age 18 years or older. (iii) The use of an antipsychotic
      or antidepressant and (iv) informed consent.

      All the patients were genotyped and grouped according to predicted phenotype for CYP2D6 and
      CYP2C19. Information about medication use was collected. Patients using CYP2D6 or CYP2C19
      inhibiting medication according to Flockhart were selected. Enzyme activity scores of
      patients using a strong inhibitor were multiplied by 0 which meant they converted
      automatically to a PM phenotype. In patients using medium inhibitors, activity scores were
      multiplied by 0.5. This is a widely used and accepted method.

      All prescribed antipsychotics were calculated to a "Defined Daily Dose" (DDD) as defined by
      the World Health Organization (WHO). For every patient the total equivalent of the DDD was
      calculated. In this way it was possible to analyse if there were differences in total dose of
      antipsychotics being used between the phenotype groups.

      Patients who needed dose adjustment based on phenotype according to the Royal Dutch
      Association for the Advancement of Pharmacy were selected.

      Patients who were selected were matched with controls on gender, age and depot or oral
      medication use. All participants received a 25 guilder gift token if they cooperated in the
      study at both measuring points.

      Assessments

      Subjective experience, psychopathology, extrapyramidal side effects, quality of life, global
      functioning and metabolic parameters were assessed at baseline (T0) and 4 months after dose
      adjustment (T1). A medical doctor, trainee in psychiatry, blind for the intervention, was
      responsible for all the measurements and was being trained in investigating extra pyramidal
      side effects and measuring global functioning. Patients receiving depot medication were
      measured in the same moment in the depot in T0 and T1.

      Severity of patients' psychopathology was assessed with Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale
      (BPRS), which measures 24 symptoms of psychiatric disease and is validated in Dutch 20.
      Extrapyramidal symptoms were assessed with the St. Hans Ratings Scale (SHRS), which is a
      multidimensional rating scale for the evaluation of hyperkinesia, parkinsonism, akathisia and
      dystonia induced by neuroleptics. The dyskinesia is scored in two situations: in passive and
      active circumstances.

      Akathisia was being measured by the Barnes Rating Scale (BARS) for Drug-Induced Akathisia.
      Subjective experience of the patients was measured with the Subjective Well-Being Under
      Neuroleptics Scale (SWN-20), which is a 20- item, self-rating scale which assesses the
      subjective experience over the preceding 7 days.

      Quality of life was assessed with the EurolQol 5-D (EQ 5-D), which is a widely used rating
      scale, that measures health status on five dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities,
      pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression).

      Global functioning was assessed with the World Health Organization Disability Assessment
      Schedule 2.0 (WHODAS-36) 36 item proxy-administered version. The questionnaire measures
      disability in 6 domains and was being administered by a personal care giver.

      Metabolic parameters measured were blood pressure, Body Mass Index (BMI), waist size,
      cholesterol, High Density Lipo-protein (HDL), Low Density Lipo-protein (LDL), triglycerides,
      glucose, Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1C). Prolactin was also being measured. In patients receiving
      antipsychotics metabolized by CYP2D6, plasma levels of antipsychotics were measured.

      Procedures

      After baseline measurements, another medical doctor, trainee in psychiatry made dose
      adjustments according to guidelines of the Royal Dutch Association for the Advancement of
      Pharmacy (KNMP) which was updated July 2013. Generally three options were available: 1.
      Lowering/ enhancing the dose to 50-75% of the original dose 2. Prescription of medication not
      being metabolized by CYP2D6 or CYP2C19 3. Stop CYP2D6 or CYP2C19 inhibiting medication.

      A standard procedure for dose adjustments was being followed: Lowering the dose was done in
      steps according to http://wiki.psychiatrienet.nl/index.php/SwitchAntipsychotics.

      If an alternative antipsychotic had to be prescribed, first choice was flupentixol, second
      choice olanzapine, third choice quetiapine. Inhibiting medication meant to tranquilize was
      being replaced by benzodiazepines.

      Complex cases were discussed with the research team and individual dose adjustment plans were
      being made.
    
  