
    
      Bone fractures are 3-times more common in kidney transplant recipients than in the general
      population and risk of dying after a hip fracture is 60% higher compared to kidney transplant
      recipients without a fracture. Unfortunately, there are no anti-fracture strategies that have
      been proven to be effective in double blinded randomized clinical trials for kidney
      transplant recipients. This is because some anti-fracture medications that are commonly used
      to treat osteoporosis and prevent fractures in the general population (i.e.,
      bisphosphonates), may be harmful to the skeleton when kidney function is less than 30% of
      normal. In addition, intravenous bisphosphonates may be toxic to the kidneys, which further
      limits their utility in patients with a kidney transplant.

      Denosumab, a monoclonal antibody against RANKL, inhibits osteoclast function and is not
      harmful to the kidney. Denosumab prevents fractures in men and women with age-related and
      glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. Recently, a non-blinded randomized trial of denosumab
      versus usual care during the first year of kidney transplantation in 90 patients reported the
      bone mineral density (BMD) measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) increased at
      the spine and hip and that bone strength measured by high resolution peripheral quantitative
      computed tomography (HR-pQCT) increased in patients treated with denosumab. Adverse events in
      denosumab-treated patients included greater risk of urinary tract infections, diarrhea, and
      transient levels of low serum calcium that were asymptomatic. This study demonstrated that
      denosumab safely increased BMD at the spine and hip in new kidney transplant recipients.
      However, long-term kidney recipients, who comprise the vast majority of patients living with
      a transplanted kidney and who are also at increased risk of fracture, were not included.
    
  