
    
      Background:

      Low back pain (LBP) is a common problem among adults. Approximately 70-85% of the adult
      population experiences this painful complaint at some point in their lives, making LBP the
      second most common reason for a visit to a clinician. Despite the frequency of this
      diagnosis, conventional treatment does not always provide patients the desired results of
      reduced pain and return of normal function. For these patients, alternative modalities are
      available to assist in the control of pain. These options include chiropractic care, physical
      therapy, massage therapy, and modalities that fall under the auspices of complementary and
      alternative medicine, such as acupuncture. Unfortunately, Clinical trials evaluating the
      efficacy of a variety of interventions for chronic non-specific low back pain indicate
      limited effectiveness for most commonly applied interventions and approaches.

      Objectives:

      To evaluate the effectiveness of a mat and studio Pilates program on pain, function, quality
      of life and NHAI consumption for chronic non-specific low back pain patients.

      Methods:

      Eligible patient include: chronic non-specific low back pain; age between 18 and 65 years;
      pain ranging from 4 to 8 in a numerical pain scale. Patients with previous surgery, other
      causes of low back pain, fibromyalgia, regular physical activity (three or more times per
      week for at least three months); labor lawsuit and body mass index more than 30. Sixty
      patients were randomized to the Experimental Group (EG) or Control Group (CG). Patients in EG
      participated in 90 days of mat and studio Pilates program twice a week (50 minutes per class)
      and the CG remained with their usual medicament treatment and were included in a waiting list
      for physiotherapy. Assessment for pain (VAS), function (Roland Morris questionnaire), quality
      of life (SF-36) and NHAI consumption were done at baseline, after 45 days (T45), after 90
      days (T90 - end of the program), after 90 days (T180 - follow up) by a blinded assessor.
    
  