
    
      If a subject have lung cancer or another cancer carrying a T790M mutation in the EGFR gene,
      he/she may be eligible to participate in this research study. To determine eligibility, a
      subject will need to perform the following steps: provide informed consent, fill out the
      study questionnaire and provide medical records documentation.

      The study questionnaire should take about 30 minutes to complete. The questionnaire asks for
      information on personal and family cancer and health history. The information provided will
      help investigators to determine which parts of the study a subject is eligible for. A few
      weeks after submitting the questionnaire, a member of the research study team will contact
      the subject by telephone to clarify any questions about the response.

      For medical records documentation investigators will request permission to obtain and review
      medical records pertaining to any personal history of cancer. Subjects will need to complete
      a medical record release form to allow investigators to collect medical records regarding
      prior cancers and cancer treatment.

      After a subject is determined to be eligible, he/she will have a conversation with a genetic
      counselor regarding the potential risks, benefits and limitations of genetic testing. A
      genetic counselor is an expert in the field of inherited disorders. They work as members of
      the health care team and act as a patient advocate providing education and support to the
      patient, family and the medical team. If a subject agrees to proceed, he/she will be provided
      a kit (by mail or in person) to provide a saliva sample for genetic testing. This involves
      spitting into a special container provided by the study. This sample will be sent to a
      clinically-certified testing laboratory to determine presence of an inherited EGFR mutation.

      Once the results have been determined, the subject will receive a letter with the phone
      number of a genetic counselor to call in order to review results of the genetic testing.
      Alternatively, a subject can decide not to receive the results of the genetic testing and can
      note that on the letter received and send it back to the study team instead of calling for
      the results.

      If a mutation is found in the saliva sample, a subject will receive information about how to
      undergo confirmatory testing of a blood specimen. This can be done at a local laboratory
      using a kit that will be mailed. When the results are available a genetic counselor will call
      to discuss them. If the confirmatory blood test confirms an inherited mutation, subjects will
      receive instructions on how to invite family members to be tested if appropriate.

      Investigators will collect material from a prior tumor biopsy (if available), copies of
      imaging scans, and medical records to study. The copies of imaging scans will allow study of
      the characteristics of nodules in the lungs. This information will be used to answer
      additional questions about cancers carrying EGFR T790M mutations.

      It will only take a few months to complete the main part of the study. After that, subjects
      will be followed every 6 months for 2 years. If a subject allows a piece of a tumor specimen
      or DNA to be stored for future investigational studies, then he/she will remain enrolled in
      research for as long as the specimen is stored in the specimen bank.
    
  