
    
      Study Hypothesis The pain, fear, and anxiety scores of the children who watch videos with
      virtual reality glasses during the intramuscular intervention are lower than the other
      groups.

      The pain, fear, and anxiety scores of children who were applied manual pressure vibration
      technique during the intramuscular intervention are lower than the other groups.

      The pain, fear, and anxiety scores of the children who were applied cold vibration (Buzzy)
      during the intramuscular intervention were lower than the other groups.

      The emotional appearance scores of the children in groups before the procedure affect the
      pain, fear, and anxiety they experience.

      The group with children affects the vital signs before and after the distraction technique.

      Methods Study Design and Sample It was planned to include children between the ages of 5-12
      who will be administered intramuscular antibiotics in the Dokuz Eylül University Pediatric
      Emergency Service. It is planned to include patients selected by the stratified randomization
      method in accordance with the sampling criteria.

      Randomization Children will allocate by the stratified randomization; gender, age, and
      antibiotics type. Randomization was performed with a computerized random-number generator.

      Socio-Demographic Data Collection and Procedure Follow-up Form: It includes "age, gender, the
      reason for admitting to the emergency unit, the last painful intervention and date, the name
      of the antibiotic administered, and the accompanying parent". At the same time, the duration
      and vital signs of the interventions applied to the child will be recorded.

      Wong-Baker FACES (WBS) Pain Rating Scale. This scale uses in children aged 3 and older to
      rate pain severity, ranges from 0 (very happy/no pain) to 10 (hurts worst).

      The Child Fear Scale (CFS). The Child Fear Scale will use.This one-item scale measures
      procedure-related fear in children, consists of five sex-neutral faces, ranges from 0 (no
      fear) to extreme fear. This rating scale ranges from 0 to 4. It ranges from a no fear
      (neutral) face (0) on the far left to a face showing extreme fear on the far right. Higher
      scores mean a worse outcome. The rater response indicates the level of fear. It can be used
      during the procedure for children aged 5-10 years.

      The Children's Anxiety Meter (CAM-S). The Children's Anxiety Meter assesses children's
      anxiety and uses before medical procedures. This scale is drawn like a thermometer with a
      bulb at the bottom and also includes horizontal lines at intervals going up to the top
      (0-10). This scale ranges from 0 to 10. Higher values represent higher anxiety.

      Emotional Appearance Scale for Children: This scale allows direct behavioral observation,
      consists of 5 different behavioral categories; 'Facial Expression', 'Speaking', 'Activity',
      'Interaction' and 'Cooperation Level'.

      Scale scoring is done by reviewing the descriptions of behavior in each category and
      selecting the numerical value that most represents the observed behavior. Each category is
      scored from 1 to 5. The total score is made so that the numerical value is between 5-25 by
      adding the points obtained for each category. Higher scale score indicates the appearance of
      more negative emotional behaviors.

      Data collection process Each patient included in the study will be taken to the bed where the
      intervention will be made and monitored, pulse, respiration, and blood pressure will be
      measured. The child will be evaluated by the nurse before the procedure with the Emotional
      Appearance Scale for Children (0. Min).

      In the virtual glasses group, the video will be started by wearing virtual glasses.

      The manual pressure vibration technique will be applied for 15 seconds. In the cold vibration
      group, Arı Buzzy will be connected 5 cm above the IM intervention area and applied for 15
      seconds.

      The hour/minute applied by the IM intervention will be recorded. When he enters the vascular
      access, he will give information to the child by saying "now it will be over, I am pressing
      it with cotton". The patient's pulse, respiration, blood pressure will be measured again
      (minutes will be recorded). Pulse, respiration, and blood pressure will be re-evaluated at
      the 5th minute of the beginning of the procedure. At the 5th minute of the procedure, the
      child will be asked to evaluate the most painful moment he feels during the procedure with
      the Facial Expressions Rating Scale. The child will be given the Child Fear Scale (CAS) and
      the Child Anxiety Scale-Statefulness (CAS-D) to evaluate how anxious and afraid he or she is
      during the procedure. You will be asked to mark it with a pencil.

      Ethics Ethical approval was received from the Non-Invasive Clinical Studies Ethics Committee
      of the University where the research was conducted (5856GOA 2021). The researcher informed
      about the aim of the study and obtained written consent forms from children and parents.
    
  