
    
      In the treatment of obesity associated with type 2 diabetes, there is still few informations
      comparing the gastric bypass roux-en-Y (RYGB), the reference method, and the bypass in Omega
      (OLGB). The effectiveness of both interventions is comparable regarding weight loss and the
      management of type 2 diabetes but the level of proof remains low. Nutritional deficiencies
      and chronic diarrhea are reported in both interventions. It seems that the OLGB would cause
      more malabsorption and undernutrition but the OLGB would lead to less early operative
      complications because it has only one gastro-jejunal anastomosis compared to RYGB which has
      two.

      The success of the RYGB for the remission of diabetes, is partly associated with a change in
      secretion's profile of intestinal hormones participating in the glucose homeostasis,
      especially the GLP-1. There is no studies published reporting the level of secretion (fasting
      or postprandial) of gastrointestinal hormones after OLGB. It is important to understand how
      this surgery produces its effects, especially on diabetes.

      MINIBHO main hypothesis is that the secretion's profile of entero-insular hormones, like
      GLP-1, are exacerbated after OLGB just like in RYGB, that would explain the same level of
      improvement of T2 diabetes after both surgery.

      Kinetic study of entero-insular secretion will be assessed by some blood dosages of
      entero-insular hormones (GLP-1, GLP-2, Gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), glicentine,
      Insulin, peptide C, Glucagon and glucose) in 30 patients (15 OLGB and 15 RYGB). These dosages
      will be made at different times after a meal test (during fasting, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 60
      minutes, 90 minutes and 120 minutes after the meal) to search a significant difference in the
      profile of secretion between the OLGB and RYGB patients.

      Investigators also hypothesize that the editing method of the OLGB leads to a decrease in the
      food absorption profile compared to RYGB. To explore this hypothesis, citrulline and
      apolipoprotein B48 (ApoB48) levels will be measured, which reflect enterocyte function of the
      patients, and will be compared between patients operated with RYGB vs OLGB. Functional
      enterocyte mass will be correlated to the absorptive function of the gut which will be
      evaluated by the examination of the 24h feces.

      The main objective is to determine whether the secretion profiles of entero-insular hormone
      during a meal are different or not in patients operated with OLGB compared to RYGB. The
      secondary objectives are to evaluate in these patients the absorptive function and the
      functional enterocyte mass.
    
  