
    
      Patients will undergo standard pre-diagnostic imaging of the sites of disease using standard
      MRI techniques. If disease is suspected in both the brain and spine, then both imaging
      modalities should be obtained. This imaging should be obtained no more than 21 days before
      surgical resection. As close as possible to the completion of the MRI scans, patients will
      undergo 18F-FLT imaging using a single administration of tracer, and PET image acquisition at
      four different time points (baseline, 1 hr post injection, 2 hrs post injection and 4-6 hours
      post injection). A whole body PET scan (top of the head to mid thigh) will be performed
      immediately after injection (PET acquisition #1). These data will be acquired with a 2 minute
      emission and a 2 minute transmission scan at each bed position. Following this acquisition,
      the subject will empty his or her bladder. At 45 minutes post-injection, a brain and/or spine
      (body) PET scan will be acquired with a 10 min emission scan and a 5 min transmission scan
      (PET acquisition #2). This scan will include all areas of suspected tumor (brain, spine, or
      brain and spine). Following PET acquisition #2, a whole body PET scan will be acquired
      according to the same protocol as above (PET acquisition #3). If possible, a final whole body
      scan will be acquired 4-6 h post-injection (PET acquisition #4). All PET acquisitions will be
      acquired in 3D mode and reconstructed with the FORE re-binned OSEM algorithm with measured
      attenuation correction. Blood samples will be obtained at the completion of each whole body
      scan. Patients will receive the dose of 18F-FLT through a fresh intravenous catheter as per
      standard PET procedures. Patients will then undergo maximal surgical resection. Pieces from
      different areas of the tumor will be marked for correlation to imaging studies when possible.
      Tumor samples will undergo standard immunohistochemical analysis for cellular activation
      including mitotic index and MIB-1 proliferation staining.

      Serial blood draws will also be obtained at four different time points (baseline, 1 hr post
      injection, 2 hrs post injection, and 4-6 hours post injection) to evaluate clearance of
      18F-FLT from the blood.

      For the biodistribution, the 3D regions of interest (ROIs) will be drawn about each major
      organ that is identified on the whole body scans. This will be performed on each of the whole
      body scans and a time activity curve will be generated. The residence time for each organ
      will be determined. The blood data will be pipetted and counted for estimates of activity in
      the blood and bone marrow. For the brain and/or spine images, the PET data will be registered
      to the subjects' MRI. The PET scan will be graded on a subjective 4-point scale. 3D ROIs will
      be drawn around the tumor. In addition, an analogous ROI will be drawn in normal brain
      background and about the whole brain for comparison. For the tumor, tumor-to-background,
      tumor-to-whole brain ratios will be determined. In addition, standard uptake values (SUVs)
      will be determined for the tumor and background.
    
  