
    
      Background:

        -  Colorectal cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer death in western countries
           with a median survival of approximately 24 months despite recent advances in systemic
           treatment.

        -  Several preclinical studies have documented an increase in peripheral antitumor immunity
           following radiation, a phenomenon known as the abscopal effect. Tumor PDL1 expression
           has also been shown to be induced by radiation, which can suppress the anti-tumor immune
           response. Inhibition of programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)/programmed death ligand-1(PDL-1)
           axis has been shown to improve anti-tumor immunity by blocking the tumor-mediated
           suppression of cytotoxic T cells.

        -  AMP-224, a B7-DC Fc fusion protein, binds to PD-1, an inhibitory receptor that is
           present on the cell surface of exhausted, activated, effector, and memory T cells. AMP-
           224 has a unique mechanism of action in that it binds specifically to PD-1HI T cells
           (chronically stimulated / exhausted T cells) but not to PD-1LO cells which represent the
           normal activated T cells population

        -  The aim of the study is to evaluate whether the anti-tumor immunity of anti-PD1 therapy
           (with AMP-224) can be enhanced by radiation therapy.

      Objectives:

      - To assess safety, tolerability and feasibility of AMP-224 in combination with stereotactic
      body radiation therapy (SBRT) in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed metastatic colorectal cancer.

        -  Patient must have progressed on or been intolerant of prior oxaliplatin- and irinotecan
           containing regimen and have metastatic lesions that are not amenable to curative
           resection.

        -  Patient must have one focus of metastatic disease in the liver that is amenable to SBRT.

        -  Patient must have at least one measurable metastatic lesion by Response Evaluation
           Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria outside the radiation field.

        -  Patients must be willing to undergo mandatory pre and post treatment tumor biopsy.

      Design:

        -  This is a pilot study whereby all patients will receive SBRT to one liver lesion and
           concomitant AMP-224. A single treatment of low dose/cyclophosphamide will be
           administered in conjunction with the SBRT therapy prior to the first AMP-224 treatment.

        -  Hypofractionated radiation will be administered to a metastatic disease site at a dose
           and schedule of 8Gy for 1 or 3 days in dose levels (DL)1 or 2 respectively. The day of
           first administration of AMP-224 will be designated as Day 1. In DL1 the SBRT will be
           administered on Day 0. In DL2 the SBRT will be administered from D-2 to D0. The study
           will begin with DL1 and escalate to DL2 once all subjects enrolled at DL1 have remained
           on study for 4 weeks, which is the DLT period.

        -  AMP-224 therapy will be given as an intravenous infusion beginning on Day 1 and then
           every 14 days for a total of 6 treatments only. Optional continuation of treatment q2-
           weekly until progressive disease (PD) will be considered in responding patients.

        -  Cyclophosphamide 200 mg/m(2) intravenous will be given on Day 0, prior to the first dose
           of AMP-224.

        -  Correlative studies: Peripheral blood will be collected (pre-dose) on days 1, 29, 57 and
           93 for immune studies (including immunogenicity, circulating PD plasma samples, immune
           monitoring for phenotyping and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) for T-cell
           activation). Tumor biopsies (formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) + Frozen) of an
           irradiated and non-irradiated liver lesion will be collected on day 1 and day 29, which
           will be analyzed by immunohistochemistry for tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in addition
           to ribonucleic acid (RNA) analysis.

        -  Pharmacokinetic (PK) samples will be collected on Days 1, 15, 29, 43, 57, 71 in addition
           to up to 5 post treatment dates (if feasible).
    
  