
    
      Objective

      Work by our group and others has demonstrated that a single intravenous dose of the
      glutamatergic modulator ketamine consistently produces rapid (within two hours), robust, and
      relatively sustained (approximately one to two weeks) antidepressant effects in patients with
      treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar depression. Although ketamine
      is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, convergent evidence from
      behavioral, cellular, and molecular ketamine studies supports the theory that enhanced
      -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor activity-with a
      concomitant increase in synaptic plasticity-is critical to its mechanism of antidepressant
      action and may be the key to developing analogous rapidacting antidepressants. Notably, both
      animal and human studies indicate that acute, sub-anesthetic ketamine infusion is associated
      with robust increases in gamma power. Multiple synaptic mechanisms play a role in regulating
      gamma oscillations, including AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated depolarization and gamma
      aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor-mediated inhibition. Ketamine may influence both of these
      systems, both by silencing GABAergic inhibitory synapses and by increasing glutamate release,
      thereby activating AMPARs.

      This clinical translational mechanistic protocol, in parallel with a preclinical study
      (Bench-to-Bedside Award, NIH), is designed to begin to disentangle the neurobiological
      underpinnings of ketamine s mechanism of antidepressant action and to develop a cross-species
      biomarker of target engagement (i.e., gamma power). The study will test the importance of
      AMPAR throughput by attempting to block the behavioral (i.e., antidepressant),
      electrophysiological, and biochemical effects of ketamine with an AMPAR antagonist. We first
      demonstrated in animal models that administering an AMPAR antagonist (NBQX) could block
      ketamine s antidepressant-like properties, suggesting that AMPAR neurotransmission was
      involved in these effects. This finding has now been replicated by multiple labs. In the
      present study, we propose to evaluate whether pre-treatment with perampanel, an AMPAR
      antagonist, blocks or reduces the acute antidepressant effects of ketamine in patients with
      treatment resistant depression (TRD). Further, we will examine whether AMPAR activity is
      important to the continued antidepressant effects of ketamine by examining whether treatment
      with perampanel blocks or reduces ketamine s continued antidepressant effects.

      Study Population

      70 patients ages 18 to 70 years, with a diagnosis of MDD (without psychotic features) will be
      recruited for this study.

      Study Design

      This is a two-phase pathophysiological study that attempts to understand the mechanism of
      action of ketamine s antidepressant effects. Phase I includes a medication taper, drug-free
      period, and baseline testing (e.g. clinical rating scales, sEEG, TMS, MEG). In Phase II,
      participants will receive an open-label ketamine infusion with a randomized, double-blind,
      add-on intervention (perampanel vs. placebo). Two to three hours prior to receiving ketamine
      (0.5 mg/kg), subjects will be randomized into one of three arms. Subjects in Arm 1 will
      receive perampanel (8 mg p.o.), while those randomized to Arm 2 or Arm 3 will receive
      matching placebo. On Day 1, the second blinded oral medication will be administered after
      clinical rating scales are obtained. Subjects randomized to Arm 1 and 3 will receive matching
      placebo, while subjects randomized to Arm 2 will receive perampanel. sEEG, TMS, and MEG will
      be obtained again on two more occasions during Phase II. Participants who completed Phase II
      will also be offered one open-label ketamine treatment, during which they will be assessed
      for mood symptoms and possible side effects.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure is the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS).
      Hypothesis 1: By Day 1, patients treated with ketamine who are randomized to pre-treatment
      with a single oral dose of the AMPAR antagonist perampanel will have significantly more
      depressive symptoms than those who are randomized to pretreatment with placebo, as measured
      by the MADRS. Hypothesis 2: By Day 2, patients treated with ketamine who were randomized to
      perampanel on Day 1 will have significantly more depressive symptoms than those who were
      randomized to placebo, as measured by the MADRS. To acquire data corroborating that ketamine
      s antidepressant effects are mediated through AMPARs, surrogate plasticity measures will be
      obtained using sEEG, TMS, and MEG. In addition, blood samples for biomarkers will also be
      obtained.
    
  