
    
      Primary Objectives:

      1a) To determine how long TFV is excreted in the urine in patients at steady state of
      TAF/FTC. Ten healthy subjects will be given seven daily doses of TAF/FTC under direct
      observation to ensure adherence. Morning urine and plasma samples will be collected starting
      the day the last is given (1 hour later) and every day thereafter for 9 days (total of 10
      days of sample collection). This will allow for the assessment of the length of time TFV can
      be measured in the urine after last dose is taken (the "lookback" period) in the context of
      consistent adherence, as well as to determine how many days a patient has been off drug if a
      urine specimen has no detectable TFV. A correction analysis similar to that below will also
      be assessed in this cohort.

      1b) To determine how long TFV is excreted in the urine in patients who have taken one dose of
      TAF/FTC. Ten healthy subjects will be given one dose of TAF/FTC under direct observation to
      ensure adherence. Morning urine and plasma samples will be collected starting the day the
      dose is given (1 hour later) and every day thereafter for 6 days (total of 7 days of sample
      collection). This will allow for the assessment of the length of time TFV can be measured in
      the urine after last dose is taken (the "lookback" period) in the context of inconsistent or
      intermittent (1 day only) adherence, as well as to determine how many days a patient has been
      off drug if a urine specimen has no detectable TFV. Investigators will also examine the
      correct urine TFV values for inter-subject variability by assessing which measure (specific
      gravity, urine creatinine, pH) will maximize the correlation between urine TFV levels and an
      ideal line of elimination.

      Secondary Objective:

      To determine the expected urine tenofovir levels in a population of HIV-positive patients on
      TAF-based regimens. A cross-sectional analysis of ten HIV-positive patients with undetectable
      viral loads on a TAF-based single tablet HIV regimen will be conducted. Morning urine and
      plasma samples will be collected at one time point to determine urine TFV concentration in
      the setting of steady state dosing in HIV patients with presumably very good adherence to
      medication, and compared to a historical cohort of patients on TDF-based regimens.
    
  