
    
      Over 3 million people in the United States and tens of millions more throughout the world
      live with emphysema, a chronic, progressive, irreversible disease of the lungs. The hallmark
      of emphysema is hyperinflation of the lungs -- air is trapped in the lungs and cannot escape,
      causing the lungs to become larger and larger. This makes it difficult to breathe and dyspnea
      (shortness of breath) is the result.

      The airway bypass procedure is performed using a bronchoscope with the patient under
      anesthesia. Very small passageways are created between the damaged lung tissue and the larger
      breathing passages (airways). Small stents are inserted to keep the new pathways from
      closing. These pathways could potentially provide a way for the trapped air to escape when
      the patient exhales. If the amount of air trapped in the lungs is reduced then it should be
      easier for the person to breathe.

      The EASE study will compare the effects of Exhale Drug-Eluting Stents in patients to a
      sham-control group of patients who do not receive the stents. Two out of three (2/3) of the
      participants in the trial will be in the airway bypass group, or "treatment" group.
      Participants in the treatment group will undergo the airway bypass procedure with up to six
      drug-eluting stents implanted in their lungs, creating the passageways for the trapped air to
      escape. A smaller group - one out of three (1/3) participants - will be the "control" group.
      The control group will have bronchoscopy, but passages will not be made and stents will not
      be implanted.

      Participants will need to return to the study center four times during the year for follow-up
      visits and tests. All participants will be told which group they were in when they come back
      for a follow-up visit one year after the procedure. Participants in the control group will be
      finished with the trial after one year. Participants in the treatment group will have a
      follow-up visit once a year for the next four years to monitor the longer term effects of the
      airway bypass procedure. This is why the end date of the trial is listed as 2012.
    
  