
    
      STAMPEDE (also known as MRC PR08) is a multi-arm multi-stage (MAMS) randomised controlled
      trial recruiting in the UK and Switzerland. It aims to evaluate multiple therapeutic
      strategies in the management of high-risk locally advanced and metastatic hormone-naïve
      prostate cancer. Each novel treatment strategy is compared against a single, contemporaneous
      control arm. When the trial originally opened in 2005 there were 6 research arms enabling 5
      randomised comparisons. Each comparison is evaluated in stages with pre-planned interim
      analyses after which recruitment may be halted should the experimental treatment fail to
      reach a "hurdle" of activity. Patient data from all arms and all stages are, however,
      included in the final analyses of the primary outcome measure, even if the investigational
      arm did not proceed to the final stage.

      Providing sufficient activity is demonstrated, recruitment continues to the final stage and
      then an assessment of efficacy is determined based on the primary outcome of overall
      survival. Patient data from all arms and all stages are included in the final analyses of the
      primary outcome measure, even if the investigational arm did not proceed to the final stage.

      The original comparisons which have all now been reported, evaluated a bisphosphonate
      (zoledronic acid), a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent (docetaxel) and a cyclooxygenase (Cox
      2) inhibitor (celecoxib), as single agents or combinations. Since the start of the trial, a
      number of new research arms have been added to STAMPEDE over time to evaluate: abiraterone, a
      steroid synthesis inhibitor; prostate radiotherapy for patients with newly diagnosed
      metastatic disease; enzalutamide, an inhibitor of androgen receptor signalling, given with
      abiraterone; and metformin, an anti-diabetic medication and transdermal oestradiol, to be
      given as an alternative form of ADT.

      Objectives:

      Primary

      To compare the safety and efficacy of novel therapeutic strategies against the current
      standard-of-care for men with high-risk locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer
      starting long-term ADT for the first time.

      Outline: This is a randomised, controlled, multi-centre MAMS trial platform. Patients are
      current randomised to 1 of 3 arms: control group (arm A), metformin treatment group (arm K)
      and transdermal oestradiol (Arm L). The other arms are all closed to recruitment with results
      known for all the original comparisons and awaited for others added since the trial
      commenced.

      Patient population: STAMPEDE recruits both men with high-risk locally advanced prostate
      cancer and men with metastatic prostate cancer, all of whom must be starting long-term ADT
      for the first time. Patients who received previous radical treatment and are now relapsing
      with high-risk features are also eligible.

      Follow-up: All patients are follow-up life long

      Sub-studies: There are several translational sub-studies ongoing as part of STAMPEDE.
      Participation is optional. These currently include several translational sub-studies
      involving sample collection: saliva collection for germline DNA analysis, sequential
      circulating tumour DNA analysis and FFPE tumour block retrieval for DNA and RNA analysis.
      Other sub-studies include a QOL sub-study and an imaging sub-study.
    
  