
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Describe changes from baseline in a panel of biomarkers (high-sensitivity C-reactive
           protein [hsCRP], lipid profile, circulating estrogens, and contralateral breast density)
           in women at high risk of developing new breast cancer who have undergone surgical
           resection for history of ductal carcinoma in situ or stage I-III invasive breast cancer
           treated with simvastatin.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate changes in the panel of biomarkers with wild-type versus polymorphic
           3-hydroxyl-3-methylglutaryl-Coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase in women treated with
           simvastatin.

      Tertiary

        -  Evaluate methylation status across a panel of genes that are known to be frequently and
           specifically hypermethylated in ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and invasive breast
           cancer (estrogen receptor [ER]-α and ER-β, cyclin D2, RAR-β, Twist, RASSF1A, and HIN-1)
           and correlate change in cumulative methylation with change in hsCRP, lipid profile,
           contralateral breast density, estrogen concentrations, and pharmacogenetics.

        -  Measure changes in the phosphoinositide 3'-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt)
           signaling pathway (Akt and p-Akt) before and after treatment with simvastatin.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to menopausal status
      (pre- vs post-menopausal).

      Patients receive oral simvastatin once daily for 24-28 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection at baseline and at the end of study treatment for
      pharmacogenetic and biomarker correlative studies. Patients undergo mammography and
      measurement of breast density of the contralateral breast at baseline and at the end of study
      treatment.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at the end of study treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  