
    
      Background

        -  Platinum-based chemotherapy is the standard of care for advanced unresectable thymic
           epithelial tumors (TETs). However more than half of these patients experience disease
           recurrence and require second-line therapy.

        -  There are no approved drugs for treatment of recurrent thymoma and thymic carcinoma and
           new therapeutic options are needed for patients who have disease progression on or after
           platinum-containing

      therapy.

      -We have demonstrated the safety and clinical activity of immune checkpoint inhibition in
      patients with recurrent TETs. In an ongoing trial (NCT03076554) we have shown that avelumab,
      an anti-programmed

      death ligand-1 (PD-L1) antibody, induces major responses and has an acceptable safety
      profile.

        -  Combination immunotherapy is under evaluation for treatment of various cancers but has
           not been studied for the treatment of TETs. Immunotherapy targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis
           can be combined with other immune checkpoint inhibitors, cancer vaccines and
           anti-cytokine therapy.

        -  Bintrafusp alfa, a bifunctional fusion protein that targets PD-L1 and transforming
           growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) has shown activity against heavily pre-treated solid
           tumors including non-small cell lung cancer previously treated with single-agent
           anti-PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.

        -  Retrospective analysis of pre-chemotherapy tissue obtained from 20 patients with stage
           IV thymic carcinoma and 13 cases of stage III/IV thymoma, showed TGF-b expression in 65%
           cases of thymic carcinoma and 15% cases of thymoma with a lower median survival among
           patients with thymic carcinoma (30 months versus 63 months).

        -  As part of a phase I clinical trial, treatment with bintrafusp alfa resulted in a brief
           period of disease stabilization and no immune-related adverse events in one patient with
           heavily pre-treated, WHO subtype B3 thymoma with a large disease burden

        -  Further investigation of Bintrafusp alfa in patients with recurrent TETs is needed to
           define the clinical activity and safety of this drug in patients with TETs.

      Primary Objectives

      -To determine the objective response rate (ORR) to bintrafusp alfa in participants with
      relapsed or refractory thymoma and thymic carcinoma.

      Eligibility

        -  Participants greater than or equal to age 18 years with histologically confirmed,
           unresectable thymoma or thymic carcinoma who have previously been treated with at least
           one platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen with progressive disease prior to study
           entry or participants who have refused chemotherapy.

        -  Progressive and measurable disease prior to enrollment

        -  No history of autoimmune disease, with exception of vitiligo, autoimmune thyroid
           disease, or pure red cell aplasia that are adequately managed with medical therapy

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function

      Design

        -  This will be a single-arm, phase II study to determine the clinical activity of
           treatment with Bintrafusp alfa in participants with relapsed or refractory thymoma and
           thymic carcinoma.

        -  Bintrafusp alfa will be administered at a dose of 1200 mg intravenously once every two
           weeks until disease progression or development of intolerable adverse events. The
           two-week period will constitute one cycle.

        -  A Simon optimal two-stage phase II trial design will be used to rule out unacceptably
           low response rate of 20% in favor of an improved response rate of 45%

        -  Participants will be enrolled in 2 disease cohorts, thymoma and thymic carcinoma, with
           up to 17 evaluable participants of each tumor type. Accrual ceiling will be set at 38
           participants to account for inevaluable participants.

        -  Participants who have completed 12 months of treatment with an ongoing response or
           disease stability (for greater than or equal to 6 months) will be given an option of
           discontinuing active treatment with the ability to reinstitute treatment on one occasion
           if radiological or clinical disease activity is noted during follow-up. All eligibility
           criteria should be met at the time of restarting treatment with bintrafusp alfa.

        -  Tumor response will be assessed after completion of every third cycle (6 weeks) using
           modified immune-related RECIST criteria. When possible, an optional tumor biopsy will be
           conducted pre-treatment, after 3 doses in participants responding to treatment or at 6
           weeks, whichever is sooner, to evaluate treatment-related, intra-tumoral changes.
    
  