
    
      Aims and Objectives

      Most of the work published to date on the effect of steroids on ASM has been carried out in
      animal models or in in vitro experiments. We would like to evaluate in vivo whether
      abnormalities in ASM function respond to ICS. Because ASM cells can be obtained from
      bronchial biopsies obtained via bronchoscopy, we will examine endobronchial biopsies from
      corticosteroid-naïve, mild asthmatic subjects. In particular, we will examine whether ICS
      have any effect ASM mass, proliferation and expression of different contractile proteins
      (α-actin and myosin) and chemokines, and will assess in vitro the response of ASM cells to
      stimulation by TGF-β and IL-1β. We will also examine the effect of dexamethasone on chemokine
      release and induced proliferation in vitro before and after treatment with ICS.

      We will examine the effect of inhaled corticosteroids in 12 subjects with mild asthma. The
      subjects will be studied during a baseline period and again after receiving treatment with
      inhaled corticosteroid therapy with Budesonide Turbohaler (400 ug bd) for 4 weeks. The
      results of these two periods will be compared.

      There will be 5 study visits. In the first two visits, the subjects will undergo spirometry
      with reversibility testing, a methacholine challenge test, skin prick tests and IgE levels,
      measurement of exhaled nitric oxide, and subjects will complete an Asthma Control
      Questionnaire and an Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire. The third visit will be the day
      admission for the bronchoscopy. They will be given asthma control diary cards to complete
      during the 4-week treatment with ICS and receive their ICS turbohaler. At visit 4, they will
      have repeat spirometry and methacholine challenge to assess if there has been a change
      secondary to treatment with ICS. The final visit will be for the second bronchoscopy, when
      the dairy card and ICS inhaler will be collected, and the subjects will complete the Asthma
      Control and Quality of Life questionnaire.
    
  