
    
      Severe and potentially dangerous shortages in the blood supply are increasingly common in the
      United States. As the population ages and as more stringent donor eligibility restrictions
      are enforced, blood shortages are expected to worsen. One way to meet the increasing demand
      for blood is to recruit new blood donors. Ideally, these individuals would become lifelong
      donors, and contribute up to six times per year and up to hundreds of units of blood within a
      lifetime. Unfortunately, less than half of all new donors provide a second donation. Many
      individuals who donate blood experience dizziness, weakness, lightheadedness, or in severe
      cases, fainting. As a result of these negative reactions, many individuals never donate blood
      again. Preventing these reactions may be an effective way to encourage subsequent blood
      donations. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of consuming water
      prior to donation and performing a muscle tensing exercise during donation as ways to reduce
      negative reactions in new blood donors. The study's long-term goal is to provide blood
      collection agencies with simple and inexpensive strategies to prevent negative reactions and
      enhance donor retention.

      This study will enroll American Red Cross blood donors who have donated blood no more than
      twice previously. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the following four groups:
      1) pre-donation water consumption and muscle tensing exercise during donation; 2)
      pre-donation water consumption; 3) pre-donation muscle tensing exercise; or 4) no treatment.
      Participant reactions will be assessed at the time of donation by self-report and
      phlebotomist ratings, as well as by self-report 24 hours following the donation.
      Participants' subsequent donation history will be tracked for two years by reviewing the
      American Red Cross national donor database.
    
  