
    
      MAIN TRIAL: The National Institutes of Health (NIH) defines Implementation Science (IS) as
      the process of applying evidence to the treatment or prevention of human disease. In
      response, this trial is significant because it addresses testing of multimodal implementation
      strategies of an evidence-based intervention (CAPABLE) in a Medicaid setting to improve the
      quality and effectiveness of a waiver. Investigators will utilize implementation strategies
      refined in prior work (MiCAP; Hartford/Hillman/CMS) where the investigators trained
      clinicians (N=34) and provided CAPABLE for beneficiaries (N=270).

      For this application, the investigators extend their work and train "all" Registered Nurses
      (RNs), Occupational Therapists (OTs), and Social Workers (SWs) (N=575) in the waiver sites in
      Michigan to implement the CAPABLE model of care for "all" Medicaid waiver beneficiaries
      (N=15,000). Guided by site managers, the team will select and train Internal Facilitators
      (IFs), who are supervisors/employees that work for the waiver site, to conduct facilitation
      at each site as "Champions". Investigators will utilize waiver employees as External
      Facilitators (EFs), who were early adopters of CAPABLE in prior work, as "Super-Champions"
      for Arm 2.

      This trial is also significant as it addresses a critical barrier to implementation of
      evidence-based interventions to improve function in older adults living in the community to
      age-in-place (CAPABLE). Evidence suggest 90% of older adults prefer to age-in-place; yet a
      gap exists between their desire and ability. Thus, further testing of efficacy of an
      intervention (CAPABLE) in a Medicaid waiver population will fill a gap in science and build
      upon evidence.

      The Institute of Medicine, NIH, and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality have each
      established IS as a research priority so that the benefits of evidence-based interventions
      can be realized. Consequently, strategies (MiCAP) to overcome barriers and increase the pace
      and the effectiveness of implementation are a public health priority. The multimodal
      implementation strategies (MiCAP N=6) include: assessing readiness, conducting training,
      using IF Champions, building an IF coalition, and audit and feedback is adequate.
      Additionally, investigators will examine if the additive EF is required to support adoption
      and sustainability of an evidence-based intervention (CAPABLE).

      Disabilities in basic activities of daily living (ADLs [e.g., bathing, toileting]) and
      instrumental ADLs (IADL [e.g., shopping, cleaning]) are the primary modifiable predictors of
      nursing home (NH) placement. Disability is also a major driver of increased risk of falls and
      may lead to poor quality-of-life. Disability creates an inability to carry out everyday ADLs.
      There are a number of risks for disability like complex medication regimens, poor balance and
      strength, inadequate communication with clinicians, falling, and unsafe ADL performance. In
      addition, unsafe environments and deteriorated housing increase risk.

      To address this problem, the evidence-based intervention, CAPABLE, addresses modifiable
      intrinsic and extrinsic risk factors and considers the psychological, environmental, and
      physical factors to enhance function of disabled individuals and promote aging-in-place. A
      multi-component model of care, CAPABLE was designed to reduce the effect of problems with
      physical function among low-income older adults living at home by addressing an individual's
      capabilities and the home environment.

      CAPABLE was adapted from the ABLE program. ABLE used a person-directed, consultative model
      involving 6 home sessions conducted by OTs and physical therapists who provided home
      alterations (assistive devices [e.g., shower chair, reacher, raised toilet seat],
      environmental modifications [e.g., grab bar, ramps], and select home modifications [e.g.,
      widen bathroom doorway]) and instruction in various techniques to enable participants to
      achieve self-identified functional goals. CAPABLE is a 16-week structured program delivered
      by OTs who conduct 6 home visits and provide assistive devices, RNs who conduct 4 home
      visits, and a repairperson who provides home alterations (i.e., installs devices,
      environmental modifications, and home repair). CAPABLE's interdisciplinary team provides
      consultation with older adults to help them identify daily activity goals (e.g., taking a
      shower, walking to the bathroom), evaluate barriers to achieving those goals, and attain
      outcomes collaboratively. The OT addresses ADLs, IADLs, and discretionary activities at home
      such as functional mobility, meal preparation, bathing, and dressing. The RN targets
      underlying issues that influence ADLs, IADLs, and discretionary activities at home, such as
      pain reduction, improvement in mood, fall prevention, medication review and management,
      primary care physician communication, incontinence management, sexual health, and smoking
      cessation. CAPABLE draws upon approaches to enhance uptake and adoption of strategies by
      patients by assessing readiness and using motivational interviewing.

      In this trial, the investigators move IS forward by examining a multimodal implementation
      strategy (MiCAP) approach to implement evidence (CAPABLE) in a Medicaid Waiver program. To
      fill an IS gap, investigators will use proven implementation strategies that are packaged
      (MiCAP) and delivered to clinicians in the waiver program sites to support beneficiary
      improvement in function and those factors that influence function in older disabled adults
      aging-in-place.

      ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPLEMENT There is a paucity of literature on caregiver provision of
      assessment or direct care to individuals with AD or dementia, as most discuss burden,
      confidence, stress, depression, or health. In 2005, the AARP used a Delphi technique to
      identify caregiver competency domains of medical/nursing skills, assessment, measurement,
      collaborating, and communication. A review of caregiver training programs found problem
      solving, use of community resources, and communication to be the primary focus. Physical or
      emotional assessment, medical/nursing skills training, home exercises, medication management,
      or planning, like what is needed when delivering CAPABLE, appeared to be lacking in caregiver
      training. Regarding toolkit usage, Powell and colleagues recommend using toolkits when
      implementing interventions, and our parent trial uses a beneficiary toolkit. A recent review
      of 72 studies evaluating use of toolkits (i.e. weight management, fall prevention,
      vaccination, pain management, and patient safety) found 57% reported adherence to clinical
      procedures and toolkit effects were positive. This finding supports use of a toolkit with
      caregivers when CAPABLE is deployed with beneficiaries with AD or dementia. Many older adults
      cared for by informal caregivers have unmet needs. A 44.3% (38.2% ADL related, 14.6% IADL
      related) unmet need rate is common among older adults with caregivers. Higher rates of unmet
      needs are likely in beneficiaries in the waiver as they are multi-morbid and low-income with
      few resources and even worse in those with AD or dementia.
    
  