
    
      Aberrant DNA methylation is frequently observed in many pediatric solid tumors, but in
      particularly several entities such as ependymoma, medulloblastoma, embryonal tumor with
      multilayered rosettes, atypical/teratoid rhabdoid tumor, neuroblastoma and wilm's tumor have
      promoter hypermethylation. Treatment with DNMTi (DNA methyltransferase inhibitors) agents
      such as 5-azacytidine has been shown to be safe and efficacious in adult myelodysplastic
      syndromes, causing significant decreased DNA methylation in blood, with maximum effect at day
      15 of each cycle. However, monotherapy with DNMTi has been shown to result in resistance in
      leukamia's and efficacy in solid tumours is limited. Synergy between DNMTi and platinum
      agents has shown promise in pre-clinical models including pediatric ependymoma, and in
      addition, the combination of demethylating agents with carboplatin has provided promising
      results in platinum resistant ovarian cancers. However, this approach has not been applied to
      pediatric solid malignancies, which are attractive targets due to their frequent epigenetic
      dysregulation.

      Platinums are the backbone of therapy for most pediatric solid tumors, and as such it is an
      attractive hypothesis that part of the reason for resistance to upfront therapies is platinum
      resistance. Specifically, ependymoma's are highly chemoresistant tumors and studies in
      preclinical models of ependymoma support that this chemoresistance can be overcome with
      DNMTi.

      There is a clear medical need for new therapies, particularly for relapsed solid tumors,
      specifically brain tumors. Although pre-clinical data from our group and others suggests DNA
      demethylase inhibitors to be promising therapies for high risk ependymoma, medulloblastoma
      and ETMR (embryonal tumor with multilayered rosettes), 5'azacitidine monotherapy has been
      disappointing in clinical studies of adult solid tumours. Previous studies have suggested
      that platinum therapy can be effectively combined with azacitidine therapy and based on adult
      studies, maximum demethylation occurs approximately 5-10 days after treatment with
      5'azacitidine. As such combination of azacitidine and carboplatin is a rationale therapy for
      several pediatric brain tumours, particularly those with a hypermethylated phenotype.

      Two phases of the study will be conducted. The Phase I will establish the maximum tolerated
      dose of carboplatin and 5'azacytidine in a rolling 6 design. 5'azacytidine will be
      administered on Days 1-7 followed by Carboplatin on Day 15. The initial dose level will be
      5'Azacytidine 75mg/m2/day for 7 days with Carboplatin administered on Day 15 at AUC (Area
      under curve) 4. Carboplatin will be dose escalated to a maximum of AUC 6, or de-escalated to
      AUC 3. The Phase Ib will be an ependymoma specific expansion cohort at the established MTD
      (maximum tolerated dose), to determine the feasibility and initial efficacy of the
      combination of carboplatin and 5'azacytidine in patients with recurrent/refractory posterior
      fossa and supratentorial ependymoma.
    
  