
    
      Background:

      For some time already negative effects of trans fatty acids (TFA) on the cardiovascular
      system are known. The main TFA sources in our nutrition are partly hydrogenated vegetable
      oils (PHVO) which result from partially oil hardening.

      TFA also occur naturally in ruminant fat (meat, milk and their products). Epidemiologic
      studies suggest that not all TFA have the same negative effects on the cardiovascular system.

      As the detrimental effect of TFA from PHVO is unquestioned (Mozaffarian et al. 2006, Ascherio
      et al. 1999), TFA from ruminant origin may have a neutral or positive effect on the
      cardiovascular system (Pfeuffer und Schrezenmeir 2006, Willett et al. 1993). The main reason
      is attributed to the different concentrations of TFA-isomers in the fat depending on the
      origin. Partially hydrogenated vegetable oils contains a high amount of elaidic acids
      (trans-9 18:1 isomer) and trans-10 18:1 isomers. Ruminant fats contain a high amount of
      vaccenic acids (trans-11 18:1 isomer). The vaccenic acid can be converted to the harmless
      conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) in the human and ruminant metabolic system.

      TFA from PHVO have a negative effect on blood lipids and markers of the inflammatory system.
      They increase the Low Density Lipoproteins (LDL) and decrease the High Density Lipoproteins
      (HDL). Markers of the inflammatory system as TNFa Receptors, IL-6 and CRP increase with TFA
      consumption (Mensink et al. 2003; Mozaffarian 2006; Mozaffarian et al. 2009).

      The discussion on the effect of TFA on insulin sensitivity is discussed conversely since
      there exists few studies which show different results. The trend indicates an impairment of
      insulin sensitivity with TFA consumption, particularly in predisposed persons (Hu 2001;
      Mozaffarian 2009; Risérus 2006).

      Other studies indicated a negative effect on vessels' endothelial function and increase the
      level of soluble adhesion molecules (ICAM, VCAM) which are markers of endothelial dysfunction
      (Mozaffarian 2006; Mozaffarian et al. 2006).

      Almost every typical risk factors of cardiovascular diseases induce changes in endothelial
      function which can preclinically be detected.

      The analysis of endothelial function using endothelium-dependent flow-mediated dilation
      (FMD)and endothelium-independent vasodilation with nitroglycerin (NMD) of the brachial artery
      is a valuable, non-invasive method to determine the influence of various factors on the
      endothelial function (Moens et al. 2005).

      Since changes in periphery are consistent with changes in the coronary vessels (Anderson et
      al. 1995), FMD represent a valuable indicator for cardiac events (Gokce et al. 2002, 2003;
      Widlansky et al. 2003). FMD is defined as percentage increase in vessel diameter from
      baseline conditions to maximum vessel diameter during hyperaemia (de Roos et al. 2003a).

      Previous comparisons between TFA from ruminants and PHVO in clinical studies were only
      focused on changes in blood lipids (Chardigny et al. 2008, Motard-Bélanger et al. 2008).

      Blood lipids are important factors concerning the risk of cardiovascular diseases, but not
      the only one as epidemiological and clinical studies indicated.

      Studies on the effect of TFA on endothelial function, as well as on inflammatory and
      coagulation markers in the blood, become more important.

      Objective:

      The aim of the study is to compare a diet rich in trans fatty acids (TFA) from ruminant
      sources with a diet rich in TFA from hydrogenated vegetable oils (PHVO) in regard to their
      effects on cardiovascular risk markers (endothelial function, blood lipids, inflammation and
      coagulation parameters in the blood).

      Methods:

      Randomized, controlled, double blind study with healthy volunteers of both sex, aged between
      45-65y. About 200 volunteers will be enrolled and randomized into 3 parallel study arms after
      a run-in period of 2 weeks.

      Group 1 will follow a diet with 2% TFA of the total energy consumption from ruminant source,
      group 2 a diet with 2E% TFA from PHVO and group 3 a diet without any TFA for 4 weeks.

      At the beginning of the run-in period and at the beginning and the end of the intervention
      period the endothelial function of the brachial artery will be assessed using flow-mediated
      dilation (FMD)/ nitro-mediated dilation (NMD) methods and blood samples will be collected to
      analyse blood lipids, inflammation and coagulation parameters in the blood. Nutrition
      councils will be passed at the beginning of the run-in period and then every 2 weeks. In the
      weeks between, the volunteers are contacted by phone.
    
  