
    
      HIV/AIDS patients experience a range of symptoms associated with clinical manifestations of
      the disease, opportunistic infections, and medication side effects, all of which are strongly
      associated with quality of life (QoL). Many HIV/AIDS patients use complementary and
      alternative medicine (CAM) to help alleviate their symptoms and to improve their QoL. Among
      the various CAMs, acupuncture and relaxation response are commonly used regimens. These two
      therapies are thought to share common features and can complement each other in that
      acupuncture facilitates the effect of relaxation response and on the other hand relaxation
      response prepares the body to be more accessible to acupuncture. This study will test the
      feasibility of conducting a double blind 2-arm controlled trial and to collect pilot data in
      preparation for a large-scale study to fully test the hypothesis that adding relaxation
      response to acupuncture will have an enhanced effect in HIV+ patients. For this pilot study,
      we will recruit 100 HIV+ patients who are currently receiving acupuncture. Study participants
      in the intervention group will listen to tapes with instructions to elicit the relaxation
      response as well as music routinely played while receiving acupuncture. Study participants in
      the control group will receive usual care that is listening to music while receiving
      acupuncture. Study participants in the intervention group will be given the relaxation
      response tapes for home practice and they are asked to record the frequency of usage. We will
      assess both groups' symptoms and quality of life at baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and upon
      completion of the intervention at 12 weeks. We will assess the feasibility using various
      indicators, including patient evaluation of the study. Ultimately, the qualitative analysis
      of patients' study evaluation as well as the longitudinal regression analysis results that
      compare the outcomes between the intervention and control groups will be used to help design
      a future large-scale study of the relaxation response intervention among HIV+ patients
      treated with acupuncture.
    
  