
    
      Specific Aim 1: To use advanced functional neuroimaging methods to better understand the
      nature of attention disruption in patients who have sustained a TBI. We will use imaging data
      acquired at 3 Tesla (3T) for quantification of regional changes in brain volume over time.
      The microstructural integrity of white matter tracts will be assessed with diffusion tensor
      imaging (DTI). Resting state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) from 3T will provide an understanding
      of the neural networks associated with the brain's baseline activity which may be correlated
      to cognitive health. We will also try to better understand attention processing in relation
      to time by employing magnetoencephalography (MEG). By overlaying MEG information on top of
      structural T1 and T2-weighted MRI sequences, we can get a better overall picture, in both
      spatial and temporal resolutions, of the brain cognitive tasks. MEG examination will include
      standard cognitive tasks that rely on intact attention and executive functioning, but are not
      directly trained by the attention training modules. This allows for assessment of the
      improvement in functional attention and the ability of training to generalize across related
      cognitive tasks. All imaging will be corroborated with neuropsychological and neurocognitive
      testing to assess whether or not abnormalities seen in the imaging are indicative of
      functionality.

      Specific Aim 2: To measure the extent of improvement of patients' attention post cognitive
      training, and to better understand the processes and timelines that underlie the recovery of
      attention dysfunction. Comparing the pre- and post-training neurocognitive test results will
      measure the difference, if any, in attention capacity. These improvements will be correlated
      to respective advanced imaging. 3T MRI and MEG information from both before and after the
      cognitive training will be compared to look for any anatomical, functional, and connectivity
      changes.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine which demographic factors (age, race, etc.) and clinical factors
      (medical history, severity of injury, etc.) contribute to attention impairment, if any. By
      collecting detailed clinical intake assessments from patients (and/or parents, if applicable)
      and medical records, as recommended the NIH Common Data Elements for TBI, we will be able to
      identify any epidemiological variables that significantly contribute to both 1) sustaining
      attention deficits post-TBI and 2) the propensity for recovery after successful completion of
      the cognitive training protocol.
    
  