
    
      6.6-12% of women with breast cancer were diagnosed before the age of 40 year and breast
      cancer accounted for 40% of all cancer in women before the age of 40 year.Attributed to
      improved treatment, of which chemotherapy plays a major role, more than 70% of breast cancer
      patients at reproductive age obtain 10-year survival rates. Consequently, the question of
      pregnancy and premature ovarian failure after breast cancer treatment are presented more
      frequently. Fortunately, most of the available literature provides good evidence that
      pregnancy after breast cancer may improve survival. Unfortunately, no therapy has been shown
      to preserve fertility in patients receiving chemotherapy so far, although chemotherapy
      induced ovarian failure ,which finally results in infertility and premature ovarian failure,
      has been reported 60 years before. The greater rate of prepubertal than of postpubertal women
      with normal ovarian function after chemotherapy supports the concept that the suppressed
      ovary has a greater tolerance during cytotoxic treatments.While inhibiting the pituitary
      ovarian axis, Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRHa) is thought to block follicular
      development and reduce chemotherapy toxicity. Several studies had revealed GnRHa co-treatment
      yielded a statistically significant improvement in the proportion of spontaneous menstrual
      resumption after chemotherapy, compared to controls.It is noteworthy that menses and
      fertility are not necessarily linked. Absence of regular menses, particularly if the patient
      is taking tamoxifen(endocrine therapy for breast cancer), does not necessarily imply lack of
      fertility. Conversely, the presence of menses does not guarantee fertility.Currently,
      anti-Müllerian hormone(AMH) is considered as the best biochemical marker for assessment of
      reproductive capacity in reproductive medicine settings. Because it is produced by granulosa
      cells of growing antral follicles, AMH is significant positive correlation with both quantity
      and quality of oocytes. Moreover, it can be measured on any day for minimal fluctuation
      during the menstrual cycle.Antral follicle count (AFC) by vaginal ultrasound is also a good
      predictor of response to exogenous FSH and correlates independently with the number of
      oocytes retrieved during in vitro fertilization(IVF). Our study is designed to make sure the
      effect of GnRHa on the preservation of ovarian reserve function in breast cancer patients at
      reproductive age treated with (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy by observing the dynamic changes of
      ovarian reserve marker (AMH, AFC, E2 and FSH) pre and post chemotherapy.

      Patients: Premenopausal patients aged 18-45 years were eligible for enrollment, with stages I
      to III of newly diagnosed breast cancer, for which treatment with adjuvant or neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy was planned. Exceptions were made up of the use of hormonal contraception,
      previous chemotherapy, bilateral oophorectomy or ovarian irradiation before enrollment, and
      GnRHa -containing endocrine therapy planned.

      Study Design: In our study, patients will be informed comprehensively and assigned without
      interference to receive either (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy with goserelin (goserelin group) or
      without goserelin (chemotherapy group) as their own selection.AMH, follicle stimulating
      hormone (FSH), and estradiol (E2) are used as biochemical markers and AFC is used as
      biophysical marker. The markers and menstrual status will be evaluated before, during, and at
      0.5-year, 1-year, 2-year after chemotherapy. Patients in goserelin group are given a
      subcutaneously dose of 3.6 mg (Zoladex, AstraZeneca) at least 1 week before the first cycle
      of chemotherapy and then every 4 weeks for the duration of chemotherapy. Subgroup analysis is
      stratified by age (≤ 40 years and 41-45 years), baseline level of AMH(≤1ng/ml and >1ng/ml),
      chemotherapy regimen (AC, AC-T(H)) and endocrine therapy regimen (with or without Tamoxifen).

      The primary end point is to compare the recovery rate of AMH value (≥ 0.5ng/ml) (according to
      the "the Bologna criteria") between the two treatment groups at 2-year after chemotherapy.
      Secondary endpoints included descriptions of the dynamic changes of each marker from pre- to
      post-chemotherapy and time to resumption of menstrual activity (reappearance of two
      consecutive menstrual periods within 21 to 35 days); recovery rate of AMH value at 1 year and
      the rates of the other markers returning to the premenopausal range (E2 ≥ 40 pg/ml, FSH < 25
      U/L, AFC ≥ 5) were assessed at both 1 year and 2 years. Events in the analysis of
      disease-free survival (DFS) included local recurrence, distant metastases, contralateral or
      ipsilateral breast tumor, second primary malignancy, and death due to any cause.

      Statistical Analysis: Sample size calculation was based on the GBG 37 ZORO study. Out of 60
      patients, 17 were accessible for AMH assessment during follow up to estimate ovarian function
      in 24 months after end of chemotherapy. Out of these 17 patients, 8 received goserelin and 9
      were treated without goserelin. Recovery to normal AMH level was seen in 3 of 9 (33%)
      patients in chemotherapy group vs 4 of 8 (50%) patients in goserelin group respectively. To
      have 80% power to detect a 17% improvement in recovery to normal AMH level in 2 years, with a
      two-sided type I error rate of 0.05, 230 patients were needed to be assigned (calculated by
      NCSS-PASS). Finally, considering dropping off of patients, the target enrollment was 240
      eligible patients. Descriptive statistics of baseline demographics and clinicopathologic
      characteristics were considered in the two treatment groups.The recovery rates of ovarian
      reserve markers and menses at 1-year and 2-year follow-up after chemotherapy were compared by
      a Pearson chi-square test. Logistic regression was performed to study the effect of age,
      baseline level of AMH, chemotherapy regimen and tamoxifen possible interactions on the
      probability of ovarian recovery. The differences in the baseline clinicopathological
      characteristics between the two groups were adjusted through propensity score weighting. The
      propensity score for each patient was estimated by a logistic regression model using group
      (the chemotherapy group or the goserelin group) as dependent variable and all patient
      characteristics as independent variables. Next, adjusted recovery rates of these markers and
      menses were compared by the chi-square test. Hormone concentrations and AFC at each time
      point were compared using the Mann-Whitney test. Log-rank statistics was used to compare time
      to return of menses between the two groups. Finally, Kaplan-Meier curve for disease-free will
      be calculated and compared by log-rank test. P values less than 0.05 are considered
      statistically significant. Analyses are performed by using SPSS version 18 software.

      In summary: our study is the first prospective cohort study that focus on the premenopausal
      breast cancer patients who would like to preserve the ovarian function in China. The results
      will be more adaptable in China and other countries in Asia where breast cancer patients' age
      at diagnosis is younger. The outcome of this study may offer breast cancer patients at
      reproductive age hope of becoming mothers and possessing vigour of youth.

      Recent breast cancer treatment guidelines strongly recommended that moderate and high-risk
      young patients with hormone receptor-positive disease should receive ovarian function
      suppression as part of adjuvant endocrine therapy, based largely on the results of the SOFT
      and TEXT Trials. Consequently, more than 20% patients in the two treatment group in this
      study who had hormone receptor-positive disease were estimated to directly receive or to
      change from tamoxifen to a GnRHa-containing endocrine therapy regimen and would not be
      assessed at the 2-year follow-up after chemotherapy. Therefore, an interim statistical
      analysis was determined to perform on the eligible patients who could be evaluated at 1 year
      after chemotherapy in the two treatment groups. The cutoff date for this analysis was
      November 30, 2019.
    
  