
    
      Several surveys had revealed that Tibetan adults had high blood pressure(BP)and prevalence of
      hypertension than other parts of China and were also higher than those in developed nations
      as well. For example, one study found that among Tibetan herdsmen 40 years and older, the
      prevalence of hypertension was 56% and the mean systolic blood pressure/diastolic blood
      pressure was 146.6/92.0mmHg. However, the rates of awareness, treatment, and control were
      dismally low.

      The Tibetan have been living in the Tibetan Plateau. The special natural and social
      environment there，as well as ethnic ,may all be involved in the etiology of the high
      prevalence and effect the response to antihypertensive treatment. Nevertheless, few
      interventional studies have been done in Tibetan hypertensive patients. Therefore, the
      purpose of our study was to compare the blood pressure reduction between different
      antihypertensive drugs. Nitrendipine, hydrochlorothiazide, captopril and Beijing hypotensive
      No.0 (also named" compound hypotensive tablet") are selected, which are cheap and available
      in the Tibetan Plateau.

      Nitrendipine, hydrochlorothiazide and captopril are the representatives of Dihydropyridines
      Calcium antagonists, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, respectively.
      They are all recommended as the first-line antihypertensive drug. Beijing hypotensive No.0 is
      produce by China Resources Double-crane Pharmaceutical company in China, and it is a
      fixed-dose combination containing reserpine 0.1mg, hydrochlorothiazide 12.5mg, dihydralazine
      sulfate 12.5mg, triamterene 12.5mg. Many studies conducted in China have demonstrated its
      efficacy and safety in lowing blood pressure.

      After recruitment, participant will be grouped according to their BP. If BP<160/100mmHg,
      monotherapy is started. Patient is randomly assigned to receive nitrendipine 10mg bid or
      Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5mg qd. If BP≥160/100mmHg, Patient is randomly assigned to receive two
      drug combination therapy(captopril 25mg three times daily (tid) and Hydrochlorothiazide
      12.5mg qd) or Beijing hypotensive No.0 one pile qd. During the following 12 months，each
      participant will take at least four visits at 1、3、6 and 12 months respectively. Goal BP for
      all participants was less than 140/90mmHg, achieved by titrating the assigned study drug and
      adding open-label agents when necessary. The maximum dosage is 20mg BID for nitrendipine,
      25mg qd for Hydrochlorothiazide and 50mg tid for captopril. The dosage of Beijing hypotensive
      No.0 should not be added.
    
  