
    
      Background:

      The major limitations of umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT) in adults are graft
      rejection and delayed engraftment leading to increased infection-related morbidity and
      treatment related mortality (TRM). To increase engraftment rates while at the same time
      enhancing graft-versus-tumor effect, previous studies within our institution have employed
      the strategy of targeted immune depletion (TID). The goal of TID is to use T-cell suppressive
      chemotherapy prior to the conditioning regimen to treat the patient s disease while
      concurrently depleting host T-cells. This has lead to earlier complete donor chimerism in the
      setting of allogeneic sibling donor and matched unrelated donor transplantation. Our aim in
      the current protocol is to extend the strategy of TID to reduced-intensity UCBT, with the
      goal of more rapid engraftment, leading to decreased TRM and increased overall survival. Our
      intention is to investigate this approach in the setting of double cord blood transplant in
      adults in a pilot manner.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective of this study is to see whether targeted immune depletion can
           shorten the time to neutrophil recovery and improve the cord blood engraftment rate as
           measured by ANC greater than or equal to 500 x 3 and at least partial donor chimerism
           (10-90%).

        -  Secondary objectives include further assessment of hematopoetic recovery, treatment
           related morbidity including infections and acute and chronic GVHD, TRM, progression free
           and overall survival, further assessment of immune reconstitution, and study of
           engraftment kinetics as they apply to prediction of which of the two transplanted cords
           will engraft in relation to cell dose, CD34+ dose, HLA-match, and other experimental
           variables.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults (18-69 years) with advanced or high-risk hematologic malignancies including AML,
           ALL, MDS, CLL, NHL, HL, CML, multiple myeloma, and MPD who lack a readily available
           HLA-matched sibling or greater than or equal to 7/8 HLA-matched unrelated donor.
           Patients must have life expectancy of at least 3 months, ECOG less than or equal to 2,
           and relatively normal major organ functions.

        -  Patients must have two partially HLA-matched UCB units. Units must be HLA-matched at
           HLA-A and B (intermediate resolution molecular typing) and DRB1 (high resolution
           molecular typing) 4-6/6 with the recipient and 4-6/6 with each other. Each unit must
           contain a minimum precryopreserved, nucleated cell dose of 1.5 x 10(7) per kilogram.

      Design:

        -  This is a Pilot study of TID in the setting of reduced-intensity double cord blood
           transplant in adults.

        -  Patients will receive disease-specific induction chemotherapy (EPOCH-F/R or FLAG) prior
           to transplant for disease control and immune depletion.

        -  All patients will receive an identical conditioning regimen consisting of
           cyclophosphamide 1200 mg/m(2)/day IV for 4 days and fludarabine 30 mg/m(2)/day for 4
           days.

        -  A maximum of 13 patients will be transplanted in the initial part of this pilot study.
           If no stopping rules are reached, the study will be expanded to allow the
           transplantation of an additional 12 patients (a total of 25 patients).
    
  