
    
      Everyday functioning relates to how well an individual can function independently in
      day-to-day life. As a person ages, there are various changes which occur in the body, which
      can lead to a decline in everyday functioning. There is a loss of bone density, the immune
      system naturally declines which can lead to a susceptibility to autoimmune diseases,
      infection and cardiovascular disease. Many older adults report feeling socially isolated and
      lonely, which can also lead to poor mood and negative health outcomes. Due to advancements in
      society, there has been an increase in older adult informal caregivers, which is a form of
      chronic stress associated with a range of negative outcomes and declines in functioning.

      Nutritional supplementation may have the potential to improve everyday functioning in older
      adults, which may have declined through ageing alone or ageing alongside chronic stress from
      being a caregiver. Research had shown multivitamin supplementation to have positive
      cognitive, mood, mobility and health effects. As well as improving general day-to-day
      well-being and functioning, and may have the ability to reduce feeling of stress.

      The current study will investigate the effects of a multivitamin supplement following daily
      intake for 12 weeks on a range of everyday functioning outcomes in adults aged 70 and over.
      The outcome measures include; well being, cardiovascular reactivity, immune response, stress,
      self-reported health, daily functioning behaviours, mobility, mood, cognitive function, sleep
      quality and loneliness.

      Amendment to protocol:

      The recent Covid-19 restrictions have led to changes to the original protocol. Specifically,
      a group of participants who completed their baseline assessment as per the outlined protocol
      could not complete the final testing visit as initially planned because of the imposed
      lockdown For these participants, all follow-up questionnaire-based assessments have been
      conducted online from their home.

      These necessary changes to the method of data collection will be a confounding factor in this
      group, which would not be comparable to the main dataset. Therefore, the decision has been
      made to un-blind the researcher to this group of participants' treatment (11 who completed in
      full prior and 34 who completed testing visit 2 online).

      This will allow the main outcome measures to be compared in this unique group of
      participants', as well as comparisons between outcome measures in those who completed pre and
      during lockdown.
    
  