
    
      Cervical cancer is one of the most common cancers in women and one of the leading causes of
      death in women worldwide. Pre-cancerous lesions (dysplasias) are detected by the preventive
      smear test at the gynecologist and can thus contribute to a 100% chance of cure if they are
      clarified by a colposcopic examination as part of the dysplasia consultation and dysplastic
      lesions are then surgically removed if necessary (conization).

      In practice, there are four different methods by which conization can be performed: Knife
      Conization, Laser Conization, Large Loop Excision of the Transformation Zone (LLETZ) and Loop
      Electrical Excision Procedure (LEEP). The first three methods have in common that they aim to
      remove the entire transformation zone. The rationale for this is that both the precancerous
      lesions and the cervical carcinoma itself originate in the transformation zone of the cervix.
      This thesis would support the idea of resecting the lesion while taking the remaining healthy
      transformation zone along as a precaution. However, it is clear that with the removal of the
      entire transformation zone, healthy tissue is removed in addition to the lesion itself. Any
      increase in radicality may increase the complication rate of the procedure, especially with
      regard to the most feared long-term complication of preterm birth, because the more cervical
      tissue is removed, the higher the risk of subsequent preterm birth. This connection speaks in
      favor of the use of LEEP, in which only the visible dysplastic tissue in healthy tissue is
      removed in the sense of a radical resection, without at the same time also removing the
      entire transformation zone, especially in women who still wish to have children.

      In summary, the aim of conization is on the one hand to achieve a high level of oncological
      safety (low recurrence rate, high R0 resection rate) by resecting sufficient dysplastic
      tissue, and on the other hand to avoid excessive tissue resection, because this would
      increase the risk of premature birth in a subsequent pregnancy.

      There is no direct head-to-head comparison between LEEP and LLETZ in the literature regarding
      oncologic safety, for which complete resection of the dysplastic lesion (so-called 'in-sano
      resection') is the most appropriate postoperative surrogate parameter. In a Pubmed literature
      search (search date: February 10, 2021, search terms: conization, LEEP, LLETZ, resection
      margin, randomized), no prospective randomized study on this topic was found. Further
      clinical studies are therefore useful to optimize surgical therapy for cervical dysplasia

      The primary objective of the present study is to compare LLETZ (resection of the dysplastic
      lesion including the transformation zone) with targeted resection of the colposcopically
      conspicuous lesion only (LEEP) and to compare it with regard to oncological safety (defined
      as non-in-sano rate).

      For this purpose, patients with histologically confirmed CIN II/III will be randomly assigned
      to one of the two surgical methods. In order to exclude an unwanted influence by
      unconsciously different behavior of the patients, the patient will only learn about the
      surgical method performed on her after the control examination 6 months postoperatively
      (unilateral blinding). The surgeon is not blinded for obvious technical reasons. However, in
      case of complications, access to the surgical report and the chosen method is possible at any
      time.

      Immediately postoperatively, the specimen is examined histologically and evaluated with
      regard to the depth of the conus and the degree of dysplasia as well as the resection margins
      (R0= free resection margin; R1= dysplasia extends to the resection margin) by a pathology
      specialist.

      After an interval of 6-8 months, the first follow-up examination (the so-called "test of
      cure") with PAP smear and HPV test is performed in accordance with the guidelines. The two
      groups are compared with regard to normalization of the Pap smear, HPV status and colposcopic
      findings (including histology in the case of colposcopic abnormalities).

      For patients with negative HPV test, unremarkable cytology, histology and colposcopy, the
      study is terminated. These patients are considered cured and discharged to regular screening
      with their established gynecologist. In case of abnormalities, the further procedure is
      determined according to the usual clinical criteria in conformity with the guidelines:
      clinical control after 3 and/or 6 months or re-conization.

      Secondary target criteria of the study are, in addition to the intra- and postoperative
      complication rate, the pain perception of the patients and the intraoperative blood loss,
      also the rate of negative high risk HPV tests after 6-8 months, since a negative HPV test is
      generally regarded as evidence of successful treatment. Thus, the negative predictive value
      for a negative HPV test after conization ranges from 92% to 100%. Successful therapy usually
      results in elimination of the HP virus. Accordingly, a negative HPV test excludes CIN
      persistence or recurrence with a high probability. In contrast, a persistently positive HPV
      test may be taken as an indication of persistence of dysplasia or as an indicator of
      recurrent dysplasia.
    
  