
    
      Edentulism is prevalent in elderly people and the current care is the use of removable
      denture based on edentulous jaw regions. Nevertheless, the close and extended contact of
      denture base with mucosa and the transmission of chewing movement trough the complete denture
      leads to a weakening of supporting tissues in the medium to long term. This embrittlement may
      be accompanied by pain, compromising the proper integration of complete denture. In
      geriatrics, the peculiar weakness of bearing surfaces, connected to physio-pathological
      conditions as well as the decrease of adaptability and resistance further complicate the
      biomechanical integration of this kind of prosthesis. It has been shown that chronical ageing
      induces a decrease of resiliency and hydration of oral mucosa, associated with a decrease of
      epithelium thickness; nevertheless few studies have been performed at the molecular and
      supramolecular level to characterize this mucosa. Techniques of material characterization
      (Fourier transform Infrared spectroscopy, Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC),
      Thermostimulated currents (TSC), have shown their ability to follow hydric, molecular and
      structural modification of dermis upon ageing. In accordance with this study, the
      distribution of thermal, vibrational and dielectric markers of oral mucosa will be extracted
      in two age groups. The principal hypothesis of the research is the possibility to identify
      specific markers and to follow molecular and organizational changes induced by ageing
      (intrinsic ageing or extrinsic ageing due to prostheses wearing). The characterization of
      saliva by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) shows promise in quantifying the
      biochemical components of this biofluid. Some vibrational saliva biomarkers have high
      diagnostic potential (physiological stress, diabetes, salivary lithiasis, carcinomas,
      periodontitis).This study is a first step to redefine the specification for the most
      appropriate biomaterial in removable prostheses.
    
  