
    
      Physical Function Interview:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked 6 questions. The first 2 questions
      ask about your physical ability to walk up and down stairs. The next 4 questions ask about
      your history of falling down in the last year, symptoms of depression, loss of urinary
      control, vision problems, and your ability to function physically. If you report that you
      have fallen down more than 3 times in the last year, you will automatically be referred for a
      physical therapy evaluation at M. D. Anderson.

      Physical Function Tests:

      After you have completed the questionnaires, you will perform 3 physical function tests:

        -  For the first test, you will sit in a chair, stand up, walk 10 feet as quickly and
           safely as possible, turn around, return to the chair and sit again. This test will be
           timed. You will perform this test 3 times, the average of the times will be recorded.
           There will be no rest break between each test.

        -  For the next test, you will stand only on 1 leg as long as possible, and this time will
           be recorded.

        -  You will complete a grip strength test. You will grip a small device in 1 hand and
           squeeze as hard as you can while you are in a seated position. You will perform this
           test 3 times and your best measurement will be recorded. There will be no rest period
           between the 3 tests.

      Symptom Assessment Interview:

      After you complete the physical function tests, you will be asked to rate any symptoms you
      experience on a scale from 0-10 (with 0 being the best and 10 being worst). You will be asked
      to rate symptoms of things such as pain, fatigue, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness,
      and shortness of breath.

      Medical Record Information:

      Information will be collected from your medical record. This information will include your
      age, race, gender, weight, height, body mass index, disease diagnosis, history of
      chemotherapy and medications, and medical history.

      Additional Information:

      The physical function interview, tests of physical function, and symptom assessment interview
      will take about 45 minutes total to complete during an already-scheduled visit to the clinic.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation on this study will be over after you have completed the questionnaires,
      physical function tests, and the symptom assessment.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 60 people will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  