
    
      Objective: This project, Clinical and Molecular Studies in Families with Inherited Eye
      Disease will study inherited eye diseases, both Mendelian and complex age related inherited
      eye diseases, in families of many nationalities and ethnic backgrounds in order to identify
      the genes that, when mutated, cause inherited eye diseases and the pathophysiology through
      which they act. Among the diseases studied will be cataracts, corneal dystrophies and other
      corneal diseases, retinal degenerations, myopia and other anterior chamber defects, and
      glaucoma.

      Study Population: Families and individuals of many nationalities and ethnic backgrounds. We
      will study a maximum of 5,000 patients and family members.

      Design: The study consists of ascertaining individuals and especially families with multiple
      individuals, affected by both congenital and age related inherited eye diseases. These
      participants and their families will undergo detailed ophthalmological examinations to
      characterize their visual system and determine their affectation status. A blood sample will
      be collected from each individual for isolation of DNA and in some individuals for
      lymphoblastoid transformation to establish a renewable source of DNA. Linkage analysis,
      association analysis, physical mapping, and mutational screening will be carried out to
      identify the specific gene and the mutations in it that are associated with inherited eye
      disease in the family. Mutation screening may involve Sanger sequencing if a small number of
      candidate genes are identified, or whole genome or whole exome sequencing if more genes
      remain as viable candidates after the initial analysis. If necessary, the gene product will
      be characterized biochemically. Blood samples may also be used to complete analyses such as:
      hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), fasting blood glucose, and glucose tolerance tests. The study will
      enroll participants at NEI and collaborating institutions.

      Outcome Measures: Linkage will be determined using the lod score method, association will be
      determined using standard statistical procedures to estimate p values, and mutations in
      specific genes will be assessed using a combination of residue conservation, blosum score,
      bioinformatic prediction of structural damage to the protein, and molecular modeling.
      Assessment of biochemical, metabolic, and physiological effects of these mutations will be
      individualized to the specific case.
    
  