
    
      Design: Single site, double-blind, randomized controlled trial

      Population: HIV-positive South African women between the ages of 18 and 40 years

      Study size: At least 166 women

      Study intervention: Levonorgestrel intrauterine device (LNG IUD) or the copper T-380
      intrauterine device (C-IUD)

      Duration & Follow-up: Approximately 48 months in total. Recruitment will take approximately
      24 months. After enrollment, each participant will be followed for 24 months.

      Primary Objectives: To compare LNG IUD safety to the safety of the C-IUD with respect to
      genital HIV shedding, a surrogate for potential for HIV transmission, overall and in the
      presence and absence of ART.

      Secondary Objectives: 1) To compare LNG IUD safety to the safety of the C-IUD with respect to
      HIV progression as measured by changes in plasma viral load (VL) at 6 months between the two
      pre-ART study arms. 2) To explore LNG IUD safety with respect to non-HIV related outcomes,
      including hemoglobin change, incidence of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs) and pelvic
      inflammatory disease (PID). 3) To measure LNG IUD acceptability through device continuation
      and other measures for the LNG IUD as compared to the C-IUD. 4) To compare three genital
      tract sampling methods to determine which provides optimal recovery of HIV RNA and immune
      mediators over a series of three visits.

      Primary Endpoints: Change in detection and quantity of HIV RNA genital VL measures between
      study arms at baseline and 6 months, and over 24 months following IUD insertion.

      Secondary Endpoints: 1) Measures of HIV disease progression, including CD4 change, time to
      ART initiation, and mean plasma VL change from baseline to 6 and through 24 months among
      pre-ART women. 2) Hemoglobin change and incidence of STIs and PID for all participants
      through 24 months. 3) IUD continuation and expulsion rates between study arms comparing
      different IUDs over a 24-month period and acceptability measures through quantitative and
      qualitative methods. 4) Comparison of female genital tract sampling methods for recovery of
      HIV RNA as measured by VL and immune mediators (e.g. cytokines).

      Study Site: Gugulethu Community Health Centre (GCHC), Cape Town, South Africa
    
  