
    
      BACKGROUND:

      An estimated 25 to 40 percent of individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS) suffer from chronic
      insomnia, and the prevalence of sleep disorders is often unrecognized. Chronic insomnia
      disorder (CID) is defined as persistent difficulty with sleep initiation, duration,
      consolidation, or quality that occurs despite adequate opportunity and circumstances for
      sleep, leading to daytime impairment, and ongoing for at least three consecutive months.

      Common causes of CID in MS include motor disorders such as cramps, spasms, restless leg
      syndrome and periodic limb movements, neuropathic pain, bladder dysfunction (such as
      nocturia), and obstructive sleep apnea. Depression, anxiety, daytime fatigue, and cognitive
      dysfunction are also associated with sleep disorders in MS. Moreover, treatments for the
      underlying disease, such as interferon therapy, as well as treatments for various symptoms of
      MS, such as stimulant medications used to treat fatigue, may also contribute to insomnia.

      Many patients manage their insomnia using benzodiazepines and other medications, which may be
      associated with a number of adverse effects, including dependence and tolerance, cognitive
      dysfunction, and depression. Furthermore, other adverse effects of benzodiazepines arise from
      their use in combination with other drugs such as opioid narcotics for pain. Therefore, it is
      desirable to find effective nonpharmacological treatments for insomnia in patients with
      multiple sclerosis.

      Psychologically-based and behavioral treatments have been widely tested in various cohorts of
      patients with CID with and without co-morbid conditions. These methods include cognitive
      behavioral therapies (CBT), sleep hygiene programs, mindfulness meditation, and others. In a
      randomized controlled clinical trial of 72 women with CID and MS in Iran, CBT treatment was
      associated with improved sleep quality as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI). A case series of 11 patients with chronic insomnia and MS who were treated with CBT
      at the Cleveland Clinic Sleep Disorders Center improved on measures of insomnia, fatigue and
      depression, as well as an increase in total sleep time of 1.5 hours.

      Mindfulness based stress reduction (MBSR) is an empirically-supported intervention designed
      to decrease stress, chronic and acute pain and anxiety in adults. Mindfulness is the practice
      of focusing full attention on the present moment intentionally and without judgment. The
      practice of mindfulness is hypothesized to reduce feelings of distress and stress reactivity
      by increasing one's awareness of and ability to tolerate thoughts and emotions. Mindfulness
      may help individuals decrease distress and over-reactivity to events and increase the ability
      to respond to events in ways that one consciously chooses (rather than through automatic
      'mindless" behaviors). Mindfulness-based interventions such as MBSR teach mindfulness through
      meditation, yoga, present-minded awareness in everyday life, and discussions of stress
      physiology and coping.

      Several studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of MBSR interventions in the treatment of
      insomnia. Long-term meditators have been shown to have increased parietal-occipital gamma
      (25-40 Hz) during NREM (non-rapid eye movement sleep), showing that MBSR can induce objective
      changes in sleep architecture. MBSR and MBTI (mindfulness based treatment of insomnia) have
      been shown in randomized, controlled studies to decrease sleep latency and total waking time
      and increase sleep time.These effects, moreover, have been durable. However, a meta-analysis
      of 6 randomized controlled trials involving 330 participants showed that mindfulness
      meditation significantly improved total wake time and sleep quality, but had no significant
      effects on sleep onset latency, total sleep time, wake after sleep onset, sleep efficiency,
      total wake time, Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), PSQI, or Dysfunctional Beliefs and Attitudes
      Sleep Scale (DBAS).

      Mindfulness training has been shown to be beneficial in improving several symptoms of MS,
      including those that have been shown to impact sleep. A randomized, controlled study of 150
      patients undergoing mindfulness training showed improvements in quality of life and
      well-being, including fatigue and depression. Furthermore, there is Class 1 evidence that
      stress reduction in MS can affect the underlying inflammatory biology of MS, as evidenced by
      a reduction in new MRI lesions. However, many other studies showing benefits of stress
      reduction in MS are limited by their descriptive nature and non-controlled design.

      The significance of this study is that while there are data showing the effectiveness of
      mindfulness-based techniques in treating insomnia in general, and some data showing the
      benefits of using non-mindfulness stress reduction techniques in the management of MS-related
      insomnia, there have been no studies to date on the efficacy of mindfulness techniques in
      treating MS-related insomnia.
    
  