
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of combination immunotherapy with blinatumomab and
      pembrolizumab by evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity, attribution,
      time course and duration. (Phase 1) II. Determine the recommended phase 2 schedule of
      combination immunotherapy with pembrolizumab and blinatumomab. (Phase 1) III. Evaluate the
      anti-leukemia activity of combination immunotherapy blinatumomab and pembrolizumab as
      assessed by overall response rate (complete response [CR] or CR with incomplete recovery
      [CRi]). (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate time to response (CR or CRi) and response duration. (Phase 2) II. Estimate
      overall survival and event-free survival. (Phase 2) III. Determine the number and proportion
      of patients who underwent hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) after treatment of
      pembrolizumab and blinatumomab. (Phase 2) IV. Determine the number and proportion of patients
      who receive pembrolizumab maintenance and the proportion continuing for up to 1 year. (Phase
      2) V. Estimate the minimal residual disease rate. (Phase 2)

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore evolution of T cell subsets at various points in treatment (T naive, T effector, T
      effector memory, T central memory, CD4, CD8). (Phase 2) II. Evaluate PD-L1 expression levels
      on acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) blasts and blasts counts overtime. (Phase 2) III.
      Evaluate PD-1/PD-L1 expression on subsets of T cells. (Phase 2) IV. Evaluate the clonal
      evolution of leukemic blasts in response to treatment. (Phase 2)

      OUTLINE:

      Participants receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 15 of cycle 1
      and days 1 and 22 of cycles 2 -5, and blinatumomab IV on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every
      35-42 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who achieve complete response have the option to receive blinatumomab IV for up to 4
      additional cycles.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for 1 year.
    
  