
    
      Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is associated with increased healthcare utilization,
      decreased functional status, and overall poor health. Sleep disturbances in PTSD are common,
      including nightmares, dream enactment, and poor sleep quality. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA)
      is also highly prevalent in the veteran population and may exacerbate PTSD symptoms by
      triggering arousals from sleep that promote recollection of dreams, enactment of dreams, and
      disrupt sleep continuity. Improvements in sleep quality and PTSD symptoms have been reported
      when OSA is treated with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy. However, formal
      assessment using validated questionnaires and documentation of CPAP compliance to correlate
      with these tools has not yet been performed. This study will recruit veterans with PTSD who
      have been newly diagnosed with OSA and who are willing to try CPAP therapy. Baseline
      assessments of PTSD symptoms, daytime sleepiness, sleep-related quality of life, sleep
      quality, general health perception, and mood will be performed before initiation of treatment
      and after 3 and 6 months of therapy.

      This study will have the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: To evaluate the effect of CPAP use on PTSD symptoms.

      Hypothesis: After 6 months of treatment, CPAP use will improve PTSD symptoms as assessed by
      the PTSD checklist (PCL-S).

      Aim 2: To evaluate the effect of CPAP use on 1)sleep quality and duration, 2)nocturnal
      symptoms of nightmares, movement disorders, dream enactment, and insomnia, 3)mood, 4)daytime
      sleepiness, 5)sleep-related quality of life, and 6) general health perception.

      Hypothesis: After 6 months of treatment, CPAP use will improve sleep quality, sleep duration,
      mood, daytime sleepiness, sleep-related quality of life, general health perception, and
      nocturnal symptoms of nightmares, movement disorders, dream enactment, and insomnia.
    
  