
    
      Aortic stiffness measured in adolescence or adulthood determines current hypertension,
      predicts future incidence of hypertension, and future atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease
      (ASCVD) events. International hypertension guidelines list severe aortic stiffness as grounds
      to intensify anti-hypertensive pharmacotherapy. Mechanisms of arterial stiffness beyond aging
      and obesity warrant further elucidation. In our preliminary data from adolescents attending
      weight-loss summer camps arterial stiffness improvement was not associated with weight change
      but was with change in circulating carnitine. Carnitine influences fatty acid oxidation and
      carbohydrate metabolism. Carnitine could therefore link to arterial stiffness through insulin
      resistance which in turn affects cellular tone, vascular fibrosis, modification of lipids or
      glucose metabolism, and/or advanced glycation end products. This proposal leverages 2
      instrumental variable study designs to infer a causal relation between carnitine and arterial
      stiffness. First, in 166 adolescents at risk of arterial stiffening due to high serum
      triglycerides(TG), we will conduct a mechanistic, double blinded, randomized controlled trial
      for the effect of 6 months of oral carnitine supplementation (CS+, n=83) versus placebo (CS-,
      n=83) on aortic stiffness measured as carotid femoral pulse wave velocity (CFPWV); serum
      fatty acid oxidation biomarkers by metabolomics analysis; insulin resistance as homeostatic
      model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR); and TG. Aim 1 is to compare CS+ versus CS-
      on change in arterial stiffness and monitor adverse events. The hypothesis CS+ is associated
      with lower arterial stiffening, and CS+ effect is not modified by sex or race/ethnicity. Aim
      2 is to compare the effect of CS+ versus CS- on fatty acid metabolism, insulin resistance,
      and lipids. The hypothesis is that CS+ alters long chain fatty acid beta oxidation, measured
      as lower long chain acylcarnitines, which in turn improves (HOMA-IR), and in turn decreases
      TG levels. This causal chain will be disentangled for direct versus indirect effects on CFPWV
      change. Second, naturally randomly assorted carnitine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
      noted above will be used to characterize the relationship of carnitine to arterial stiffness
      and stratify the effectiveness of CS+.Aim 3a is to obtain the direct effect of carnitine on
      arterial stiffness using Mendelian randomization of SNPs associated with serum carnitine as
      instrumental variables with the hypothesis these variant SNPs are associated with lower
      arterial stiffness, supporting a causal inference. Aim 3b is to identify effect modification
      of CS+ vs CS- on arterial stiffness by examining if a carnitine genetic risk score will
      modify the effect of CS+ on change in arterial stiffness. This proposal with 2 instrumental
      variable projects would evaluate a causal role for carnitine in arterial stiffness at a point
      when the life course trajectory to hypertension can be modified. The study will also
      investigate the role of carnitine in insulin resistance and dyslipidemia at this same age,
      which may serve as grounds for future therapeutic clinical trials. Discovering genetically
      mediated causes of arterial stiffness or other outcomes may facilitate targeting of future
      therapies on susceptible youth before atherosclerotic changes are irreversible.
    
  