
    
      It has been demonstrated that tranexamic acid (TXA) reduces the peri-operative blood loss as
      well as the need for transfusion in total knee replacement arthroplasty(TKRA). The
      anti-fibrinolytic effects of TXA have been shown to mainly present in the wound that, in
      previous studies, the use of TXA decreased the blood loss without increasing the risk of
      thromboembolic complications. Nevertheless, the optimal dose, duration of treatment and route
      of administration of TXA to reduce blood loss while minimizing adverse effects remain
      uncertain.

      To use TXA as a pharmacologic alternative to transfusion, optimal regimen should be
      elucidated. Various studies have reported the effect of perioperative use of intravenous or
      topical TXA. Meta-analyses concluded that combined use of intravenous and topical TXA is more
      effective in reducing the blood loss and transfusion rate without increasing the risk of deep
      vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism compared to the use of either intravenous TXA or
      topical TXA alone. Both intravenous and topical administration was conducted pre or
      intraoperatively or within 6 hours post-operatively mainly due to conceivable risk of
      thromboembolic event when TXA is used continuously after surgery. However, regarding the fact
      that systemic activation of fibrinolysis starts post-operatively in TKRA using tourniquets
      and lasts over 18 hours, the continuous use of TXA after surgery might have additional
      benefit over the single day use. Moreover, the serial use of post-operative oral TXA for 5
      days after perioperative IV TXA use has been shown to significantly reduce transfusion rate
      without increasing thromboembolic complications compared to placebo.

      Therefore, in this study, the investigators aimed to 1) investigate the effect of serial use
      of perioperative IV and post-operative oral TXA in reducing the blood loss and transfusion
      risk compared to single day perioperative use of IV TXA and 2) assess the sufficient length
      of postoperative use of oral TXA in TKRA patients.
    
  