
    
      In terms of morbidity and mortality fall is a major concern in older adults. Fall is defined
      as unintentional contact with the ground. In 1988 defined fall as "an event in which a person
      rest unintentionally on the ground or lower surface". There are many reasons for fall which
      can be intrinsic or extrinsic. The risk factors of fall can be ageing (e.g. cognitive
      impairment, poor balance or low vision), nutritional (vitamin D and calcium deficiency),
      medication (sedatives, antidepressants etc), environmental factors (improper shoes, poor
      lightning and unsafe stairs) and lack of exercise.

      The most common mechanism of injury in the elderly population is falling about 30%-50% of
      falls in the elderly result in minor injuries, including bruises, abrasions, and lacerations,
      but an estimated 10% of all falls in seniors cause major injuries, including intracranial
      injuries and fractures. One per cent of all falls in this population result in hip fractures,
      which pose a significant risk for post-fall morbidity and mortality.

      A case series was conducted at Shifa Tamer-e-Millat University Islamabad from January-July
      2016. Sixteen adults more than 60 years age (07 males and 09 females) were recruited through
      convenient sampling. The specified Wii fit plus training was provided to all patients and the
      games included the Soccer heading, Ski slalom, table tilt and yoga. The Wii fit training
      improves the balance and reduces the fall risk in the older population.

      A study was conducted to evaluate the effects of virtual reality and strength training on the
      balance, fear of falling and handgrip strength of older women with a history of falls.
      Balance training consisting of virtual reality and strengthening exercises proved to be an
      effective tool to reduce the fear of falling and to improve the mobility of elderly female
      fallers and may be an acceptable treatment for the prevention of falls and balance recovery.

      Older adults are prone to fall due to ageing. Mostly older adults aged 60 and above fall due
      to cognitive impairment, balance problems and physiological functioning. Many studies
      reported that prevention of fall is possible by adopting a healthy lifestyle, environmental
      modification, exercise and education. Exercise plays a very important role in fall prevention
      e.g exercise and tai chi training target balance, flexibility and strength can reduce fall
      and harm related to fall. Although it does not show a marked difference enjoyable exercise
      program training is beneficial to achieve healthy outcomes.

      In the last few years, several journals had been published specifically on balance training
      exercises, resistance exercises and aerobic exercises separately. A new tool has been
      designed for fall risk reduction and to mobility in elderly is BRACE (Balance, Resistance,
      Aerobic, Cognition Exercises).

      A randomized control trial was conducted to compare the effects of S-BRACE (Balance,
      Resistance, Aerobic, Cognition Exercises) versus conventional therapy on functional balance,
      mobility and fall risk reduction in elderly with moderate fall risk. It is concluded
      supervised BRACE training has a better outcome in improving dynamic balance, mobility and
      risk of fall reduction. Cognitive improvement was observed in both groups.

      However, investigation on BRACE protocol is rare in literature. My aim is to compare the
      effect of BRACE protocol with BRE protocol on mobility and fall risk reduction in the
      elderly.
    
  