
    
      Background:

      Currently, embryo selection before embryo transfer is done on the basis of morphological
      characteristics only. The morphology based selection procedure has only a limited predictive
      value. The need of an additional oocyte/embryo evaluating method is therefore required. This
      method should preferentially be: non invasive, objective, and available early in development.
      Each oocyte is surrounded with cumulus cells, cells which are normally disposed of during the
      assisted reproductive technique (ART)-procedure. A diagnostic test based on the cumulus cells
      fits al of the required criteria. In the current study the use of an oocyte diagnostic test
      based on cumulus cell gene expression is evaluated.

      Primary purpose:

      Validate a non invasive diagnostic test, not curing the infertility condition but improving
      the ART-treatment and as such reducing the physical and psychological effect of the
      (eventually failed) ART procedure or the potential side effects of this procedure on the
      patients.

      Quality assurance plan for Data check and Source Data Verification:

      The aim, the study design, the eligible patient population, the study plan and specific
      requirements were discussed on several occasions at the test sites. Clear collaborative
      agreements were made between the partners involved in this study. These stipulate the study
      protocol and the required action from each party at the specific time points and
      communication procedures. A trial initiation meeting was conducted on site by the PI. Interim
      evaluations for site monitoring and validation of data registration are foreseen. These will
      be initiated as soon as 10 patients are included in the study and can occur with every extra
      5 patients being included. Data checks and verifications are foreseen on regular basis to be
      done by the trained study managers from the different study centers.

      Definitions:

      For study patients and matched controls serum human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is measured
      on day 14-17 after pick up. If positive, the hCG is followed up at day 20 and 25 (positive
      beta-hCG Pregnancy). All patients with a positive hCG are further followed up: 1) to detect a
      development of the foetal sac with positive heartbeat in weeks 7-8 of pregnancy (Clinical
      Pregnancy), 2) to have a routine ultrasound evaluation at weeks 12, 20 and 32 of pregnancy,
      3) to have data on delivery and child health (Live Birth). The total number of pregnancies
      obtained from the stimulation cycles included in the study will be referred to as the
      Cumulative Pregnancy for each of the study groups.

      Study design and Data analysis:

      The study is a prospective matched control and assessor blind study. Most of the details on
      the study design are already described else ware in this document. It should however be noted
      that the assessor performing the additional diagnosis for the oocytes using the CC-Test is
      blind for eventual development of the oocyte into an embryo and the quality of these embryo
      based on the morphology.

      Sample size was assessed based on retrospective studies performed by the Follicle Biology
      research laboratory (FOBI) UZBrussel. These indicated that with an ongoing pregnancy rate
      (OPR) in the two control groups of 30-40% and an expected OPR of 50%-70% the number of
      participants required is 20 to distinguish the difference with a power of 80%. For this
      reason at least 30 informative patients will be included in each study arm for each test
      site.

      Clinical patient data related to the inclusion and exclusion criteria should be available and
      evaluated by the local investigator prior to enrolment of the patient in the study. Absence
      of any data related to the evaluation of the ART procedure or outcome will exclude this
      patient from further analysis. Data inconsistency or out of range results will be considered
      as absent data.

      The statistical analysis of the results will be performed by a professional statistician
      experienced with the field, terminology and endpoints, using the best fit statistical method
      for each endpoint. For the analysis of the primary and secondary endpoints these include
      amongst others: Chi-square analysis, Kaplan-Meier analysis and multiple regression analysis,
      based on generalized linear models.

      Interim analysis:

      A first evaluation will be done when 20 cases, having had transfer after the CC-Test, are
      completed. This will comprise data on positive beta-hCG pregnancy, clinical pregnancy
      (7weeks).
    
  