
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While cigarette smoking is a well-established and potent risk factor for atherosclerotic
      vascular disease, individual susceptibility to smoking varies considerably, suggesting
      modifiers such as genomic variation. Several key enzymes involved in the activation and
      detoxification of mutagenic tobacco smoke compounds, oxidative stress, and DNA damage are
      expressed in the tissues of the heart and vasculature and represent mechanistic pathways for
      tobacco-induced pathology. Many of these enzymes have common polymorphisms (greater than or
      equal too 10% prevalence in the population) with known functional effects. Although
      restricted to a few enzymes and hampered by shortcomings in design, a small number of studies
      have suggested that enzymatic activation and detoxification of tobacco smoke modifies the
      risk of certain cardiovascular outcomes associated with cigarette smoking.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The genetic epidemiology study will evaluate common genetic polymorphisms that, in
      combination with exposure to tobacco smoke, may modify the risk of atherosclerosis and its
      clinical sequelae. An average of six polymorphisms, selected on the basis of their prevalence
      and functional significance, expression in relevant tissues, evaluation in previous studies
      and biologic plausibility, within 19 genes involved in activation, detoxification, oxidative
      stress, and DNA repair pathways will be evaluated as an ancillary study to the
      Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. In this well-characterized, bi-ethnic
      cohort of 15,792 men and women under active follow-up since 1987-89 (completeness of
      follow-up 96%), five endpoints quantifying subclinical atherosclerosis and validated clinical
      atherosclerotic events will be studied in case-cohort/case-control mode: incident coronary
      heart disease, carotid atherosclerosis, peripheral arterial disease, incident stroke, and
      MRI-detected cerebral infarcts. The study is well designed to study how DNA sequence
      polymorphisms can promote or inhibit the atherogenic effects of smoking and the risk of
      clinical events, and to contribute new knowledge on the role of genetic variation in the
      response to environmental insults and toxicants.

      A case-cohort or case-control approach will be taken, using data from the Atherosclerosis
      Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. Approximately 20 polymorphisms will be examined in relation
      to five cardiovascular disease (CVD) endpoints. The polymorphisms to be examined are
      classified as variants of either a) Phase I (activation) enzymes, b) Phase II
      (detoxification) enzymes, c) oxidative stress enzymes, or d) DNA repair enzymes. The CVD
      endpoints include incident coronary heart disease (CHD) cases (n=1,101), incident stroke
      cases (n=323), prevalent peripheral artery disease (PAD) (n=237 cases), carotid
      atherosclerosis determined by MRI (n=504 cases), and cerebral infarcts (n=237cases). Controls
      will consist of 1,062 controls selected at visit 1, and 237 visit-3 controls for the cerebral
      infarct cases. The statistical approach will be based on the proportional hazards regression
      for incident CHD and stroke endpoints, and logistic regression for the other CVD outcomes.
      Both additive and multiplicative forms of interaction will be tested.
    
  