
    
      This is an international, multi-centre, non-controlled, open-label, single arm, two-stage
      Simon Design phase II study for non-BRCA metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients with
      homologous recombination deficiency treated with Olaparib single agent.

      The main objective is to assess the efficacy of olaparib single agent as determined by
      Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST
      1.1).

      Triple negative non-BRCA metastatic breast cancer women (for the first stage) age ≥ 18 years
      that had previously received at least one (and no more than three) line for their metastatic
      disease. Patients must have previously received taxanes either in the early or in the
      metastatic scenario. To be included in the trial, tumours must be considered homologous
      recombination deficient (HRD) according to Foundation Medicine's Foundation One assay.
      Evidence of measurable metastatic disease is required.

      In the second stage, luminal patients (RH positive HER2 negative) will be allowed to
      participate in the same conditions that TN patients.

      Patients whose tumours are identified as Homologous Recombination Deficient by deleterious
      HRR gene mutations (according to Foundation Medicine's Foundation One assay) will receive
      olaparib 300 mg (two tablets of 150mg) orally twice daily (bid) on days 1-28 each 28 days.

      Study commitment is 39 patients: 17 patients will be enrolled at first stage and 22 at the
      second stage.

      During the period between the end of the first stage and the beginning of the second, an
      interim analysis will be conducted to assess the viability of the second part of the trial.

      The total duration of the study period is 34 months.

      Stage I:

        -  Recruitment period: 10 months

        -  Follow-up period: Up to 6 months after last patient included in the study

      Stage II:

        -  Recruitment period: 12 months

        -  Follow-up period: up to 6 months after last patient included in the study
    
  