
    
      Background: The accurate estimation of the time of death is a challenge in forensic medicine,
      as the methods routinely used to assess the post-mortem interval (PMI) are far from being
      precise. Recent developments in biochemical techniques may provide the opportunity to assist
      in more precise estimation of the time of death. The focus has been placed on the study of
      the biochemical profiles of closed compartment body fluids, as they are longer preserved than
      blood after death and subject to confined post-mortem chemical changes. Cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) has been considered as a suitable fluid to investigate these changes, as it is easy to
      sample and found in large amount.

      Due to its closeness to the central nervous system (CNS), CSF is used in clinical settings
      for the diagnosis of various CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, whose diagnosis is
      mainly based on the increase of the concentrations of Tau protein and its phosphorylated
      isoform (p-Tau) in CSF. A post mortem leakage of Tau into the CSF has also been shown,
      reflecting progressive neuronal death as in Alzheimer's disease. In this exploratory,
      cross-sectional study, we investigated Tau in post mortem CSF as a potential biomarker of the
      time of death.

      Objectives: The main objective was to assess the correlation between the concentration of Tau
      in CSF and the PMI. The secondary objectives were (1) to determine the inter-individual
      variability of the concentration of Tau for a same PMI; (2) to determine the kinetics of this
      concentration over time in the same individual; (3) to determine the variability of this
      concentration according to the site of collection (lumbar vs. sub-occipital).

      Materials and methods: The study was reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee of the
      University Hospital of Montpellier. Post mortem CSF samples were collected from 80 adult
      cadavers whose time of death was precisely known, at the mortuary of the University Hospital
      of Montpellier. Individuals with neurological disorders and head trauma were excluded from
      the study, as well as subjects with unknown past medical history or cause of death. CSF
      samples were removed by cisternal and lumbar punctures at the time of arrival at the
      mortuary, before refrigeration. A few mL of CSF were obtained at each tap in clean, sterile
      polypropylene tubes, using a 18G lumbar puncture needle. The cadavers were divided into four
      groups according to the PMI (n=25 in each group). The samples were taken 0-6 h (group A),
      6-12 h (group B), 12-18 h (group C) and 18-24 h (group D) after death. Additionally, CSF
      samples were collected every 3h from 10 cadavers during the first 15 h post mortem. All
      cadavers were kept at room temperature (+20 ± 2°C) during sample collection. CSF samples were
      transferred at +4°C to the laboratory where they were centrifuged for 10 min (+4°C, 1000 g).
      The clear supernatant was divided into aliquots then stored at -80°C until analysis. The
      rectal and tympanic temperatures were measured at the time of CSF collection using a probe
      thermometer.

      Concentrations of Tau and and its phosphorylated isoform (p-Tau) were measured by
      conventional immunoassays, while total protein concentration was determined using a
      bicinchoninic acid protein assay.

      The correlation coefficient between the concentration of Tau in CSF and the PMI was
      calculated in each case. The inter-individual variability was assessed by measuring the
      standard deviation (SD) of the mean concentration of Tau in each group. Linear regression
      analysis (adjusted for confounders) was used in assessing whether Tau concentration was
      dependent on the PMI. Paired Student's t-test was used to assess the variability of Tau
      concentration depending on the site of CSF collection
    
  