
    
      The purpose of this research is to compare the effectiveness, length of time from cessation
      of sedation till extubation, recovery time, duration of admission to the ICU, recovery of
      brain function, cytokine response, and complication rate of propofol versus midazolam when
      used for sedation in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) with or without elevated
      blood alcohol levels. Since this type of trauma patient will require significant medical care
      upon admission to the emergency room (ER) and the family will be concerned about the
      injuries, the patient and/or family will not be approached about the research study during
      this time. At the earliest possible time following neurointensive (NICU) or intensive care
      (ICU) admission, an informed consent will be obtained from the patient. Depending on the
      severity of the head injury, the patients may not be able to sign an informed consent. In
      this case, the consent will be obtained from next-of-kin or a legal guardian. No
      interventions or study research will be conducted on the patient until the consent is
      obtained.

      Standard blood panels are drawn for every trauma patient regardless of whether or not the
      patient is a participant of the research protocol, including blood alcohol levels. During the
      trauma workup in ER, it is standard of care to draw an extra vial in case additional lab
      tests are needed. After consent is obtained, the research team will obtain the extra vial
      from the Sparrow Lab to perform cytokine and blood cell phenotype measurements for the
      research study. Typically 0.5-1.0 ml of whole blood is needed for these measurements and that
      can be taken from the standardized EDTA tube that is drawn on admission. This small amount of
      blood sample would otherwise be discarded. Plasma cytokines and cell phenobype IL-1, IL-3,
      IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-17, TNF-¦Á, TGF-¦Â, G-CSF, GM-CSF, SCF, FGF, and IGF-II will be
      performed by Luminex-based mutiplex assay and ELISA. In addition to the ER analysis, left
      over blood will be used from the EDTA tubes at 24 hours, day 3 and day 7 after admission.
      These additional measurements will be taken from the routine morning laboratory blood draws
      which are done on all intubated patients to evaluate electrolytes. No additional blood will
      be drawn for the research and the study will only be using left over blood already drawn for
      standard of care labs that are done on all intubated patients.

      Once consented, the patients will be randomized to treatment group by random allocation
      process using Research Randomizer (Urbaniak, G. C., & Plous, S. Version 3.0 Computer
      software]. The patient and family will be blinded to which sedation is given. Nurses and
      physicians will not be blinded as they will be administering the sedatives. Although the
      patients will receive randomized sedation, these patients would be administered either
      propofol or midazolam even if they were not included in this research. The only modification
      for research purposes is the randomization of sedation medication by the randomizer rather
      than the physician. Currently, the providers in the research team do not have a preference of
      one type of sedation medication over the other.

      Once randomized, patients allocated to the propofol group will be initiated with a 0.5-1
      mg/kg i.v. bolus followed by repeated 10-20 mg doses at variable intervals (approximately 15
      s, at the discretion of the physician/nurse) until an appropriate level of sedation will be
      achieved (NICU protocol), which will be subsequently titrated to achieve a target Richmond
      Agitation-Sedation Scale (+4 = combative to -5 = unarousable) (Sessler et al. The Richmond
      Agitation-Sedation Scale.Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002; 166:1338-1344). Nurses will note
      pre-sedation levels based on the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale. While undergoing
      sedation, target sedation will be defined when the Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale meets a
      score of -4 to -5. Patients randomized to the midazolam group will be initiated with 0.5-1.0
      mg with incremental dosing at intervals of approximately 1-3 min until a level of sedation
      will be achieved at a target Richmond Agitation-Sedation scale sedation score (per NICU
      protocol).

      Management of all trauma patients include a careful history taking for alcoholism with
      referral for further evaluation or treatment when indicated, and determination whether other
      drugs are also being used. All patients with an elevated alcohol level require a medical
      social service consultation and all patients with a TBI require a neuropsychology
      consultation, both consultations are standard of care. The neuropsychological testing
      conducted after extubation is also standard of care. The neuropsychological evaluations will
      be measured based on the following assessments: intellectual functioning, language
      processing, visuospatial processing, attention, concentration, verbal learning, memory,
      executive functioning, sensory, perception, motor, strength, and personal assessment. The
      level of impairment will be based on a scale from zero to seven. Data will be collected until
      the patient is discharged from the hospital. The clinical records from the neuropsychologist
      will be reviewed to analyze the progression of the patient's outcome. Similar to all trauma
      patients, the patients enrolled in this study will be offered continued care with
      neuropsychology as well as the option to withdrawal all care if competent to make independent
      decisions.

      Throughout the study consciousness will be measured using the Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) from
      the time of presentation to the ER and two times each day until the patient is discharged
      from the NICU or ICU (routinely done on TBI patients). The Injury severity scores (ISS) will
      be recorded from admission (done on all trauma patients). Recovery of consciousness will be
      determined by measurement of the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE) III
      modification of the Glasgow coma score to allow for scoring of the verbal component in
      intubated patients. Patients will be judged to be awake when the Glasgow coma score was > or
      = 12.

      The following will be recorded from the Sparrow medical record for each patient: gender, age,
      sex, weight, primary diagnosis, significant co morbidities, blood alcohol level at admission,
      intracranial pressure measurements (standard of care for TBI patients), time of starting and
      finishing of the sedation, total amount of medications given, any restraint required,
      additional oxygen required, resuscitative measures required, time of transfer out of the
      unit, and time of discharge.
    
  