
    
      Patients of either sex, irrespective of age attending the Department of Oral Medicine &
      Radiology, Panineeya Mahavidhyalaya Institute of Dental Sciences and Research Centre,
      Hyderabad who are clinically and histopathologically diagnosed with Oral Lichen Planus shall
      be included in the study group after obtaining an informed consent from the patients.

      Study design: Prospective study.

      Sample size:

      A total of 30 patients will be randomly divided into 2 groups with 15 patients in each group.

      Methodology:

      30 patients who are diagnosed with Oral Lichen Planus by clinical and histopathological
      examination will be randomly assigned into 2 drug groups and burning sensation will be
      assessed by VAS Scale and also clinical improvement will be assessed at interval of 1 week
      till 4 weeks.

      GROUP A: This group of patients will receive topical Clobetasol 0.05% in orabase and
      Clotrimazole 1%.

      GROUP B: This group of patients will receive topical Betamethasone 0.05% in orabase and
      Clotrimazole 1%.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Patients with Oral Lichen Planus, who are willing to participate in the study.

        2. Patients who are physically healthy and well oriented in time, space and as a person.

        3. Patients clinically and histopathologically diagnosed with Oral Lichen Planus.

        4. Patients with symptoms i.e. pain and burning sensation due to oral lichen planus.

      Exclusion Criteria :

        1. Patients with Oral Lichen Planus, who are not willing to participate in the study.

        2. Patients with any other mucosal disease or any other skin disease which may be
           associated with oral lesions.

        3. Patients with a known allergy or contraindication to study medications.

        4. Patients with systemic diseases, where steroids are contraindicated.

        5. Pregnant women.
    
  