
    
      This will be a single-site, open-label, non-randomized, single oral dose absorption,
      metabolism and excretion study in healthy male subjects. Potential subjects will be screened
      to assess their eligibility to enter the study within 28 days prior to dosing on Day 1.
      Subjects will be admitted into the Clinical Research Unit (CRU) on Day -1. Subjects will be
      confined to the CRU until at least Day 11 (240 hours postdose), and will be discharged from
      the CRU on Day 11 if all the following discharge criteria are met: >90% mass balance
      recovery; OR plasma/blood radioactivity levels below the limit of quantitation for 2
      consecutive collections; and <1% of the total radioactive dose recovered in combined excreta
      (urine and faeces) in 2 consecutive 24-hour periods. If these criteria are not met by Day 11,
      subjects will remain in the CRU until all discharge criteria are met up to a maximum of Day
      15 to continue 24-hour blood, urine and faeces collections for the analysis of total
      radioactivity, unless otherwise agreed upon by the Sponsor and Investigator. If the discharge
      criteria are not met by Day 15, subjects may be asked to collect 24-hour excreta samples on
      up to 2 further occasions on a nonresidential basis to allow extrapolation of urinary and
      faecal excretion. If needed, the 2 additional 24-hour nonresidential collections will occur
      on Day 21 (±1 day) and Day 28 (±1 day). If on the second occasion the subject has still not
      met the desired criterion, then the subject will be discharged from the study, per
      Investigator and Sponsor decision. Pharmacokinetic samples and radioanalytical samples will
      be obtained through at least 240 hours postdose, and possibly up to 4 weeks postdose
      (radioanalytical samples only), in case of not meeting discharge criteria. Samples for
      metabolite profiling/identification will be obtained through 240 hours postdose.
    
  