
    
      For physicians caring for children with congenital cardiac defects, perhaps the greatest
      challenge is to improve the survival and functional outcomes of patients with severe defects
      requiring surgical repair or palliation in the first month of life. These cardiac defects can
      be associated with 5 year mortality rates of up to 30% with significant disabilities in many
      of the survivors. As with every medical condition, patient outcomes depend on the complex
      interaction of the disease process, the medical and surgical interventions to treat the
      disease, and the inherent capacity of the patient to respond to both the disease and its
      treatment.

      For patients with severe cardiac defects, the greatest risk for morbidity and mortality
      occurs during and shortly after their neonatal surgical repair. During surgery to repair
      severe cardiac defects, the body is cooled and the heart is stopped. In many cases, blood
      flow to the vital organs is interrupted or restricted for a significant period of time while
      the aortic arch is reconstructed. This process places profound stress on the patient's
      capacity to tolerate these insults without sustaining irreversible injury to tissues such as
      the heart, brain, and kidneys. That there is such a wide range of outcomes after this
      surgery, even between patients with similar clinical features, suggests that there are
      important individual differences in patients' abilities to respond to this stress that is
      determined by differences in their genetic traits.

      The importance of the interaction between the controlled trauma of the surgical environment
      and a patient's genetic background in determining patient outcomes has led to the new
      discipline of "peri-operative genomics." In this study, we will examine the contribution of
      gene-environment interactions to perioperative and short-term outcomes in neonates with
      severe congenital cardiac defects.
    
  