
    
      EXPERIMENTAL TRIAL WITH THE TCD VERSUS THE STANDARD HYSTEROSCOPY DRAPE IN A PELVIC MODEL
      SIMULATION

      The investigators sought to document whether or not a prototype design of the "Total Capture"
      drape (TCD) would perform under replicated clinical conditions in a superior fashion compared
      to the currently marketed hysteroscopy drape. The experimental testing was performed at an
      operating room suite using the hysteroscopy fluid management system, conventional
      hysteroscopy drape, the Total Capture drape and the ZOE Gynecologic pelvic model. The pelvic
      model was configured so that all fluid introduced into the artificial vagina would not be
      absorbed by the model but would flow out of the artificial vagina.

      A total of four trials per drape were conducted. One trial from each product had procedural
      difficulties making results invalid.

      Results of the Simulation Trial: In four trials of the total capture drape, there was no
      deficit observed. It was concluded that no major design iterations would be required to move
      the TCD prototype to the next phase of development

      COMPARATIVE TRIAL FOR "PROOF OF CONCEPT" TESTING TO EVALUATE THE EFFICIENCY OF THE TOTAL
      CAPTURE DRAPE COMPARED TO THE CONVENTIONAL HYSTEROSCOPY DRAPE DURING HYSTEROSCOPIC SURGERY

      All women undertaking hysteroscopy are required to have a sterile surgical drape with a fluid
      capture pouch system to collect the distention media not absorbed by the patient to calculate
      fluid deficits. Both the TCD and the standard hysteroscopy drape possess the characteristics
      described above, although design features of the standard drape are deficient. The TCD falls
      under Class II status, exempt from the 510(k) clearance process in consideration of FDA's
      approach to similar devices like the standard hysteroscopy drape (Regulation number 21 CRF
      878.4370, product code KKX.

      The hysteroscopy fluid deficit will be measured by the fluid management system during each
      hysteroscopy procedure. The uncollected fluid volume seen on the operating room floor and
      absorbed by the operation blankets and drapes will also be captured, as well as the estimated
      fluid loss from leaking hysteroscopy joints and gaskets not captured in the collection bag.
      Procedure time and alarm sounding for exceeding fluid deficit limit will also be recorded.

      MEASURES OF DRAPE USABILITY, QUALITY, AND CONVENIENCE

      Staff will be asked to complete the System Usability Scale (SUS) to evaluate their perceived
      clinical usefulness of the TCD and the standard drape. The SUS is a validated 10-item survey
      for assessing perceived usability that uses a 5-point Likert scale ranging from strongly
      disagree to strongly agree. To further subjectively and objectively assess the TCD, a human
      factors and design researcher will observe the surgeries. The human factors researcher will
      attend the first surgeries to ensure consistent rating with the design researcher who will
      subsequently observe the remaining surgeries until data saturation is reached. Staff will be
      asked to speak aloud using the system, which the researcher will record. Further, the
      researcher will complete an objective human factors assessment tool. These metrics will allow
      us to quantitate clinical usefulness and usability of both the operating surgeons and
      operating room staff. These results will not only provide this assessment of the TCD compared
      to the standard hysteroscopy drape (which is used across ORs within Atrium Health) but will
      also provide important information to improve the drape if deficiencies are identified.

      DATA MANAGEMENT

      Case report forms will be developed by the OBGYN clinical research nursing staff in
      collaboration with Dr. Marshburn and Dr. Zhao. A REDCap database will be created for secure
      electronic data capture. The data flow will consist of paper data collection for eligibility
      assessment, baseline data, randomization, operational procedure, fluid measures, surgery
      outcomes, adverse events, and protocol deviations. The data will be entered into the
      electronic database within 3 business days of the enrollment.

      STATISTICAL METHODS AND SAMPLE SIZE JUSTIFICATION

      The primary outcome for the study is the hysteroscopy fluid deficit (HFD) as determined by
      the fluid management system by subtracting the outflow volume (OV) from the inflow volume
      (IV) (HFD=IV-OV). Our null hypothesis is Ho: μStandard=μTCD where μ=mean fluid deficit. Our
      alternative hypothesis is Ho: μStandard>μTCD due to the underestimation of the outflow volume
      created by the loss of outflow fluid to floors and blankets. If it is assumed the true
      absorption rates by the patients are the same between the groups due to randomization, by
      estimating and testing the difference HFD between the two groups a more accurate measure of
      the uncollected fluid volume (UFV) will be estimated and tested as shown below:

      μStandard - μTCD = (μStandard, true absorption + μStandard, UFV) - μTCD, true absorption

        -  (μ true absorption + μStandard, UFV) - μtrue absorption

        -  μStandard, UFV The primary analysis for the study will use a general linear model on the
           HFD with a fixed effect for study group (TCD versus Standard drape) controlling for
           surgeon and indication for hysteroscopy, the stratification factors for the
           randomization.

      Secondary outcomes include estimated uncollected fluid volume from floor and blankets,
      occurrence of the fluid deficit alarm sounding, stopping of the operation due to concerns of
      overabsorption by the patient, and adverse events. Estimated uncollected fluid volume will be
      analyzed similar to the primary outcome. All other outcomes are categorical and will be
      compared using Chi-square analyses.

      The investigators will sample 10 procedures(or until data saturation) from each arm (TCD vs
      standard) to conduct qualitative assessments on Usability using the Human Factors Assessment
      Tool /Acceptance for the for the surgeons and operating team members.For the SUS, the design
      strategist will collect data on attending physicians only on their first and fifth procedures
      (the study team may change it to 1st and 3rd if deemed appropriate). The investigators will
      estimate means or medians with standard deviations (or interquartile ranges) for the items
      and total scores for the measuresSUS. Both within (1st vs. 5th) and between arms (TCD vs.
      standard) comparison on total scores of SUS will be conducted. The investigators will compare
      the two groups using linear mixed models or generalized linear mixed models (depending on the
      distribution) with a random effect for the procedure to control for correlation of the
      measures among team members participating in the same procedure.

      There is no prior data on HFD in patients to estimate the variability need for the sample
      size estimation. There is preliminary data from the simulated experiment showing a 100%
      recovering of loss deficit by the TCD. If it is conservatively assumed the loss deficit will
      decrease from 40% to 20% of the inflow volume, this would result in a clinically meaningful
      improvement with an approximate effect size of 0.92 based on the variability of loss deficit
      in the simulation. Given this, effect size (relative to standard deviation) is used as the
      primary justification for the number of patients needed for the study. With a sample size of
      n=34 per arm, there would be 81% power to detect an effect size of 0.7 (0.7*standard
      deviation of the HFD) with a two sided, two sample t-test (α=0.05). To account for potential
      missing data of 10%, it is proposed randomizing 76 women (n=38 per arm). With n=34 women in
      each group, there would also be 80% power to detect an absolute 33% reduction in the
      proportion of procedures with the alarm sounding due to fluid deficit threshold being reached
      assuming the proportion in the standard drape arm is 50%. This power was calculated using a
      Fisher's Exact test for testing proportions between two independent samples. The same power
      would apply for detecting differences in the proportion of procedures terminated.

      DATA SAFETY AND MONITORING

      The PI and the study team will meet biweekly to review the study procedures, enrollment
      (screening and randomization), implementation, protocol deviations, data collection, and
      adverse events. The biostatistical team will generate monthly reports to monitor screening,
      enrollment, completeness of data for intervention implementation and outcomes, adverse
      events, and protocol deviations.
    
  