
    
      All patients who complete the assessments as designed over the initial 6 months of the trial
      will be eligible to continue in an additional 6-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      extension designed to collect information on the long-term safety and efficacy of the trial
      treatments.

      Upon completion of all screening assessments for eligibility patients meeting all selection
      criteria at baseline will be randomized in a 1:1:1 fashion to one of the two EDS-EP dose
      levels or placebo. A minimization procedure will be employed to ensure that the proportions
      of male and female, and younger (6 to <10 years) and older (≥10 years), patients are
      comparable across the three treatment groups. Every attempt will be made to ensure the same
      balance is achieved across different regions.

      A minimum of 180 patients will be enrolled, hence, each group will consist of 60 patients
      randomly assigned to receive one of the two doses of EDS-EP or placebo, as follows:

      Group 1: EDS-EP dose range of ~5-10 mg D SP/infusion, Group 2: EDS-EP dose range of ~14-22 mg
      D SP/infusion, Group 3: Placebo EDS infusion.

      The initial 6-month treatment period will be considered complete when the endpoint assessment
      (at Visit 9/Month 6 or at early discontinuation) has been performed for all patients.
      Patients who are not experiencing severe side-effects, or have deteriorated significantly
      while on the treatment and provide informed consent will be eligible to continue treatment
      for an additional 6 months in a double-blind, placebo-controlled extension treatment period.
      Patients meeting all entry criteria will be treated as follows:

      Patients originally randomized to EDS-EP treatment groups (Group 1 or Group 2) will continue
      on the same treatment;

      Patients originally randomized to the Placebo group (Group 3) will be re-randomized in equal
      proportions (1:1) to receive either the EDS-EP ~5-10 mg DSP/infusion or ~14-22 mg
      DSP/infusion, as follows:

      Following 6 months of treatment, one third of the originally randomized placebo patients will
      be re-randomized to treatment with EDS-EP, as described above; After 9 months of treatment,
      one third of the originally randomized placebo patients will be re-randomized to treatment
      with EDS-EP, as described above; At 12 months, all remaining placebo patients who continue
      open-label treatment will receive treatment with EDS-EP, as described above.

      The ICARS will be administered by a site rater and scoring verified by a central remote
      qualified rater, based on a video recording of the assessment at the site. The scores
      provided by the central remote raters will be used for the primary analysis of the 'Modified'
      ICARS (primary efficacy endpoint). The site ICARS rater will not be involved in the rating of
      the CGI- S and CGI-C, VABS, or QoL scale. The CGI rater will not have access to the ICARS
      ratings, but may refer to other scales in scoring the CGI.

      All patients who complete 12 months of treatment in the trial, complete the study
      assessments, and provide informed consent will be eligible to continue treatment with EDS-EP
      in an open-label, extension study (IEDAT-03-2016). Retrieved drop-outs (RDO), i.e. patients
      who discontinued treatment prematurely but completed the final (Visit 15/Month 12) efficacy
      assessments will also be eligible to enter the open-label extension study. Patients will
      continue on the dose of EDS-EP they were receiving at the end of Study IEDAT-02, or if on
      placebo, the patient will be randomly switched (1:1) to one of the two doses of EDS-EP.
    
  