
    
      A 25 fold increase in the risk of going blind on diagnosis of diabetes is one of the most
      daunting threats that people with diabetes face. Stimulated by several uncontrolled,
      anecdotal reports, we are already conducting a randomized clinical trial of intravitreal
      triamcinolone for the treatment of diabetic macular edema which is refractory to conventional
      laser treatment. The analysis of the 3 month data from this study has already unequivocally
      demonstrated that the treatment very significantly reduces or eliminates macular oedema in
      the short term and results in improved visual acuity. Thus intravitreal triamcinolone may
      represent the most significant development in the prevention of blindness in people with
      diabetes since the introduction of laser treatment. It is also a highly cost-effective
      intervention that can be administered by general ophthalmologists. The next question to be
      answered, which will be addressed directly by the present study, is whether there is a
      significant, synergistic beneficial effect when intravitreal steroids are combined with
      current therapy (laser).

      This study represents the second major project to be undertaken by the Australian Retinal
      Collaboration (ARC). The ARC aims to set the highest attainable standards for
      investigator-initiated clinical research in retinal diseases in Australia. Having enrolled
      and treated more than the target of 120 patients, we are currently completing an RCT of laser
      induced chorioretinal anastomosis for central retinal vein occlusion, an innovative
      Australian concept for a severe and otherwise untreatable disease. The proposed study is
      likely to identify an improved and economical treatment for one of the commonest causes of
      blindness both in Australia and the rest of the world. Intravitreal triamcinolone is also an
      intervention which has generated intense interest internationally, and one for which members
      of the ARC are acknowledged pioneers.

      Successful implementation of the study proposed, which is feasible, is highly likely to have
      an immediate and direct effect on the prevention of vision impairment and blindness in people
      with diabetes
    
  