
    
      This is a Phase 1 clinical trial that constitutes two time points cohorts with 100
      participants per cohort who will receive intravenous doses of Autologous Umbilical Cord Blood
      Mononuclear Cells --25 million cells/kg, 48 hours after birth. And the placebo will be 0.9%
      sodium chloride.The investigator will proceed the groups during the same period.

        1. Demographic Data and Baseline Characteristics of the Studied Groups were collected:

             -  Gestational age (weeks)

             -  Birth weight (g)

             -  gender

             -  Cesarean section delivery

             -  Antenatal steroids

             -  Prolonged rupture of membrane

             -  Multiple pregnancies

             -  APGAR score at 5 minutes

             -  Thrombocytopenia before intervention

             -  CRP before intervention (mg/L)

             -  TNF-α(tumor necrosis factor α ) before intervention (pg/mL)

        2. Assessment of clinical condition in the course by measurement of arterial blood
           pressure, heart and respiratory rates and skin temperature was recorded continuously

        3. Autologous cord blood mononuclear cells doses is 25 million cells/kg ，the infusion speed
           is 4ml/kg/h， 8-12h，and with same volume of 0.9% sodium chloride as placebo.

        4. The following are monitored at 3、7、14、21 days after birth:

             -  mortality, incidence of sepsis, neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS),
                bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), necrotising
                enterocolitis (NEC), intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH), Hypoxic Ischemic
                Encephalopathy (HIE), anaemia, thrombocytopenia, neutrophil,TBNK cells subgroup,
                before hospital discharge.

        5. Long-term follow up: in 1m, 3m, 6m,1y: neurodevelopment [Bayley Scales of Infant],
           asthma, anemia and physique growth.
    
  