
    
      Elimination of HCV was recently formulated as a WHO target and was set for the year 2030.
      Globally, approximately 6.2% of HIV-infected patients are co-infected with HCV. Of the
      patients living with HIV, people who inject drugs (PWID) and men who have sex with men (MSM)
      are at particularly high risk of HCV co-infection. Until recently, the prevalence of chronic
      hepatitis C virus infection (HCV) in Dutch HIV+MSM was very high at 4,8% (compared with 0.2%
      in the Dutch population in general). After unrestricted availability of direct-acting
      antivirals since the end of 2015, the prevalence of chronic HCV in HIV+MSM decreased rapidly.
      A subsequent decrease in the incidence of HCV of 51% was observed in 2016, but no further
      decline was seen in 2017. Additionally, the incidence of HCV re-infections in HIV+MSM that
      were cured of a previous HCV infection continues to be high (5-10% per year).

      The continuously high re-infection risk and the lack of a further decline in the HCV
      incidence after 2016 illustrates that universal DAA therapy for all patients diagnosed with a
      chronic HCV infection on its own will not result in HCV elimination. Other interventions are
      needed to reach the WHO goal of HCV elimination by 2030. One of these additional
      interventions may be decreasing the time to diagnosis of HCV re-infections in order to
      decrease the duration that these re-infected patients may transmit their HCV to sex partners.

      Objective:

      To assess the effectivity of HCV RNA self-testing in reducing the time to diagnosis of HCV
      re-infection in MSM previously cured of an HCV infection, compared to the current diagnostic
      standard of care.

      To evaluate whether the uptake of self-testing is sufficient and warrants the use of HCV RNA
      self-testing in clinical practice.

      Study design:

      Prospective controlled intervention trial. MSM cured of an HCV infection who are at continued
      risk for an HCV re-infection (based on the results of a short questionnaire, APPENDIX B) are
      offered HCV RNA self-testing and asked to use the test every 6 months for 2 consecutive
      years.

      Study population:

      225 to 250 adult MSM cured of HCV from 10-15 HIV and PREP clinics in the Netherlands and
      Belgium.

      Intervention:

      Eligible patients are instructed on the use of a capillary blood self-collection kit. They
      receive 2 kits per year for 2 consecutive years to allow them to send plasma to the virology
      lab of the Erasmus MC every 6 months by regular post mail.

      Primary endpoints:

      Comparison of the time to HCV re-infection diagnosis in patients using the HCV RNA self-test
      (intervention) with the time to HCV re-infection diagnosis with the standard diagnostic
      approach (control) in the modified intention to treat population.

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Comparison of the time to HCV re-infection diagnosis in patients using the HCV RNA
           self-test (intervention) with the time to HCV re-infection diagnosis with the standard
           diagnostic approach (control) in the subpopulation that has sent in all planned
           self-tests during their entire follow-up (per protocol analysis).

        2. Of the HIV+MSM that were offered to participate in the study, the percentage that
           accepted to participate and eventually self-collected and sent in at least one plasma
           sample in each 12-month period of study participation.

        3. Overall incidence of HCV re-infection in the entire study population regardless of the
           type HCV diagnostic test that was used.

        4. Number of screen failures as a result of a positive HCV-RNA test at the screening visit.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      The burden associated with participation in the study consists of taking a finger prick blood
      sample for the self-test 4 times in 2 years and sending the sample to the laboratory by
      regular post mail. No costs will have to be made for mailing the sample. Capillary
      finger-prick blood sampling is used as a standard diagnostic test for many diseases (e.g.
      glucose monitoring in diabetes) and is associated with a negligible risk. The study may
      potentially be beneficial for those participants in which an HCV re-infection is diagnosed as
      they will be referred for counseling and HCV therapy which has the potential to prevent
      transmission to sex partners.
    
  