
    
      Current diagnosis of the lymphoid malignancies relies upon the morphological appearance of
      the cancer cells supplemented by a few molecular markers. Within a diagnostic category, the
      clinical courses and responses of patients to therapy are variable, suggesting that the
      existing diagnostic categories may harbor more than one disease entity. Recent genomic
      technologies allow a comprehensive molecular analysis of the expression of the genome in
      cancer cells. DNA microarray analysis of gene expression in lymphomas revealed distinct
      molecular subtypes of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and these new molecularly-defined
      lymphoma subtypes had divergent clinical outcomes. To extend our genomic analysis to all
      lymphoid malignancies, we have formed a consortium of cooperating institutions termed the
      Lymphoma/Leukemia Molecular Profiling Project (LLMPP). The clinical centers participating in
      the LLMPP will send de-identified lymphoma, leukemia and multiple myeloma samples to the NCI
      for gene expression profiling, array-based comparative genomic hybridization and cancer gene
      resequencing. An additional site, The National Cancer Center Singapore, will send
      de-identified samples of tumor tissue from patients with lymphoma.

      Objective:

      Assess gene expression on a genomic scale in lymphoma, leukemia and multiple myeloma samples
      and its relationship to somatic genetic alterations.

      Eligibility:

      Diagnosis of lymphoid malignancy at one of the LLMPP participating institutions, including
      specimens originating at other clinical sites and submitted to LLMPP participating sites or
      The National Cancer Center Singapore.

      Design:

      This is an entirely retrospective study. All tumor biopsies containing malignant cells to be
      analyzed were obtained previously from patients diagnosed and/or treated at one of the
      institutions participating in the LLMPP or at The National Cancer Center Singapore.

      Clinical data will also be sent for the patients in this study for the purpose of correlating
      gene expression measurements with clinical outcome. The goals of this effort are to define
      new molecular diagnostic categories in these diseases that are clinically relevant and to
      gain new insight into the molecular pathways that are active in these malignancies.

      The home institutions providing clinical data and tissue samples have obtained local approval
      by their clinical research committees for this study.
    
  