
    
      Anticholinergic antiparkinsonian agents (AAAs) are frequently prescribed in patients with a
      primary psychotic disorder either to treat or prevent the emergence of antipsychotic induced
      extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Second generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are by definition
      associated with fewer neurological side effects. This would be expected to be associated with
      a lower use of AAAs. However, in a recent prescription survey, Park and colleagues found that
      while the rate of concomitant use of antiparkinsonian agents dropped by 9.2% in patients with
      schizophrenia after changing their antipsychotic from typical antipsychotics to SGAs, 30% of
      prescriptions for SGAs included a concomitant antiparkinsonian agent. This is consistent with
      the results of other cross-sectional surveys demonstrating anticholinergic co-prescription
      rates of 12 - 65% in patients treated with SGA. These high rates are remarkable especially
      when one considers that the incidence of EPS reported in past clinical trials using SGAs (3 -
      20%) is much lower than this reported co-prescription rate. This apparent discrepancy is
      likely explained, in part, by the established tradition of prophylactic (or routine) use of
      AAAs for patients starting antipsychotic drugs.

      The adverse effects of AAAs are well known, and are particularly significant clinically in
      the elderly, who are at high risk of cognitive impairment with AAAs. Anticholigergic effects
      have been reported to impair cognitive function both globally as well as in specific domains,
      including memory and executive functioning. The association between anticholinergic activity
      and cognitive performance are also strongly supported by recent studies measuring serum
      anticholinergic activity (SAA).

      Furthermore, in addition to their well-known side effects such as dry mouth, blurred vision,
      and constipation, they have also been reported to increase the risk of tardive kinesia and
      have been claimed to have a negative impact on the clinical efficacy of antipsychotic drugs.

      In view of these adverse effects, the World Health Organization has discouraged the
      prophylactic use of AAAs, and a careful risk-benefit analysis is necessary for each
      individual patient. Since most cases of antipsychotic-induced EPS present within 11 weeks of
      initiation of antipsychotic treatment or a dosage increase, a trial of AAA taper and
      discontinuation has been recommended following 3 months of regular AAA treatment. These
      recommendations emerged prior to the widespread use of SGAs, and one might expect that
      successful discontinuation of concomitant AAAs would be higher for SGAs than conventional
      antipsychotics. AAA discontinuation trials for conventional antipsychotics have been
      inconsistent, with some studies reporting favorable outcomes and others reporting
      re-emergence of EPS. More recently Mori et al reported a favorable outcome following AAA
      discontinuation for both cognition and EPS in patients maintained on chlorpromazine,
      risperidone, or haloperidol in mixed age population with schizophrenia.

      The only study of AAA discontinuation in older patients with schizophrenia also reported
      improved cognitive function in a sample of 21 elderly inpatients with schizophrenia. However,
      this study did not include extrapyramidal symptoms, psychopathology, or other side effects
      from AAAs as outcome measures. Furthermore, improvement in cognitive function reported in
      this study could be attributed to practice effects: the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment
      Scale-Cognitive subscale was administered at intervals of 10 days - though the learning
      effects of this scale have not been studied in patients with schizophrenia.

      Older patients with schizophrenia would be expected to be particularly sensitive to side
      effects to both antipsychotics and AAAs due to age-related changes in pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics. However, in view of the well known adverse effects of AAAs in the elderly,
      use of anticholinergic drugs is specifically included in the 2002 criteria for potentially
      inappropriate medication used in older adults. This may be especially relevant to older
      patients with schizophrenia since their cognitive function is already impaired as a function
      of the dual effects of age-related decline and the cognitive difficulties inherent to the
      psychotic illness itself. Concomitant use of AAAs would be expected to lead to a further
      decline in their cognitive and social functioning.

      We therefore propose an open-label prospective trial to assess the feasibility of reducing
      the dose of a frequently prescribed AAA at our Centre, benztropine, in older subjects with a
      primary psychotic disorder on SGAs using validated assessment scales and methods. In order to
      quantify the anticholinergic burden in these patients before and after AAA dose reduction,
      serum anticholinergic activity will be also assessed.
    
  