
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility and safety of induction therapy comprising fludarabine and
           cyclophosphamide followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with
           high-risk B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia or lymphoplasmocytic lymphoma
           (Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia).

      Secondary

        -  Determine the incidence and kinetics of clinical and molecular remissions in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine event-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the duration of clinical and molecular remission in relation to the underlying
           cytogenetic deviation in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the kinetics and extent of lympho-hematopoietic donor chimerism in patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, nonrandomized, pilot study.

        -  Cytoreductive therapy: Patients receive up to 3 courses of cytoreductive therapy
           comprising fludarabine IV and cyclophosphamide IV on days 1-3 (with or without rituximab
           IV on day 1). Patients refractory to fludarabine-containing therapy may receive
           alemtuzumab IV for 12 weeks OR any other cytotoxic salvage regimen for cytoreduction.

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive 1 of the following conditioning regimens*:

      NOTE: *Patients who did not achieve partial response after cytoreductive therapy receive
      regimen 3.

        -  Regimen 1: Patients receive fludarabine IV and cyclophosphamide IV on days -7 to -3. If
           stem cells are collected from an unrelated donor, patients also receive anti-thymocyte
           globulin (ATG) IV on days -4 to -1.

        -  Regimen 2: Patients undergo total-body irradiation on day -9. Patients then receive
           alemtuzumab IV on days -8 to -4 and fludarabine IV and cyclophosphamide IV on days -6 to
           -2.

        -  Regimen 3: Patients receive fludarabine IV on days -7 to -3, busulfan IV or orally on
           days -7 to -5, and cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 to -2. If stem cells are collected
           from an unrelated donor, patients also receive ATG on days -3 to -1.

             -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT): Patients undergo
                allogeneic PBSCT on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily
                starting on day 5 and continuing until blood count recover.

             -  Graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV
                beginning on day -1 and continuing until approximately day 100. Patients treated
                with conditioning regimen 1 or 3 also receive methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 6
                OR oral mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days 0-50. Patients with evidence of
                residual disease at least 4 weeks after completion of cyclosporine undergo donor
                lymphocyte infusion (DLI).

             -  DLI: The donor T-lymphocytes are collected from the PBSCT donor without prior G-CSF
                mobilization. Patients receive DLI every 8 weeks in the presence of residual
                disease and the absence of GVHD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 70 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  