
    
      The term "thalassemia" is derived from the Greek words "Thalassa"(sea) and "Haema" (blood)
      and refers to disorder associated with defective synthesis of α or β-globin subunits of
      haemoglobin HbA

      There are two main types of thalassemia:

      α-thalassemia is one of the most common hemoglobin genetic abnormalities and is caused by the
      reduced or absent production of the alpha globin chains. Alpha-thalassemia is prevalent in
      tropical and subtropical world regions where malaria was and still is epidemic, but as a
      consequence of the recent massive population migrations, alpha-thalassemia has become a
      relatively common clinical problem in North America, North Europe, and Australia

      β-thalassemia syndromes are a group of hereditary blood disorders characterized by reduced or
      absent beta globin chain synthesis, resulting in reduced Hb in red blood cells (RBC),
      decreased RBC production and anemia. Most thalassemias are inherited as recessive traits. The
      phenotypes of homozygous or genetic heterozygous compound β-thalassemias include thalassemia
      major and thalassemia intermedia. Individuals with thalassemia major usually come for medical
      attention within the first two years of life and require regular RBC transfusions to survive.
      Thalassemia intermedia include patients who present later and do not require regular
      transfusion. Except in the rare dominant forms, heterozygous β-thalassemia results in the
      clinically silent carrier state. HbE/ β-thalassemia and HbC/ β-thalassemia exhibit a great
      range in terms of diversity of phenotypes and spectrum of severity. People who are carriers
      of the disease received variant genes from one parent and normal gene from the other parent

      Thalassemia is widespread throughout ,they are more prevalent in people living in South-East
      Asia, South Asia, Middle East, and Mediterranean regions

      Thalassemia is the most common form of inherited anemia worldwide. The World Health
      Organization reports suggest that about 60,000 infants are born with a major thalassemia
      every year. Although individuals originating from the tropical belt are most at risk, it is a
      growing global health problem due to extensive population migrations

      Population migration and intermarriage between different ethnic groups has introduced
      thalassemia in almost every country of the world

      In Egypt, β -thalassemia is the most common type with a carrier rate varying from 5.3 to 9%
      and a gene frequency of 0.03. So, it was estimated that 1,000/1.5 million per year live
      births will suffer from thalassemia disease in Egypt (total live births 1,936,205 in 2006)

      β Thalassemia creates a social and financial burden for the patients' family and the Egyptian
      government. The high frequency of beta-thalassemia carriers with increasing rate of newly
      born cases is a pressing reason for the importance to develop prevention program for
      beta-thalassemia in Egypt

      The thalassaemia syndromes, particularly those requiring multiple blood transfusions, are a
      serious burden on health services and a problem which may be increasing on a global scale .
      Even milder syndromes, known as thalassaemia intermedia or non-transfusion dependent
      thalassaemia, require careful follow up since complications are expected over time in the
      natural course of the disease

      The need for lifelong follow up and care and the occurrence of complications affecting major
      organs such as liver, heart and endocrine glands, creates the need for organised expert
      services and also the need for major resources in terms of essential drugs and donated blood
      for transfusions. In terms of clinical outcomes, The investigator expect that patients will
      survive with the best possible quality of life, if treated holistically in an expert centre

      Detection of asymptomatic carriers by reliable laboratory methods is the cornerstone of
      prevention of this serious health problem. high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has
      become the preferred technique, as it can detect most of the clinically significant variants.
      The simplicity of the automated system with internal sample preparation, superior resolution,
      rapid assay time, and accurate quantification of hemoglobin fractions makes this an ideal
      methodology for the routine clinical laboratory

      Commonly occurring mutations of the HBB gene are detected by a number of polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR)-based procedures. The most commonly used methods are reverse dot blot analysis
      or primer-specific amplification with a set of probes or primers complementary to the most
      common mutations in the population from which the affected individual originated

      Other methods based on real-time PCR or microarray technology because of their
      reproducibility, rapidity, and easy handling are potentially suitable for the routine
      clinical laboratory

      If targeted mutation analysis fails to detect the mutation, scanning or sequence analysis can
      be used. Sensitivity of both mutation scanning and sequence analysis is 99%. In the meantime,
      the presence of an extended deletion should be investigated by using multiplex
      ligation-dependent probe amplification (MPLA)

      Screening for genetic diseases aims to reduce the burden of these disorders on individuals by
      identifying those at increased risk, thereby enabling individuals to receive information
      about personal health, future health and/or potential health of offspring

      At risk individuals must be provided with information regarding the mode of inheritance, the
      genetic risk of having affected children and the natural history of the disease including the
      available treatment and therapies under investigation

      Several countries have set up comprehensive national prevention programs, which include
      public awareness and education, carrier screening, and counseling, as well as information on
      prenatal diagnosis and preimplantation diagnosis. These countries are Italy, Greece, Cyprus,
      UK, France, Iran, Thailand, Australia, Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Cuba
    
  