
    
      This study is an open label randomized control trial with concealment procedure which is to
      compare the effect of albumin 5% and ringer lactate towards plasma leakage incidence in adult
      DHF patient. This clinical trial cannot be done in double blind because it is technically
      impossible.

      This study was conducted in dengue fever patients who were treated in internal medicine wards
      in RSUD Tangerang Selatan and RSAB Harapan Kita. Recruitment starts from October 2016 to
      February 2017.

      The target population of this research is all adult dengue virus infected patients that were
      hospitalized in the hospital. Accessible population are all dengue fever patients who were
      treated in internal medicine wards in RSUD Tangerang Selatan and RSAB Harapan Kita from
      October 2016 to February 2017. Subject is accessible population that met the inclusion
      criteria.

      All subjects who met the inclusion criteria were included in the study by consecutive
      sampling.

      The subject allocation was done by a third party using randomized block by software WINPEPI,
      with the same number of subjects in each block. Randomization process will be stratified
      according to study sites (RSUD Tangerang Selatan and RSAB Harapan Kita).

      Results of randomized translated into a sealed envelope that is not transparent. The number
      of envelopes in accordance with the prediction of the number of subjects in each flashlight.
      On the outside of the envelope is written flashlight and a number indicating the order of
      subject recruitment. Inside the envelope is written the type of fluid to be administered.
      This envelope will be opened by investigators with the witness when the subject had to be
      given fluid therapy. This procedure will be documented in the minutes of opening the
      envelope.

      Researchers cooperate with doctors / paramedics at polyclinic and emergency room. Their jobs
      are to provide information to the researchers about the patients who infected with dengue
      virus proven by NS1 positive test result. Inclusion criteria based on the laboratory test are
      lactate ≥ 2.5 mmol/L, increased of haematocrit ≥ 10% but ≤ 15% from base line, and with or
      without pleural effusion and or ascites proven by abdominal ultrasound. After the subjects
      fulfill these inclusion criteria, researchers will proceed to do the follow-through
      assessment.

      Subjects are given the explanation about the aim of the research, examination procedures,
      therapy, follow-up and side effects which may occur during the research and the benefit of
      participating. If the subject or family of subject approves to participate in the research,
      they will be given an approval form which is signed before the research conducted.
    
  