
    
      The aim of the present study is to test whether brief app-based mindfulness and compassion
      practices will improve daily psychological stress responses in a sample of adult women (age
      30-60) who report a history of early life adversity. The study will incorporate surveys and
      mindfulness-based intervention practices into everyday life using mobile technology (study
      app). Participants receive app-notifications three times/day (morning, afternoon, evening) to
      complete Ecological Momentary Assessments (EMAs) of current psychological stress states
      (pre-EMA; e.g., stress appraisals, affect, perseverative cognitions, self-criticism, social
      connection). At each notification, each participant is then randomized to either receive a
      mindfulness-based intervention (described in detail below) or no intervention. Thus, each
      participant is randomized many times over this 30-day study (Micro-Randomized Trial, MRT).
      Psychological stress states are again measured approximately 15 min post-randomization
      (post-EMA; e.g., stress appraisals, affect, perseverative cognitions, self-criticism, social
      connection) to assess a treatment effect by comparing psychological stress responses after a
      mindfulness-based intervention vs. no intervention. The MRT will continue for 30 days. All
      study participants will be asked to fill out questionnaires at baseline and post-intervention
      (after 30 days). Weekly measures of depressive symptoms are also obtained. A trained research
      assistant will monitor participant adherence and address potential difficulties. The goal is
      to recruit as many as 70 participants.

      Mindfulness-based intervention: The intervention consists of mindfulness and compassion-based
      practices. For example, practices focus on the breath/body (e.g., 3 minute breathing space;
      compassionate body scan; five senses mediation), on increasing participants' inner resources
      (e.g., imaging a safe person or safe place), on reducing negative affect (e.g.,
      self-compassionate and acceptance-based practices), or on increasing positive emotions (e.g.,
      gratitude practice; metta practices). All interventions are brief (≤5 minutes) and
      audio-guided.
    
  