
    
      Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is the most common bowel disease in premature and low birth
      weight neonates. NEC is defined by the loss of mucosal integrity of the bowel wall enabling
      bacteria and other toxins to permeate into the bowel causing ischemia and necrosis which can
      lead to bowel perforation and sepsis. NEC can result in substantial morbidity and mortality
      and prolonged hospital and ICU stays.

      Studies have shown that full-term neonates with congenital heart disease (CHD) are 3.7 to 6.3
      times as likely to develop NEC compared with other premature neonates. The overall incidence
      of CHD is up to 12-14 per 1,000 live births and the incidence of NEC in patients with severe
      CHD is up to 10%. Patients with CHD have diastolic hypoperfusion causing inadequate blood
      circulation which can increase their risk of developing NEC. Treatment of NEC is often
      dependent on the clinical severity of the patient. Conservative treatment can be done in
      early stages of suspicion of NEC, while more severe NEC requires resection of the necrotic
      bowel. The current standard of care for diagnosis of NEC is based upon clinical suspicion,
      laboratory values and imaging characteristics found on an abdominal radiograph. Clinicians
      use the Modified Bells Staging Criteria (Appendix A) to diagnose patients with suspected NEC.
      Clinical manifestations often include abdominal bloating, feeding intolerance, constipation,
      emesis, ileus, and/or occult or frank blood in stool.

      In the past, abdominal radiography has been scored on a standard scale that correlated with
      outcomes. Duke University Medical Center developed a standardized ten-point radiographic
      scale, the Duke Abdominal Assessment Scale (DAAS) and was proven to be directly proportional
      to the severity of NEC on patients that underwent surgery. Abdominal radiographs are assessed
      for gas pattern, bowel distention, location and features, pneumatosis (gas in bowel wall),
      portal venous gas and pneumoperitoneum (free air in peritoneal cavity) to indicate the level
      of suspicion of NEC . The use of abdominal radiographs is the most common assessment for
      suspected NEC in infants, however, there have been recent studies done on the utility of
      bowel ultrasound to aid in early diagnosis of NEC due to the ability to evaluate peristalsis,
      echogenicity and thickness of bowel wall, pneumatosis and the capability of doing color
      Doppler to evaluate blood perfusion. A University of Toronto study used ultrasound to assess
      bowel perfusion with color Doppler in neonates and found a correlation between absence of
      bowel wall perfusion and the increased severity of NEC on surgical pathology . Although there
      are similar signs found between abdominal radiography and bowel ultrasound, some of the more
      severe features such as, pneumoperitoneum, were found to be more sensitive on bowel
      ultrasound, thus potentially leading to more definitive treatment . Currently, there is no
      good study evaluating whether the use of bowel ultrasound affects clinical outcomes in
      patients with CHD over the use of abdominal radiography alone.

      The use bowel ultrasound has yet to be adopted in the setting of suspicion for NEC at our
      institution. This is primarily due to the lack of expertise of the ultrasound technologists,
      radiologists and clinicians. With literature dating back to 2005 supporting the use of bowel
      ultrasound in diagnosis of severity of NEC, a high volume of CHD patients at our institution
      as well as new radiologists trained in bowel ultrasound, we would like to see if a regimen
      involving combined ultrasound and radiograph screening for NEC would make a difference in
      clinical outcomes (morbidity, mortality, and length of stay (LOS)) compared with radiograph
      screening alone.
    
  