
    
      Because of the inability to move certain parts of the body, persons with paralysis caused by
      neurological conditions such as spinal cord injury, traumatic head injury, and stroke
      experience grief from the loss of physical capacity, social or occupational role function,
      and life goals. Common complications associated with grief in these individuals include
      increased anxiety and depression, poor physical health, and low sense of purpose in life.
      Therefore, it is essential to identify community-based, self-help support that can serve as a
      step to facilitate healthy grieving in these individuals. Such support should aim at shifting
      their mindset from focusing on their loss (disability) to restoring daily function.
      Constructing and reconstructing the story of one's own life has been reported in several
      autobiographic accounts as a coping strategy to learn acceptance and how to live with various
      traumatic conditions (i.e., grief resolution).

      Writing about emotionally traumatic or challenging experiences has been shown to have a
      surprisingly beneficial effect on reports of symptom reduction and health care use, as well
      as improvements in health status and well-being in people with chronic conditions. Expressive
      emotional writing programs have demonstrated the ability to improve the quality of life of
      individuals with chronic conditions. Although expressive writing could be a promising avenue
      in reducing grief and improving psychosocial and physical functioning among adults with
      paralysis, currently, few programs on expressive emotional writing are available for these
      individuals. Therefore, the UAB Institute for Arts in Medicine (AIM) will implement an
      innovative expressive emotional writing pilot project for adults with paralysis.

      To maximize the number of adults with paralysis who can benefit from participating in this
      expressive emotional writing program, the investigators will partner with two additional
      organizations -the Is-Able Center and the Lakeshore Foundation in Birmingham, Alabama. The
      Is-Able Center (https://isable.org/) is a non-profit community organization which provides
      services including grief support that encourage, educate and empower the quality of life for
      individuals with disabilities. The Lakeshore Foundation (https://www.lakeshore.org/) is also
      a non-profit community organization that serves and advocates for people with physical
      disabilities.

      The writing program will take place at both the Is-Able Center and Lakeshore Foundation
      starting in July 2020. The program will run for 10 consecutive weeks, with weekly writing
      activities. The grant funds will be used to reimburse mileage for adults with paralysis for
      participation in the writing program, hire a program coordinator, and two coaches to
      facilitate the writing program and facilitate discussion conducted in each of the two
      community organizations.
    
  