
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing this consent form, the participant will
      be asked to undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if they can be in the
      research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer
      care and may be done even if it turns out that the participant does not take part in the
      research study. If the participant has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they
      may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about the participant's past and present
           treatments, their health history, current medications, blood transfusions, and any
           allergies the participant, may have.

        -  Physical exam will be performed which will include the measurement of the following:
           weight and height, and vital signs (blood pressure, heart and breathing rate, oral
           temperature.).

        -  Performance status, which evaluates how the participant is able to carry on with your
           usual activities.

        -  Pregnancy test if the participant is a woman who is able to have children. This will be
           done with urine or blood.

        -  Urine test a sample of urine will be taken to check for abnormal cells or signs of
           infection.

        -  Thyroid test a blood test to assess for normal functioning of the participant's thyroid
           gland

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG): leads are applied to the participant's chest to record their
           heart beat and rhythm.

        -  Echocardiogram (ECHO) or MUGA scan of your heart: An echocardiogram is an ultrasound to
           see how the participant's heart is functioning. A MUGA is also an ultrasound to see how
           their heart is functioning. For a MUGA, a radioactive substance is injected into the
           participant's vein and a picture of their heart is created using a special camera.

        -  Blood tests: approximately 3-4 teaspoons of blood will be drawn to measure the
           participant's disease level and to determine if their organs are working well enough to
           allow them to safely participate in this study.

        -  Bone marrow aspirate/ biopsy: a needle will be inserted into the participant's hip or
           breast bone in order to remove a small amount of bone marrow cells. Samples will also be
           collected for research purposes.

      If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study,
      then the participant will begin the study treatment. If the participant does not meet the
      eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to participate in this research study.

      Additional research procedures to be performed at the time of screening:

        -  Blood tests: approximately 4 teaspoons of blood will be taken for research purposes.
           Research samples will be taken and compared later in the study to discover how
           cabozantinib works in fighting the participant's disease.

        -  Bone marrow aspirate/ biopsy: Bone marrow aspirate samples, approximately 1 teaspoon,
           from a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy done prior to screening will be taken for research.

      After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate in the
      research study:

      Study Drug (cabozantinib ): If the participant takes part in this research study, the
      participant will be given a study drug diary for each study cycle. Each study cycle is 28
      days (4 weeks). Cabozantinib comes in the form of tablets which the participant will take by
      mouth once a day. Detailed instructions on how to take cabozantinib can be found in their
      study drug diary.

      Research Study Plan:

      Tests and Procedures: The participant will come to the clinic on Days 1, 2, 8, 15, 22, and 28
      of cycle 1, days 1, 8, 15, and 28 of cycle 2, and days 1 and 15 of every subsequent cycle.
      Visits to clinic may be more frequent if determined by the study doctor. The participant will
      have the following tests and procedures at your visits:

      Assessments will be completed while on trial:

        -  Physical exam

        -  Performance status

        -  Urine test

        -  Blood tests: Both routine and research samples will be drawn throughout the study.

      Bone marrow aspirate/ biopsy: A bone marrow aspirate/biopsy will be completed on day 28 of
      cycle 1 of cabozantinib. A bone marrow biopsy may also be done if the participant's cancer
      does not appear to be getting better, at approximately day 42 after start of therapy. A bone
      marrow biopsy/aspirate may also be performed if their disease returns/relapses at any time
      during this study or to assess for disease response. The bone marrow aspirate/biopsy for this
      study will not be performed if the participant has withdrawn from the study, or/and the
      participant has received other treatment for their disease. Bone marrow aspirate samples,
      approximately one teaspoon, will also be obtained for research at these time points. Please
      note that a blood sample for research purpose will also be drawn on the day of the
      participant's bone marrow aspirate/biopsy. Approximately two teaspoons of blood will be
      drawn.
    
  