
    
      This is a recall-by-genotype randomized single-blind placebo-controlled micronutrient
      supplementation trial. The Keneba biobank will be used to identify all potential participants
      i.e. individuals genotyped for MTHFR C677T for this pilot study.

      The Investigators will invite all 163 adults with the CT genotype in the Keneba biobank and a
      similar number of age- sex- and village-matched CC homozygotes to participate in the study.
      Field assistants will visit the homes of potentially eligible participants, to provide full
      information about the purpose and methods of the study, potential risks and benefits, and
      participants' rights. Participants will then provide written informed consent. The field
      assistant will ensure that the conversation and consent process occurs in a private area or
      room, to maintain privacy and confidentiality. After exclusions and non-consenters the
      investigators anticipate at least 102 subjects per group. Using standard deviation estimates
      from our own and published literature (14mmHg for SBP and 10mmHg for DBP) the investigators
      will have 95% confidence (at p<0.05) of detecting differences of 3.88mmHg for SBP and
      2.76mmHg for DBP.

      Participants within each of the groups will be randomized to riboflavin or placebo in a 1:1
      ratio according to a computer generated randomization scheme. This will be done by randomly
      assigning study numbers within the CT carriers to a treatment group and enrolling
      participants sequentially from lowest to highest study identification number. The subjects
      will be randomized upon dispensing the study drug associated with the subject pair's study
      identification number. Field, clinical, laboratory and data entry staff will be blinded to
      the genotype of the study participants and to the identity of the treatment arm to which a
      participant is assigned from the time of randomization to the time of unblinding. The
      placebos are designed to be indistinguishable from the active drugs. Double-blinding is not
      possible because subjects randomized to the riboflavin will have yellow urine (a harmless
      outcome that will be explained to them).

      Eligible participants will then be invited for a visit to the MRC Keneba field station. At
      the initial visit, socio-demographic data and anthropometric measurements (height, weight,
      waist and hip circumference and body composition by BIA) will be taken. Thereafter, BP will
      be measured with an automated device in triplicate using a standard protocol by the same
      investigator who will be blinded to genotype and treatment group. The investigators will also
      collect 10ml sample of blood for laboratory assessment of vitamin B status. During the
      intervention phase of the trial, the investigators will supplement participants with 5mg/day
      of riboflavin or a matching placebo for 16 weeks. The pills will be supplied on a weekly
      basis with instructions to return any unused pills. Another BP measurement following similar
      protocol as before will be taken at 8 weeks as well as at 16 weeks after the start of the
      intervention. Finally, a 10ml blood sample will be collected at 16 weeks. Blood samples will
      be analysed for riboflavin, homocysteine, red cell folate, cobalamin and pyridoxine.
      Participants who were randomized to receive placebo will be offered riboflavin
      supplementation at the end of the study.

      The investigators will use multilevel modeling test for a main effect of intervention on
      delta BP from baseline to 16wk (and repeated at 8wk) adjusted for sex and age. Chi-squared
      test will be used to test for changes in frequency of raised BP (>140/90). Then the
      investigators will test for effect modification according to MTHFR variant.
    
  