
    
      Patients meeting inclusion criteria will be offered participation in this study. After
      performing an obstetric sonogram to determine fetal position, amniotic fluid status, fetal
      weight and placental location, the patient will be randomized to either placement of the
      Fetal Pillow balloon device with sham inflation (control arm) or placement of the device with
      inflation (study arm).

      The researcher will show the patient the device, open the sterile container, and insert the
      device into the vagina per manufacturer's guidelines for all patients in the study. All
      patients will mark a line on a 100mm VAS to assess pre-insertion and post-insertion pain. The
      study physician will then obtain the assistance of a certified nurse midwife to inflate the
      device or perform a sham inflation. In order for the physician investigator to remain
      blinded, the physician will leave the room during the time of the inflation/sham inflation. A
      certified nurse midwife previously trained to inflate the device will perform the inflation
      or sham inflation per randomization. The assisting midwife will inflate the device with 180
      mL of saline for those patients randomized to inflation. This will occur under a sheet so
      that the patient is blinded to the randomization scheme. If the patient is randomized to no
      inflation, the midwife will perform a sham inflation, also under a sheet. All patients will
      mark a line on a 100mm VAS to assess post-inflation/sham inflation pain. The assisting
      midwife then leaves the room, and the study physician reenters the room and proceeds with the
      external cephalic version (ECV) procedure.

      Regardless of randomization, at this point the ECV procedure proceeds using normal routine.
      The ECV will be attempted up to four times and VAS will be assessed after each attempt. Once
      completed, all patients will also mark a line on a 100mm VAS to assess post-ECV pain.

      The research physician will then remove the Fetal Pillow. Regardless of randomization, the
      procedure is completed per the usual routine of fetal monitoring, assessing for rupture of
      membranes, labor or bleeding, discussing post-procedure care, then discharge home (or, less
      likely, admitting for either observation or delivery).

      The researcher will fill out the ECV portion of the data collection form. Data are collected
      later for delivery outcomes and costs for the mother and neonate.
    
  