
    
      This study will include individuals with multiple sclerosis including all MS types with EDSS
      from 0-8, who will be practicing at the Multiple Sclerosis Association in Rijeka for a period
      of 2 month, 2 times a week for 60 minutes per exercise (total 16h).

      Participants will be randomly selected into 2 groups: MS individuals that will exercise -
      group (MSE), with related control group of individuals who will not exercise) (MSC).

      In addition, a group of healthy control subjects without MS (HCE) will also exercise and be
      evaluated after the study with related control individuals who will not exercise (HCC).

      Group of MS and healthy individuals will exercise under the guidance of a physiotherapist.
      Exercise will be carried out sitting on the chairs for all participants, regardless of
      whether participants are able to walk or not. The physiotherapist will first demonstrate and
      explain each exercise. Participants will be emphasized during exercise to stop exercising if
      there is tiredness, weakness, pain or any other discomfort.

      At the beginning of each exercise session, exercise will be initiated by warming muscles and
      breathing exercises. Therapeutic and abdominal breathing exercises with extended exhalation
      will be also conducted. Then follow the exercises of stretching and increasing the movement
      range of the upper and lower limbs. Participants will work with dumbbells and elastic straps
      to strengthen the muscles of the extremities. In the end of training session, there will be
      devoted to stretching of the muscle groups involved during exercise.

      Each participant involved in the study will undergo the examination through several
      functional tests at the beginning and up to 8-weeks of the study or exercise, including
      post-exercise questionnaire for motivation analysis:

        1. Assessment of pain level using a "Visual Analogue Scale" for pain (VAS). It is a
           psychometric response scale or a measurement instrument for subjective characteristics
           that cannot be directly measured. Here, the participants state their degree of agreement
           with the facial expression shown with the description of the pain in words, including
           the appropriate number below the image. The VAS for pain is 5 units long, 0 to 5 (0-no
           pain and 5-hardest possible pain). Since every patient experiences a pain differently,
           this simple test can evaluate and make it visible.

        2. Assessment of Headache-Migraine intensity and frequency using Headache-Migraine survey.

        3. Evaluation of Quality of Life using the abbreviated version of the "36-Item Short Form
           Survey" (36-SF). It contains 36 questions including 8 subclasses: physical function,
           role of constraints due to physical problems, physical pain, general health perception,
           energy level, social function, the role of limitations due to psychological problems and
           general mental health. The test time is 10 minutes. The scoring system for the SF-36 is
           relatively complex and is obtained by summing the results for each sub-base separately.
           Two summaries can be derived from physical subclasses and psychic subclasses. SF-36 is
           one of "Multiple Sclerosis Quality of Life Inventory" (MSQLI) and Multiple Sclerosis
           Quality of Life-54(MSQOL-54) .

        4. Assessment of psychological distress using the "Clinical Outcomes in Routine Evaluation
           - Outcome Measure" (CORE-OM). The CORE-OM has 34 items, all with the same five level
           response choice, and covers the last seven days. It was designed, and this was led
           partly by the commissioning specification, to cover four main domains: wellbeing,
           problems, functioning and risk and has 4, 12, 12 and 6 items focused on those domains
           respectively. The original scoring was the mean across the items, i.e. between 0 and 4
           as the scoring of the item responses is from 0 to 4, more recently, to require fewer
           decimal places, scores have often been reported after multiplying that by ten.

        5. Fatigue estimation using the "Modified Fatigue Impact Scale" (MFIS). It is a modified
           form of the Fatigue Impact Scale based on data obtained from interviews with MS patients
           on how tiredness affects their lives. This test gives an assessment of tiredness effects
           on physical, cognitive and psychosocial functioning and can therefore be treated as 3
           separate categories. In full-time MFIS consists of 21 questions. The time to complete is
           5-10 minutes and the examinee can solve the test without the help of an interviewer. The
           total points are obtained by summing all the answers or the additions are made
           separately by the mentioned categories.

        6. Assessment the quality of sleep using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The
           Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) is an effective instrument used to measure the
           quality and patterns of sleep in adults. It differentiates "poor" from "good" sleep
           quality by measuring seven areas (components): subjective sleep quality, sleep latency,
           sleep duration, habitual sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, use of sleeping
           medications, and daytime dysfunction over the last month.

        7. Assessment the insomnia using the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI). The test is designed to
           assess the nature, severity, and impact of insomnia and it consists of 7 items: Severity
           of sleep onset, sleep maintenance and early morning wakening problems, sleep
           dissatisfaction, interference of sleep difficulties with daytime functioning, notice
           ability of sleep problems by others, distress caused by the sleep difficulties.

        8. Questionnaire upon completion of exercise. The final questionnaire will analyze whether
           the participants really felt health change after exercise cycle and motivated them in a
           group under the guidance of a physiotherapist to continue self-exercising at home.

      Each participant will be familiar with the research protocol to be implemented in accordance
      with the Code of Ethics and respecting the principles of the Patient Rights. The investigator
      will explain the use of the tests. Participants will confirm their participation by signing
      their consent. Participants voluntarily involved in this research will be provided oral and
      written consent with the explanation of the possibility of giving up at any time during this
      study without consequences for their further treatment, guaranteed discretion and anonymity
      of the obtained data.

      Statistical data processing:

      The results of the research will be statistically analyzed using a computer program of
      Version 13 (Sigma Plot Scientific Graphing System, v13.0). Statistical significance will be
      calculated by non-parametric test for dependent samples and parametric test for dependent
      samples in cases of normal data distribution. Data will be expressed as mean value ± standard
      error or as a central value of the median value range. The correlation of the observed
      changes will be investigated by Pearson's correlation for parametric or by Spearman's for
      non-parametric data. Significant statistical changes will be considered at p<0.05.
    
  