
    
      Aim The aim of this study is to assess if a nephrology intervention before cardiac surgery
      can reduce the postoperative incidence of AKI (Acute Kidney Injury).

      Methods Trial design and participants Recruitment: unicentric Ethics approval: Clinical
      Research Ethics Committee of Bellvitge will have approved the study before initiation. All
      patients will give written informed consent. Patients will be able to withdraw informed
      consent.

      Duration of the study: 3 years recruitment, 1 year follow-up.

      Randomization

      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned by using sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed
      envelopes. Patients will be allocated to one of two groups using shuffled envelopes at the
      moment of the first visit of the cardiac surgeon. The two groups will be:

        1. Nephrology intervention before surgery, which will include:

             1. pre-operative study:

                  -  Kidney function: creatinine, Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) and presence
                     albuminuria or proteinuria. Assessment whether there is a functional component
                     added.

                  -  Discard presence of renal disease: renovascular disease, glomerular disease,
                     toxic ...

             2. optimise the patient' s overall condition with a pre-operative strategy:

        2. No nephrology intervention before surgery (standard of care) Treatment allocation will
           be know by the clinician entering the patient into the trial at the moment the envelope
           will be opened.

      Blinding Open study. If it appears a clinical situation that force the clinician to change
      the patient allocation group (e.g. acute kidney injury or advanced chronic kidney disease not
      known before which requires some treatment), an intention-to-treat analysis will be made
      considering the results of the patient in the initial assigned group.

      Procedures

      Baseline data recorded:

        -  Age

        -  Race/ethnicity

        -  Gender

        -  Body mass index

        -  Comorbidities: coronary heart disease, previous cardiac arrest, diagnosed hypertension,
           cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, diabetes type I or II, chronic
           obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer, inability to ambulate or transfer.

        -  Day of randomisation and the day on admission to hospital: serum creatinine, proteinuria
           (albuminuria, urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR), and protein-to-creatinine ratio
           (ACR), urinary ionogram, ferritin, transferrin saturation index, albumin, prealbumin,
           cholesterol levels (LDL, HDL, total), uric acid, fibrinogen, fasting blood glucose,
           HbA1c, phosphate, hemoglobin and venous blood gasometry

        -  Type of surgery

        -  Date of intervention and surgeon

        -  Treatment before surgery (ACEI, ARA II, non steroid antinflamatories, betablockers,
           statins..)

        -  Ejection fraction, PAP, diastolic disfunction and left ventricular dysfunction

        -  Postoperative need of pacemaker

        -  Euroscore index and index of Charlson

      Operative factors:

        -  off-pump surgery

        -  clamp time (minutes)

        -  hemodynamic constants (medium arterial pressures)

        -  fluid balance

        -  need of blood transfusions

        -  number of cardioversion Patients will be followed up until they meet the primary
           endpoint, or for a minimum of one year if they do not do so. The trial will not formally
           be analyzed until 1 year after all patients will have been randomized. Follow-up
           information will be obtained from consultant intensivist and consultant nephrologist.

      Follow up: Clinical and analytical assessment will be carried out at discharge, 4 and 12
      months after surgery by the cardiac surgeon and nephrologist.

      Sample size: The number of participants required in each group is calculated with 80% power
      and 5% significance: 9

      •n= 550 per group --> considering a difference of 5% in people presenting AKI between people
      without nephrologist intervention before surgery (12,2%) and those without intervention
      (7,2%)

      Parameters that will be measured:

        -  The effectiveness of Nephrology intervention will be measured giving a punctuation
           according to the degree of attainment of the objectives. An intervention will be
           considered effective when a punctuation over 7pt is obtained (adding one point to each
           of the parameters).

        -  Routine laboratory tests (baseline and every day after surgery): creatinine, urea, GFR
           (estimated using the CKD-EPI 10, hemoglobin levels (Hb) and diuresis (mL).

        -  Parameters at initiation of RRT: serum urea (mmol/L) and serum creatinine (μmol/L),
           oliguria (defined by urine output <20 mL/h), acidaemia (arterial pH <7.25), K+ (mmol/L),
           lactic acid

        -  Duration of RRT (days)

        -  Number of packed red blood cells, plasma or platelets transfused after the procedure

        -  Ejection fraction and left ventricular dysfunction 13

        -  Vascular access used for RRT

        -  SOFA score

      Postoperative day 1 will be defined as the period up to 12pm on the day after surgery, day 2
      as the period until 12pm on the subsequent day, and so on.

      Statistical analysis An intention-to-treat analysis will be performed considering the results
      of the patient in the initial assigned group. The outcome data will be measured in all
      participants (if there is missing data it will be reported and imputed using appropriate
      methods such as: treating these as if they were observed (e.g. last observation carried
      forward) Unless otherwise stated, p values and estimates of treatment effects will be based
      on two-way comparisons.

      Continuous variables will be compared between groups using Student's t test or Wilcoxon rank
      test. Categorical variables will be compared using X2 or Fisher exact test. Subgroup analysis
      will be performed considering different stages of previous kidney disease and different kind
      of cardiac surgeries. Survival will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier and Cox models.

      Statistical analysis using SPSS software will be performed.

      Ethical issues The trial will be stopped (without one year follow-up) if the in-hospital AKI
      outcomes are negative (defining that there is more than 25% of differences between groups).

      This study has already been approved by the Ethics committee of the Hospital Universitari de
      Bellvitge on the 10th of July of 2014.

      Interim analysis and stopping rules The interim analysis will not be published previously and
      the stopping rules will be that any patient who do not want to participate in the study, will
      be dropped-out without any impediment. There will not be an independent data-monitoring
      committee.

      Indemnities: none Publication plan: Results will be published in an international journal.
      Funder : no funding.
    
  