
    
      The purpose of the project is to continue the development of a new method of localising the
      regions of the brain responsible for abnormal, epileptic discharges in patients with
      epilepsy. The method, EEG-fMRI, combines electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI). EEG records the electrical activity of the brain via electrodes
      attached to the scalp, and is widely used in the diagnosis and study of epilepsy. FMRI uses
      an MRI scanner to detect changes in blood flow that occur whenever a region of the brain is
      active. Both techniques have a wide range of applications in the study of normal and abnormal
      brain function.

      The advantage of combining the two techniques is that fMRI can determine very accurately the
      location of the active regions, while EEG has the potential to unlock their relative timing,
      allowing more accurate interpretation of fMRI results and hence the brain response to
      epileptic activity. The project will not be applied to the localisation of epileptic
      seizures, because of their unpredictability, the safety implications of having a seizure in
      an MRI scanner and problems with data quality if the patient moves during scanning. Instead,
      interictal discharges will be studied, which are small events occurring regularly between
      seizures of which the patient is unaware.

      Clinically, it can be extremely important to determine which regions of the brain generate
      epileptic discharges, both for a better understanding of the patient's epilepsy and, in
      suitable cases, to help in planning surgery. EEG-fMRI is one method of doing this, and is
      potentially very powerful because it is very straightforward for the patient, requiring only
      the application of electrodes to the scalp followed by a period lying down in the MRI
      scanner. In addition, since most UK hospitals have MRI scanners and EEG expertise, it could
      take advantage of capacity that already exists within the NHS. This project will build on
      previous work to characterise the link between the electrical (EEG) and blood flow (fMRI)
      responses to interictal discharges which is necessary in order for the technique to become
      widely used clinically.

      Patients will be recruited from epilepsy clinics after having the nature and purpose of the
      project explained to them. They will also receive initial screening for MRI safety to ensure
      that they can be scanned safely. Upon arrival at the Birmingham University Imaging Centre
      (BUIC), EEG electrodes will be attached to the patient's scalp using an electrode cap. When
      the electrodes are in place, the patient will be asked to lie down on the scanner bed. Ear
      plugs and head phones will be worn to minimise the noise of the scanner but this will not
      prevent communication with the scanner operator. Once the bed has been moved to the centre of
      the scanner, the patient will be asked to lie still for the remainder of the scanning
      session. No task will be performed. Scanning will include an anatomical image and multiple
      runs of fMRI. The patient will have an alarm bell which can be pressed at any time to attract
      the attention of the scanner operator, and fMRI scanning will have regular breaks every 5-6
      minutes during which the scanner operator will talk to the patient. During the course of
      scanning the patient will be monitored from the control room via the window and video camera.
      Scanning will continue for a maximum of two hours or until the patient expresses the desire
      to terminate the session. The patient will then be removed from the scanner and the
      electrodes removed, following which the patient will be free to leave BUIC. It is expected
      that the whole procedure will take up to 3 hours and will be conducted once per patient,
      although if a patient expresses a willingness to return this may be considered.

      Patients with a variety of types of epilepsy will be scanned. This will result in a
      comprehensive database, taking into account losses due to poor quality data, patients who
      wish to leave the scanner early and those in whom no interictal discharges are observed. The
      main result of the study will be to compare the properties of the fMRI response to the
      corresponding properties of each interictal discharge, in order to determine why some
      discharges are detectable by fMRI, while others are not. This will be done on a patient by
      patient basis, although comparison across patients with similar types of epilepsy will begin
      to help determine which patients are suitable for EEG-fMRI, a crucial question if the
      technique is to be applied efficiently and effectively.
    
  