
    
      A common practice used to control autonomic responses during surgery is to administer
      beta-blockers intraoperatively. This practice has been shown to effectively blunt autonomic
      responses to intraoperative events. Several studies have shown that administration of
      beta-blockers can decrease intraoperative anesthetic requirements. Additionally, it has been
      demonstrated in several studies that intraoperative beta-blocker administration may actually
      decrease postoperative pain scores and opioid requirements, although these results are not
      entirely consistent. The mechanism by which the decrease in postoperative pain and narcotic
      requirements occurs is unclear. It has been postulated that esmolol may itself possess some
      analgesic-like properties, as was suggested by studies performed in rodent models. It has
      also been postulated that perioperative beta-blockade may attenuate the neuroendocrine stress
      response to surgery, thereby decreasing inflammatory responses in tissues; however, this
      theory was not supported by a study in which stress hormone levels were measured in patients
      who received beta-blockers and compared to a control group. Several studies which
      investigated the effects of beta-blockade on postoperative pain and opioid requirements
      compared the beta-blocker treatment group to an opioid treatment group, and did not include a
      true control group in which no treatment was given. Therefore, it is unclear whether the
      decrease in postoperative pain and opioid requirements in these studies was due to a true
      effect of the beta-blockers or whether it was due to an effect of the opioids.

      Therefore, the investigators propose a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study
      in which the investigators will compare an esmolol infusion treatment group to a normal
      saline infusion control group with regards to the effects on postoperative pain and opioid
      requirements. By setting up the study in this manner, the investigators will be able to
      clearly evaluate the effects of beta-blockers on postoperative pain scores and opioid
      requirements. The investigators chose to use esmolol both because it has a short half-life,
      so it is easy to titrate and administer as an infusion, and also because it is selective for
      beta-1 receptors, so deleterious effects of intraoperative hypotension should be minimized.
      The investigators chose to perform the study on patients who are undergoing single-level or
      double-level laminectomies because prior studies have investigated the effects of
      intraoperative beta-blockers on patients who are not chronic pain patients, and the
      investigators would like to research whether the results which have been suggested by prior
      studies are also applicable to patients who may have chronic pain, as this is the patients
      population that is most likely to experience high pain levels following surgery, and may
      benefit the most from reduction of postoperative pain levels.
    
  