
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of pathologic complete response in patients with localized prostate
      cancer treated with androgen depletion therapy (ADT) and oral vorinostat administered for a
      minimum of 6 weeks and maximum of 8 weeks before radical prostatectomy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine and evaluate pre- and post-treatment levels of prostate-specific antigen
      (PSA), testosterone, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), and
      dehydroepiandrosterone-dulfate (DHEA-S) in blood.

      II. To determine and evaluate pre- and post-treatment levels of testosterone,
      androstenedione, androstenediol, DHT, DHEA, and DHEA-S in prostate.

      III. To determine and evaluate gene and protein expression analysis including androgen
      receptor (AR) target genes, PSA and TMPRSS2 (transmembrane protease, serine 2), in
      pre-treatment biopsy and post-treatment radical prostatectomy.

      IV. To determine and evaluate exploratory gene microarray analysis. V. To determine and
      evaluate the safety and tolerability of ADT in combination with vorinostat (SAHA) as assessed
      by physical examinations, adverse events, and laboratory assessments.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive bicalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 1 month and leuprolide acetate
      intramuscularly (IM) or goserelin acetate subcutaneously (SC) once a month until surgery.
      Patients also receive vorinostat PO QD beginning on the first day of androgen depletion
      therapy and continuing for up to 8 weeks or until the day of surgery. Patients then undergo
      an open or laparoscopic radical prostatectomy. Patients with positive surgical margins
      undergo immediate adjuvant external beam radiotherapy to the prostatic fossa, based on the
      judgment of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 1 year.
    
  