
    
      Caudal blocks are one of the most commonly performed regional anesthetics in children and are
      performed daily for a host of infra-umbilical surgical procedures. A caudal block is an
      epidural injection, most commonly of local anesthetic into the epidural space as accessed via
      the sacral hiatus. In children, the sacral hiatus is a normally occurring aperture in which
      the epidural space may be accessed with extremely minimal risk; as neural tissue ends more
      proximally. Due to this measure of safety, caudal blocks are preferred in children when
      compared with standard lumbar epidurals. Caudal blocks are performed blindly using palpation
      and tactile feedback to assess if the medication is being administered in the correct
      location. As a result of blind injection, administration of local anesthetic totally or
      partially outside of the correct site can often be unnoticed or identified after a
      significant volume has already been injected. With the potential for toxicity of local
      anesthetic, this may result in either the inability to give a complete dose or an
      unintentional and often unnoticed sham block "incorrect site of injection".

      Use of ultrasound has been proposed for identification of caudal block placement and correct
      medication spread. However, a recent review of the Pediatric Regional Anesthesia Network
      database reveals that ultrasound is reportedly only used in less that 3% of blocks. The
      benefit of ultrasound is safe and real-time confirmation of injection. Ultrasound allows the
      provider to determine with minimal local anesthetic or even saline injection if the correct
      space is accessed. Without ultrasound, failed blocks are either identified after significant
      percentage of the total dose of local anesthetic is incorrectly administered or intra or post
      operatively when the patient demonstrates a significant opioid requirement. This is
      problematic given that one of the primary benefits of a caudal block in children is the
      ability to avoid opioids.

      Review of local practice here at Texas Children's Hospital for quality improvement purposes
      revealed a failure rate of caudal blocks to be 18%. Failure was defined as a heart rate
      increase with incision of >20% despite a caudal block and >1MAC of gas for the patient age.
      These patients all required opioids both intra and post operatively in addition to surgical
      levels of inhaled anesthetic agent.
    
  