
    
      Primary dysmenorrhea is defined as cramping pain in the lower abdomen that occurs before or
      during menstruation without identifiable pelvic pathology. Secondary symptoms include nausea,
      vomiting, fatigue, back pain, headaches, dizziness, and diarrhea. Primary dysmenorrhea has
      been reported as the leading cause of recurrent absenteeism from school or work in adolescent
      girls and young women, and it is considered to be a common disorder among women of
      reproductive age. The greater percentages of depression and anxiety are more common in
      patients with severe dysmenorrhea compared to those without dysmenorrhea. The prevalence of
      dysmenorrhea varies between 25-97%, and approximately 20% of them have severe pain.

      Treatment in primary dysmenorrhea can be classified as pharmacological, non-pharmacological
      and complementary therapies. Pharmacological therapies focus on the reduction of menstrual
      pain and relaxation of the uterine muscles with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs) or oral contraceptive pills. Management of dysmenorrhea with these pharmacological
      agents is associated with side effects such as nausea, breast tenderness, inter-menstrual
      bleeding and auditory and visual disturbances. Therefore, non-pharmacological approaches are
      needed in the treatment of dysmenorrhea. Non-pharmacological approaches to relieve
      dysmenorrhea symptoms include acupuncture, reflexology, biofeedback, transcutaneous
      electrical stimulation, relaxation therapy, massage therapy, and exercise. Complementary
      therapies include essential fatty acids, vitamins, herbal medicine, and aromatherapy. It has
      been known that previous studies investigating the efficacy of these approaches in primary
      dysmenorrhea do not have a control or placebo-control group or they reveal the effectiveness
      of combined applications.

      Connective tissue manipulation is a manually administered reflex therapy or a massage
      application. It may target superficial connective tissues and may stimulate segmental and
      supra-segmental autonomic cutaneous-visceral reflexes to restore autonomic balance and reduce
      dysfunction in affected internal organs. Therefore, connective tissue manipulation can be
      used to increase circulation of the uterus by stimulating segmental reflexes and to reduce
      congestion and menstrual pain. Although the effect of connective tissue massage on a wide
      range of health problems such as painful syndromes, vascular problems or bowel dysfunction is
      investigated, there is limited evidence of its use in primary dysmenorrhea. There is no
      randomized placebo-controlled study investigating the effects of connective tissue massage on
      menstrual pain and symptoms of dysmenorrhea. Therefore, the aim of the present study is to
      determine the effectiveness of connective tissue massage by the randomized placebo-controlled
      design in patients with primary dysmenorrhea.
    
  