
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether subtype-specific treatment effects correlate with disease-free
           survival (DFS), as determined by a significant interaction between PAM50-based intrinsic
           subtypes, and (a) paclitaxel benefit in CLB-9344 and (b) dose density in CALGB-9741.

        -  To determine whether subtype-specific treatment effects correlate with DFS for the
           HER2-negative subsets in CALGB-9344 and CALGB-9741, as determined by analysis of tissue
           microarray (TMA) and slides.

        -  To determine the relationship between PAM50-defined risk of relapse (ROR) score and DFS
           in CALGB-9344 and CALGB-9741.

        -  To evaluate the relationship between PAM50-defined ROR score and DFS in the
           HER2-negative subsets in CALGB-9344 and CALGB-9741, as determined by analysis of TMA and
           slides.

        -  To examine the relationship between PAM50-defined proliferation score and DFS in
           CALGB-9344 and CALGB-9741 in multivariate Cox-proportional hazards models including the
           following covariates: (a) number of positive lymph nodes, square root transformation;
           (b) menopausal status (pre versus peri/post); CALGB-9344 only; c) dose of doxorubicin
           hydrochloride (60/75/90 mg/m^2); and CALGB-9741 only; and (d) sequence of treatment.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate overall survival (OS) in a Cox-proportional hazards-regression model for
           testing the interaction between ROR with (a) paclitaxel benefit in CALGB-9344 and (b)
           dose density in CALGB-9741.

        -  To test for a significant interaction between ROR and paclitaxel benefit at 5-year and
           10-year DFS.

        -  To test whether 5-year and 10-year DFS rates can be associated to a significant
           interaction between the proliferation score with (a) paclitaxel benefit in CALGB-9344
           and (b) dose density in CALGB-9741.

      OUTLINE: Tissue blocks from CALGB-9344 and CALGB-9741 are utilized to purify RNA to be tested
      in the PAM50 assay (a 50-gene quantitative PCR assay, that provides an intrinsic breast
      cancer subtype diagnosis) and generate risk of relapse (ROR) scores.

      The assay identifies five subtypes with the following characteristics:

        -  Luminal A: This subtype expresses estrogen receptor (ER) accompanied by high levels of
           ER-associated gene expression. Genes associated with cell cycle activation are not
           highly expressed and this tumor type is only very rarely HER2+. This subgroup has the
           most favorable prognosis and is enriched for endocrine therapy responsive tumors.

        -  Luminal B: This subtype expresses ER and ER-associated gene expression but to a lower
           extent. Genes associated with cell cycle activation are highly expressed and this tumor
           type can be HER2+ (~20%) or HER2- thus, from the clinical perspective, Luminal B tumors
           are at least two further subtypes defined by the presence or absence of HER2-gene
           amplification. The prognosis is unfavorable (despite ER expression) and endocrine
           therapy responsiveness is generally diminished.

        -  Basal-like: This subtype is ER-, is almost always clinically HER2- and expresses a suite
           of "basal" biomarkers. Genes associated with cell cycle activation are highly expressed.

        -  HER2-enriched: This subtype is ER- and is HER2+ in the majority of cases. Genes
           associated with cell cycle activation are highly expressed and these tumors have a poor
           outcome. Tumors within this classification that are clinically HER2- fall into a class
           previously described as double-negative non-basal.

        -  Normal-like: A tumor subtype diagnosis cannot be provided from samples that exhibit a
           normal-like profile. Since this profile was trained on samples without cancer,
           "normal-like" implies there are too few tumor cells in the sample to make a true tumor
           subtype diagnosis.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,245 tissue blocks from CALGB-9544 and 1,432 tissue blocks
      from CALGB-9741 will be accrued for this study.
    
  