
    
      Osteoarthritis and early degenerative cartilage lesions has a significant impact on our
      society. People are both living and are more active for longer and so their demands are
      greater. This is having a direct effect on our economy from days missed off work and greater
      dependency on state resources.

      The limited regenerative capacity of cartilage is part of this problem. Existing degenerative
      lesions lead to accelerated deterioration of the articular (joint) surface leading to
      end-stage arthritis. Any solution that can delay or reverse this process is therefore
      desirable. A number of non-invasive solutions do exist to treat painful knees that improve
      functionality but with varying rates of success. Two of the more promising agents are
      hyaluronic acid (HA) and platelet rich plasma (PRP). HA is widely applied in clinical
      practice with good results in many studies. HA forms part of the inflammatory process that
      can lead to the regeneration of cartilage in defective areas of the knee.

      PRP uses reparative growth factors taken from the patient's own blood to create an
      environment in the knee conducive to wound healing that can fill cartilage defects. It's
      autologous origin, easy preparation and safety profile makes it a potentially ground breaking
      treatment option for knee cartilage defects and osteoarthritis.

      These solutions work to improve the localised environment of morbidity and so for this reason
      are best administered as intra-articularly. As PRP is still in the earlier stages of its
      development, its exact dosage is still to be determined. HA has also recently been prepared
      as a higher concentration solution to test if there are any benefits to this.

      Trials have compared these two products. No randomised controlled trials exist making our
      proposed research important.

      Our null hypothesis is that there is no difference between HA and PRP in treating patients
      will articular lesions.

      We will attempt to answer our research question by means of a randomised trial as there have
      been no trials to date that have proposed to clarify this clinical question. The reason for
      choosing a randomised trial is that it will take the quality of our research findings to a
      higher level than already exists in the literature. PRP will be compared with HA as these are
      two products with similar objectives. HA has been used for longer and has a more proven
      clinically successful track record. Selected participants will be randomised to receive
      either HA or PRP intra-articular injections.

      Patients will be sourced from GP referrals to our knee unit clinic at the Alexandra Spire
      Hospital. Post-arthroscopy patients or existing follow up patients that satisfy the inclusion
      criteria will also be offered a place in our trial. Selected patients will be given a
      participant information sheet to read that will explain all about the trial. They will meet
      an investigator (doctor) to answer any queries and sign a consent form if they so wish.

      Upon inclusion they will fill out a scoring questionnaire, be randomised and receive their
      corresponding injection. PRP recipients will have a sample of blood taken as is the
      requirement for the procedure.

      They will then be followed up in clinic at 6 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months where they will have
      to fill in a scoring questionnaire each time. The trial will therefore last from inclusion of
      our first patient until the last patient is followed up for one year.
    
  