
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is extremely common has prompted the popularization of home
      sleep test (HST). HST record a limited number of respiratory signals, provide a more
      comfortable testing option to the patient at a lower cost. HST has a performance as good as
      PSG among patients with suspected OSA and no significant co-morbidities.

      Our study was designed to investigate the performance of a simple solution that consists of a
      high-resolution wireless oximeter with a built-in accelerometer linked to a smartphone
      application and automated cloud algorithm for detection of oxygen desaturation, described
      herein as Overnight Digital Monitoring (ODM) (BilogixTM). We will compare the results of ODM
      with HST performed by ApneaLink Air by Resmed®.

      We have already compared ODM to PSG with excellent results in a prior study and intend to see
      the results in uncontrolled environment (home) .

      Population: Men and women from the São Paulo Department of Health, who are awaiting
      examination for diagnosis of OSAS.We intend to compare the ODM with the HST. Patients with
      indication for CPAP titration will be excluded. The participants will wear a wireless
      oximeter (Oxistar, Biologix Sistemas Ltda., Brazil) with a built-in accelerometer on a finger
      of the same hand as the HST oximeter and we will compare both methods for diagnosing OSA.

      All HST studies will be scored by 2 independent certified technicians blinded to the ODM
      results. Hypopnea will be defined as a peak signal excursion drop by ≥ 30% of pre-event
      baseline nasal pressure signal lasting ≥ 10 sec. Hypopneas will be scored according the
      acceptable AASM criteria for hypopnea (≥ 4% reduction in SpO2). Mild, moderate and severe OSA
      will be defined according to the current standards (5 ≤ AHI <15; 15 ≤ AHI <30 and AHI ≥30
      events/h, respectively).ODI results from ODM will be expressed as the number of desaturations
      per recording time and will be automatically analyzed at the cloud. In order to compare with
      TST-AHI4%, ODM will be matched using 4% desaturation criteria (ODM-ODI4%, respectively).
    
  