
    
      It was reported that low-dose angiotensin II receptor blocker, candesartan, was effective to
      prevent cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease treated with coronary
      angioplasty (Am Heart J 146:E20, 2003). In this study, patients without significant coronary
      stenosis on follow-up angiography 6 months after intervention were randomly assigned into a
      candesartan group (baseline treatment plus candesartan 4 mg/d) or a control group (baseline
      treatment alone). It is well known that patients treated with drug-eluting stents (DES) have
      lower restenosis rate as compared with those with bare metal stents. Therefore, we
      hypothesized that candesartan started immediately after DES implantation was effective to
      prevent cardiovascular events.

      The primary endpoint is a composite of any cause death and cardiovascular events (nonfatal
      myocardial infarction, recurrent symptomatic myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure,
      and stroke). The secondary endpoints are target lesion revascularization, binary restenosis,
      newly onset diabetes and newly onset of atrial fibrillation.

      Patient population which needs to prove the hypothesis is estimates to be 1,130 cases in
      total (565 cases in each group). We set the parameters which are needed to calculate the
      number of study patients as follows; a drop out rate 10%, an event rate of the primary end
      point for 3 years 20%, a risk reduction rate brought by candesartan 25%, a statistical power
      90% and a two-sided significance level 0.05. We assumed the event rate from the study which
      was conducted to prove the effects of statins after PCI in Japan named MUSASHI-PCI. Also the
      risk reduction rate from two major RCTs of candesartan conducted in Japan named the Ogaki and
      HIJ-CREATE studies. In the Ogaki study, the risk reduction rate by candesartan was 52%.
      However, stents used in the study were only BMS after surviving restenosis. The risk
      reduction of the present study will be lower because of the higher onset rate of stent
      thrombosis in regard to DES. Furthermore, the risk reduction rate of candesartan for Japanese
      was 11% reported in HIJ-CREATE. The ACE-I usage rate was almost 70% in the control subjects
      of HIJ-CREATE. In the present study, ACE-I will be administered less frequently as low as
      30%. Therefore, assumed risk reduction rate by candesartan in the present study could be
      higher. Considering all the various factors together, a reasonable risk reduction rate could
      be 25%.
    
  