
    
      Lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D) is a genetic disease characterized by abnormal lipid
      accumulation in many parts of the body due to a marked decrease in activity of the enzyme
      lysosomal acid lipase (LAL).

      The LAL-D disease spectrum ranges from a presentation in infants that is rapidly progressive
      to a presentation that occurs in childhood, adolescence, or less frequently, in adulthood in
      which the rate of disease progression is more variable. Irrespective of where a patient is on
      the disease spectrum, LAL-D is associated with significant burden of disease and a shortened
      life expectancy in some patients.

      The non-infantile onset form of the disease, also known as CESD, occurs in both children and
      adults and is an under-appreciated cause of fatty liver with prominent microvesicular
      steatosis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. Although the natural history of the disease has not been
      well studied, serious complications are frequently described, including early death, liver
      transplantation, or cardiovascular accidents. Other complications include premature
      atherosclerosis (hardening of arteries) associated with high levels of total cholesterol and
      low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, often called the "bad" cholesterol. The levels of
      triglycerides can also be high and the levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol
      (the "good" cholesterol) are typically low.

      In the past, treatments mainly focused on control of the lipid abnormalities through diet and
      the use of lipid-lowering medications, which only address some aspects of the disease, while
      progression to fibrosis and cirrhosis may still occur. In preclinical studies and clinical
      studies in participants with LAL-D, treatment with SBC-102 (sebelipase alfa, Kanuma®) has
      been shown to produce improvements in markers of liver damage and in the lipid abnormalities.
      The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of using SBC-102 to treat LAL-D through
      a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blinded study in children and adults.

      This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study involving 66
      participants evaluated the safety and efficacy of enzyme-replacement therapy with sebelipase
      alfa (administered intravenously at a dose of 1 mg/kg of body weight qow). The study included
      a 20-week placebo-controlled period followed by open-label treatment periods for all
      participants. The primary end-point was normalization of the alanine aminotransferase level.
      Secondary end-points included additional disease-related efficacy and safety assessments.

      Final study results have not been published in a peer-reviewed journal.
    
  