
    
      The study of the expression of ERK5 and PKM2 kinases in patients followed for RR MS or GBS,
      at the beginning of the pathology, will be evaluate.

      The usual diagnostic workup for MS and GBS will be performed in order to classify patients
      into 4 groups :

      • Group 1 : control group. Patients that do not fulfill the criteria for MS or GBS and in
      whom no differential diagnosis was made.

      Subgroups 1a and 1b will be formed by respective pairing with groups 2 and 3.

        -  Group 2 : patients with RR MS confirmed by Macdonald criteria (2017)

        -  Group 3 : patients with GBS confirmed by the association of the usual clinical and
           electrophysiological signs.

        -  Group 4 : patients in whom a differential diagnosis has been identified to explain the
           symptoms. These patients will be excluded from the analysis.

      An additional blood sample (25 mL) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample (2mL) will be taken
      from all patients in order to study the laboratory parameters of this study. Peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and neutrophils will be isolated from the blood using a Percoll
      gradient. Group 4 samples will not be analyzed.

      The analysis will focus on the comparison of laboratory parameters between group 2 and 3,
      between group 1a and 2, and between 1b and 3.

        1. / Expression of ERK5 and PKM2 kinases

           The investigators wish to analyze the expression of ERK5 and PKM2 by RT-qPCR to
           investigate the transcriptome on RNA level and by Western Blot and ELISA to investigate
           the phosphorylated and total forms of the two kinases.

           RT-qPCR require RNA extraction, reverse transcription into cDNA and then amplification
           of the genes encoding ERK5 and PKM2 using specific primers designed beforehand. The
           results will be compared with those obtained with primers of the HPRT gene.

        2. / Study of the balance between pro and anti-inflammatory action

           The investigators wish to characterize the balance of pro and anti-inflammatory activity
           by studying lymphocyte phenotyping and determining the level of cytokines.

           Lymphocyte phenotyping will be performed by flow cytometry from PBMCs. The populations
           studied will include the Th1, Th2, Th9, Th17, Th22, Treg and TFH populations.

           The panel of mainly inflammatory cytokines will be studied in plasma and in CSF by
           ELISA. The panel includes the following cytokines: IL17, TNF, IL6, Il 1β, IL 10, IL33,
           IL12, IL 23

        3. / Metabolome analysis

           The databases on human metabolomes include more than 40,000 metabolites and allow the
           establishment of metabolic profiles in different pathological contexts by supervised and
           unsupervised statistical analysis techniques. Metabolome analyzes will be performed from
           plasma and CSF. These analyzes will be carried out by liquid chromatography coupled with
           mass spectrometry (LC-MS) by the Metabohub network (MetaboHUB-Clermont for plasma
           analyzes and MetaboHUB-Saclay for CSF analyzes).

        4. / Measure of the neurofilament light chain (NfL)

      There is growing interest in neurofilament's measure in the blood and in particular in the
      CSF. High levels of neurofilaments are evidence of neuronal loss, regardless of the initial
      mechanism. Neurofilament light chain (NfL) seems to be the most relevant form to measure
      axonal loss. In MS, increased NfL was observed during the first two months of acute relapse.
      Conversely, there are few data on the kinetics of NfL's levels in peripheral demyelinating
      diseases.

      The investigators intend to study NfL levels in blood and CSF to determine if there is an
      increase in NfL levels in patients followed for GBS and to compare NfL levels of these
      patients (group 3) with patients followed for MS (group 2).
    
  