
    
      Long term surveillance studies using a drug eluting stent (DES) may help elucidate mechanisms
      responsible for death, myocardial infarction, and late stent thrombosis risks not observed
      during controlled pre-market trials. This study will evaluate XIENCE V速 Everolimus Eluting
      Coronary Stent System (EECSS) performance in the "real world" when used by a broad group of
      physicians at a variety of health care facilities. Consequently, this protocol will include
      all consecutively enrolled patients in India who consent to participate and receive the
      XIENCE V速 EECSS, which is expected to represent the range of clinical use during
      commercialization.

      Adjunctive anti-platelet therapy is a critical factor in optimizing long term DES safety.
      Despite established guidelines that recommend 6-12 months dual antiplatelet therapy, patients
      with DES implants frequently stop taking their medication early. Consequently, XIENCE V速
      EECSS India Post-marketing Single-Arm Study (XIENCE V速 India) follow-up will document patient
      adherence and persistence with adjunctive antiplatelet drug therapy at several time points
      throughout the study.

      The long term safety and efficacy of the XIENCE V EECSS have been demonstrated in the SPIRIT
      FIRST trial up to 5 years, the SPIRIT II trial up to 4 years, and in the SPIRIT III
      Randomized Control Trial (RCT) up to 3 years. In addition, these pre-approval studies have
      shown low rates of Target Vessel Failure and Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) that were
      observed to plateau or gradually decline after about 1 year and were consistently lower than
      the comparator arm of each study. This benefit in MACE is sustained for up to 5 years and is
      also independent of the first year results.

      The post approval XIENCE V India study demonstrated that the use of the XIENCE EECSS in
      complex lesions in a real-world population resulted in 1 year MACE, Stent Thrombosis and
      Target Lesion Revascularization rates that are comparable to those of the previously
      mentioned pre-approval studies which included patients with more restricted inclusion /
      exclusion criteria.

      Therefore, based on existing data from these trials, Abbott Vascular has decided to
      discontinue further follow up in the XIENCE V India study, from 5 years to after completion
      of the three year follow-up.
    
  