
    
      X-linked hypophosphatemia is a skeletal dysplasia. The mineralized tissue complications of
      XLH have been the focus of investigative studies seeking to understand its pathogenesis, as
      well as studies directed at new therapies. However, in addition to their skeletal complaints,
      patients with XLH have among their most frequent symptoms, fatigue and weakness, which
      manifest as both a generalized sense of a lack of energy as well as a more specific feeling
      that their muscular function is impaired. Objectively, patients complain of fatigue after
      exertion, when otherwise they do not think they should expect to feel so spent. These
      symptoms occur in individuals who otherwise have good cardiovascular and respiratory health,
      so co-morbidities are unlikely to explain these pervasive complaints. Anecdotally, the
      investigators open-label trial data using KRN23 suggest that these symptoms are dramatically
      ameliorated by treatment with the drug. In a recent study¹, the investigators found that when
      stressed by a low-phosphate diet, rates of insulin-stimulated myocyte ATP flux were reduced
      by 50% in an experimental model of systemic hypophosphatemia (the NaPi2a knockout mouse).
      Moreover, ATP synthetic flux correlated directly with cellular and mitochondrial phosphate
      uptake in two rodent myocyte cell lines, as well as in freshly isolated myocyte mitochondria.
      As direct evidence that these preclinical findings are relevant to human hypophosphatemic
      genetic syndromes we studied a patient with Heredity Hypophosphatemic Rickets with
      Hypercalciuria (HHRH) who was not being treated at the time of our experiment. In this
      patient who had a 50% reduction in serum phosphate, muscle ATP content was also significantly
      reduced ¹. Both of these parameters normalized completely with oral phosphate repletion ¹.
      These data strongly support the hypothesis that reduced muscle ATP flux may underlie the
      myopathy seen in patients with XLH. The investigators propose to directly test this
      hypothesis, in patients about to begin treatment with Crysvita® for the first time.

      Muscle tissue phosphorus concentration and ATP flux rates will be assessed in the right
      gastrocnemius of the lower leg using 31P-NMR spectroscopy over the course of the 3 month
      study. The study consists of 5 visits total over 3 months. At visits 1,4 and 5, patients will
      undergo MR spectroscopy assessments and functional testing along with blood and urine
      analysis. At visits 1,2 and 3 patients will receive Burosumab/Crysvita® by subcutaneous
      injection.
    
  