
    
      Background:

      In prehospital emergency medicine, emergency medical dispatchers play an essential role as
      gatekeepers to emergency care from the emergency medical services and possibly hospital
      admissions. Dispatching is the task of handling emergency calls in terms of appropriate
      triage, delivery of pre-arrival instructions and management of resources to citizens calling
      for help. Research within out-of-hospital cardiac arrest has shown that medical dispatchers
      can contribute to increased survival, if cardiac arrest is identified through the emergency
      call, and telephone assisted cardiopulmonary resuscitation is initiated. Optimal performance
      in the links of the chain of survival is not only dependent on good performance of healthcare
      professionals in the prehospital setting, but also on the persons initiating resuscitation
      and calling for help. This is not only true for OHCA but also other life-threatening
      situations and the outcome may be affected by the interaction between the person calling for
      help and the medical dispatcher responding to the call and providing advice and an adequate
      response from the emergency medical services. Research in this area is, however, at an early
      stage. Inequality in access to healthcare is a challenge internationally. Despite that
      medical emergency calls can be considered as access point to pre-hospital emergency care and
      hospital admission in emergency situations, no data on inequality in access to healthcare
      through emergency calls is reported in the international literature.

      Study Objective:

      The aim of the study is two-fold:

        1. To evaluate the association between socio-economic characteristics of citizens and
           first-time emergency call in the Capital Region of Denmark

        2. To evaluate the association between socio-economic characteristics of citizens with an
           emergency call and the emergency response provided by the emergency medical dispatch
           center in the Capital Region of Denmark.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Low socioeconomic position (measured by educational level, employment, household income
           as social indicators) is associated with a high incidence of emergency calls, compared
           to high socioeconomic position.

        2. Within the most common medical contact causes (chest pain, intoxication, breathing
           difficulties, abdominal pain/back pain, altered level of consciousness, seizures and
           unconscious/lifeless adult), low socioeconomic position (measured by educational level,
           employment, household income as indicators) is associated with a lower level of
           emergency response, compared to high socioeconomic position.

      Study design:

      The study is an investigation of the population in the Capital Region of Denmark performed by
      combining data from the Emergency Medical Services and Danish central registries in a
      two-year period (December 2011-November 2013).

      Setting:

      The study is based on data from the Capital Region of Denmark with a population of 1.8
      million. In Denmark, healthcare services are covered by income taxes. In case of an
      emergency, there is a single emergency phone number (1-1-2) to a call center that identifies
      the need for police, fire or medical assistance. In case of a medical problem, the caller is
      re-directed to an Emergency Medical Dispatch Center where medical dispatchers answer, process
      and respond to the call by activating the appropriate Emergency Medical Services. The medical
      dispatchers are specially trained nurses or paramedics with experience within emergency
      medicine. Their decision-making process is supported by a criteria-based, nationwide
      Emergency Medical Dispatch System (Danish Index for Emergency Care), which is a validated
      tool for managing emergency calls for the most urgent cases of emergencies.

      Analysis, study part 1:

      • Logistic regression models will be used with emergency call as outcome variable (yes/no)
      and socioeconomic indicators as explanatory variables, calculating odds ratios for the
      probability of a first-time emergency call for each socioeconomic indicator. The analysis
      will be performed unadjusted and adjusted for age, gender, civil status, country of origin,
      and comorbidity.

      Analysis, study part 2:

        -  Ordinal logistic regression models will be used with emergency response as outcome
           variable (four levels) and socioeconomic indicators as explanatory variables to
           calculate the probability of each emergency response. The analysis will be performed
           unadjusted and adjusted for age, gender, civil status, country of origin and
           comorbidity.

        -  The analysis will primarily be performed as complete case analysis and secondarily as a
           weighted analysis according to the proportion of missing personal identification numbers
           within each response type in the original dataset.
    
  