
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affecting 10-15% of the female population causes excess
      hair, acne, irregular/absent ovulation, infertility and is associated with hypertension,
      diabetes, heart attacks and stroke in later life.

      The economic care-related burden of the syndrome is estimated at $4.36 billion/year in the
      USA. The root cause is unknown and although mostly familial, the offending genes are unknown.
      We believe that excess testosterone, to which the foetus is exposed during its life in the
      womb, causes development of PCOS in adult life. If a mother with PCOS exposes her foetus to
      high testosterone levels compared to one with no PCOS, this would be the first step in
      proving the developmental hypothesis for PCOS, opening the door to methods to prevent the
      appearance of the distressing symptoms of PCOS in adult life.

      With no access to the foetal environment, we have used the surrogate measure of sebum on the
      skin of the newborn, 99% influenced by testosterone. Our pilot study (Homburg et al, 2017)
      used absorbent paper to measure sebum excretion in PCOS and controls within 24 hours and 1-24
      weeks after birth in mother and baby. Higher sebum production in female babies of PCOS
      mothers strongly supported our hypothesis.

      The present proposal utilizes a 30-second, non-invasive, quantitative measurement of sebum
      (Sebumeter®) in the newborn from PCOS mothers and controls, within 24 hours of birth. We will
      correlate results with other features in both female and male newborn that may suggest
      hyper-exposure to testosterone and with maternal testosterone levels in the blood. If
      confirming the findings of our pilot study in line with the developmental theory of PCOS,
      this could be used within 24 hours of birth to predict development of PCOS in adult life,
      induce measures to prevent the symptoms of PCOS and reduce the enormous health burden on
      patients and economies
    
  