
    
      Recruitment: Screening Tool

      Eligible homeless individuals will be identified using a Screening Tool developed by the
      University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) evaluators that uses County administrative
      data to identify the most costly users of health and social services in the County based on
      their medical and behavioral health conditions, length of homelessness, and County services
      utilization history ("Eligible Homeless Individuals").

      Abode Services (Abode) is the housing service provider selected by the County for this PFS
      project. Abode will obtain 112 units of permanent supportive housing over the course of the
      first year of this study and place referred clients into those units.

      Eligibility Confirmation/Assessment/Consent

      Individuals identified by the Screening Tool who have been located by the Study Team will
      have their eligibility confirmed through administrative data and be screened in-person to
      determine key inclusion and exclusion criteria. Following eligibility confirmation, a
      designated Study Team member who has been trained in the process of informed consent will ask
      the individual if he/she is interested in learning about the project.

      The explanation of the study prior to administration of informed consent will be standardized
      so that all potentially eligible participants are approached in the same manner and receive
      the same information about the study prior to undergoing informed consent. This process will
      be conducted in the potential participants' language of choice. The investigators anticipate
      that the most common language choice for those with limited English proficiency is Spanish
      and Vietnamese. Study Team members will be fluent in those languages, as well as provide
      consent forms in those languages. For languages other than Spanish and Vietnamese, the
      investigators will use trained medical interpreters, who will interpret the consent process
      and attest to their interpretation on the consent form. The Study Team will use the "teach
      back" method to ensure comprehension of the study goals and risks as part of their informed
      consent procedure. Any individual who is unable to give informed consent, as expressed by
      inability to repeat back the risks and benefits of the study after three successive teach
      backs, will be deemed ineligible.

      Upon granting informed consent, eligible participants will be randomized to either the
      intervention or control groups.

      RCT "Intervention" and "Usual Care" Groups: Intervention Group

      Individuals randomized to the intervention group will be referred to Abode Services for the
      opportunity to be placed in permanent supportive housing. Specifically, Abode will provide
      individuals with access to a housing unit, along with a broad array of services designed to
      achieve sustained residential stability and wellness. These services are designed to end the
      participants' homelessness, increase income (primarily through enrollment in Supplemental
      Security Income), and provide increased access to ongoing physical and behavioral health
      services. Abode will use a modified Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) team model of service
      delivery. Abode's modified ACT model will provide community-based clinical services,
      integrated with a flexible array of housing options delivered through an Housing First
      approach to provide housing and supportive services for the most vulnerable members of the
      chronically homeless population who most frequently use costly emergency services.

      As part of the PSH service model and Abode's overall service delivery approach, Abode will
      offer a range of supportive services to participants, including, but not limited to:

        -  Permanent/Temporary Supportive Housing placement and retention

        -  Specialty mental health services

        -  Substance abuse services

        -  Medication support and education

        -  Social and community living skills

        -  Case management / housing skills

        -  Educational / vocational support

        -  Money management

        -  Leisure / Spiritual opportunities

        -  Connection to primary care providers

        -  Management of complex health issues

        -  Daily living skills

      RCT "Intervention" and "Usual Care" Groups: Usual Care Group

      Chronically homeless individuals who are in the control group will have access to all
      existing safety-net services that are available to homeless individuals in the County. In
      addition, since chronically homeless individuals often have complex conditions that make them
      high users of safety-net services, chronically homeless individuals who are not in the
      treatment group may be eligible for the array of other programs that are designed for high
      users of specific systems. These programs include Full Service Partnerships for individuals
      with a serious mental illness including those who are involved in the criminal justice
      system, and the upcoming Acute Mental Health Pay of Success project. Finally, members of the
      control group will also have access to other all other permanent supportive housing programs
      for chronically homeless persons in the County.

      Enrollment and Randomization Procedures

      Enrollment will occur in "batches" in order to provide Abode with sufficient participants to
      fill the units at a pace that will maximize both occupancy of available units and efficient
      use of Abode resources. The number of eligible individuals who are ultimately randomized and
      the pace of randomization will be based on

        -  The number of available housing units to which Abode has access over a given time
           period, and

        -  The number of individuals to whom Abode will need to outreach in order to enroll enough
           participants to fill those units. This number will be based on a referral plan agreed
           upon by Abode and the County.

      Each time new housing units become available, the County will enable the screening tool to be
      applied to a batch of incoming individuals. Potentially eligible homeless individuals whom
      have not been enrolled in the study will be offered study enrollment.

      Individuals randomized to the treatment group who are referred to and then located by the
      housing provider will be offered enrollment in the permanent supportive housing (PSH)
      intervention program. If an individual agrees to enroll in the PSH intervention, the
      individual will begin to receive case management services from the housing provider
      immediately, even if a housing unit is not yet available, and will be offered a housing unit
      once it becomes available. The intervention group will continue to receive case management
      services throughout the study, whether or not they remain housed successfully.

      Data Collected

      Individuals will be identified using data from multiple data sets that track health and
      criminal justice system use within Santa Clara County. UCSF will receive identifiable data
      from the following data sources from the County based on the provisions of the data-sharing
      Memorandum Of Understanding (MOU) that exists between UCSF and Santa Clara County. If the
      data are not linked by the County, UCSF will link the data using the participants' unique
      county identifier. UCSF will discard these identifiers once data are linked for the purpose
      of the analysis, and will retain only the unique study identifier (ID). The unique study ID
      can only be linked back to participating individuals' names via a master document that links
      name to study ID, which will be kept under password protection by the evaluators and will
      only be available to participating study staff. This master document will be destroyed at the
      conclusion of the study period or after a pre-determined period of time put forth by the IRB
      after the study's conclusion. The main anticipated data sources are as follows:

        -  Santa Clara Valley Health and Hospital System, including Santa Clara Valley Medical
           Center (HealthLink)

        -  Homeless Management Information System (HMIS)

        -  Criminal Justice Information Control (CJIC)

      Tenancy in permanent supportive housing will be reported by the housing service provider and
      verified by the investigator.

      Analysis Plan

      For the randomized controlled trial (RCT) framework used to evaluate health utilization
      outcomes, the study team will use an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis, in which all
      participants randomly assigned to one of the groups are analyzed together, regardless of
      whether or not they completed or received that treatment. In this case, individuals who are
      randomized to the permanent supportive housing intervention will be retained in the treatment
      group even if they are not able to be located, if they are located but never enter housing,
      or are located, enrolled, and enter housing, but are not retained in housing long-term.
      Individuals randomized to the control group will be followed administratively using data
      provided by the County in order to track the outcomes outlined above in comparison to those
      in the intervention group.

      The randomization will be evaluated by comparing the characteristics (e.g., demographics,
      chronic health conditions) of the intervention and control groups using chi-square and
      non-parametric tests. The associations of baseline characteristics, medical conditions, and
      social factors with stable tenancy will be evaluated using logistic or Cox regression
      analyses. The health services use outcomes (i.e., emergency department and hospital services,
      social services and criminal justice system utilization) and their associations with stable
      tenancy will be evaluated using logistic, ordinal, or linear regression, as appropriate.
      Comparisons of rates of service utilization will be performed at α = 0.95 with one-tailed
      tests of the outcomes in direction hypothesized (e.g., emergency department (ED) visits in
      the treatment group will be ≤ ED visits in the control group). However, we will also test for
      trends over time, since it may be likely that health services utilization increases in the
      treatment group in the short term as services are more readily available and participants are
      more accessible, and then decreases in the longer term as the participant's health improves
      and stabilizes.

      SPANS In order to account for a larger amount of the data we have collected for individuals
      enrolled in the evaluation, we grouped data into one-year spans of time for each individual
      in the treatment and control group. For example, if an individual was enrolled for 4 years,
      they would have four separate one-year spans in the regression analysis. The use of spans
      allows us to include the most available data for each individual in the study.

      For participants who had potential spans that lasted ≥ 6 but <12 months, we prorated
      utilization counts to a one year. To account for outliers in the data, we top coded all
      span-level counts to the 99th percentile. We included indicators in the regression analysis
      to signify the year in the program in order to account for patterns of use that may decrease
      or increase over time.

      We censored spans at the time of death. To account for the possibility that participants
      moved out of County, we censored data 6 months after the last point of contact. For example,
      if the last time an individual used any services measured in our study was January 1, 2017,
      we censored their data after June 30, 2017, and constructed spans with the data that
      remained.

      We used negative binomial regression analysis on count data outcomes using an intent-to-
      treat framework where treatment status was based on assignment to the treatment group. We
      present results as incident rate ratios. We clustered standard errors at the individual level
      to account for individuals with multiple spans.

      In sensitivity analyses, we recoded outcome variables to a binary indicator for whether an
      individual used any of a given service within the one-year span. We explored sensitivity to
      alternative modeling choices such as ordinary least squares and present sensitivity analyses.
      We also explored allowing the treatment effect to vary by how long the individual was
      enrolled in the program by including interaction terms for treatment status and year
      indicators.

      EXPLORATORY LOCAL AVERAGE TREATMENT EFFECT (LATE) ESTIMATE:

      We also present negative binomial (count model) regression that include a treatment indicator
      and controls for time "spans," as noted above, as well as an exploratory analysis using
      linear regression models that incorporate instrumental variables to estimate the local
      average treatment effect (LATE) by using assignment to the treatment group as an instrument
      for housing. LATE represents the effect of treatment on those induced to take up housing
      because of assignment to treatment group.

      Based on program data and housing data from Santa Clara County, 85% of those assigned to the
      treatment group were ever housed as compared to 37% in the control group. The LATE estimates
      represent the causal effect of treatment on the roughly 50% of the treatment group that was
      housed because of the intervention. This type of model effectively scales the impact of being
      in the treatment group by accounting for how assignment to the treatment group is correlated
      with take-up of housing. It is not attenuated by imperfect take-up of housing in the
      treatment group and by the fact that there is "contamination" of the control group whereby
      some individuals find housing despite being assigned to the usual care group.

      We are also working on two additional sets of analyses:

      Impact of housing on those who received it: Because of our ITT evaluation framework, the
      impact of housing on individuals who receive it may be diluted. We are working with the
      County on two additional data elements to examine this in more depth. First, we are working
      to obtain complete data from the County regarding housing placements among individuals
      randomized to the control group and for individuals randomized to the intervention group who
      were never housed by Abode. These data are currently being reviewed for completeness and
      quality. Assuming the data are valid, we will estimate the average treatment effect on the
      treated using instrumental variables regression to better account for the impact of the Abode
      PSH "treatment" on those who actually received it. The average treatment effect on the
      treated (ATET) estimate takes into account the fact that adherence with treatment assignment
      was not perfect, i.e. some assigned to housing were not housed and some assigned to the
      control group were housed. We will also report descriptive statistics on housing entry and
      exit dates, and the number of moves for each group as a measure of housing stability that can
      be examined for both treatment and control groups.

      Participant deaths: Individuals enrolled in Project Welcome Home had higher rates of death
      than we anticipated. To explore this further, we have obtained death certificates from the
      County for all individuals enrolled in the study who have died. We have begun to review these
      data and to categorize reasons for deaths. Once we receive and validate the housing data
      outlined above, we will examine the temporal relationship between death and housing. We also
      plan to examine utilization after enrollment and up to the time of death to uncover possible
      predictors for death and to better understand why the death rate in this population is higher
      than expected.
    
  