
    
      Selected patients will undergo 1 session of TMS treatment to include a non-TMS baseline task
      and a TMS testing task. The baseline and the testing task are the self-same task. The
      baseline test demonstrates patient comprehension of instructions, as well as a baseline of
      task performance for comparison analysis. The TMS test will include the self-same task that
      may be randomized in terms of order of stimulus presentation. Each component--the baseline
      and the TMS task--will have a duration of 10 minutes, for a total intervention time of 20
      minutes.

      Individual pulses (100% motor threshold intensity, continuous temperature of 24-C) will be
      delivered upon the presentation of the stimulus or the verbal command for the language tasks.
      For the motor area, intermittent pulses will be delivered during random finger-tapping. Two
      research coordinators will perform the intervention, with one coordinator presenting the
      stimulus/giving commands, and the other positioning the TMS coil and delivering the
      individual pulse or pulse trains. For the language tasks, both research coordinators need to
      be well-harmonized: as one coordinator presents the stimulus, the other must simultaneously
      administer the pulse. The stimulus presentation will last for a duration of 1 second, in
      conjunction with the time-course of the pulse's disruption. One or both research coordinators
      must track the successful or unsuccessful inhibition of task completion for each trial. For
      example, if the patient was able to correctly name all but one picture during TMS, then task
      inhibition occurred in 1 out of 20 trials, suggesting a failure in the neuronavigation of
      Broca's area. The number of trials may vary depending on task and region-of-interest; however
      the intervention is not to exceed a total of 20 minutes. Upon conclusion of the TMS session,
      the patient will discuss the outcome with the treating physician and follow-on procedures
      will be scheduled. Patients will not need to undergo a post-treatment MRI, as the MRI scans
      are functioning as a technique for neuronavigation for precise targeting.

      The safety of this protocol will be closely monitored and data will be used to determine
      whether any significant safety issues exist when using TMS therapy. Adverse events will be
      noted whenever they occur but will be recorded at the time of the TMS procedure.

      All patients will have a thorough discussion to obtain informed consent. Additional meetings
      with the physicians will further clarify the nature of the study, reasons for transcranial
      magnetic stimulation, and the possible risks involved. The nature of this study does not
      require randomization, but rather attempts to isolate adverse and advantageous events should
      they occur.
    
  