
    
      Herpes zoster (HZ) (Shingles) is a painful condition caused by reactivation of varicella
      zoster virus (VZV) that remains dormant after primary infection. HZ reactivation may cause
      significant morbidity such as post-herpetic neuralgia and even mortality for disseminated
      infection, particularly in immunocompromised individuals.

      HZ vaccine (Zostavax) is essentially a larger-than-normal dose of the chickenpox vaccine,
      which contains the Oka strain of live attenuated VZV. Zostavax has been shown to be safe and
      protective in immunocompetent elderly populations (>60 years of age) by reducing reactivation
      of HZ by 51% and post-herpetic neuralgia by 66%. Another study also demonstrated efficacy of
      Zostavax in reducing HZ infection by 70% in adults aged 50-59 years.

      Data regarding the use of HZ vaccine in patients with rheumatic diseases are scant. A recent
      observational study involving 463,541 US patients with rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory
      bowel disease, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis showed that 4% of patients had
      received HZ vaccination. After a median observation period of 2 years, the rate HZ
      reactivation among vaccinated patients was significantly lower than that of unvaccinated
      group (hazard ratio 0.61 [0.52-0.71]). Among 633 patients exposed to biologics at the time of
      vaccination, no cases of HZ or varicella infection occurred in the subsequent 42 days after
      vaccination. Thus, the vaccine appears to be safe in patients with autoimmune rheumatic
      diseases even receiving the biological agents.

      HZ reactivation is fairly common in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

      However, data regarding HZ vaccination in SLE patients are generally lacking. Safety and
      efficacy of HZ vaccination has recently been demonstrated in other immunocompromised groups
      such as HIV infection, post-chemotherapy and hematological malignancies. According to the
      2011 EULAR recommendation, HZ vaccination may be considered in patients with autoimmune
      inflammatory rheumatic diseases provided that they are less seriously immunosuppressed.

      The current study is designed to test for the immunogenicity and safety of a HZ vaccine
      (Zostavax) in patients with stable SLE who are receiving minimal immunosuppressive therapies
      for maintenance.
    
  