
    
      This study is a quantitative study, using Experimental Research Design, using G*Power 3.1 to
      estimate the number of samples, the sample size is 62. There aren't rule out the possibility
      of congenital hearing loss. According to the literature, the prevalence of deafness in
      premature or low-weight newborns is about 1-2%. Therefore, the number of samples will
      increase by 2 according to the prevalence of deafness. After the completion of the case, the
      hearing screening of the subjects will be continuously tracked to avoid the final loss of
      samples. Therefore, the total number of cases is 64. In this study, the allocation
      concealment principle was applied. Before the distribution, the main caregivers and
      researchers did not know the distribution rules and the distribution results. The sampling
      method of randomized control trial stratified block randomization was adopted. According to
      the past clinical birth rate, the number of weeks of pregnancy was less than 31+6 weeks. The
      proportion of newborns born from 32 weeks to 36+6 weeks of gestational weeks is about 1:2,
      respectively. Finally, the experimental group and the control group were randomly assigned in
      this way. There are 20 infants in less than 31+6 weeks group, 44 infants in more than 31+6
      weeks group.

      The process of receiving the case was the evening of the 4th day after the birth of the study
      subjects. The premature infants of the experimental group began to listen the maternal voice
      3 minutes before the heel lance procedure until the end of the blood collection for 13
      minutes, Heart rate (HR), respiratory rate (RR), oxygen saturation (%, OSPR), and pain which
      evaluated by Neonatal Infants Pain Scale (NIPS) were recorded 3 minutes before, during,and at
      the first and 10th minutes after heel lance procedure. The monitoring was continued for 3
      days.

      The study was conducted for three consecutive days from the fourth day after the birth of the
      subject. The three-day experimental group and the control group were recorded by the camera,
      uploaded to YouTube within 24 hours after recording, and the film was used for three
      consecutive days using a private link. Confirm that the mother has watched this video.and
      please ask the mother to fill out the mother-infant bonding questionnaire.
    
  