
    
      AIM 1:

      Purpose: To examine pulmonary and cardiovascular outcomes in COPD patients from the time of
      their acute hospital admission until discharge.

      Rationale: AECOPD is associated with systemic inflammation, prolonged bed-rest and increased
      CV risk. Proper medical management strategies such as appropriate systemic corticosteroids,
      mobilization, and bedside education may reduce systemic inflammation and improve vascular
      function, while improving patient self-efficacy and health outcomes and reducing hospital
      length of stay (LOS).

      Hypothesis: Treatment-specific factors such as pharmacological management, patient education
      and inpatient mobilization will affect LOS, as well as pulmonary and cardiovascular outcomes
      at discharge.

      Study Design: For this cross-sectional study, consecutive patients admitted to the University
      of Alberta Hospital Pulmonary ward with a diagnosis of an AECOPD (with BNP <500 pg/ml and
      Troponin <1.0 mcg/L), not requiring ventilatory support in the form of non-invasive
      ventilation (NIV), will be approached for recruitment. In-hospital patient management will be
      left to the discretion of the admitting physician, and will follow the new AHS admission
      order sets for AECOPD, which are based on current guidelines1. Dr Bhutani assisted in the
      development of these order sets. The order sets standardize pharmacological and
      non-pharmacological management of AECOPD; however, variance in patients need and time to
      delivery of these interventions will be present. Treatment will not be otherwise altered
      during this study, except the timing of the administration of short acting bronchodilators as
      it relates to the measurement of arterial stiffness and vascular function. 24 hours after
      recruitment, the research team will begin collecting patient/clinical treatment information
      on a daily basis (see Appendix B for list). 48 hours after admission, patients will be given
      an activity monitor to quantify daily physical activity. On the same day, vascular assessment
      through the measurement of pulse wave velocity, vascular function, lung function as well as
      serum markers of systemic inflammation (TNF-alpha, MMP-2, IL-6 and CRP) and exhaled nitric
      oxide (eNO), will be collected (this is in addition to usual blood work required for patient
      management). This will be repeated on days 5, 10, day of discharge and day 14 post discharge.
      Self efficacy and a 6-minute walk test will be performed on the day of discharge and on day
      14 following discharge, while three-day physical activity will be determined at 14 days post
      discharge. BODE index will be determined at discharge and at 14 days post discharge (see
      Appendix C for data collection schedule).

      Subject Selection & Recruitment: All Aims will be registered at (www.clinicaltrials.gov),
      submitted for approval through the University of Alberta Health Research Ethics Board (HREB),
      and informed consent will be obtained from each study patient.

      Since most of patients with COPD who are hospitalized initially present to, and are assessed
      in the Emergency Department (ED), they will be recruited from this setting by the ED study
      team. All patients with a diagnosis of AECOPD who are admitted to the pulmonary ward, meeting
      the above criteria, will be screened for enrollment. If entered into the study, baseline
      information (Appendix A) will be collected at that time. Through collaborative and primary ED
      research activity, Dr Rowe's Emergency Medicine Research Group maintains research nurse
      coverage for the U of A hospital ED from 07:00 - 23:00 Monday - Friday and 10:00 - 20:00
      Saturday and Sunday. These research nurses act as the main recruitment source within the
      University of Alberta Hospital ED and this site has been a leading Canadian recruitment
      centre in a number of clinical research studies. Eligible patients with AECOPD will be
      approached to enter the study as required and informed written consent will be obtained. A
      Refused, Missed or Otherwise (RMO) excluded database will be maintained to determine the
      feasibility of a larger study and to assess the generalizability of the enrolled sample to
      all cases. In the event that a patient presents after research staff hours, the patient will
      be approached by the research staff to discuss the study and obtain consent and begin
      collection of all data. AHS data indicates that ~450 COPD patients are admitted at the U of A
      hospital each year. Dr Rowe's research team has demonstrated success at recruiting through
      the ED120,121, and therefore recruiting 100 patients over 2 years is feasible

      Data Handling: Upon enrollment a data collection form (Appendix A) will be completed for all
      patients by the ED research team. The research team will collect patient/clinical treatment
      information daily (see Appendix B), and outcome data per protocol (see Appendix C).

      Data Analysis: All data will be entered into a custom-developed secure anonymized database.
      Data analyses will be performed using StataCorp. 2009. Stata Statistical Software: Release 11
      (College Station, TX: StataCorp LP). Continuous data will be reported as means and standard
      deviations (SD) or median and interquartile ranges (IQR). Chi-square testing will be used for
      bi-variable analyses of dichotomous variables; continuous variables will be compared using
      t-tests or Mann-Whitney tests. Two-tailed results p < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. The influence of patient characteristics and treatment factors on the dependent
      variables (i.e. inflammation, vascular function, self efficacy and LOS) will analyzed through
      a multiple linear or logistic regression models as appropriate. For the linear regression
      model, clinically relevant and statistically significant (at the p < 0.1 level) independent
      variables will be included. For the logistic regression model, several dependent variables
      will be explored; clinically relevant and statistically significant (at the p < 0.1 level)
      independent variables will be included.

      Sample size: A convenience sample of COPD patients will be recruited and efforts will be made
      to provide reasonable confidence intervals on important variables and outcomes; a minimum
      sample size of 100 COPD cases will be collected. This will be sufficient for multiple
      regression analyses including up to 10 predictors and would provide narrow 95% confidence
      intervals (CI) for variable estimates of ~10% for mid-range variables and 6%. for
      extreme-range variables.

      AIM 2:

      Purpose: To examine the impact of early PR following hospital discharge on QoL, pulmonary/CV
      outcomes and AECOPD hospitalizations.

      Rationale: In addition to typical improvements in QoL and exercise tolerance, studies have
      shown that PR increases self-efficacy, physical activity while reducing CV risk in stable
      COPD patients. Patients recently discharge from hospital following AECOPD represent the
      sickest patients with greatly reduced QoL, exercise tolerance, self-efficacy and physical
      activity and greatly elevated CV risk. Exactly how these improve with PR reduce CV risk and
      hospitalizations following PR requires examination.

      Hypothesis: Patients who receive early PR will have improved QoL, pulmonary/CV outcomes and
      less hospitalizations for COPD in the 6 months following hospital discharge. PR will improve
      self efficacy, physical activity and QoL while reducing CV risk as compared to usual care.

      Study Design & Subject Recruitment: All patients admitted to the pulmonary ward for an
      AECOPD, including those who have completed Aim 1, will be offered participation into this arm
      of the study. Patients found to have an acute cardiac injury during admission, mobility
      issues or residence outside the greater Edmonton area will be excluded. Consenting patients
      will be subsequently randomized into one of two groups: early PR versus usual care. Patients
      randomized to early PR will be enrolled within 1 month of discharge into a PR program, while
      usual care patients will be followed-up by their most responsible physician as determined by
      the admitting team. The PR group will be enrolled in the Breathe Easy Program at the Center
      for Lung Health, and will proceed through the program in a typical fashion. All patients will
      be followed up 6 months after discharge and will be interviewed to assess disease status,
      management review and if there has been a history of recurrence or relapse of the AECOPD.
      Hospital admissions and length of stay data will be obtained through electronic medical
      records. Patient assessments will include: quality of life, 6min walk, dyspnea,
      self-efficacy, physical activity, pulse wave velocity, vascular function, systemic
      inflammation (TNFα, MMP-2, IL-6 and CRP) and FeNO. All data will be collected before,
      immediately after and 6month after PR. The control group will have the same data collected at
      the same scheduled time. See above for descriptions of methods.

      Data Handling: Data will be entered onto a secure anonymized database.

      Data Analysis: The influence of PR on QoL, 6min walk, dyspnea, self-efficacy, physical
      activity, pulse wave velocity, vascular function, systemic inflammation and eNO will be
      analyzed using a multivariate mixed-model MANOVA with treatment (PR vs. usual care) being a
      fixed between-group variable and time (pre, immediate post, 6months post) as a repeated
      variable.

      Sample size: Based on previous work84,95,96,101-105, a sample size of 50 in each group (100
      total) will be sufficient to detect a between-group differences in QoL, 6min walk, PWV,
      dyspnea and hospital readmission rates following PR (α=0.05, β=0.8). Based on our recent
      work, this sample could detect a 10% difference in physical activity following PR (α=0.05,
      β=0.8). One hundred patients will also to allow for stratification of physiological and
      psychological responses with PR.
    
  