
    
      An observational registry on diagnosis and management of stable angina in India Purpose To
      describe the clinical profile and current status of the diagnosis and management of stable
      angina in India by non-interventional consulting physicians (CP) through a large multicenter
      observational registry.

      Design A prospective, multi-center, observational registry. Subject Population Adult, male or
      female subjects with symptomatic stable angina visiting non-interventional consulting
      physicians for treatment and who meet the study inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Enrollment:

      The study is expected to enroll 1000 to 1500 subjects by 150 - 250 non-interventional
      consulting physicians. The enrollment period will be around 4 months.

      Inclusion criteria

      Subject must meet all of the following criteria to be eligible for inclusion in the trial:

        1. Subject has been provisionally diagnosed with stable angina by the CP (consulting
           physician) during the current visit or within 3 months preceding the current visit

        2. Subject agrees to sign a data release form

      Exclusion criteria

      Subjects will be excluded from the trial if any of the following criteria are met:

        1. Subject has a history of Acute Coronary Syndrome

        2. Subject has a history of prior revascularization

        3. Subject has a history of previous MI

        4. Subject has new onset angina with symptoms less than one month

      Objectives:

        1. Describe the demographic and medical profile of subjects diagnosed with stable angina by
           non-interventional consulting physicians in India

        2. Describe the diagnostic pathway prescribed by non-interventional consulting physicians
           and adopted by stable angina subjects in India

        3. Describe the management of stable angina by non-interventional consulting physicians and
           undertaken by subjects in India
    
  