
    
      All eligible patients will undergo D-dimer measurement and a formal assessment of pre-test
      clinical probability (PTP) by means of the Wells score. Patients with unlikely PTP and
      negative D-dimer will have DVT ruled out and will undergo a 3-month clinical follow-up. If at
      least one of the two tests is positive, patients will undergo CUS of the proximal vein system
      by investigating at least the common femoral vein at the groin, the superficial femoral vein
      at the mid thigh and the popliteal vein(s) in the popliteal fossa. A positive CUS will
      adjudicate proximal DVT. In the case of negative CUS of the proximal vein system, patients
      with either negative D-dimer or unlikely PTP will have DVT ruled out, and will undergo a
      3-month follow up. Only patients with concomitant likely PTP and positive D-dimer will
      undergo whole-leg ultrasonography with interrogation of the calf veins. A positive test will
      adjudicate distal DVT. Patients with negative test will undergo a 3-month clinical follow up.

      Follow-up. All patients in whom DVT is ruled out will be monitored for 3 months (either by
      clinical visit or by telephone contact) after the enrolment in the study. Patients with
      clinical symptoms of DVT or PE during follow-up will undergo objective diagnostic testing
      (venous ultrasound for suspected DVT and spiral CT-scan or VQ scan for suspected PE). All
      source documents will be sent out for an independent adjudication. In case of death, PE
      diagnosis will be adjudicated by means of autopsy, if available. If autopsy is not available,
      the adjudication of PE-related death will be done based on clinical documentation.

      D-dimer. All quantitative D-dimer tests available at each center will be acceptable for the
      purpose of this study. D-dimer will be considered negative according to the cut-offs provided
      by manufacturers.

      Sample size. The investigators expect that in every 100 symptomatic outpatients DVT will be
      excluded without the need for objective testing in approximately 30%, while approximately 20%
      will have a CUS-detected proximal DVT, approximately 15% will have negative CUS and unlikely
      PTP in spite of positive D-Dimer (no need for further investigation), approximately 15% will
      have negative CUS and negative D-Dimer in spite of likely PTP (no need for further
      investigation, and approximately 20% will have negative CUS and both likely PTP and positive
      D-Dimer (thus requiring interrogation of the calf vein system).

      The investigators hypothesize that the incidence of venous thromboembolic events during
      follow up in patients labeled as not having DVT will not exceed 1% with the application of
      the proposed algorithm, and that the upper limit of the 95% confidence intervals around this
      proportion will not exceed 2%. Accordingly, ap proximately 1100 patients should be enroled.
    
  