
    
      Sleep-related breathing disorders (obstructive and central) are highly prevalent in Heart
      failure (HF) patients and are associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality.
      Nocturnal oxygen therapy (NOT) reduces the frequency of central breathing events by 75 % and
      prevents nocturnal desaturation in patients with HF. Considering that the amount of nocturnal
      desaturation is a better predictor of mortality than the apnea+hypopnea index (AHI) in this
      population, one should expect NOT to have a positive impact on survival in these patients. In
      the four randomized clinical trials where the effects of O2 on left ventricular function was
      assessed, 2 reported a significant increase in LVEF after 3 months of NOT. NOT was also found
      to positively impact on other important predictive factors of mortality such as sympathetic
      activity and VO2 max. These mitigated results could be accounted by the fact that a fixed O2
      flow was empirically used (2 to 4 L/min) in the majority of studies. This may impede the
      beneficial effects of NOT for two reasons. First, in patients with HF, oxygen is associated
      with a dose-related detrimental hemodynamic effects (i.e. increase in vascular resistance and
      reduction in cardiac output and stroke volume). Therefore, the lowest O2 flow that prevents
      nocturnal desaturation should be used to minimize the detrimental effects of hyperoxia. On
      the other hand, there are evidences that the frequency and/or severity of sleep-disordered
      breathing may change overtime in CHF patients leading to insufficient correction of nocturnal
      desaturation during the course of NOT. Therefore, NOT should be preceded by an oxygen
      titration procedure to determine the lowest O2 flow that prevents nocturnal desaturation.
      This can be done with a stepwise night-to-night increase in O2 flow until correction of
      nocturnal desaturation. However, another approach would be to prevent event-by-event
      desaturations and to prevent hyperoxia during periods of normal sleep and wakefulness. On the
      other hand, the stability in O2 needs overtime in these patients is unkown. The aims of this
      study are 1) to document if the level of O2 flow preventing nocturnal desaturation changes
      during the course of NOT in CHF patients with CSA/CSR and 2) to examine the ability of
      automated O2 titration (FreeO2, Oxynov, Quebec, Canada) to determine O2 needs in HF patients
      with CSA/CSR when compared to the gold standard titration procedure.
    
  