
    
      The global burden of cancer continues to rise with an incidence of 17.5 million cancer cases
      worldwide. Approximately 50% of all cancer patients receive radiation therapy as a component
      of their cancer care. While radiation therapy has demonstrable benefit in improving survival
      in patients with many types of malignancies, cardiotoxicity is a major concern in patients
      receiving chest radiotherapy. The rates of major coronary events increased by 7.4% per gray
      of mean heart dose; the increased risk was noted within the first 5 years of radiotherapy and
      persisted into the third decade after treatment. With improvements in multi-disciplinary care
      of cancer patients, the long-term survival in patients with thoracic malignancies continues
      to improve and radiation-induced heart disease (RIHD) is now a major source of morbidity and
      mortality in such patients.In this study, the investigators will enroll five female patients
      (18 years of age to 100 years of age) with left-sided breast cancer who underwent lumpectomy
      or mastectomy without tissue expander placement and will receive adjuvant standard-of-care
      breast or chest wall radiation therapy. They will undergo baseline magnetic resonance
      spectroscopic imaging with [1-13C]pyruvate injection and a proton MRI/spectroscopy scan prior
      to receipt of adjuvant radiation therapy. Post-treatment imaging will be performed within 3
      months of completion of radiation treatments. This study will investigate whether
      non-invasive MRI scanning approaches will detect damage to the heart from left-sided
      radiation treatments before structural changes and mechanical functional deficits become
      apparent. A first-in-human clinical study to evaluate the effect of cardiotoxic chemotherapy
      on [1-13C]Pyruvate metabolism is currently ongoing at UT Southwestern (ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT03685175; PI: Dr. Vlad Zaha). The proposed study employs the same technology
      and approach to study radiation-induced cardiac toxicity. The study will also test the
      prognostic value of decreased myocardial mitochondrial pyruvate flux in predicting clinically
      significant radiation induced cardiotoxicity. Towards this goal, study will measure
      myocardial mechanical functional parameters, including left ventricular global longitudinal
      strain and left ventricular myocardial deformation using cardiac MRI and correlate these
      changes with [1-13C]lactate/ [13C]bicarbonate ratio. Previous studies have demonstrated that
      strain rate imaging by MRI is a sensitive technique for dose-dependent decrease in myocardial
      function after breast radiotherapy. Although this pilot study is restricted to breast cancer
      patients, successful demonstration of feasibility will allow extension of the study to all
      patients receiving thoracic radiation (such as patients receiving radiation therapy for lung
      cancer, esophageal cancer and thoracic lymphomas). The lack of reliable technologies for
      early detection of sub-clinical radiation-induced cardiotoxicity limits early intervention in
      such patients. Thus, identification of early cardiac changes induced by radiation therapy at
      a stage that offers potential for reversibility remains a major unmet need in cancer care.

      Concerns for sexually active men and women: Women should not become pregnant and men should
      not father a baby while taking part in this study because we do not know how the study
      drugs/procedures could affect a man's sperm (for some drugs/procedures, the concern may be
      that the sperm might be affected and in some cases, drugs could being carried by the semen
      into the vagina and cause harm) or a fetus, if a woman becomes pregnant during the study. It
      is important that you talk to your study doctor about avoiding pregnancy during this study.
      If you think you might have become pregnant or if you believe your female partner has become
      pregnant while you are in this study, you must tell one of the study doctors right away so
      that management of the pregnancy and the possibility of stopping the study can be discussed.
    
  