
    
      Background/Rationale:

      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is an important chronic disease of adults, affecting
      an estimated 4% of men and 2% of women in the United States. Nasal continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) has been demonstrated to ameliorate the symptoms and neurobehavioral
      consequences of OSAS. Unfortunately, patient adherence with prescribed CPAP is low,
      diminishing the benefits obtained from this expensive therapy. Nurse-administered patient
      education and monitoring of CPAP use through home visits has been shown to be effective in
      significantly improving CPAP adherence. Given the logistic complexity of delivering this
      service and its costs, it is unlikely to be disseminated widely into clinical practice. An
      alternative, using advanced telecommunications technology to deliver similar adherence
      improvement services, is proposed for study.

      Objective(s):

      Use of telecommunications systems with other important health-related behaviors such as
      medication-taking, diet, and exercise have demonstrated significant improvements in therapy
      adherence.

      Methods:

      This research project represents a randomized controlled trial of a Telephone-Linked
      Communications (TLC) system designed to improve CPAP adherence (TLC-CPAP). The study will
      enroll adults with OSAS who are being started on nasal CPAP therapy. Subjects will be
      randomized to TLC-CPAP or an attention placebo control group. The effect of TLC on CPAP use
      and on disease-specific quality of life (QOL), OSAS-related symptoms, depression, and
      vigilance over a 12-month interval will be assessed.

      The intervention and control groups will be compared to assess differences in potential
      confounders including age, sex, OSAS severity, CPAP pressure level, comorbid illness,
      physician specialty status, BMI, socioeconomic status, and marital status. Each of the
      outcome variables (all of which are continuous variables) will be compared between
      intervention and control groups using multivariate analyses to adjust for any potential
      confounders that differ between groups. Multivariate models will include appropriate tests of
      interactions. All analyses will be performed using an intent-to-treat approach.

      Status:

      Completed

      Impact:

      This Telephone-Linked Communications (TLC) technology offers an effective, low-cost, and
      easy-to-use means of providing disease-specific education, monitoring, and counseling to
      improve adherence with therapy.
    
  