
    
      This study will last up to 16 weeks, with a total of 5 visits to the clinic (Baseline visit,
      Week 4, 8, 12, and 16 ), excluding the Screening Visit.

      Screening Visit/Baseline Visit:

      Patients will read and be explained the informed consent. Patients who agree to participate
      will sign the informed consent and a copy will be given to them. Medical history and
      exclusion/inclusion criteria will be reviewed; if a patient qualifies he/she will be assigned
      a randomization number for the treatment.

      At the baseline visit, medical history and exclusion/inclusion criteria since the screening
      visit will be reviewed. Patients randomized to the HSE group will receive one tube and apply
      the first application to the keloid/hypertrophic scar during the baseline visit. Patients
      randomized to the OE group will be given a tube of OE gel and will apply the first
      application to the keloid/hypertrophic scar. Patients in the placebo group will be given a
      bottle of CEA lotion, the placebo medication, and will apply the first application to the
      keloid/hypertrophic scar. The medications will be given by the unblinded investigator and the
      blinded investigator will be evaluating the patients. Photographs of the patient's
      keloid/hypertrophic scar will be taken, and the keloid/hypertrophic scar will be
      measured/assessed according to Methods of Study Lesion Assessment (below). A urine pregnancy
      test will be obtained for all women of child-bearing potential.

      Week 4, 8, 12, and 16 Visit:

      Patients will be asked about side effects since last visit. Photographs of the patient's
      keloid/hypertrophic scar will be taken and the keloid/hypertrophic scar will be
      measured/assessed according to Methods of Study Lesion Assessment (below). A urine pregnancy
      test will be obtained at for all women of child-bearing potential.

      Methods of Study Lesion Assessment

      A. Volume B. Linear dimensions

      Investigator's Assessments w/ Visual Analog Scale (VAS):

      C. Cosmetic assessment D. Induration (hardness) [compared to standardized hard discs with
      numerical ranking of increased induration] E. Erythema (redness) F. Pigmentary alteration

      Patient's Assessments w/ VAS:

      G. Cosmetic assessment H. Pain I. Tenderness J. Pruritus (itching) K. Patient satisfaction

      L. Digital photographs
    
  