
    
      Adult individuals (age≥18) with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving care at the diabetes
      outpatient clinics at St. Joseph's Health Centre London (Canada) who have been treated with
      dapagliflozin in conjunction with insulin therapy will be selected from the Web DR
      researchable database for this study. Web DR is a diabetes-specific, web-based, researchable,
      electronic medical record and database. With no existing electronic medical record tailored
      for diabetes patients, the system was designed and implemented by the Centre for Diabetes,
      Endocrinology and Metabolism of St. Joseph's Health Care London. The St. Joseph's Centre for
      Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism is the primary regional center for diabetes and
      endocrine disease management in Southwestern Ontario. Web DR is an electronic medical record
      with clinician-friendly pick-lists to enable structured electronic medical record data
      collection at the point of care, and is currently being used by 14 Endocrinologists and three
      Family Physician Diabetologists in the outpatient diabetes clinics at St. Joseph's Health
      Care London, Canada.

      The baseline period will be 6 months to allow for more complete observation of comorbidities
      and medication use patterns. HbA1c, lipid, blood pressure, weight and other clinical
      indicators measured during the baseline period (closest to the date of dapagliflozin
      prescription) and follow-up period (3 and 6 months after prescription of dapagliflozin) will
      be extracted from the database. The last clinical value within the follow-up period and ≥30
      days after the start of the medication data will be selected as follow-up information.

      The type of insulin used and dosages prescribed during the study follow-up period will be
      extracted from the database to examine the insulin dosage prescription pattern and understand
      the use of insulin with dapagliflozin and its impact on clinical outcomes.
    
  