
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the safety and determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of modified
           FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX) and ganitumab in patients with previously untreated, metastatic
           pancreatic adenocarcinoma. (phase I)

        -  To compare overall survival of patients with previously untreated, metastatic pancreatic
           adenocarcinoma who receive mFOLFIRINOX plus ganitumab versus mFOLFIRINOX plus placebo.
           (phase II)

        -  To assess the convergent validity of each selected PRO-CTCAE item by comparing each item
           at baseline between patients with ECOG performance status (PS) 0 vs 1. (phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To compare objective response rate, duration of response, and progression-free survival
           of patients with previously untreated, metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma who receive
           mFOLFIRINOX plus ganitumab versus mFOLFIRINOX plus placebo.

        -  To compare treatment-related toxicity in patients with previously untreated, metastatic
           pancreatic adenocarcinoma who receive mFOLFIRINOX plus ganitumab versus mFOLFIRINOX plus
           placebo.

        -  To assess the responsiveness (sensitivity to change) of Patient-Reported Outcomes
           (PRO)-CTCAE by comparing change scores within groups of patients as defined by changes
           in ECOG PS at post-baseline administrations. (phase II)

        -  To compare the maximum post-baseline score for each PRO-CTCAE item per patient between
           arms in the randomized phase II component of the study. (exploratory).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, phase IB study followed by a randomized phase II study.
      Patients in the phase II study are stratified according to ECOG performance status of 0
      versus 1.

        -  Phase IB: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over
           90 minutes, and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 48
           hours beginning on day 2 (mFOLFIRINOX). After cohort 0, subsequent patients also receive
           ganitumab IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive mFOLFIRINOX as in Phase IB and ganitumab IV over 30-60
                minutes on day 1.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive mFOLFIRINOX as in Phase IB and placebo IV over 30-60
                minutes on day 1.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients randomized in the phase II component of the study may complete 16 Patient-Reported
      Outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE items (measuring 8 symptoms) on paper on day 1 of all odd-numbered
      courses (i.e., courses 1, 3, 5, etc.).

      Tumor tissue and blood samples may be collected for correlative studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years.
    
  