
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients with previously treated small cell
           lung cancer (SCLC) treated with ZD6474 vs placebo.

        -  Compare the response rate of patients treated with these regimens (only patients who had
           measurable disease outside a prior radiation field at study entry).

        -  Compare the toxicity and tolerability of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the pharmacokinetics of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate outcome and response with vascular endothelial growth factor expression and
           microvessel density in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Provide a comprehensive tumor, plasma, and urine bank linked to a clinical database for
           further study of molecular markers in SCLC.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to participating center, timing of prior radiotherapy (early [before
      day 1, course 4 of chemotherapy] vs late vs no prior radiotherapy), stage of disease at
      diagnosis (limited vs extensive), and response at study entry (complete vs partial). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral ZD6474 daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo daily. In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days
           for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 4 weeks while on therapy, and then every 8
      weeks until disease progression.

      Patients are followed every 8 weeks until disease progression and then every 6 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients (50 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  