
    
      Thoracotomy is one of the most painful surgical incision. Inadequate control of pain can have
      several detrimental effects, including increased postoperative morbidity and delayed recovery
      as well as occurrence of post thoracotomy syndrome. Therefore, choosing an effectiveness
      analgesic regimen for thoracic surgery is critical. Many strategies including intercostal
      nerve block, intra pleural analgesia, lumbar or thoracic epidural, paravertebral block, intra
      venous narcotics, intrathecal or epidural narcotics or trans-cutaneous nerve stimulation have
      been used with varied success. However, the ideal strategy remains an open issue. Different
      factors including trauma of chest wall, thoracic viscera, diaphragm, and intercostal nerves
      concur to thoracotomy pain development. Thus, due to multifactorial genesis of pain following
      thoracotomy a multimodal analgesic approach rather than a single method seems to be more
      effective because it blocks noxious input at different targets and levels of pain pathways.

      Ketamine is an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor that not only abolishes
      peripheral afferent noxious stimulation, but it may also prevent central sensitization of
      nociceptors as shown in animal studies. In thoracic surgery, there are contradictory results
      on the efficacy of ketamine for controlling pain due to different dose, type of
      surgery/patient, and postoperative analgesic regimen used in the various studies. Mathew et
      al. in a recent review concluded that adding low-dose ketamine to intravenous morphine
      analgesia following thoracotomy was safe and could provide a significant better pain relief
      and reduction of morphine consumption compared to placebo. D'Alonzo et al. found that the
      administration of a single dose of ketamine prior to chest incision failed to significantly
      reduce the pain scores and inflammation in the first 24 post-operative hours. Similarly,
      Yazigi et al. reported that pre-emptive intravenous low-dose ketamine followed by continuous
      administration during surgery did not decrease acute pain scores and supplemental morphine
      consumption. Other studies reported that the epidural infusion of Ketamine before thoracotomy
      or during thoracic surgery provides better postoperative analgesia compared to placebo group
      or epidural ropivacaine group In the present study, the investigators supposed that the
      pre-emptive administration of Ketamine would potentiate the effect of intravenous opioid
      analgesia with reduction of pain scores, inflammatory response and morphine consumption
      without increasing morbidity in patients undergoing thoracotomy.

      This was a single center, double-blind, placebo controlled, parallel-group, prospective
      study. Patients were randomly assigned to receive 1 mg/kg ketamine (Ketamine Group) or an
      equivalent dose of normal saline (Placebo Group) before thoracotomy in 1:1 ratio. All
      patients received postoperatively intravenous morphine administration as additional analgesic
      regimen Primary end-point was pain relief measured with Visual Analogue Scale at rest. The
      secondary end-points were the reduction of inflammatory response expressed by plasma
      c-reactive protein levels, the morphine consumption, and the rate of side effects. The
      measurements were carried out 6; 12; 24; 36; and 48 post operative hours.
    
  