
    
      Detailed information about Manual Therapy according to the Utrecht School Manual Therapy
      (MTU)

      MTU is based on assessing the patient's individual preference of functioning by documenting
      and interpreting their natural asymmetry in anatomical form, posture and movements. The
      normal asymmetry and variability of human form and movement function have been specified.
      Asymmetrical forms can be related to the asymmetrical movement function.

      In addition to the general diagnostics, MTU is characterized by specific diagnostics. By
      means of this specific manual-therapeutic analysis the individual preference of functioning
      model of the patient is drawn up through analysis and interpretation of the individual
      asymmetry in form, posture and movement. Some explanations of the measurements and movements
      are: (preferred) hand folding; (preferred) arm folding; which eye is master eye; leg use in
      (preferred) kicking of a ball. The purpose here is to describe the optimal direction and
      position of movement axes for all joints according to this model.

      When composing this model, firstly the individual characteristics (a number of preferred
      movements, a number of asymmetrical aspects of posture and form) are assessed. Documentation,
      notation and interpretation of these characteristics take place according to a protocol.

      The objective of MTU is to optimize the positioning of movement axes in the joints. To
      achieve this, three-dimensional movements in the joints are executed repeatedly. To purpose
      fully position the movement axes the therapist should (repeatedly) perform passive joint
      movements with low velocity and high accuracy. In addition to examining the individual
      preference of movement, exploratory examination is carried out to recognize possible red
      flags and to determine the treatment indication.

      Treatment is based on preferred movements found in the patient and the interpretation
      according to the protocol of these movements and not on the complaint of the patient. It is
      executed by applying passive articular movements in the spinal joints and the joints of the
      extremities. During this process physiological joint limitations are carefully observed;
      traction or high-velocity movements will not be applied, as may be the case in other forms of
      manual therapy.

      The diagnostic examination of other forms of manual therapy focuses on joint function,
      stability, movement patterns, range of movement, and the severity of disorders. To diagnose
      the patients complaints, palpation of passive accessory and passive intervertebral movements
      are used. The results yield information as to tenderness (pain), restricted intersegmental
      motion (stiffness), and spasm (muscle tension).
    
  