
    
      Spontaneous Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is defined as bleeding into the cerebral
      ventricular system caused by spontaneous rupture of brain arteries, veins and capillaries
      instead of trauma. IVH accounts for about 20% of cerebral hemorrhage, but its mortality rate
      is as high as 50%-80%. According to the results of the STICH trial, the prognosis of patients
      with IVH is worse than that of patients without IVH (p<0.00001); if patients with IVH have
      hydrocephalus, the prognosis is the worst.

      According to the edition of 2015 Chinese multidisciplinary experts' consensus for spontaneous
      cerebral hemorrhage diagnosis and treatment and 2015 AHA/ASA spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage
      diagnosis and treatment guidelines, for patients with small amount of IVH without obstructive
      hydrocephalus, conservative treatment or continuous lumbar drainage can be effective. For
      patients with large amount of IVH (hematoma occupying more than 50% of the lateral ventricle,
      secondary obstructive hydrocephalus or obviously increased intracranial pressure), the
      occupancy effect is dramatic and patients are prone to suffering from hydrocephalus and
      cerebral palsy, in which circumstances urgent evacuation of hematoma is required, but it is
      controversial whether it is beneficial for the patients and whether it can improve the
      prognosis of patients.

      As the regular treatment for IVH, external ventricular drainage (EVD) can rapidly reduce
      intracranial pressure, but clinical practice found that drainage catheters are often blocked
      by blood clots, and long-term thrombolytic therapy is likely to cause secondary bleeding.
      Usually, the catheters need to be removed or replaced one week after placement as for the
      increasing risk of infection.

      The application of endoscopy in IVH has attracted more and more attention. Studies have shown
      that the use of endoscopy for IVH evacuation (with EVD) has advantages over EVD alone. The
      incidence of postoperative hydrocephalus and the need for ventricular-peritoneal shunt
      surgery is lower. However, the cases of most current research are small and all of them are
      retrospective studies. There are no such clinical trials registered at home and abroad, and
      that is, there is a lack of prospective high-quality clinical studies to further demonstrate
      the effect of endoscopic treatment for IVH.

      Based on this, we intend to conduct a randomized, controlled, multi-center clinical trial to
      compare the prognosis of patients who undergo endoscopic IVH evacuation surgery versus those
      who undergo external ventricular drainage for moderate to severe IVH.
    
  