
    
      A growing number of facilities are using the robotic ICARE, a motor-assisted elliptical, to
      improve walking and fitness in individuals with physical disabilities. The device promotes
      movements emulating the joint motions and muscle demands of normal gait and integrates design
      features that improve accessibility and usability (e.g., motor assistance, partial BWS,
      electronic height-adjustable seat, steps, ramp, wheelchair platform) compared to traditional
      ellipticals. A motor assists those with strength and/or endurance limitations to train
      (forward/reverse directions) at speeds up to 65 cycles per minute (CPM), thus creating
      opportunities for the mass repetition of a gait-like movement pattern that is often advocated
      as critical for behavioral and neurologic recovery. Individuals can over-ride the motor's
      assistance simply by training faster than the set speed. Documented improvements in walking
      and cardiorespiratory fitness in individuals with neurologic injuries and illnesses following
      an ICARE training program in the forward direction are promising.

      Reverse walking is one method clinicians have used to improve forward walking performance in
      patients with various neurological disorders. Although the ICARE allows for reverse training,
      and this feature has been used clinically, no studies to date have compared changes in
      walking and cardiorespiratory fitness arising from an ICARE training intervention performed
      in the reverse direction to those arising from an ICARE intervention performed in the forward
      direction. Thus, the purpose of this exploratory study is to compare gait and
      cardiorespiratory improvements arising from blocks (12-sessions) of forward vs. reverse ICARE
      training in participants with walking dysfunction. For this exploratory study, the
      investigators hypothesize that both forward and reverse training will contribute to
      improvements in gait and cardiorespiratory fitness. In addition, the investigators seek to
      understand whether the magnitude of change will differ between each form of training (i.e.,
      forward vs. reverse) and whether the order of training will impact the magnitude of change
      (i.e. block of 12-sessions forward followed by block of 12-sessions reverse vs. block of
      12-sessions reverse followed by block of 12-sessions forward). Measurements will be recorded
      immediately prior to intervention initiation (T0), following completion of the first training
      block (T1), immediately following completion of the second training block (T2), and 3 months
      following completion of the second training block (T3)
    
  