
    
      Elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) is a common neurosurgical emergency that may arise from
      several conditions, which cause an intracranial mass effect. In the case of conservatively
      refractory ICP elevation, one viable treatment option is ICP-lowering surgery, i.e.,
      decompressive craniectomy (DC) in which a large portion of the skull bone is removed and the
      dura mater opened, creating more room for the brain tissue to expand and thus reducing the
      ICP. In many centers, the bone flap removed in DC is customarily kept deep frozen at -70°C
      until reimplantation during cranioplasty (CP). The cranium is repaired during CP by returning
      the previously removed autologous bone flap or by placing an artificial implant in the defect
      area. A successful CP will restore the contour of the cranium, protect the brain, and ensure
      a natural ICP, and some patients also show neurological improvement post-CP1-4. Thus, CP has
      a great potential for improving the patient's quality of life. Although widely regarded as a
      routine operation, CP often involves serious complications, such as postoperative
      hemorrhages, surgical site infection (SSI), and, most importantly, resorption of the
      autologous bone flap5-8.

      Bone flap resorption (BFR) implies weakening and loosening of the autologous bone flap after
      reimplantation and is regarded as a late CP complication involving nonunion of the bone flap
      with the surrounding bone margins and cavity formation in the flap itself, which eventually
      necessitates removal of the bone flap and a new CP using a synthetic implant. These
      additional operations increase costs and necessitate further hospital stays, while rendering
      the patient vulnerable to additional complications. The reported prevalence of BFR with
      autologous CPs has varied significantly, from 1.4% to 32.0%, with infection rates ranging
      from 4.6% to 16.4%9-12.

      CP is a common procedure for cranial reconstruction in the setting of trauma, stroke, skull
      neoplasm, osteomyelitis, or after procedures that are approached via craniectomy such as
      microvascular decompression or acoustic neuroma.

      Recently there have been two major areas of interest presenting in the literature. First,
      there have been at least 6 manuscripts published on retrospective data comparing autologous
      bone versus synthetic prosthetic for CP13-18. Each has shown benefit for synthetic
      prosthetics. However, the community is resistant to implement a treatment pattern where
      synthetic bone is a "first line" choice for CP. Therefore, a prospective randomized
      controlled trial is needed to understand with high confidence the option that is most
      beneficial for patients.

      Prior research performed as part of the FDA approval process has shown the ASPCI's to be a
      safe and effective means of performing cranial reconstruction, the anticipated risks do not
      differ from the risks faced by a patient undergoing either option as they are both currently
      considered standards of care.

      This study will evaluate the overall patient outcomes of cranial reconstruction surgery using
      native bone autograft as compared to using synthetic bone allograft.
    
  