
    
      In the United States, 9% of African Americans have sickle cell trait and 1 in 600 has sickle
      cell disease. Vaso- occlusive crises in sickle cell disease remain a frequent cause of severe
      pain, leading to emergency room visits, hospitalizations, and dependence upon narcotics for
      analgesia. Current treatments for vaso-occlusive crises includes IV analgesia with narcotics,
      NSAIDS, and hydration. Admissions can be frequent, prolonged, and can significantly diminish
      quality of life.

      Understanding the pathophysiology of vaso-occlusive crises helps to find possible treatments.
      The etiology of vaso- occlusive crises includes HbS polymerization; sickle erythrocyte
      polymerization; endothelial damage; and inflammation, reperfusion injury, and oxidant radical
      production (Steinberg et al, Hematology, 2004). For example, hydroxyurea works by increasing
      the amount of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) and thus inhibiting polymerization, and reduces the
      incidence of pain by nearly 50%. Glucocorticoids would be expected to exert effects on the
      endothelium and inflammation.

      Vaso-occlusive crises share similar features with other inflammatory processes, including
      clinical symptoms of swelling, erythema, and warmth; and laboratory findings of leukocytosis
      and elevated ESR. It has previously been theorized that glucocorticoids, which are used in
      many other inflammatory disorders, could decrease the duration or severity of vaso-occlusive
      crises. Methylprednisolone is a corticosteroid which decreases inflammation by suppression of
      migration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes and reversal of increased capillary permeability
      (Takemoto, et al 2004). A randomized, placebo-controlled study of 2 doses of intravenous
      methylprednisolone for vaso-occlusive crisis showed that the duration of severe pain and the
      need for inpatient analgesia was decreased in patients who received methylprednisolone;
      however the intervention patients had more rebound attacks than those who received placebo.
      (Griffin et al, NEJM, 1994)

      Previous studies have examined long-term administration of steroid hormones including
      testosterone, progesterone, and medroxyprogesterone to patients with sickle cell disease. In
      placebo-controlled crossover trials, patients who received steroids had fewer vaso-occlusive
      episodes than placebo-treated patients (Isaacs et al, Lancet,1972; DeCeulaer et al, Lancet,
      1982). Initial reports of glucocorticoids for vaso-occlusive crisis include an uncontrolled
      report of hydrocortisone as adjunctive therapy for VOC (Araujo et al, Blood, 1990). A case
      report showed efficacy of dexamethasone for vaso-occlusive crisis in children (Robinson et
      al, Lancet, 1979). The mechanism of steroids effect is uncertain.

      In acute chest syndrome, which shares many clinical features with vaso-occlusive crises,
      intravenous therapy with dexamethasone has been shown to reduce the length of hospital stay,
      prevent clinical deterioration, and reduce the need for blood transfusion (Bernini et al,
      Blood, 1998).

      In a placebo-controlled trial of high-does methylprednisolone for VOC, patients with severe
      pain requiring hospital admission were randomized to receive methylprednisolone or placebo
      (15 mg/kg to maximum 1 gram) at admission and again 24 hours later. The duration of inpatient
      analgesia was significantly shorter in patients who received methylprednisolone. However,
      patients who received methylprednisolone were much more likely to be readmitted shortly after
      finishing therapy. In addition, the study was criticized because patients did not rate their
      pain, and very few patients received patient-controlled analgesia while hospitalized.

      Since this trial was published, there have been other advances in the standard management of
      VOC. Ketorolac, a non-steroidal analgesic, is now a standard adjunctive therapy, and most
      patients are quickly placed on patient-controlled analgesia. In addition, more patients now
      receive chronic, preventative therapies such as hydroxyurea and chronic transfusions.

      We are therefore interested in repeating and expanding upon the results obtained several
      years ago and in evaluating the role of steroids if given over a slightly longer period of
      time.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine whether the use of high-dose
      methylprednisolone followed by steroid taper decreases the duration of hospitalization and
      severity of pain in VOC of sickle cell disease.

      Primary Hypothesis: The experimental group treated with high-dose methylprednisolone and
      steroid taper plus conventional therapy will have an improvement in pain scores using a
      10-point scale.

      In addition, the secondary objectives were:

        1. duration of inpatient admissions

        2. to examine the number and type of complications and side effects (infection,
           hypertension, and GI bleeding)

        3. to determine rate of recurrent episodes of pain within one month of treatment.

        4. to determine whether the amount of analgesic used will decrease during the
           hospitalization, as measured by the # of days in which IV opioids were given.
    
  