
    
      In this study, only adult ASA III to IV patients (18 to 70 years old), scheduled for
      orthotopic liver transplantation at the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Santa Casa de
      Porto Alegre and at the Hospital das Clínicas of the Faculty of Medicine, will be included.
      Medicine at the University of São Paulo. All hospitals involved will be of equal importance,
      varying participation according to the number of liver transplant surgeries performed at the
      institutions. Patients with a history of acute arterial thrombosis or venous thromboembolism
      (<1 month), patients with a history of known thrombophilia, Budd-Chiari syndrome, primary
      biliary cholangitis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, patients with reduced left ventricular
      function ( ejection fraction <40%), pulmonary hypertension, preoperative pulmonary edema, or
      severe preoperative hemodynamic changes requiring the use of vasoactive drugs, planned use of
      tranexamic acid systemically during surgery, hypersensitivity or known allergy to acid
      tranexamic, history of seizure disorder, patients who have recently suffered a stroke or
      myocardial infarction (<1 month), patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in the last 30 days
      and patients previously undergoing cranial neurosurgery. Patients with chronic dialysis
      kidney disease or patients in need of a liver-kidney transplant will also be excluded from
      the study.

      To calculate the sample size, considering a 95% confidence interval and an 80% power and
      aiming to detect a statistical difference in the incidence of major bleeding of approximately
      24% in patients in the placebo group and 14% among patients exposed to tranexamic acid, a
      sample of 128 patients was estimated, approximately 64 patients for each study group. The
      main outcome considered for the calculation of the sample size was the presence of major
      bleeding requiring transfusion in the perioperative period (intraoperative and in the first
      24 hours postoperatively). In order to overcome possible losses during the treatment
      protocol, the estimated sample will be increased by approximately 10% in its final number,
      totaling an estimated sample of 140 patients divided into two treatment groups or arms (70
      patients for each study group) .

      Major bleeding in this study will be defined as bleeding that results in hemoglobin ≤ 8.0 g /
      dL and the patient receiving a transfusion of ≥ 1 unit of red blood cells; results in a drop
      in hemoglobin ≥ 4.0 g / dL and the patient receives a transfusion of ≥ 1 unit of red blood
      cells; results in the patient receiving a transfusion of ≥ 4 units of red blood cells over a
      24-hour period; or bleeding leading to surgical reintervention.

      Bleeding in the postoperative period during the hospitalization of the patient in the
      intensive care unit (ICU) will be assessed by the nursing staff through the flow of abdominal
      drains routinely used in liver transplant surgery and recorded in medical records every six
      hours or before bleeding. increased. In addition to bleeding, clinical, hemodynamic and
      laboratory / gasometric parameters will be considered for clinical or surgical intervention
      in the patient.

      The sample calculation for this study was based on two recent previous studies. An
      observational study demonstrated the need for transfusion of at least one unit of packed red
      blood cells in approximately 24% of liver transplants and a recent systematic review
      demonstrated a reduction of approximately 41% in the transfusion rate of blood components
      related to intraoperative administration of tranexamic acid when compared to placebo in
      patients undergoing major non-cardiac and non-orthopedic surgeries.
    
  