
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether intratumoral/peritumoral injection of HSV1716 (oncolytic HSV-1716) is
      safe in children with recurrent high-grade gliomas amenable to resection.

      II. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or a recommended Phase II dose of
      intratumoral/peritumoral injection of HSV1716.

      III. To describe any dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of intratumoral/peritumoral injection of
      HSV1716 at the doses given to children with high-grade gliomas.

      IV. To evaluate changes in tumor enhancement, quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) measures
      of tumor perfusion (relative cerebral blood volume [rCBV], transfer coefficient [k^trans],
      fractional blood-plasma volume [Vp] and extravascular extracellular space per unit volume
      tissue [Ve] values and apparent diffusion coefficient [ADC]) in response to HSV1716
      injection.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure antiviral immune response in patients with refractory high-grade gliomas
      injected with HSV1716.

      II. To measure the systemic viremia and viral shedding following intratumoral/peritumoral
      administration of HSV1716.

      III. To preliminarily describe the antitumor activity of HSV1716 injection within the
      confines of a Phase I study.

      IV. To evaluate anti-tumor immune cellular and humoral immune responses. V. To evaluate
      changes in fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)- positron emission tomography (PET) uptake in response to
      HSV1716 injection.

      VI. To evaluate changes in tumor choline values using magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy in
      response to HSV1716 injection and further delineate from progressive disease versus
      pseudo-progression post therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive oncolytic HSV-1716 intratumorally (IT) and peritumorally after undergoing
      surgical tumor resection. Patients also receive dexamethasone intravenously (IV) prior to and
      6 and 12 hours after surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months for 4 years, and then annually for 10 years.
    
  