
    
      Acute kidney injury occurs in up to one third of all patients following cardiac surgery. It
      is manifested by an acute decline in kidney function and results in significant increases in
      postoperative complications as well as an almost fourfold increase in the risk of
      postoperative death. Our understanding of the underlying processes is poor and recent
      systematic reviews have concluded that there is no effective treatment.

      Experimental studies have demonstrated that preservation of endogenous Nitric Oxide (NO)
      bioavailability is reno-protective in response to a variety of injurious stimuli. Endogenous
      NO activity is increased by administration of the phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitor
      sildenafil citrate. This is used clinically in the treatment of erectile dysfunction
      (Viagra®, Pfizer) and more recently, pulmonary hypertension and acute right ventricular
      failure (Revatio®, Pfizer). We have developed a preclinical swine model of extracorporeal
      circulation (cardiopulmonary bypass) mediated acute kidney injury that shows significant
      homology to that which occurs in post cardiac surgery patients. Administration of intravenous
      sildenafil prevents acute kidney injury in this model in association with an increase in NO
      bioavailability. There is a recognized clinical need for developing prevention and treatment
      strategies for AKI and results obtained in this preclinical study indicate that Sildenafil is
      suitable for further development as a potential prevention strategy for post cardiac surgery
      AKI.

      Prior to conducting a safety and efficacy trial however we intend to first establish a dose
      of Sildenafil that is tolerated by cardiac surgery patients and compare the pharmacokinetics
      of this dose to the effective dose identified in our preclinical work. We therefore propose
      to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile, safety and tolerability of sildenafil in 36 patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery, in an open label, dose escalation Phase I study. This study will
      inform the design of a subsequent randomized Phase IIb trial that will determine efficacy and
      safety
    
  