
    
      Medical application: This study will seek to determine the utility of rigid external pelvic
      immobilization in patients who are set up using real-time, state-of-the-art motion tracking
      of the prostate. External immobilization devices have been criticized for being expensive,
      uncomfortable, time-consuming to make, occupying a lot of space in the treatment area,
      creating difficulties at the time of CT simulation, challenging for obese patients and
      obscuring skin marks that can help confirm patient set up. Omitting these devices (if found
      to be unnecessary) would potentially decrease treatment costs, improve patient comfort during
      treatment, and reduce overall treatment time. In high risk patients, gaining a better
      understanding of lymph node positioning relative to Calypso immobilization may allow for
      decreased PTV margins and therefore decreased normal tissue irradiated during radiation
      therapy.

      Objective(s) of the investigation: This study will look at the efficacy of external pelvic
      immobilization in definitive radiation therapy of prostate cancer using a unique organ
      tracking system.

      A. Primary Objective: To determine if rigid external pelvic immobilization demonstrates a
      reduction in positioning errors. This will be assessed by determining the median, mean and
      range of shifts performed in all 3 dimensions as part of initial isocenter set-up and during
      treatment using the Calypso system.

      B. Secondary Objectives: The study will determine the simulation time, set up time, treatment
      time, total time and number of treatment interventions (repositioning/pausing) caused by
      organ/target motion beyond planning target volume (PTV) margin using real time localization.
      In the subset of high-risk patients, this study will assess positioning of the lymph node
      target using the combination of rigid external pelvic immobilization and the Calypso system.
    
  