
    
      Previous Research: The prevalence of sexual dysfunction (SD) after prostate cancer surgery,
      coupled with the severity of impact and lack of successful intervention, make SD one of the
      most substantial health-related quality of life burdens in all of cancer survivorship. In
      2012, 21,000 men will be added to the pool of Canadian prostate cancer (PC) survivors.
      Approximately 70% of men will suffer SD post-surgery and 60% will experience significant
      distress in response to SD. Similarly, partners may experience even greater distress than
      patients. Research examining the nature of the distress reveals that the significance of SD
      extends beyond the ability to have an erection, and includes guilt, depression, anxiety,
      anger, and reductions in intimacy. Unfortunately, there are no reported interventions that
      have been successful in reducing the impact of SD on long term couple health-related quality
      of life.

      Project Description: Men and their partners need an effective intervention to help them adapt
      to sexual dysfunction following prostate cancer surgery. In addressing this need we propose
      an innovative biomedical-psychosocial Intervention that emphasizes: 1) multidisciplinary
      intervention teams; 2) the active participation of the partner; and 3) a broad-spectrum
      medical, psychological, and social approach. The treatment goal of the intervention is to
      promote intimacy and optimal sexual health in affected couples. This is a preliminary study
      designed to determine the feasibility of running a large scale randomized controlled trial
      comparing the new biomedical-psychosocial intervention to an attention control condition.

      Impact and Relevance: The burden of sexual dysfunction after prostate cancer surgery is
      responsible for the single greatest impact on patient/partner health-related quality of life;
      substantially more so than concern for cancer recurrence, or any other post-surgery
      side-effect. Consequently, there is a great need for progressive and distributable sexual
      health rehabilitation interventions designed to uphold intimacy and optimal sexual health. If
      the biomedical-psychosocial intervention is ultimately found beneficial, it will result in:
      1) an empirically-based intervention that helps patients/partners maintain optimal
      health-related quality of life after prostate cancer surgery, and 2) a highly structured
      protocol and manualized intervention that is translatable to other treatment groups (e.g.
      radiation therapy) and University/Community-based hospitals.
    
  