
    
      Rationale: Digital ischemia is a major problem in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon (RP),
      especially in those with underlying connective tissue diseases such as systemic sclerosis
      (SSc). SSc is hallmarked by microvascular disease which can be assessed by nailfold capillary
      microscopy (NCM) to identify specific capillary patterns. However, it appears that vascular
      damage is not restricted to the capillaries, but may also extend to more upstream hand and
      forearm arteries. This may not only be reflected by clinically relevant structural
      abnormalities such as obliteration, but also by decreases in arterial function. The best
      characterised in RP is the occurrence of vasospasms after cold exposure. However, evidence
      points out that major stiffening of the arteries also occurs, potentially exaggerating
      digital ischemia and other vascular complications in SSc.

      Objective: To investigate whether bosentan added to usual care improves arterial stiffness
      after 3 months as measured as the pulse wave velocity of the medium and large arteries
      corrected for blood pressure changes in patients with systemic sclerosis with digital ulcers.

      Intervention:

      Group 1: Usual care AND bosentan 62.5 mg twice daily, titrated to 125 mg twice daily after
      one month if tolerated (n=10) Group 2: Usual care only (n=10)

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Bosentan is a registered product in the Netherlands. In this study, it will be
      used within its indication and not in combination with other products for which it has not
      been registered. Therefore no additional unknown uncertainties and increased overall risk are
      applicable for the investigational product. In the usual care group, treatment will not
      differ from clinical practice. To minimize the risk of patients not receiving the most
      appropriate treatment in the control group, regular visits and lab assessments are planned.
      Patients are allowed to start with bosentan in the usual care group if indicated by the
      treating physician. The study will consist of one screening and three study visits. During
      the latter, patients clinical signs and symptoms will be assessed, vascular lab will be
      performed, blood will be drawn, and subjects be asked to fill in questionnaire, all of which
      will have a duration of no more than 2 hours per visits. In total 3 times 24cc of blood will
      be collected, preferably in combination will routine lab assessments. These measures render
      the risks acceptable and the burden minimal for the subjects participating in the study.
    
  