
    
      The project will implement a five-minute daily self-practice CFT intervention and evaluate
      its impact on psychological and physiological factors associated with trauma. It aims to
      offer a novel intervention which may facilitate further benefits from trauma-specific
      therapy. Follow-up data may demonstrate maintenance of positive effects and increased
      positive effects if self-practice is continued. This would be a unique use of self-practice
      CFT specifically for trauma clients.

      Study Design The study will use a delayed intervention Randomised Controlled Trial (RCT)
      using a block design.A delayed intervention group will act as a passive control group.
      Participants will engage in a daily five-minute self-practice CFT intervention prior to
      engaging in trauma-specific TAU. The CFT intervention will be adapted specifically for trauma
      clients based on the literature review, involvement of service users, and close collaboration
      with Professor Paul Gilbert. The project will involve three stages, outlined below.

      Stage One: Development of CFT intervention and feasibility testing

      Development The final version of the adapted five-minute CFT practice will include
      consultation with Paul Gilbert as original author of the five-minute CFT intervention
      (unpublished) as well as consultation with research supervisors. It will be available in both
      audio and written format. Permission has kindly been given by Paul Gilbert to adapt this for
      use in the project.

      The current version of the CFT intervention includes: instructions, an explanation of
      compassion and aims of the intervention. It includes several exercises designed to increase
      self-compassion including breathing exercises and compassionate imagery exercises focused on
      self and others.

      Throughout the adaptation process, services users' ideas will be considered. The intervention
      will include explicit instructions not to focus on traumatic events participants have
      experienced. This will be addressed in their trauma-specific therapy . Participants will be
      encouraged to focus on milder difficulties and stressors. The adaptations will account for
      the current literature in CFT and maintain its basic principles, focusing on building
      self-compassion and reducing self-criticism.

      Participant sampling for feasibility testing will be opportunistic, seeking voluntary
      engagement from clients currently accessing services. The sample size for this stage is not
      explicitly defined and will depend on the number of interested parties. This aims to test
      feasibility and acceptability of the intervention and its instructions with a clinical
      population. Participants will be asked to practice the intervention over a two-week period.

      Stage Two: Randomised controlled trial Design The research will utilise a single-blind
      blocked-randomisation design, incorporating three-week intervention versus waiting-list
      blocks. Following the end of the initial block, participants who formed the passive,
      waiting-list group will engage in the active intervention, whilst the active group will
      continue to remain on the waiting list. Both routine and project-specific outcomes measures
      will be implemented.

      Therapists from the recruitment site will conduct screening assessments and post TAU
      assessments. All other measurements will be completed with the primary researcher.
      Prospective participants will be provided with an information sheet as part of the screening
      interview and, if they consent, will be contacted by the researcher. They will be given the
      opportunity to ask questions and be asked to sign a consent form if they wish to participate.
      It will be made clear that non-participation will have no adverse effects on their access to
      psychological treatment and that engaging in the project will not affect their access to
      treatment. An initial appointment will then be made and the pre-intervention assessments
      completed. Participants will be allocated to the CFT or waiting-list condition using blocked
      randomisation. Self-report measures will be uploaded to an academically-focused online survey
      tool (eSurv) and participants will have Heart Rate Variability (HRV) measurements taken
      during face-to-face appointments with the primary researcher.

      The five-minute CFT self-practice intervention will be available both in written and audio
      (CD and mp3) formats. Participants will receive a daily email or text reminder to practice
      the intervention if deemed appropriate. Participants will be given the choice to complete a
      daily monitoring sheet or have their daily online access monitored to record levels of CFT
      practice. Participants will be asked to practice the intervention on a daily basis for three
      weeks with repeated completion of the online assessments and the HRV measurements in the week
      following the block.

      An a priori power calculation was obtained using G*Power 3.1.9 software (Faul, Erdfelder,
      Buchner & Lang, 2009). With the Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale (DASS-21: Lovibond &
      Lovibond, 1995) as the primary outcome measure, the average effect size of a brief CFT
      intervention on the DASS was equivalent to a large effect size f of .74 (McEwan & Gilbert,
      2013). An average estimate of test-retest reliability is 0.77 (Brown, Chorpita, Korotitsch &
      Barlow, 1997).

      Given the number of groups (2) and repetitions (4) in the planned study and assuming a
      test-retest reliability of .77, a sample size of at least 16 (8 per group) will be required
      to provide sufficient power (80%) to detect an effect of similar magnitude (f = .74) at an
      alpha level of .05.

      Average attrition rates for clients with PTSD are approximately 20%, although rates vary up
      to 48% (Imel, Laska, Jakupcak & Simpson, 2013). A cautious 60% (approx.) attrition rate has
      been considered given the research is additional to participants' involvement at the CTRG.
      Further allowing room for a more moderate effect size, given that the intervention has not
      previously been trialled with a clinical sample, a target sample of 40 participants will be
      sought. Given the 150 referrals received by the CTRG last year this is feasible.

      Withdrawal Participants will be assigned a code number with which all of their assessment
      data will be stored on a password-protected computer file. This will be accessible only to
      the researcher and any transferring of data will be done using an encrypted memory stick. Any
      personal data used to contact participants will be deleted upon completion of the
      experimental aspects of the project. Participants can withdraw at any time but will be
      informed that any data collected past the first week of the intervention process cannot be
      erased and may still be used in the project analyses. Consent forms will be signed and will
      be stored in a locked filing cabinet at the researcher's home office and transferred to the
      University of Lincoln's archived storage following project completion. Data will be stored
      for seven years in line with the University's data storage policy.

      Implications and Dissemination This research project will contribute to the theoretical
      literature on both CFT and PTSD. It is anticipated that it will offer new findings regarding
      self-practice interventions for PTSD which may have beneficial psychological and
      physiological implications and impact on TAU outcomes. The project will be prepared for
      publication in an appropriate peer-reviewed journal and presented at relevant conferences. It
      may also be disseminated on the Compassion Mind Foundation Website.

      In the event that any participants find the intervention difficult or experience distress,
      they will be able to discuss this with an identified person and if deemed appropriate, will
      be withdrawn from the project. Research suggests continued practice may reduce fear of
      compassion (Rockliff, et al. 2008) and this information will be shared with participants. It
      is felt that the risk of such adverse events is minimal.
    
  