
    
      Medical context:

      There is an intra-individual and inter-individual variability in the production of saliva.
      Various factors influence the production of saliva. Saliva flow tends to decrease with age,
      sleep, emotional state, and to increase after eating, and during pregnancy. Some drugs
      increase the salivary flow, others decrease it. Tobacco and alcohol tend to impair the
      quality of the saliva. Furthermore, 43% of 40-64 years and 61% over 65 take at least one
      antisialic medication. Lack of saliva can cause problems chewing, swallowing, speaking, and
      tasting perceptions. There is an increase in the number of oropharyngeal candidiasis that
      affects feeding behaviors and would be responsible for malnutrition in the elderly, and an
      increase in the number of caries for subjects still toothed. For edentulous or partially
      dentate subjects, salivary film plays two roles: the first is to allow adhesion of complete
      or almost complete dentures; the following is to protect the oral mucosa. In subjects
      suffering from mouth dryness the denture becomes difficult. In addition, saliva is essential
      for the first phase of digestion, for the creation of a correct bolus. There are several
      methods to measure the salivary flow. The most common include:

        -  The measurement of salivary flow at rest, the subject leaves the saliva in his mouth
           then allowed to flow slowly and spit into a funnel connected to a graduated tube for
           either 6 or 12 minutes. This test can be performed either at rest or stimulated using a
           paraffin cube or citric acid. These tests are long and therefore not suitable for the
           elderly.

        -  The salivary flow measurements using a compress weight of about 0.95 g is weighed and
           then placed under the tongue of the subject for 5 minutes. Once the elapsed time, the
           pad is weighed, a simple subtraction determines the weight of saliva produced in 5
           minutes. This test can be done like the previous one at rest or after stimulation.

      Secretion at rest varies authors 0,05mℓ / min 0,4mℓ / min. The mouth dryness is defined by a
      total salivary flow rate below 0.1 unstimulated +/- 0,1mℓ / min ≤ 0.16 mℓ / min. The salivary
      potential of hydrogen (pH) varies between 6.5 and 8.5. Decreased salivary flow will cause a
      decrease in pH and promote the degradation of the oral health status.

      Tool: The Xerostomia Inventory is a scale of measurement of xerostomia with eleven items used
      in daily practice or research, which results in a sum score giving a score representing the
      severity of the drought oral perceived by the subject. This tool was developed in 1999 and
      covers both experimental and behavioral aspects of xerostomia, and showed acceptable
      psychometric characteristics. Today, this tool is available in English, Spanish and
      Portuguese languages With this study a tool to measure xerostomia will be available in
      French; it may be used in clinical studies and in the daily practice of the dentist and or
      speech therapists to obtain a subjective measure of dry mouth, particularly in the elderly
      who are the most vulnerable subjects consequences of xerostomia. Currently there is no way to
      measure xerostomia, it is difficult to assess the processes associated with the patient and
      case treatment administered it is impossible to say whether it is effective or not.

      The aim of this study is to achieve cross-cultural and psychometric validation version of the
      Xerostomia Inventory into French Language.
    
  