
    
      In pediatric Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) subjects on diet and exercise and metformin, or
      insulin, or metformin and insulin:

      The primary research hypothesis for dapagliflozin is whether addition of dapagliflozin,
      including up-titration if needed, results in a greater mean reduction from baseline in
      glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) as compared to placebo when each are administered over 26
      weeks of oral double-blind add-on treatment.

      The primary research hypothesis for saxagliptin is whether addition of saxagliptin, including
      up-titration if needed, results in a greater mean reduction from baseline in HbA1c as
      compared to placebo when each are administered over 26 weeks of oral double-blind add-on
      treatment.

      Study Design: The proposed study is a 26-week Phase 3b, multicenter, randomized,
      placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel group study with a 26-week safety extension period
      to evaluate the safety and efficacy of dapagliflozin (5 mg and 10 mg), and, separately,
      saxagliptin (2.5 mg and 5 mg) in pediatric subjects with T2DM, and an additional post study
      visit at Week 104 for assessment of measures of growth and maturity. Approximately 243
      pediatric subjects will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive dapagliflozin 5 mg,
      saxagliptin 2.5 mg, or placebo. Approximately 81 subjects will be randomized to each
      treatment arm.

      After a 26-week, double-blind, ST treatment period, the primary efficacy endpoint will be
      assessed. This will be followed by a 26-week, site- and subject-blind LT safety extension
      period. Dapagliflozin and, separately, saxagliptin will be compared against the single shared
      placebo comparator.

      Measures of growth and maturity will be assessed at the Week 104 post study visit.

      Subjects will be required to have been treated with diet and exercise and a stable dose of at
      least 1000 mg metformin (IR or XR) for a minimum of 8 weeks, or a stable baseline dose of
      insulin for a minimum of 8 weeks, or a stable combination of at least 1000 mg metformin and
      insulin for a minimum of 8 weeks prior to randomization. At least 50% of subjects will be on
      a stable baseline dose of metformin, with or without concurrent insulin therapy. At least 30%
      of total subjects will be between the ages of 10 and 14 years and at least one third, but no
      more than two thirds, female subjects.

      During the 2-week lead-in period, subjects will be instructed on a diet and exercise program
      (in accordance with the American Diabetes Association [ADA] or similar local guidelines) to
      be followed for the study duration. Subjects will maintain their baseline types and/or doses
      of antidiabetic therapy throughout the study (2-week lead-in, 26-week double-blind ST
      treatment period, and the 26-week blinded safety extension LT treatment period). If
      applicable, investigators will encourage subjects to keep their insulin doses stable.
      Down-titration of insulin will be allowed only as necessary to prevent hypoglycemia and will
      be at the discretion of the Investigator. Home glucose meters to monitor glucose control will
      be dispensed to subjects and self-blood glucose monitoring (SBGM) requirements and procedures
      will be explained. Subjects will also be instructed on the use of the subject diary to record
      self-monitored glucose levels and daily insulin dose, if applicable. Subjects will also
      receive a blood ketone meter for testing when DKA is suspected.

      After the lead-in period, eligible subjects with HbA1c of 6.5% to 10.5% at screening will be
      randomized 1:1:1 to receive oral, double-blind, dapagliflozin 5 mg (approximately 81
      subjects), saxagliptin 2.5 mg (approximately 81 subjects), or placebo (approximately 81
      subjects). Randomization will be stratified based on baseline anti-diabetes treatment regimen
      (stable baseline dose of metformin (IR or XR), a stable baseline dose of insulin, or a stable
      combination of metformin and insulin), gender, and age (10 to below 15 years of age, 15 to
      below 18 years of age).

      A blinded HbA1c assessment will be performed at Week 12. All subjects with Week 12 HbA1c
      values < 7% will remain on previously assigned randomized treatment (dapagliflozin 5 mg, or
      saxagliptin 2.5 mg, or placebo) after the Week 12 assessment. Subjects assigned to the
      dapagliflozin treatment arm at Day 1 Randomization with Week 12 HbA1c values >= 7% will be
      re-randomized in a 1:1 ratio to continue on the low-dose treatment (dapagliflozin 5 mg) or
      up-titrate to the high-dose treatment (dapagliflozin 10 mg) after the Week 12 assessment.
      Similarly, subjects assigned to the saxagliptin treatment arm at Day 1 Randomization with
      Week 12 HbA1c values >= 7% will be re randomized in a 1:1 ratio to continue on the low-dose
      treatment (saxagliptin 2.5 mg) or up-titrate to the high-dose treatment (saxagliptin 5 mg)
      after the Week 12 assessment. Subjects assigned to the placebo treatment arm at Day 1
      Randomization with Week 12 HbA1c values >= 7% will continue on placebo treatment. To maintain
      the blinding of treatments as well as HbA1c results, all placebo subjects and all subjects
      taking saxagliptin or dapagliflozin with an HbA1c < 7% at week 12 will go through a dummy 2nd
      randomization process that will be indistinguishable (for the subjects and site personnel)
      from the actual 2nd randomization. During the Week 14 visit, blinded study drug will be
      dispensed to all subjects in accordance with new treatment assignments based on Week 12 HbA1c
      assessments. After completion of assessments at Week 26, a subset of eligible subjects who
      are receiving background medication with metformin only will undergo a third randomization
      (randomized withdrawal of background medication) at either Week 32 or Week 40. Eligibility
      for randomized withdrawal from background medication will be restricted to subjects who are
      receiving background treatment with metformin only, and who have HbA1c < 7.5% at Week 26 or
      Week 32 provided they have not initiated rescue glycemic control therapy or been withdrawn
      from study drug. Subjects who are receiving background medication with metformin only, who do
      not qualify for the third randomization at Week 32 due to an HbA1c ≥ 7.5% at Week 26, may
      qualify for the third randomization at Week 40 if HbA1c < 7.5% at Week 32. Subjects who have
      passed Week 40 will not be included in the randomized withdrawal of background medication

      After completion of the ST treatment period, all subjects will enter the LT treatment period.
      All subjects, including those randomized to receive placebo, will continue with their
      randomized study medication assigned after the Week 12 assessment in the site- and subject
      blind LT treatment period. Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) will be
      assessed during a Week 56 phone visit.In case a visit is delayed for any reason, subsequent
      visits should be scheduled such that an interval of at least 12 weeks is maintained between
      the:

        -  Week 14 visit and the Week 26 visit.

        -  Third randomization (for subjects undergoing third randomization; occurring at the Week
           32 or the Week 40 visit) and the Week 52 visit.

      If more than 12 weeks elapse between the HbA1c collection at Week 26 and the third
      randomization at Week 32, or the HbA1c collection at Week 32 and the third randomization at
      Week 40, the subject should not go through this randomization as the HbA1c value would no
      longer be reliable to ascertain eligibility for the third randomization. Short- and long term
      period study visits can be delayed by a maximum of 11 months in total. If the duration of IP
      administration is longer than 52 (+1) weeks, the safety follow-up period should be shortened
      such that the complete study duration does not exceed 104 weeks.

      Subjects who discontinue study drug before the end of the study treatment period will enter a
      non-treatment, follow up phase, in which subjects will follow their visit schedules with
      modified assessments until study completion. Subjects will attend a post-study visit at Week
      104, for assessment of measures of growth and maturity.This visit should be completed without
      delay (at 104 weeks from Day 1 + 7 days), regardless of whether any other study visits were
      delayed.

      If scheduled visits at clinical sites will be significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic
      (e.g., there is a risk that the subject may be exposed to COVID-19 when visiting the site),
      home visits by study site personnel/vendor are allowed in countries where this is
      logistically feasible and considered acceptable. Before such a visit, a risk assessment that
      considers the potential risks to both the subject and the study personnel has to be
      performed.

      Discontinued subjects will not be replaced. Samples for analysis of plasma levels of
      dapagliflozin, saxagliptin and its metabolite 5-Hydroxy saxagliptin (5 OH saxagliptin) will
      be collected pre-dose and approximately 2 hours post-dose (+/- 1 hour) during the Week 6, 12,
      20, and 26 visits.

      Samples for analysis of plasma glucose will be collected pre-dose during the Day 1 visit, and
      pre-dose and approximately 2 hours post-dose (+/- 1 hour) during the Week 6, 12, 20, and 26
      visits.

      Plasma samples for analysis of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) activity will be collected
      pre-dose during the Day 1 visit, and at 2 (+/-1) hours post-dose during the Week 6, 12, 20,
      and 26 visits.Samples may be collected at additional time points during the study if
      warranted and agreed upon between the investigator and the Sponsor, eg, for safety reasons.

      All plasma samples will be drawn in the fasting condition. During the course of the trial,
      subjects may be eligible for the addition of open-label rescue medication to their blinded
      treatment regimen in order to treat ongoing hyperglycemia. Insulin may be used as rescue, at
      the Investigator's discretion.

      Pre-specified glycemic criteria, based upon self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) FPG, or
      single central laboratory FPG and repeat confirmatory FPG have been established during the
      treatment period, starting at Week 6, and up to but not including the Week 52 visit, to
      determine eligibility for open-label rescue medication.

      Sample Size:

      The sample size for this study was selected to be consistent with the research hypotheses.

      Dapagliflozin and saxagliptin will be compared with placebo separately. The Bonferroni method
      to control the type 1 error rate across two comparisons with respect to the two groups of
      research hypotheses (dapagliflozin vs placebo and saxagliptin vs placebo) will be used. No
      comparisons between saxagliptin and dapagliflozin will be performed.

      The sample size for this study is based on the ability to detect a 0.5% improvement over
      placebo for dapagliflozin and saxagliptin in change from baseline in HbA1c at Week 26 (ST)
      with at least 80% power for each comparison at a two sided alpha level of 0.025. Assuming a
      standard deviation of 0.9% for change from baseline HbA1c at Week 26, a total of 237
      pediatric subjects will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive dapagliflozin 5 mg (79
      subjects), saxagliptin 2.5 mg (79 subjects), or placebo (79 subjects) respectively. Assuming
      that 2% of subjectsdo not have a primary endpoint, a total of approximately 243 subjects will
      be randomized. Randomization will be stratified based on the baseline anti-diabetic treatment
      regimen (stable baseline dose of metformin [IR or XR]), a stable baseline dose of insulin, or
      a stable combination of metformin [IR or XR] and insulin), gender, and age (10 to below 15
      years of age, 15 to below 18 years of age).

      The anticipated difference of 0.5% between each study drug (saxagliptin and dapagliflozin)
      and placebo used in sample size estimation is consistent with estimates that were obtained in
      adult clinical trials with saxagliptin or dapagliflozin as add on to anti-diabetic medication
      where the primary endpoint was improvement in HbA1c after 24 weeks treatment. The standard
      deviation estimate of 0.9% is consistent with estimates obtained in these adult studies as
      well as with published estimates from pediatric trials of other anti-diabetic medications.

      Analyses:

      Dapagliflozin and saxagliptin will be summarized separately. A common placebo group will be
      included in each summary.

      In addition, within the analyses of saxagliptin, the overall (combined low-dose and
      high-dose) efficacy and safety analyses will be repeated for the subgroup of subjects on a
      stable baseline dose of metformin (IR or XR) (with or without insulin). For these analyses,
      the saxagliptin treatment regimens will be combined into one group and compared to the
      (common) placebo group. P values corresponding to subgroup comparisons will be reported for
      the primary and secondary efficacy endpoints, and will be reported at the nominal
      significance level.

      All efficacy analyses will be performed using the Randomized Subjects Data Set (all
      randomized subjects who receive at least one dose of study medication during the treatment
      period) unless otherwise specified.

      The following treatment regimens are considered for analysis:

        -  Low-dose/high-dose: Initial treatment of the low-dose followed by up-titrating to the
           high-dose for those who do not achieve the glycemic target of HbA1c <7% at week 12

        -  Low-dose: Initial treatment of the low-dose followed by continuing treatment on the
           low-dose drug for those who do not achieve the glycemic target of HbA1c <7% at week 12
           For each drug, the primary comparison between the low-dose/high-dose and placebo
           regimens will be tested at a two sided alpha level of 0.025.

      The primary efficacy analysis will be performed using a weighted analysis of covariance
      (ANCOVA). Separate models will be used for saxagliptin and dapagliflozin analyses, and each
      analysis will include the (common) placebo control. Each model will have terms for baseline
      value, treatment group, and randomization strata.

      For the comparison of the low-dose/high-dose treatment regimen versus placebo, all subjects
      who had HbA1c<7% at Week 12 and remained on the low-dose will get a weight of one. The
      subjects who had HbA1c >= 7% at Week 12 and continued on the low-dose will get a weight of 0.
      The subjects who had HbA1c>= 7% at Week 12 and received the high-dose will have a weight of
      2. All subjects who do not undergo the second randomization and all placebo subjects will get
      a weight of one. The intent-to-treat (ITT) estimand will be evaluated as the primary
      estimand. Missing values for Week 26 will be imputed using the multiple imputation method.
      The details of the imputation method will be presented in the statistical analysis plan.
      Point estimates and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated based on maximum likelihood
      for the adjusted mean changes within each treatment group as well as for the differences in
      adjusted mean changes between treatment groups.

      To assess the robustness of the primary efficacy analysis for the change in HbA1c from
      baseline to Week 26, additional sensitivity analysis may be performed using the Evaluable
      Subjects Data Set if > 10% of the subjects in any treatment group in the Randomized Subjects
      Data Set have relevant protocol deviations.

      The primary endpoint will also be compared between the low-dose treatment regimen and
      placebo. In addition, up titrating to high-dose and continuing on low-dose will be compared
      in the subset of saxagliptin and dapagliflozin subjects who had HbA1c >= 7% at Week 12. These
      analyses are described under secondary efficacy analyses.

      Secondary efficacy analyses will also be performed separately for each drug (saxagliptin and
      dapagliflozin). For each drug, the following sequential testing order will be employed to
      control multiplicity of testing for the secondary objectives.

        1. Comparison of mean reduction in HbA1c from baseline at Week 26 between the low-dose
           treatment regimen and placebo

        2. Comparison of mean reduction in HbA1c from baseline at Week 26 between overall drug
           treatment and placebo

        3. Comparison of mean reduction in FPG from baseline at Week 26 between the low
           dose/high-dose treatment regimen and placebo

        4. Comparison of mean reduction in FPG from baseline at Week 26 between the low-dose
           treatment regimen and placebo

        5. Comparison of mean reduction in FPG from baseline at Week 26 between overall drug
           treatment and placebo

        6. Comparison of the percentage of subjects with baseline HbA1c>= 7% who achieve an HbA1c
           level < 7.0% at Week 26 between the low-dose/high-dose treatment regimen and placebo

        7. Comparison of the percentage of subjects with baseline HbA1c >= 7% who achieve an HbA1c
           level < 7.0% at Week 26 between the low-dose treatment regimen and placebo

        8. Comparison of the percentage of subjects with baseline HbA1c >= 7% who achieve an HbA1c
           level < 7.0% at Week 26 between overall drug treatment and placebo

        9. Comparison of mean reduction in HbA1c from baseline at Week 26 between the high dose and
           the low-dose in subjects who do not achieve an HbA1c < 7% at Week 12

       10. Comparison of mean reduction in FPG from baseline at Week 26 between the high dose and
           the low-dose in subjects who do not achieve an HbA1c < 7% at Week 12

       11. Comparison of the percentage of subjects with baseline HbA1c >= 7% who achieve an HbA1c
           level < 7.0% at Week 26 between the high-dose and the low-dose in subjects who do not
           achieve an HbA1c < 7% at Week 12 When the sequential testing stops for non-significance,
           nominal p-values and adjusted means will be provided for the remaining comparisons.

      For each drug, weighted ANCOVA analysis will be performed for the change from baseline in
      HbA1c at Week 26 to compare the placebo and the low-dose treatment regimen. For this
      analysis, all subjects who had HbA1c < 7% at Week 12 and remained on the low-dose will get a
      weight of one. The subjects who had HbA1c >= 7% at Week 12 and continued on the low-dose will
      get a weight of 2. The subjects who had HbA1c >= 7% at Week 12 and received the high-dose
      will have a weight of 0. All subjects who do not undergo the second randomization and all
      placebo subjects will get a weight of one.

      For subjects on saxagliptin and dapagliflozin and who had HbA1c >= 7% at Week 12, the change
      from baseline HbA1c at Week 26 (ST) will be compared between the subjects re-randomized to
      remain on the low-dose and the subjects who are re-randomized to the high- dose using an
      ANCOVA.

      Change from baseline of HbA1c at Week 26 (ST) will be compared also using a repeated measures
      analysis between overall drug and placebo. For this analysis, both treatment regimens will be
      combined into one treatment group for each drug.

      Change from baseline at Week 26 (ST) in FPG will be analyzed similar to the primary weighted
      analyses of change from baseline in HbA1c at Week 26.

      The proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c < 7.0% at Week 26 (ST) will be analyzed using
      weighted logistic regression with adjustment for the baseline HbA1c measurement and the
      randomization strata. Weighting for the subjects will be applied similarly to a weighting in
      the analysis of change from baseline in HbA1c. Subjects with missing a response at Week 26
      will be imputed by dichotomizing the imputed values of HbA1c at Week 26.

      The assessment of safety will be based on the analyses of AEs, vital signs, physical
      examinations, electrocardiograms, hypoglycemia, DKA, safety laboratory evaluations, and
      measures of growth and maturity. All safety analyses will be performed using the Treated
      Subjects Data Set. Dapagliflozin and saxagliptin will be summarized separately. Treatment
      regimens (low-dose or low-dose/high-dose) will be combined for saxagliptin and dapagliflozin
      to provide the safety summary for overall saxagliptin and overall dapagliflozin compared to
      placebo. A common placebo group will be included in each summary.

      Measures of growth, bone and maturation markers will also be summarized for the combined ST +
      LT + additional post study visit at Week 104.

      Monitoring The Sponsor/designee representatives will review data centrally to identify
      potential issues to determine a schedule of on-site visits for targeted review of study
      records.

      Representatives of the Sponsor (or designee) must be allowed to visit all study site
      locations periodically to assess the data quality and study integrity. On site they will
      review study records and directly compare them with source documents, discuss the conduct of
      the study with the Investigator, and verify that the facilities remain acceptable.Off-site
      monitoring visits and remote source data verification are allowed when restrictions due to
      the COVID-19 pandemic prevent on site visits (e.g., monitors may not be able to access the
      sites in a timely manner). Should this occur, it should be documented and the reasons be
      available for review by the Sponsor and during inspections by any Regulatory Authorities In
      addition, the study may be evaluated by the Sponsor (or designee) internal auditors and
      government inspectors who must be allowed access to Case Report Forms (CRFs), source
      documents, other study files, and study facilities. The Sponsor (or designee) audit reports
      will be kept confidential.

      The investigator must notify the Sponsor (or designee) promptly of any inspections scheduled
      by regulatory authorities, and promptly forward copies of inspection reports to the
      Sponsor/designee.

      Records Retention The investigator must retain all study records and source documents for the
      maximum period required by applicable regulations and guidelines, or institution procedures,
      or for the period specified by the Sponsor/designee, whichever is longer. The investigator
      must contact the Sponsor/designee prior to destroying any records associated with the study.

      The Sponsor/designee will notify the Investigator when the study records are no longer
      needed.

      If the Investigator withdraws from the study (e.g., relocation, retirement), the records
      shall be transferred to a mutually agreed upon designee (e.g., another investigator, IRB).
      Notice of such transfer will be given in writing to the Sponsor/designee.

      Study Drug Records

      It is the responsibility of the Investigator to ensure that a current disposition record of
      study drug (inventoried and dispensed) is maintained at the study site to include
      Investigational Products (IPs). Except where the IP has to be sent directly to the subjects'
      homes due to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID 19) pandemic. Any unused IP sent directly to
      subjects' homes should be returned to the site at the next on-site visit.Records or logs must
      comply with applicable regulations and guidelines and should include:

        -  Amount received and placed in storage area

        -  Amount currently in storage area

        -  Label identification number or batch number

        -  Amount dispensed to and returned by each subject, including unique subject identifiers

        -  Amount transferred to another area/site for dispensing or storage

        -  Non study disposition (e.g., lost, wasted)

        -  Amount destroyed at study site, if applicable

        -  Amount returned to the Sponsor/designee

        -  Retain samples for bioavailability/bioequivalence, if applicable

        -  Dates and initials of person responsible for IP dispensing/accountability, as per the
           Delegation of Authority Form The Sponsor/designee will provide forms to facilitate
           inventory control if the investigational site does not have an established system that
           meets these requirements.

      Case Report Forms An investigator is required to prepare and maintain adequate and accurate
      case histories designed to record all observations and other data pertinent to the
      investigation on each individual treated or entered as a control in the investigation. Data
      that are derived from source documents and reported on the CRF must be consistent with the
      source documents or the discrepancies must be explained. Additional clinical information may
      be collected and analyzed in an effort to enhance understanding of product safety. Case
      report forms may be requested for AEs and/or laboratory abnormalities that are reported or
      identified during the course of the study.

      For sites using the Sponsor/designee's Electronic Data Capture (EDC) tool, electronic CRFs
      will be prepared for all data collection fields except for fields specific to SAEs and
      pregnancy, which will be reported on the electronic SAE form and Pregnancy Surveillance Form,
      respectively. If electronic SAE form is not available, a paper SAE form can be used. Spaces
      may be left blank only in those circumstances permitted by study-specific CRF completion
      guidelines provided by the Sponsor/designee.

      The confidentiality of records that could identify subjects must be protected, respecting the
      privacy and confidentiality rules in accordance with the applicable regulatory
      requirement(s).

      The investigator will maintain a signature sheet to document signatures and initials of all
      persons authorized to make entries and/or corrections on CRFs.

      The completed CRF, including any paper or electronic SAE/pregnancy CRFs, must be promptly
      reviewed, signed, and dated by the Investigator or qualified physician who is a
      co-investigator and who is delegated this task on the Delegation of Authority Form. For
      electronic CRFs, review and approval/signature is completed electronically through the
      Sponsor/designee's EDC tool. The investigator must retain a copy of the CRFs including
      records of the changes and corrections.Data entered in the eCRF that are transcribed from
      source documents must be consistent with the source documents or the discrepancies must be
      explained.

      Each individual electronically signing electronic CRFs must meet Sponsor/designee training
      requirements and must only access the Sponsor/designee's EDC tool using the unique user
      account provided by the Sponsor/designee. User accounts are not to be shared or reassigned to
      other individuals.
    
  