
    
      During every two-week period, newly admitted preterm infants (<36 weeks gestational age) will
      be recruited at performance site OHSU NICU and block-randomized to either control (standard
      of care) or intervention (modified 8-week mindfulness-based intervention (with a focus on
      self-compassion; MBSC) group. The purpose of the nested cohorts is to minimize the postpartum
      time difference among cohort mothers. Each nested MBSC cohort will undergo the 8-week MBSC
      intervention with a focus on increasing self-compassion. The MBSC program includes previously
      developed daily mindfulness practices, guided meditations, routine mindfulness prompts, and
      four video conference group sessions with a certified mindfulness facilitator.

      Maternal data: The Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) and Self-Compassion Scale-Short Form (SCS-SF)
      will be given to mothers from both groups pre- and post-intervention, and during the 4th
      week. Saliva, urine, stool, and human milk samples will be collected at the same time points
      as above. Additional maternal data include: age, race, height, weight (pre-pregnancy and last
      weight before delivery), parity, delivery mode, chorioamnionitis, preeclampsia, HELLP
      (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet) syndrome, antenatal antibiotics,
      anti-depressants or other mood-altering/neurochemical medications (current and during
      pregnancy), diagnosis of depression or other mental illness within the previous 5 years,
      history of postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis, diabetes, hypertension, heart
      disease, and any inflammatory or autoimmune diseases.

      Infant data: Gestational age, birth weight, ventilation requirement, surgical interventions,
      patent ductus arteriosus, growth, nutrition prescriptions, saliva, urine and stool samples.

      Data collection: All data (not including biosamples) will be collected using REDCap hosted
      within the UI system.

      Sample measurements: Maternal salivary cortisol (marker of stress) and oxytocin (marker of
      anxiety and "social-closeness") concentrations will be measured using ELISA. Human milk
      proteins will be identified using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Following proteomic
      analyses, targeted proteins will be quantified using ELISA and Western Blot. Both maternal
      and infant saliva, urine and stool samples will be used for metabolomic and transcriptomic
      sequencing to identify metabolic and molecular changes, respectively, in both mothers and
      infants. Infant systemic oxidative stress will be measured through urine F2-isoprostanes
      concentrations (ELISA), and infant intestinal inflammation will be determined with stool
      calprotectin concentrations (ELISA).
    
  