
    
      Only clinicians with proven proficiency in IUD insertion will be allowed to perform
      insertions . The steps of the IUD insertion procedure will be explained to the woman.

      Perform a bimanual examination to determine the size, shape, and position of the uterus.

      Insert a warm, moistened speculum. Cleanse the cervix with an antiseptic solution using 3
      scoppettes or more (one for each sweep of the cervix).

      Open the sterile insertion instruments without touching the inside of the packet and place
      within easy reach.

      Remove the tenaculum by its handle and grasp the anterior or posterior lip of the cervix.
      Close gently to the first notch. Having the woman to cough while the tenaculum is being
      attached can ease the pinch.

      Apply gentle traction with the tenaculum to straighten the canal. Remove the sound by its
      handle and gently insert to measure the depth of the uterus. Do not apply great force if
      there is resistance. Apply further traction to the tenaculum and attempt to re-insert the
      sound at a different angle. Once the sound is inserted and removed, note the depth of the
      uterine cavity. The woman can expect to feel cramping as the sound is inserted and withdrawn.

      Open the IUD pack without touching its contents. Put on sterile gloves. Load the IUD and
      insert it into the uterine cavity according to the manufacturer instructions. As the IUD is
      inserted through the cervix into the uterus, the patient may have pain and cramping similar
      to strong menstrual cramps.

      Gently remove the tenaculum. Tamponade any bleeding from the tenaculum site until it is
      resolved.

      Trim the strings of the IUD to 3-4 cm in length and note the string length. Avoid cutting the
      strings too short. If the client or her partner becomes aware of the threads, they may be cut
      shorter in length at the follow-up visit.

      Remove the speculum and assess the woman.
    
  