
    
      ANTICIPATED IMPACT(S) ON VETERAN'S HEALTHCARE:

      Veterans with chronic disease who continue to smoke exact a significant burden on the VA
      health care system. Effective smoking cessation programs, that target veterans who continue
      to smoke after the diagnosis of a smoking-related chronic illness, are needed.

      BACKGROUND/RATIONALE:

      Chronic diseases related to tobacco exposure are common among veterans. Persistent tobacco
      use after being diagnosed with these diseases decreases quality of life and survival. Yet,
      30% of veterans with these conditions continue to smoke. Researchers have found that the
      social environment is important for smokers. In our current NCI-funded study, 70% of veterans
      with lung cancer identified at least one family member who smokes and 45% live with a family
      member that smokes. A family-supported smoking cessation intervention timed to follow a
      veteran's diagnosis of cancer or heart disease could be effective for helping veterans quit
      smoking.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The overarching aim of the study is to evaluate in a randomized trial the impact of a
      family-supported intervention compared to a standard veteran-focused telephone counseling
      control group to promote smoking cessation among cancer and heart disease patients.

      AIM 1: To evaluate the impact of a family-supported intervention on rates of abstinence from
      cigarettes (self-reported 7-day point prevalent abstinence) at 2 weeks, and 12-month
      post-treatment follow-ups.

      Hypothesis 1: Abstinence rates will be significantly higher among veterans who receive the
      family-supported intervention than those who receive the standard telephone counseling
      control.

      AIM 2: To evaluate the impact of a family-supported intervention on perceived support for
      quitting 2 weeks and 12-month post-treatment follow-ups.

      Hypothesis 2: Perceived support for quitting smoking will be significantly greater among
      veterans who receive the family-supported intervention than those who receive the standard
      telephone counseling control.

      AIM 3: To measure the impact of a family-supported intervention on quality of life in
      veterans 2 weeks, and 12-month post-treatment follow-ups.

      Hypothesis 3: Symptom-related quality of life will be significantly greater among veterans
      who receive the family-supported intervention than those who receive the standard telephone
      counseling control.

      METHODS: Proposed is a two-group design in which 470 veterans who smoke will be randomized to
      receive:

      STANDARD TELEPHONE COUNSELING control including a letter from a VA physician encouraging the
      patient to quit smoking, nicotine replacement (if not contraindicated), a self-help cessation
      kit, and 5 standard telephone counseling calls; or FAMILY-SUPPORTED intervention that
      includes all components of the control arm plus a Family-supported intervention that includes
      a support skills booklet and an additional telephone counseling protocol focusing on social
      support. .
    
  