
    
      Lumbar pain has become a major health problem which is growing and is very common in all
      societies and negatively affects the full well-being of the individual. It has been reported
      that 80% of the population experienced low back pain at any time in their lives. The
      prolongation of this painful process affects the physical, mental and psychological state of
      the patient and limits its daily functions. The acute or chronic pain determines the nature
      and duration of pain. Low back pain lasting 12 weeks or more is defined as chronic. In
      chronic diseases, lumbar pain, which is the first one, restricts the daily activities of the
      person due to current chronic pain or deterioration of functional status and causes loss of
      labor force.

      Myofascial induction therapy is a therapy concept focused on optimizing function and balance
      within the fascial system. The approach aims at global recovery, local correction and
      painless body use.

      Superficial procedures are directed to surface and / or local restrictions that can be
      directly detected by palpation. Deep myofascial induction therapy is a method that eliminates
      the limitations of the myofascial system and the three-dimensional pressures.

      Therapeutic pain education is a training intervention that aims to reduce pain and disability
      by helping patients better understand the biological processes that support pain states. The
      neurobiology of pain and pain processed by the nervous system is explained to the patient in
      detail. Changes the patient's olab viewpoint to pain. For example, the patient believes that
      the cause of pain is caused by tissue damage. The patient who receives pain education
      understands that the cause of pain is the hypersensitive central nervous system. As a result,
      the patient's fear avoidance behavior decreases and he starts to move more easily. Because
      the sensitivity of the central nervous system will be alleviated, the perceived pain will
      decrease.
    
  