
    
      Recently, the efficacy and oncological safety of laparoscopy has been demonstrated for
      treating colon cancer, and similar long-term results at 5-year confirmed by the several
      multicenter study trial. However, conventional laparoscopic surgery for rectal cancer is
      technically more difficult than colonic resection because of the confined space in the pelvis
      and the limitations of existing laparoscopic instruments which have a restricted range of
      movement compared with the provided by the surgeon's hand. Consequently, recent studies which
      compared short-term outcomes between open and laparoscopic rectal resections have reported
      higher rates of conversion to open surgery, positive circumferential margins, and increased
      anastomotic leakage in patients who underwent laparoscopic approach.

      The da Vinci® Surgical System (Intuitive surgical, Sunnyvale, CA, USA) was introduced as the
      next advance in minimally invasive surgery to overcome the technical limitations of
      laparoscopy. The advantages of robotic assistance include enhanced dexterity, improved
      three-dimensional vision, and more intuitive instrument manipulation. This device eases the
      technical challenges of the minimally invasive approach and may make a complex surgical task
      more accessible to surgeons without extensive laparoscopic experience.

      With its dependence on precise dissection in a narrow pelvic cavity, it is anticipated that
      rectal cancer surgery is one of the indications most likely to benefit from robot assistance.
      However, it is difficult to conclude whether robot assistance leads to better outcomes
      because few studies have directly compared the three existing techniques. Although robotic
      rectal excision has been reported to be safe and feasible in the recent literatures, a number
      of these results were based on small number of case series. There have been no randomized
      trials demonstrating the safety of robotic surgery in the treatment of rectal cancer. This
      study is designed to assess the efficacy and safety of robotic surgery compared with that of
      laparoscopic surgery for mid or low rectal cancer.
    
  