
    
      The available data regarding SGDs in morbidly obese patients have focused mainly on PLMA. In
      general, SGDs have been successfully used as temporary ventilatory devices before
      laryngoscope-guided tracheal intubation, conduits for endotracheal tube insertion, and
      primary airway devices during surgery. Second-generation SGDs are preferred for both rescue
      airway and routine use, compared with first-generation, non-gastric access devices. Data on
      comparison PLMA vs. I-gel in morbidly obese patient are lacking.

      The PLMA is a second generation gastric access SGD. PLMA is composed of an airway tube that
      connects to a mask which, after insertion through the patient's mouth and inflation of cuff,
      forms an airtight seal on top the glottis allowing a secure airway to be managed by a health
      care provider. PLMA can be autoclaved and reused many times. I-gel is a new type of single
      use, second generation, gastric access SGD and doesn't have an inflatable cuff. Because of
      its thermoplastic elastomer structure, it exactly adapts to the supraglottic tissue by
      binding with body temperature, thus minimising air leakage.

      The aim of this study is to compare PLMA and I-gel regarding insertion success rate, the time
      of insertion, gastric access tube positioning, oropharyngeal leak pressure, assessment of
      position by fiberoptic, ventilatory parameters and hemodynamic, and complications for each
      device placed before tracheal intubation in morbidly obese patients.

      This study is conducted at University Medical Hospital of Padova, with approval from Hospital
      research Ethical Committee and written informed consents from patients,. Patients are
      randomly allocated into 2 equal groups, according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      PLMA (n=35) in which PLMA is used for ventilation. I-gel (n=35) in which I-gel is used for
      ventilation.

      I
    
  