
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the pharmacokinetics of prednisone/prednisolone, vincristine, and daunorubicin
      hydrochloride among obese, middle-weight, and underweight children aged 10 to less than 20
      years of age undergoing induction therapy for high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

      II. To examine the relationship between the above parameters and response status as defined
      by early response and induction failure

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to body mass index
      (BMI) (greater than or equal to 95th percentile [obese] vs 10th to 95th percentile [normal or
      at risk for overweight] vs less than or equal to 10th percentile [underweight]).

      Patients receive anticancer therapy as prescribed by their treating clinicians. Patients
      receive prednisone/prednisolone orally twice on either day 1 or day 8. Patients also receive
      daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes and vincristine IV once on the same day.

      Blood samples are obtained on either day 1 or day 8** of induction therapy for
      pharmacokinetic analysis of prednisone, daunorubicin hydrochloride, and vincristine activity
      levels.

      Blood samples are analyzed via high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC),
      ultrafiltration, a Nessler reaction, ELISA, and liquid chromatography using reverse-phase
      chromatography, fluorescent detection, and solid-phase extraction.

      Demographic information, including ethnicity, is also collected. Weight and height is
      recorded at diagnosis and on the day pharmacokinetic assessment of vincristine, prednisone,
      and daunorubicin hydrochloride begins.

      NOTE: **Patients who are being sampled on day 8 of induction therapy and who have received
      intravenous corticosteroid therapy in the first week of induction must have received at least
      six oral prednisone/prednisolone doses prior to the morning prednisone/prednisolone dose on
      day 8.
    
  