
    
      Individuals responsible for NB will be invited to participate in the research and, after they
      have signed the informed term of consent, NB will be allocated into two groups (G1 and G2):

      G1: group submitted to hand imposition by the workers, for 10 minutes; G2: group submitted to
      the laying on of hands (spiritist passe), for 10 minutes.

      In hospitalized adults, after they have signed the informed term of consent, they will be
      allocated into three groups:

      G1: group submitted to hand imposition by workers and volunteers, not belonging to Spiritism,
      for 10 minutes; G2: group submitted to the laying on of hands (spiritist passe), for 10
      minutes; G3: group with no intervention, for 10 minutes. All interventions will be performed
      in 3 consecutive days. In group 1 (G1) it will consist of: asking workers and individuals who
      do not belong to Spiritism to place themselves In front of the incubators or the bed, lay on
      their hands over the NB or the patient in dorsal decubitus (left hand over the head and the
      right hand over the chest), in a distance of 10 cm, and emit sincere wishes of improvement to
      the patient, aiming the healing, for 10 minutes, regardless their belief or religion.
      Patients will be oriented to direct their thoughts to Jesus during the intervention. For the
      laying on of hands, Salivary cortisol collection in NB will be carried out in the days: D1
      (1st day) and D3 (3rd day). It will be a blind evaluation and allocation of NB and adults in
      each group. • Anxiety, depression, muscle tension and wellness in adults. [Time Frame: First
      and third days before and after the interventions.

      Diagnosis of each patient included in the study, their beliefs and religions, as well as the
      characteristics of the passe givers , such as age, gender, time of experience as a passe
      givers will be analyzed in the characterization of the sample and discussion.
    
  