
    
      Recruitment & screening: SCI clinicians will invite patients from the VA SCI Center census to
      participate in the pilot in person during a clinic visit or inpatient admission. If the
      patient is interested, one of the study team will explain the study and obtain consent. The
      study will be performed on an outpatient basis with return to the VA for study visits at 3, 6
      ,9 , and 12 months.

      The investigators will mail Opt-Out Letters to individuals who have been identified as
      potentially eligible. The Opt-Out Letter will include a Response Letter and a Return
      Self-addressed Stamped Envelope (attached). If the investigators do not receive a NO response
      by phone or mail after 2 weeks, they will attempt to call using an Opt-Out Telephone Script
      and Recruitment Script (Attached).

      Screening is primarily done based on interest, medical history and contraindications. There
      may be blood values, collected at baseline that indicate ineligibility, but these will be
      determined on individual cases. Interest in the study and commitment to maintain the study
      diet/intake will be important to ascertain - although the investigators anticipate that there
      may be dropout or reduced compliance with time.

      Procedures:

        1. For the first month, each participant will consume 6-8 prunes per day to determine
           tolerability. Starting in Month 2, each participant will consume approximately 10-16
           prunes/day (<120 g), depending on the size of the prune. The smaller prunes weigh about
           7 g and the larger weigh up to 10 g. It will be suggested to consume 5-8 prunes twice
           per day for breakfast and dinner. However, this is not a requirement, so long as the
           per-day goal is met. If a participant does not eat the daily requirement one day they
           will be encouraged to make up the difference over the next 6 days such that the total is
           equal to the required 100-112 total prunes for the week. If however, they miss multiple
           days of prune consumption, they will be asked to contact the study coordinators to
           develop a reasonable plan to get back on track.

        2. Participants will be asked to track consumption regularly by use of a chart. They will
           be instructed to note days when they missed or consumed fewer prunes. They will also be
           instructed to note any changes in bowel or other function and contact study staff with
           any questions.

      Assessments:

        1. Bone mineral density by dual xray absorptiometry (DXA) to include the following sites:
           total body, spine, bilateral hip, bilateral knee. Total body scans will be obtained at
           baseline and at 12 months; all other scans will be obtained at baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12
           months.

        2. Blood assessments will be collected at the same intervals and will include serum
           concentrations of C-terminal telopeptide (CTX), which is a bone resorption marker, and
           Procollagen Type I Intact N-Terminal Propeptide (P1NP), a bone formation marker to
           measure the rate and direction of bone metabolism during the study. Serum will be frozen
           for batch processing. Safety labs will also be drawn including a comprehensive metabolic
           panel, primarily to monitor renal function, calcium concentration, and blood sugar.
           Magnesium and phosphorus levels will also be analyzed. De-identified, coded blood
           samples will be sent to Quest Diagnostics Lab (contracting lab) for analysis.

        3. Surveys will be administered to the participants at 0, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. These
           will include the Global Health Scale- to evaluate overall health and well-being, the
           Spinal Cord Injury Quality of Life Questionnaire (SCI-QOL) on Bowel Management as well
           as the Bristol Stool Chart-to ascertain any affects the consumption of prunes have on
           participants' bowel habits. Finally participants will be given a brief questionnaire
           regarding their activity level, general health status, lifestyle habits, and
           participation characteristics while in the study.

      Study Contact: For the first month, study staff will call each participant weekly to ask
      about any concerns or issues related to prune consumption. After this, calls will be less
      frequent, biweekly for the next month(s) and once per month after this. As this is a pilot
      study, the investigators may adjust the call frequency as needed to determine if more or
      fewer calls are needed. One of the main goals of this pilot is to determine feasibility
      related to regular consumption; the investigators feel that useful information can be
      gathered by calling rather than waiting for the participant to contact us.
    
  