
    
      Small bowel endoscopy has undergone a paradigm shift in the past decade. Prior to this, the
      small bowel was considered a 'black hole' due to our inability to visualize it endoscopically
      and the limited sensitivity of radiologic studies. This all changed with the development of
      video capsule endoscopy, which gave physicians the ability to visualize the full length of
      the small bowel. Although widely considered a great leap forward, video capsule endoscopy is
      limited by its inability to perform any form of endoscopic intervention. Thus, something was
      needed to biopsy and treat the diseases detected with video capsule endoscopy. Double balloon
      enteroscopy (DBE) was invented in Japan in 2001.(1) Using an overtube and two inflatable
      balloons, DBE enabled deep intubation of the small bowel through a series of push and pull
      maneuvers to accordion the small bowel over the overtube. This procedure proved highly
      successful in the diagnosis and treatment of small bowel diseases.(2, 3) Subsequently, single
      balloon enteroscopy (SBE) was developed consisting of a single overtube balloon.(4, 5)
      Collectively, these techniques are called balloon assisted enteroscopy.

      Balloon assisted enteroscopy can be performed using an antegrade (through the mouth) or
      retrograde (through the anus) approach. The two approaches are considered complimentary since
      the antegrade approach enables visualization of the proximal and mid small bowel while the
      distal portion is seen with the retrograde approach. Of the two, the retrograde approach is
      more challenging as it requires first going through the length of the colon followed by
      intubation of the terminal ileum (TI) to reach the small bowel. TI intubation during balloon
      assisted enteroscopy can be difficult due to the inherent flexibility of the enteroscope.(6)
      Even in expert hands, the success rate for TI intubation ranges between 69-79% (7-9) and
      takes on average 28 minutes to intubate once the cecum has been reached.(8) Patients with
      distal ileum lesions who fail retrograde balloon assisted enteroscopy have limited options
      and may require surgery.

      Recently, an enteroscopy stiffening wire has been developed by Zutron Medical LLC (Kansas,
      USA). This is a through the scope wire that stiffens the enteroscope to increase the maximal
      depth of insertion. Since the difficulty in intubating the TI during retrograde balloon
      assisted enteroscopy is largely due to the inherent flexibility of the enteroscope, a
      stiffening wire may improve the ease of TI intubation. The objective of our double blind
      placebo controlled crossover study is to evaluate the performance of the enteroscopy
      stiffening wire in improving TI intubation.
    
  