
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether soy protein isolate reduces the PSA failure rate and time to PSA
           failure within 2 years following radical prostatectomy in patients who are at high risk
           for prostate cancer recurrence.

        -  Determine the effects of soy protein isolate on intermediate biomarkers of steroid
           hormone axis (testosterone, estradiol, and SHBG) and thyroid activity (T3 and T4).

        -  Determine the effects of soy protein isolate on intermediate biomarkers of apoptosis
           (soluble Fas and Fas-ligand), angiogenesis (VEGF and bFGF), antioxidant activity
           (8-isoprostanes), and IGF axis (IGF-1 and IGFBP-3).

        -  Compare patients who are equol producers to those who are non-producers.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to hospital/clinic
      site (NYU vs UIC or Jesse Brown VA Medical Center vs other sites), number of high-risk
      characteristics (1 vs > 1), and race (African American vs non-African American [i.e.,
      non-Hispanic White, Hispanic, Asian, and other]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive an oral soy protein isolate beverage once daily.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive an oral casein placebo beverage once daily. Treatment in both
           arms continues for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for biomarker laboratory studies. Samples are
      analyzed to measure PSA levels by Tosoh PSA assay; cholesterol levels; isoflavone and equol
      concentrations by HPLC and ESA; and indicators of steroid hormone axis (testosterone,
      estradiol, and SHBG), indicators of thyroid activity (T3 and T4), indicators of apoptosis
      (soluble Fas and Fas-ligand), indicators of angiogenesis (VEGF and bFGF), indicators of
      oxidative stress (8-isoprostanes), and indicators of IGF axis (IGF-1 and IGFBP-3) by ELISA.
    
  