
    
      Anogenital human papillomavirus (HPV) is a highly prevalent sexually transmitted infection
      ,seen predominantly in young adults.

      Condyloma acuminata or benign anogenital warts are typically caused by HPV-6 OR 11 which are
      considered low risk types.Persistent infection with high risk HPV types predominantly HPV-16
      and 18 is the primary and major cause of cervical cancers and a subset of vaginal,vulvar,
      penile , anal ,oropharyngeal and rarely squamous cell carcinoma of the digits.

      Warts may reflect a localized or systemic cell-mediated immune (CMI) deficiency to HPV.

      Anogenital warts may appear as a single lesion or in clusters as flat, flesh-coloured to
      pigmented plaques or rough-surfaced papules and exophytic nodules.

      The conventional modalities in treatment of warts include destructive therapies such as
      salicylic acid, trichloroacetic acid, cryotherapy, silver nitrate, phenol, cantharidin,
      surgical interventions and lasers; antiproliferative agents such as bleomycin, podophyllin,
      podophyllotoxin, and 5-fluro uracil; antiviral agents such as cidofovir and retinoids.

      Because of the cumbersome nature of these procedures and a high risk of recurrence,
      immunotherapy is becoming more and more popular, especially in the treatment of refractory
      cutaneous and genital warts.It enhances recognition of the virus by the immune system.
      immunotherapy not only causes a resolution of the treated wart but also leads to clearance of
      distant warts, at least in a subset of the responders.

      Immunotherapy in warts can be administered by various methods. The first method is topical
      application of certain inorganic molecules that are capable of eliciting a contact
      hypersensitivity reaction with secondary activation of an immunological response .or even
      topical applications of immune modulators like imiquimod,A second modality is the use of oral
      immune modulators such as cimetidine,and levamisole .

      A third method is Intralesional injection of immunotherapeutic agent that utilizes the
      ability of the immune system to mount a delayed type hypersensitivity response to various
      antigens and also the wart tissue leading to production of Th1 cytokines which activate
      cytotoxic and natural killer cells to eradicate HPV infection.

      Immunotherapy with different skin test antigens like Candida, mumps or trichophyton antigen
      is a relatively new treatment option for warts. Candida antigen reported success in majority
      of patients treated with this test antigen .

      Mumps, measles and rubella (MMR) vaccine is a freeze-dried preparation of live attenuated
      strains of measles, mumps and rubella viruses (0.5 ml/dose). In some of the previous studies,
      it has been shown that mumps-measles-rubella (MMR) vaccine results in regression of warts via
      immunomodulation and induction of immune system.
    
  