
    
      Rationale: The combination of the chemotherapy drugs paclitaxel and carboplatin is one of the
      most common combination regimens used in clinical practice for cancer. These agents are used
      for a variety of cancers. The current study builds on previous research about treatment
      schedules for administering these agents to reduce toxicity and optimize efficacy. The phase
      I and II portions of the current study combine paclitaxel and carboplatin with capecitabine
      in patients. Researchers are seeking to identify the highest dose of capecitabine and
      paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin for this patient population, as well as to gather
      information about preliminary efficacy.

      Purpose: The phase I portion of this study will evaluate the maximum tolerated dose of
      capecitabine and paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin for patients. The phase II
      portion of this study will assess the objective response rate in patients using the same
      treatment combination. Toxicities will be closely measured in both phases of the study.

      Treatment: Patients in this study will be given capecitabine, carboplatin, and paclitaxel.
      Capecitabine will be given through oral pills. Carboplatin and paclitaxel will be given
      through intravenous infusions. Treatment drugs will be given on a four-week cycle.
      Carboplatin will be administered on day 1, paclitaxel weekly for the first 3 weeks, and
      capecitabine twice daily on days 8 through 21 of each cycle. No treatments will be given
      during the fourth week of each treatment cycle. During the phase I portion of the study,
      patients may receive different doses of capecitabine and paclitaxel since the purpose is to
      identify the maximum tolerated dose of each drug in combination with carboplatin. Once the
      maximum tolerated dose of these agents is identified during phase I, the phase II portion of
      the study will begin. Treatments will be discontinued due to disease growth or unacceptable
      side effects. Several tests and exams will be given throughout the study to closely monitor
      patients.
    
  