
    
      Clozapine has been demonstrated to be clinically superior to other antipsychotics in
      treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS), and is positioned as such in treatment guidelines.
      Because it is relegated to use in TRS, guidelines require that it only be used after other
      antipsychotics have failed; accordingly, clinicians routinely contend with stopping the
      previous antipsychotic in making the switch to clozapine. Perhaps because of its numerous and
      potentially severe side effects, the issue of clozapine titration has frequently been
      addressed, although to our knowledge no study has, as of yet, assessed the comparability of
      gradual vs. immediate antipsychotic discontinuation in switching to clozapine.

      While the question has not been asked vis-à-vis clozapine, there have been several studies
      examining gradual vs. immediate antipsychotic discontinuation in switching antipsychotics.
      Immediate antipsychotic discontinuation is associated with the following risks: (1)
      withdrawal/discontinuation symptoms or rebound syndromes related to cholinergic,
      histaminergic, and serotonergic activity; (2) supersensitivity syndromes (e.g., withdrawal
      dyskinesia, supersensitivity psychosis); and (3) exacerbation/re-emergence of symptoms
      secondary to diminished response with newly introduced antipsychotic. On the other hand,
      gradual antipsychotic discontinuation is associated with the risk of worsening/emergent side
      effects. This said, all of the studies, including one meta-analysis, report no differences in
      efficacy and safety between immediate and gradual discontinuation strategies in antipsychotic
      switching. However, it should be also noted that all of the studies were conducted under an
      open-label design or a single-blind design.

      To address the gap in knowledge specific to clozapine, the investigators conducted a pilot,
      8-week, double-blind, randomized controlled trial examining immediate vs. gradual
      antipsychotic discontinuation in patients with schizophrenia undergoing a switch to
      clozapine.
    
  