
    
      Cow's Milk Allergy (CMA) is prevalent and most often presents during infancy. Disease
      manifestations vary through a range of immediate and delayed inflammatory responses to milk
      protein from anaphylaxis to enterocolitis. The natural history is also highly variable; most
      children will achieve clinical tolerance early in life, while a minority will have disease
      persisting to adulthood for reasons that are not known. Most presentations are mild and are
      managed by restriction or reduction of immunologically intact milk protein with
      reintroduction sometime after a year of age; however, there are data to suggest that some
      level of antigenic stimulation may be beneficial. Furthermore, recent data suggest that oral
      probiotic exposure may also promote tolerance, though the kinetics of tolerance acquisition,
      the interaction between these two factors (probiotics and milk antigen exposure) and their
      relationship to regulatory T cell responses are all poorly defined. Therefore, there is an
      unmet need to identify dietary interventions, along with corresponding immune responses, that
      favor the promotion of tolerance.

      A major objective will be to measure the effect probiotics have on the development of
      tolerance to milk antigen over time. By following these infants during the first year of
      life, and repeatedly collecting blood and stool samples from them, we will be poised to
      analyze their stool microbiome signatures, and we will estimate the frequency, phenotype and
      TCR diversity of milk-specific T cells over time. By repeatedly challenging them with more
      immunologically intact milk protein, we will better define the kinetics of CMA resolution and
      its association to these variables. This information is likely to further elucidate CMA
      disease mechanisms and identify possible biomarkers of disease resolution versus persistence.
      It will be directly useful for evaluating the efficacy of probiotics and hydrolyzed formula
      for promoting milk tolerance.
    
  