
    
      Background:

      Ultimately, patients who succumb to cancer do so because of drug resistance. Mechanisms of
      drug resistance have been explored in the laboratory and in clinical samples for some time,
      yet the prevailing cause of drug resistance, if indeed there is a single cause, is not known.
      One mechanism of drug resistance is multidrug efflux, mediated by P-glycoprotein. Other
      mechanisms have been proposed. Our laboratory has expertise in the analysis of drug
      transporter expression and activity in clinical samples.

      Objectives:

      To determine expression of P-glycoprotein and other multidrug transporters thought to mediate
      clinical drug resistance.

      To evaluate inhibition of P-glycoprotein and other multidrug transporters through assessment
      of efflux activity in cells obtained from patients enrolled on clinical trials at other
      institutions.

      To identify and evaluate mechanisms of drug resistance using molecular assays such as cDNA
      array, real-time PCR analysis, and immunohistochemistry.

      Eligibility:

      Patients enrolled on clinical trials outside the NCI, and giving informed consent to the use
      of blood, tissue, or tumor samples for evaluation of mechanisms of drug resistance or
      evaluation of inhibition of multi-drug efflux.

      Future collaborations for similar studies will be added via the protocol amendment procedure;
      molecular studies other than ABC transporter assays will be added via the protocol amendment
      procedure.

      Design:

      Human tumor biopsies or blood samples will be collected from cancer patients enrolled on
      approved clinical trials, in accordance with the local protocol. These trials are being
      conducted at outside institutions, and the samples will be sent to the NCI for
      immunohistochemical analysis, cDNA array, PCR analysis, or for blood assays for detection of
      P-glycoprotein inhibition.
    
  