
    
      Colombian armed conflict predominantly affects rural communities; armed conflict has caused
      thousands of deaths and the displacement of a vast amount of people from rural areas. A
      considerable amount of the displacement comes from the two most important cities in Pacific
      coast region: Buenaventura in Valle del Cauca province and Quibdó in Chocó province.

      This project will assess treatments, Common Elements Treatment Approach (CETA) and Narrative
      Community Group Therapy (NCGT), to reduce mental symptoms triggered by violence and will
      develop mechanisms for a sustainable supply of mental health services in the region.

      Adult Afro-Colombian persons who have responded to the study survey but present symptoms of
      severe mental illness like schizophrenic, psychotic, suicidal attempters, those who can
      potentially harm others, or who require specialized treatment will not be included in the
      study.

      They will be referred to a project psychologist who will determine whether they require
      psychiatric treatment, in which case, they will be referred to health institutions through
      social workers who will ensure treatment is given. Finally, anyone who is related to the LPCW
      will be excluded.

      For the CETA arm, new clients will be enrolled as long as a treatment position becomes
      available (i.e., as long as previous clients have completed the treatment) to keep the
      providers (LPCW) running at full capacity. These new clients will be chosen from those
      randomly allocated to receive the CETA treatment; within fifteen (15) days of the completion
      of treatment the participants will be reassessed.

      Similarly, the NCGT arm will form new groups as long as place becomes available (i.e, as long
      as previous group has finished treatment) to keep providers running at full capacity. Group
      members will be chosen from randomly allocated participant to receive NCGT, selecting enough
      people each time to fill up a group before the treatment begins. All group members will be
      reassessed within fifteen (15) days of completing the NCGT.

      The participants allocated in the control group will undergo a waiting period similar to the
      period between the initial and final assessments of those receiving CETA and NCGT. This
      period is estimated to be 3 months, but it could be longer if there are treatment delays. At
      the end of this time, the participants will be reassessed.

      after the control group is reassessed they will be evaluated and receive professional
      attention by psychologists to decide what is the best intervention that we can offer to the
      clients in both cities.

      Missing values will be handle using multiple imputation methods and data will be analyzed
      with an intention to treat basis. Sensitivity analysis will be carried out using non-imputed
      database and including co-variables in the models the inverse probability weight to lost of
      follow-up.

      The anticipated results is a reduction in anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress
      disorder symptoms of 20 points among subjects in intervention groups (CETA or NCGT ) compared
      with those in the control group.

      An adherence of 70% is expected to generate strategies for the promotion and prevention in
      mental health for Afro-Colombian victims of violence and displacement.
    
  