
    
      Rationale:

      Exercise-induced desaturation is frequently observed in patients with idiopathic pulmonary
      fibrosis and predicts poorer outcomes. However, prospective studies with larger sample sizes
      and those investigating the effect of oxygen on endurance time, oxygen saturation and
      breathing frequency during walking are lacking. Given that walking is the most important
      activity of daily life to preserve the maintenance and to participate in social life, we aim
      to investigate the effects of supplemental oxygen during walking in IPF patients.

      The endurance shuttle walk test (ESWT) is a well validated test with high reliability and
      validity for measuring endurance walking capacity in patients with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD). The advantage of this test in contrast to the 6-minute walk test is
      that the ESWT is performed at 85% of the individual maximum that is close to the intensity of
      typical daily activities. Additionally, by using the ESWT it is possible to determine the
      maximum duration of exercise and to compare values at isotime (= time point when the shortest
      of the 3 ESWTs ends), whereas values at the end of different six-minute walk tests (6MWTs)
      are not comparable in case of different distances.

      Aim:

      To investigate the short-term effects of supplemental oxygen on endurance capacity during
      walking (ESWT) in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

      Design:

      This study is a randomized, controlled, double-blinded cross-over trial. Following an initial
      incremental shuttle walk test (ISWT) in order to determine the individual maximum walking
      capacity, patients will perform 3 endurance shuttle walk tests (ESWT) at 85% of the maximal
      pace. In randomized order, patients will complete one ESWT on 2l/min oxygen, one on 4l/min
      oxygen and one on medical air (=compressed room air), whereas the patients as well as the
      investigator will be blinded to the gas mixture provided. All 3 conditions will be provided
      via nasal cannula. The time between the two ESWTs will be 24 hours in order to give enough
      time for regeneration. Endurance Walking capacity as measured by the ESWT will be used as the
      primary outcome.
    
  