
    
      1. Objective of the trial 1.1. Main objective: Compare the hemodynamic effects from
           invasive systolic diastolic and mean blood pressures (ISBP, IDBP and IMBP) mesured in
           mmHg, arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) and arterial partial pressure of carbon
           dioxide (PaCO2) measured in mmHg , arterial oxygen saturation (SatO2) measured in%,
           heart rate (HR / bpm) measured in beats per minute.

           Other variables of interest will be: cardiac index (CI) mesured in litres per minute per
           square metre (L/min/m2), peripheral vascular resistance (PVR) medured in
           dynes/seconds/cm-5, partial arterial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) and arterial partial
           pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) measured in mmHg, pH (pH), arterial lactate (Lc)
           measured in mmol / L, arterial hemoglobin (Hb) measured in g/dl, partial oxygen
           saturation (SpO2%) measured in %.

           1.2. Secondary objectives: Assess potential adverse events during surgery and 48 hours
           of surgery. Adverse events include adverse cardiovascular and respiratory rate, events
           related to both surgical and anesthetic techniques and exitus.

        2. End points 2.1. Primary end point(s): hemodynamic variables invasive systolic blood
           pressure (ISBP) measured in mmHg invasive diastolic blood pressure (ISBP), measured in
           mmHg invasive mean blood pressure (IMBP), measured in mmHg arterial partial pressure of
           oxygen (PaO2) arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2), measured in mmHg
           arterial oxygen saturation (SatO2) measured in% heart rate (HR / bpm) measured in beats
           per minute cardiac index (CI) mesured in litres per minute per square metre (L/min/m2).
           peripheral vascular resistance (PVR) mesured in dynes/seconds/cm-5 partial arterial
           pressure of oxygen (PaO2) measured in mmHg arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide
           (PaCO2) measured in mmHg pH (pH) arterial lactate (Lc) measured in mmol / L arterial
           hemoglobin (Hb) measured in g / dl partial oxygen saturation (SpO2%) measured in %.

      2.1.1 Timepoint(s) of evaluation of this end point: entry into the operating room, after 30
      minutes of anesthesia and at the end of anesthesia.

      2.2. Secondary end point(s):

      A. Intraoperative adverse events:

        1. Cardiovascular and Respiratory: Venous air embolism (VAE), deep vein thrombosis (DVT),
           myocardial infarction (AMI), cerebrovascular accident (CVA), congestive heart failure
           (CHF), pneumonia (N), Exitus (Ex)

        2. Other: Acute renal failure (ARF), vomiting (V)

        3. Associated with the surgical technique: RBC transfusion (Th), plasma transfusion (TPL),
           nerve damage (ln), femur fracture (Fx f)

        4. Associated with the anesthetic technique: paresthesia (pair), hematic puncture (ph),
           other.

      B.Postoperative adverse events (at 48 hours)

        1. Cardiovascular and Respiratory: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT), myocardial infarction (AMI),
           cerebrovascular accident (CVA), congestive heart failure (CHF), pneumonia (N), Exitus
           (Ex)

        2. Other: Acute renal failure (ARF), UTI (Infu), vomiting (V).

        3. Associated with the surgical technique: RBC transfusion (Th), plasma transfusion (TPL),
           neurologic deficit (defnq), surgical wound infection (Infhq).

        4. Associated with the anesthetic technique: neurological deficit (defn), postdural
           puncture headache (PDPH), back pain (Lumb).

      2.2.1. Timepoint(s) of evaluation of this end point: 48 hours of surgery
    
  