
    
      The main objective is to assess the impact of the immunoscore in the clinical practice. To
      this end, the immune parameter (CD3, CD8, CD45RO) of colorectal cancers (stage I-IV) will be
      evaluated prospectively through a large multicenter study. 400 patients with CRC stage I to
      IV will be included (6 centers for inclusion; Paris-HEGP, Dijon, Bobigny-Avicenne, Besancon,
      Poitiers, Rouen). The number of patients to be included has been calculated on the basis of
      an inclusion period of 24 months, a follow-up of 3 years (a collection of data during the 4th
      and 5th year is planned with a co-financing), an expected event rate of 20%, a prognostic
      value of the immune parameter similar to that observed in the retrospective study of 399
      patients with CRC (*1) and a power of the test of 90%. During both initial management and
      follow-up, all therapeutic procedures will be registered (surgery, radiotherapy,
      chemotherapy…). Data will be collected from clinical examination, radiological exams and
      biological tests that are usually performed during a hospitalization for colorectal cancer:
      Full clinical examination and questioning about the presence of personal and family history
      of CRC, adenomas and other cancers; Abdominal ultrasound, chest X-ray; Computed tomography
      (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) according to clinician's requirement; Standard
      laboratory tests and blood assay for carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA); The Histopathologic
      study of the tumor containing the status of the surgical excision margins, the histological
      type of cancer, the level of parietal invasion, the number of lymph nodes examined and the
      number of metastatic lymph nodes, according to the TNM classification. Patients will be
      followed-up every 3 months during the first 2 years, and every 6 months for the rest of the
      follow-up period, as recommended. Each patient will be followed up to 5 years. Clinical,
      biological and radiological data will be registered into a specific CRF. Verification of
      inclusions and monitoring of data will be conducted by the HEGP Clinical Research Unit (URC
      HEGP) and the principal investigator. A plan for data-management will be built in line with
      the monitoring. A questionnaire will also be sent to the patients every six month for five
      years. This questionnaire was built by Pr F Pagès and by psychologists and psychiatrists to
      search for information concerning (i) the presence of an immune disorder (such as allergy,
      autoimmunity, inflammatory process) and (ii) the psychological status of the patients (eg.
      depression). After monitoring, all data will be stored using a double data entry system in a
      MS-Access database designed by the URC-HEGP and in the TME.dB database created by the team of
      the principal investigator. The 2 databases will be merged, and the final data base will be
      frozen for statistical analysis. Sample preparation: The pathologist of each center will
      choose a tumor block containing the core of the tumor and the invasive margin. This tumor
      block is part of the tumor samples routinely processed by the department of Pathology for
      diagnosis. three tissue sections of 4-microns will be made and deposit on a glass slide to
      perform the immunohistochemistry. Four tissue sections of 4-microns will be made and deposit
      on an Eppendorf safe lock tubes to perform the genetic analyses. Anonymous patient names on
      the slides and tubes will be provided by using a code number and initials of the patient. If
      biopsies for diagnostic purposes are available (i.e. those performed for the patients during
      their initial hospitalization (50% of cases), A tissue sections of each biopsy will be done.
      All slides and tubes will be sent by mail to the HEGP platform for analysis of the immune
      infiltrate and to the Biology department for the genetic analyses. The immunoscore will be
      determine using the following steps: Immunostainings for CD3, CD8, CD45RO on Benchmark XT
      automate; Scanning the immunostainings on Hamamatsu scanner: Quantification of the immune
      populations in specific tumor areas (the core and the invasive margin) with a dedicated image
      analysis module based on the recognition of histological structures adapted to colorectal
      cancer. This module has been developed by our group in connection with the Definiens company.
      A semi-automatic procedure allows the quantification of stained cells in each tumor region.
      Each region is divided into tiles of 800 microns side (500 to 700 tiles analyzed per tumor).
      The density of each marker is calculated using the mean density of the three tiles the most
      infiltrated in each tumor region. A categorization into high density (Hi) or low (Lo) for
      each marker in each tumor region of interest will be performed. This categorization is done
      by comparing the observed density with the optimal cut-off density (min p value approach) we
      previously determined for the DFS and OS in a retrospective study of 250 CRC. Genetic
      analyses: The tubes containing the sections for the genetic analyses of patients with inform
      consent signed for genetic investigation will be transfer to the Department of Biology,
      Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou. The % of tumor cells of each specimen will be determined
      by a pathologist (based on a H&E evaluation; less than 10%, 10-20%, 20-50%, up to 50% tumor
      cells) and the DNA extraction will be performed. Genetic investigation will comprise the MSI
      status, the presence of a K-Ras and BRAF mutation
    
  