
    
      Low anterior resection with total mesorectal excision is the standard operative treatment for
      mid and some low rectal cancers.The most dreaded and morbid complication of this procedure is
      anastomotic leak,with a varied incidence of 3-32%,and which can result in pelvic abscess and
      sepsis,re-operation,and death.The creation of a loop ileostomy is the only measure proven to
      reduce the morbidity and septic complications of anastomotic leakage. With the current trend
      towards sphincter-preserving surgery and the performance of ultra-low anastomoses for low
      rectal cancers, anastomotic dehiscence is increasingly being observed.That, in addition to
      the frequent use of neoadjuvant radiotherapy has contributed to a greater use of diverting
      ostomies. Furthermore, the use of a protective loop ileostomy is not limited to oncologic
      surgeries, and is often performed during colonic resection for complicated diverticular
      disease.

      However, the formation of a loop ileostomy comes at a price as it requires a second surgery
      typically 12 weeks after the initial operation to restore intestinal continuity. The
      incidence of complications following ileostomy closure is certainly not negligible, at a
      highly variable range of 11-45%. A systematic review of 48 studies including 6,107 cases
      reported a 17.3% morbidity rate and a 3.7% re-operation rate. Of all complications,
      postoperative ileus (POI) is the most commonly observed morbidity following ileostomy
      closure, with rates typically reported between 15-32 %. POI can lead to increased patient
      discomfort, postoperative morbidity, prolonged hospital stay, increased risk for nosocomial
      infections,and ultimately higher health care costs.

      Transient gut dysmotility can be expected after abdominal surgery. However, in the case of an
      ileostomy, the defunctionalized segment of bowel undergoes a series of structural and
      functional changes that may increase the time it takes for motility to resume after closure.
      Studies performed in animals have shown that defunctionalization of the ileum leads to
      atrophy of its villi and muscular layers.This was confirmed in humans by Williams et al.,who
      demonstrated a significant loss of muscular contractility and atrophy of intestinal villi
      following the creation of a diverting ileostomy.Oh et al. also revealed lower concentrations
      of peptide YY secreted in the mucosa of the ileum and colon distal to a loop ileostomy,the
      function of which is to inhibit gastric motility and promote water and electrolyte absorption
      in the colon.Thus, the absorptive capacity of the colon is reduced following reconstruction
      of the bowel.

      It would appear that changes in the defunctionalized segment of bowel might leave it
      functionally unprepared for intestinal transit, contributing to the development of POI. A
      group in Spain proposed that preoperative stimulation of the excluded intestine might reverse
      those changes and improve its absorptive and motor function prior to restoring intestinal
      continuity, thus reducing the incidence of POI.They published a randomized controlled trial
      of 70 patients, of which 35 patients underwent daily stimulation with a thickened
      saline-based solution via the efferent limb of the ileostomy for two weeks. Following
      ileostomy closure, they observed reduced rates of POI, earlier return to oral intake and
      passage of flatus or stool, and shorter hospital stays in the group of patients that
      underwent stimulation. While their results are promising, t was a single-institution study in
      a European patient population, perhaps limiting its generalizability to our practice.
      Furthermore, while randomization should allow for equal distribution of confounders amongst
      the two groups, they did not report on electrolyte imbalances, narcotic use, and other
      variables known to influence the development of POI. Miedema and colleagues were the only
      other group to apply a similar technique of bowel stimulation before ileostomy closure, and
      found no benefits in intestinal absorptive function or postoperative bowel function. However,
      they only had six patients in their stimulated group, and all had undergone a restorative
      proctocolectomy with ileoanal J pouch, thus only a short segment of distal ileum was
      stimulated.

      The idea of stimulating defunctionalized bowel to reduce POI is theoretically plausible, but
      is lacking in evidence. To our knowledge, this study would be the first of its kind in North
      America, and would complement the work done in Europe.The potential benefits of this
      intervention are numerous, including the patient's overall postoperative outcome, a
      postoperative course with a potential two-day reduction in length of stay and its associated
      health care costs. If such findings are observed, the use of preoperative bowel stimulation
      could be incorporated in Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS®) pathways for patients
      undergoing ileostomy closure.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of preoperative stimulation of the
      defunctionalized intestine of a loop ileostomy on postoperative outcomes following ileostomy
      closure. Investigators hypothesize that preoperative stimulation of the defunctionalized
      intestine via the efferent limb will reduce the rates of postoperative ileus following
      ileostomy closure.

      This is a multicenter randomized controlled trial involving patients from 4 university
      hospitals. Patients will be recruited by their individual surgeon, who will explain the
      objectives of this study and obtain informed consent when obtaining consent for ileostomy
      closure.

      All patients who have undergone an anterior or low-anterior resection for neoplastic (benign
      and malignant) or diverticular disease with a protective loop ileostomy by a fully trained
      colorectal/general surgeon or surgical oncologist at one of the involved sites will be
      offered to enter the study.

      Patients with underlying Crohn's disease, with known metastases at the time of ileostomy
      closure and patients from whom clear and informed consent cannot be obtained will be
      excluded.

      The current overall rate of POI following ileostomy closure at the involved institutions is
      16%. Based on the previously published study and the clinical experience, investigators
      estimate an absolute risk reduction in POI of 13%. With an alpha of 0.05, a power of 0.80 and
      an estimated 5% loss to follow-up, 83 patients are required in each arm for a total of 166
      patients. At each participating institution, at least 35 ileostomy closures eligible for this
      study are performed per year. Assuming a 70% participation rate, investigators anticipate
      being able to recruit 122 patients per year for all 5 institutions involved, thus requiring
      1.4 years to complete the study. In order to mitigate losses to follow-up, patients will
      receive a phone call, instructions and equipment for home stimulation if they are unable to
      come to a stimulation session.

      Block randomization will be performed using a computer-generator sequence, to ensure that the
      initial surgical approach for colorectal resection (open vs. laparoscopic) is equally
      distributed in the two groups. Group allocation will be concealed from the treating surgeons
      and researchers involved in the study (except the research assistant doing the stimulation
      sessions).

      All patients enrolled in the study will follow the same preoperative protocol. Upon agreeing
      to participate in the study, patients will be randomized to either the stimulation group or
      the non-stimulation (control) group.The protocol for stimulation will be identical for all
      patients. Stimulation will be performed daily on an outpatient basis for the two weeks (ten
      business days) prior to ileostomy closure.The efferent limb of the ileostomy loop will be
      canalized with an 18 Fr Foley catheter and infused with a solution comprising of 500mL of
      normal saline mixed with 30g of a thickening-agent (Nestle Resource). It will be prepared in
      five 100mL syringes and administered slowly over 20 minutes.

      All surgeries will be performed by an attending colorectal surgeon with the assistance of one
      or more General Surgery residents. Perioperative antibiotics will include one dose each of
      cefazolin 1g intravenously and metronidazole 500mg intravenously just prior to surgery.
      Procedures will be performed under general anesthesia, and a similar operative technique will
      be used for each case. A parastomal incision will be made and carried out sharply into the
      peritoneal cavity. Adhesiolysis will be conducted and intestinal continuity will be restored
      with a side-to-side functional end-to-end enteroenteral stapled anastomosis.The intestine
      will then be returned to the abdominal cavity. Fascia will be closed with interrupted or
      running sutures.The fascia will then be infiltrated with 20mL of 0.25% bupivacaine,and the
      skin will be closed with a purse-string suture and covered by dry dressings.Patients will be
      given patient-controlled analgesia in the post-anaesthesia care unit for postoperative
      analgesia. Epidurals will not be used.

      Any operation necessitating conversion to a laparotomy incision due to technical difficulties
      or intraoperative complications will be excluded from analysis.

      All patients will follow the perioperative Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS®) protocol
      for elective colorectal surgery already implemented at the involved sites. Specifically, this
      protocol allows for a clear fluid diet on postoperative day 0, and a low-residue diet on the
      morning of postoperative day 1. If this is well tolerated, the patient is further progressed
      to a regular diet later in the day. Patients are also encouraged to chew gum and ambulate.

      Criteria for granting discharge home from hospital will include the following:

        1. tolerating oral diet;

        2. no overt abdominal distension;

        3. adequate pain control;

        4. absence of fever or signs of surgical site infection;

        5. ambulating at baseline; and

        6. passage of flatus or stool.

      Blood work, including CBC and electrolytes (and extended electrolytes), will be drawn daily
      on postoperative days 1,2, and 3, and then as clinically indicated. All electrolyte
      abnormalities will be corrected. Nurses will record all narcotic use in patient charts, and
      this will be converted to morphine equivalents using an equianalgesic table at the time of
      data collection. A trained, blinded assessor (a physician researcher or colorectal research
      fellow) will prospectively collect postoperative clinical data by history, physical
      examination, and chart review. This assessor will be blinded to the stimulation vs. control
      group assignment and to any preoperative information.

      Data regarding patient demographics and specifics of the primary surgery will be collected
      prospectively, including the indication and approach used for colorectal resection, the
      length of time between ileostomy creation and closure, and the use of any neoadjuvant or
      adjuvant treatments in the case of colorectal cancer. All postoperative data will be
      collected prospectively by the research assistant.

      The primary outcome will be postoperative ileus, defined as an intolerance to oral food in
      the absence of clinical or radiological signs of obstruction, that either a)lasts more than
      72 hours; b)requires nasogastric tube insertion; or c)is associated with 2 of the following:
      nausea/vomiting, abdominal distension, and the absence of flatus. Secondary outcomes will
      include length of stay, time to tolerating a regular diet, time to first passage of flatus or
      stool, and overall morbidity. Lastly, an analysis of additional risk factors for
      postoperative ileus will be performed.

      All statistical analyses will be performed using JMP® 11 statistical discovery software (SAS
      Institute Inc.,Cary,NC,1989-2007). Patient characteristics, clinical variables, POI and other
      postoperative outcomes will be compared between the two groups using Chi-square, student's t
      and Wilcoxon rank sum tests for categorical, normally distributed continuous and non-normally
      distributed continuous variables, respectively. Statistical significance will be considered
      when p < 0.05.
    
  