
    
      This is a randomized controlled study evaluating the effectiveness of PEC I, PEC II,
      Transversus Thoracic plane blocks as the primary anesthetic in participants undergoing
      subcutaneous implantable defibrillator. There will be two groups; the nerve block group vs.
      general anesthesia group. The participants in the nerve block group will receive an
      ultrasound-guided nerve block in the electrophysiology suite prior to the start of the
      procedure. Participants will get a PEC I block with 10ml of 0.375% ropivacaine, PEC II block
      with 15ml of 0.375% ropivacaine, 15ml of 0.375% ropivacaine for TTP. PEC I block entails
      injecting local anesthesia between the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor muscles to
      anesthetize the medial and lateral pectoral nerves. PEC II block entails injecting local
      anesthetic between the pectoralis minor and serratus anterior muscles to block the upper
      intercostal nerves. For Tranversus Thoracic Plane block, local anesthetic will be injected
      between the internal intercostal muscle and the Transversus Thoracic muscle. The participants
      in the nerve block group will get mild sedation during the nerve blocks (midazolam 1-2mg IV
      and fentanyl 50-100mcg IV). After block placement, patient will be given a 0.3mcg/kg bolus of
      dexmedetomidine, then an infusion of dexmedetomidine 0.4mcg/kg/hr- 0.7mcg/kg/hr r +/-
      propofol 25mcg/kg/min-100mcg/kg/min for sedation. The general anesthesia group of
      participants will get the current standard of care with an endotracheal tube with a
      combination of IV induction medications and volatile anesthetic. Research assistant will hand
      an enclosed envelope to the anesthesiologists with the name of the group consented patient
      will be in.

      Intraoperatively, the anesthesiologist will note if supplemental opioids and local anesthetic
      was required. Postoperatively, the PACU nurse will be asked to document pain scores according
      to the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and total dose of opioids given. The distribution of the
      sensory block and motor weakness will be documented in the anesthesiologist's PACU discharge
      note. For postoperative data collection, opioid consumption totals and the pain scores at 30
      minutes after arrival in PACU and at discharge.
    
  