
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial being conducted at the Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia
      Medical Center (UKMMC) with two arms; the control and treatment arms. The treatment arm will
      receive intravenous human albumin intraoperatively whilst the control arm will receive
      standard intraoperative fluid regimes. Primary endpoint will be overall complication rates
      whilst secondary endpoints are length of hospitalization, length of ICU care, duration of
      gastroparesis, pancreatic fistula rates, surgical site infection rates, duration of surgery
      and intraoperative bleeding.

      Beyond the intraoperative fluid regimes, postoperative care follows the standardised UKMMC
      Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocols which saw an improvement in overall outcomes
      in patients who underwent pancreaticoduodenectomies (PD). Preoperative care will include
      nutrition optimisation, counselling, antimicrobial prophylaxis, perioperative glycemic
      control and near-zero fluid balance.

      Data collection will include:

      i. preoperative data: age, sex, ethnicity, BMI on admission, date of admission, comorbidities
      and the New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional status classification. Further
      information will include biochemical markers such as serum albumin albumin, white cell count
      (WCC), renal functions.

      ii. Intraoperative information: duration of surgery, estimated blood loss, pancreatic duct
      size, pancreatic texture, amount and type of fluid administered, fluid balances and type of
      anastomoses.

      iii. postoperative data: fluid balances and renal function of postoperative day 1 to 3,
      duration of ICU stay, readmission to ICU, length of hospital stay, duration to standard
      feeds, grading of pancreatic fistula (where relevant), surgical site infection, duration to
      removal of urinary catheter, cardiac complications, renal and pulmonary complications, deep
      vein thrombosis, re-operation, and mortality.
    
  