
    
      Purpose:

      For stroke survivors, the use of compensatory movements can lead to a reduction of range of
      motion, pain, and a pattern of "learned non-use". A common compensatory movement present
      during upper limb reaching is trunk displacement. Although this motion has been identified as
      an important one to be reduced, few strategies for addressing this problem have been
      considered. The existing strategies require physical restraint of the person to the back of a
      chair, making them undesirable for use in unsupervised therapy. As a result, there is a
      current need for alternate methods that promote the use of correct movement patterns both in
      the clinic and in the home. In this sense, technology can act as an enabler to create new
      ways of reducing trunk compensation. Still, there is a gap in the literature as trunk
      compensation has only been investigated as a secondary theme in robotic and computer-aided
      rehabilitation.

      Consequently, in this project the investigators will look into the reduction of trunk
      compensation using robotic devices and commercially available technology, to enable a focus
      on the quality of the movements in unsupervised therapy. The potential results from this
      project could later be applied and generalized to other modes of compensation in stroke and
      other neurological disabled populations.

      Objective:

      The objective is to demonstrate that feedback cues and rewards (game scores) could be used to
      reduce trunk compensatory movements in unsupervised therapy.

      Research Questions:

      Will the use of visual+force feedback and the use of visual+force+game scores feedback reduce
      trunk compensation?

      Will one of these feedback modalities (visual+force vs. visual+force+game scores) be more
      effective in reducing trunk compensation?

      Equipment:

        -  1 Kinect (Microsoft, Inc.) markerless motion capture system.

        -  2 Kinova Jaco assistive robotic arms. These devices are used to assist disabled people
           on daily tasks. The arms are designed for safe interaction (low forces) with the user.

        -  1 Desktop computer and a monitor to deliver the visual feedback.

      Method:

      The investigators will implement the force feedback cues using two Kinova Jaco robotic
      devices to deliver them. The force feedback cues will be provided as resistance to move the
      robots' handles. These cues will be applied when the user moves outside a certain error band,
      based on a "normal" reaching pattern. In addition, the magnitude of the cue will be
      proportional to the magnitude of trunk compensation. The visual cues will be implemented
      using a monitor to display two cursors (empty circles) that will represent the participant's
      hands, and the circles will fill with red ink as the user starts to compensate. As the
      magnitude of compensation increases, the amount of red ink will gradually increase to
      indicate the level at which the user is compensating. For the game scores, the participant
      will be rewarded with more points when less compensation is exhibited, or with less points
      when an increased level of compensation is measured. .

      In the study, the investigators will compare the combination of visual+force feedback vs.
      visual+force+game scores feedback.

      The goal of this approach is to investigate whether using compensatory motions to affect the
      outcome of the game scores would lead to a further reduction of these movements when compared
      to only receiving feedback about the movement pattern without attaching a reward to it. This
      approach will follow an operant conditioning strategy to attempt to change the subject's
      behaviour when performing unrestrained bimanual exercises.

      Summary of Procedures:

      (Total Time: 2-2.5 hours):

        1. Participants will be recruited.

        2. Introduce the study and equipment. Participants will be asked to inform the investigator
           if they feel uncomfortable or fatigued at any point during the experiment, and will be
           given as many breaks as needed.

        3. Ask participants to fill out consent forms, or if their unable to provide consent due to
           their health condition, their caregivers/guardians will provide consent and the subject
           will provide assent.

        4. Participant will fill out a background questionnaire and a registered physical therapist
           will conduct a clinical assessment based on recognized impairment scales (Fugl-Meyer
           Upper Extremity Assessment and Reaching Performance Scale) to use the scores as a
           baseline for the comparisons that will be performed in the statistical analyses at the
           end of this phase. The Reaching performance Scale requires the use of video recording of
           the assessment for scoring. If the participant wants to know their clinical assessment
           results, at the end of the session, the therapist will provide a photocopy of the
           results, and will give the participant and explanation of these results and answer any
           questions that the participant may have about these scales. In the case of the Reaching
           Performance Scale as the scoring is done after the study, the participant could receive
           their scores at a later date via a telephone call.

        5. All the study sessions will be conducted at the University of British Columbia (UBC)
           Point Grey Campus. During the test, the participants will be asked to interact with a
           computer through the use of the following input technologies: 2 Jaco Kinova robotic arms
           and a Microsoft Kinect. Using these technologies, the participants will perform bimanual
           symmetric movements with their arms/ hands to control a simple cursor/target videogame.
           The Kinect will measure the participant's movement as data points for every joint, no
           video will be recorded.

           The robotic devices will be used to record the hands' movements and will increase their
           resistance to be moved based on the level of trunk compensation of the participant. The
           monitor will be used to provide visual feedback about the participant's trunk
           compensation and to display the target game and game scores.

        6. Ask participants to sit in a chair and adjust footrest to have their feet fully
           supported, their knees at a 90 degree angle, and their back against the chair.

        7. Ask participants to hold on to the handles of the two robotic devices.

        8. In case participants are not able to hold the handle due to hand weakness, an adjustable
           fabric and elastic strap will be fitted around their palm to hold the hand on top of the
           handle.

        9. The maximum force that the user can produce to push the robots will be measured by
           reading the robot's sensors.

       10. Ask the participant to perform a series of unimanual reaches to calibrate the system
           based on the participant's arm's length.

       11. Ask participant to perform 5 practice bimanual reaches to become familiar with the
           system and the motion mapping.

       12. Ask participant to perform 15 baseline (no feedback) bimanual reaches to measure their
           trunk compensation. The investigators will use the value of average trunk compensation
           to set the error bands for the visual and force feedback.

       13. Ask participant to perform 5 practice bimanual reaches to become familiar with either
           the visual+force feedback, or the visual+force+game scores (depending on the
           randomization of subjects).

       14. Ask the participant to perform 60 trials of bimanual reaches to 1 target at knee height
           with arms fully extended. Participants will receive visual feedback about their
           compensation and their accumulated game scores through the computer's monitor, and as
           increased resistance to move of the robots.

       15. The participant will be able to rest between targets if requested. In addition there
           will be 1 minute rests after every 15 targets.

       16. The participant will perform 15 reaches without any feedback (Post measurement)

       17. The participants will have 5 minutes of break before starting the second feedback
           condition.

       18. Repeat steps 14, 15 and 16, but with the other type of feedback (visual+force, or
           visual+force+game scores).

       19. A note taker will record the occurrence of obstacles encountered by the participants
           during the study.

       20. The motion tracking data and assessment videos will be saved on a computer file, backed
           up on a UBC-based file server and on optical media.

       21. At the end of the session the participant will answer a usability questionnaire.

       22. The data from the note taker, motion logs, assessment videos and questionnaires will be
           used to conduct a quantitative and qualitative analysis to gain further insight into how
           augmented feedback can reduce compensatory trunk movements, and the ease of use and
           functionality of the system. All the data will be identified using participants'
           numbers.

       23. The video recordings will be erased/destroyed 5 years after publication of results.

      Study Design:

      The investigators will follow a within-subjects crossover design with the independent
      variable being the feedback type and the levels will be: visual+force feedback and
      visual+force+game scores. The primary dependent variable will be the measure of trunk
      compensation.

      The investigators will follow a counterbalanced strategy to reduce the carryover effects from
      performing the two conditions in a certain order. Data collection will include motion log
      files, scores from the game, discussions with participants and exit surveys.
    
  