
    
      Trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias (TACs) are characterized by frequent, short-lasting attacks
      of unilateral extremely severe headaches accompanied by ipsilateral facial autonomic features
      and are the most severe of the primary headache disorders. TACs include cluster headache
      (CH), paroxysmal hemicrania (PH) and short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache with
      conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT). CH is the most common form of TAC. The 1-year
      prevalence is about 1 in 1000, with the vast majority of patients having episodic CH (ECH):
      periods of weeks to months with frequent attacks which are alternated with symptom-free
      periods of several months to years. About 10% have chronic CH (CCH): attack free periods of
      less than one month in every 12 months, unless treatment is given. The chronic form can be
      primary unremitting from onset, or can be secondary, transform from the episodic form. CCH
      may spontaneously become episodic.

      Effective acute treatments for CH attacks are injectable or intranasal triptans and oxygen
      inhalation. Steroids (only for a short period), verapamil, lithium carbonate and methysergide
      are the most effective preventive therapies. At least 10% of patients with CCH is or may
      become refractory to or cannot tolerate medical therapy. For patients with medically
      intractable CCH (MICCH) there is no common treatment. Different experimental treatments, such
      as deep brain stimulation (DBS), radiofrequency lesions, glycerol injections, gamma knife,
      and surgery or root section of the trigeminal nerve are either substantially ineffective, or
      have significant short-comings with serious complications such as death or neurological
      deficits such as anaesthesia dolorosa or lack of efficacy.

      CH has considerable impact on socio-economic and personal functions due to direct costs of
      healthcare services and indirect costs of lost work days and decreased work efficacy. Higher
      pain scores and a higher percentage of patients with poor health due to pain and social
      functioning are found among CH patients compared with patients suffering from migraine. The
      impact on social functions, quality of life and use of healthcare of patients with MICCH is
      most likely even larger, although precise figures are not available. In the study of Burns et
      al. patients, suffering from MICCH, had on average over four attacks per day. Attacks of CH
      have been described by patients as being worse than child birth. Recently treatment of
      headache was listed as one of the top priorities of US National the Institute of Medicine's
      agenda for comparative-effectiveness research.

      Functional imaging studies in CH identified activations in the region of the posterior
      hypothalamus, which led to the use of neurostimulation therapy in MICCH. Hypothalamic DBS was
      shown to be effective in some patients with MICCH but unfortunately this treatment is
      associated with a high risk of (even lethal) consequences.

      Structures in the occipital region of the head are mainly innervated by the greater occipital
      nerve that is a branch of the C2 spinal root. Convergence of cervical, somatic trigeminal and
      dural trigeminovascular afferents on second order nociceptors in the brain stem is well
      documented. Stimulation of the greater occipital nerve increased metabolic activity in
      cervical regions of the spinal cord and in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis in the cat. In
      humans an occipital nerve blockade decreased the ipsi- and contralateral R2 response,
      confirming the anatomic and functional convergence of afferent cervical and trigeminal
      pathways. These studies suggest that modulation of these pathways may influence headache.

      Suboccipital injection of corticosteroid with local anaesthetics was shown to be effective in
      a placebo-controlled trial. In this study 4 patients suffering from CCH were included. In all
      patients the attacks recurred eventually. The authors suggest that suboccipital steroid
      injections ought to be tried as a single shot treatment before invasive treatments are
      considered such as DBS, but in later studies this turned out to be of no predictive value of
      the response to neuromodulation therapies.

      Along the same line, stimulation of the greater occipital nerve (ONS) has been tried with
      some success in intractable headaches including CCH. Burns et al. described 14 patients
      suffering from MICCH and were treated with ONS in an open retrospective study. Ten patients
      improved; three improved by 90% or more, 3 by 40%-90% and 4 by 20-30%. In a prospective open
      ONS study on MICCH patients Magis et al. showed a reduction in attack frequency of 79.9%. No
      serious complications were described in both studies.
    
  