
    
      Female Sex Workers (FSWs) in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) have been identified as a high-risk
      group for the spread of HIV/AIDS, with those in poor areas and "HIV hotspots" being
      especially vulnerable. Research has shown that the primary reason poor women engage in
      commercial sex work is financial instability. Given these challenges, poor women require
      support over and above HIV prevention education. We propose to test the impact of adding
      economic empowerment (EE) components to traditional HIV risk reduction (HIVRR) to reduce new
      incidence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and of HIV among FSWs in Rakai and Masaka
      districts in Uganda. Guided by social-cognitive and asset theories, the study provides an
      avenue for FSWs to explore alternative means of safe and sustainable income to replace sex
      work. The study is informed by a previously tested microfinance (MF) intervention for FSWs in
      Mongolia, a pilot study conducted with FSWs in Masaka and Rakai, surveillance studies by
      RHSP, and EE interventions among AIDS-affected families in Uganda. Using a cluster-design we
      will randomly assign 990 FSWs from 33 matched town centers to one of three study arms (11
      town centers in each condition): (1) A control arm comprising of treatment as usual (TAU) for
      FSWs in the study area bolstered with 4 evidence-based sessions of HIVRR provided by local
      providers (n=330); or (2) A treatment arm including TAU, 4 sessions of HIVRR, combined with
      receipt of a matched savings account (HIVRR+S+FL) to be used on short- and/or long-term
      consumption and skills development as per participants' own discretion plus 6 sessions of
      financial literacy (n=330); or (3) A treatment arm including TAU, 4 sessions of HIVRR,
      combined with a matched savings account to be used on short-term and/or long term consumption
      and skills development as per a participant's own discretion plus 6 sessions of financial
      literacy and 8 mentoring sessions for supportive transition to alternative income options
      (HIVRR+S+FLM) (n=330).* This RCT study's aims are to:

      Aim1: Examine the impact of a financial savings-led MF intervention using HIVRR+S+FL and
      HIVRR+S+FLM on HIV biological and behavioral outcomes in FSWs (Primary outcomes: women's
      cumulative incidence of biologically confirmed STIs and reported number and proportion of
      unprotected sexual acts with regular and paying partners; Secondary outcomes: women's rate of
      new HIV cases, proportion of monthly income from sex and nonsex work, reported number and
      proportion on preventive behaviors, and for HIV+ women only, viral load as a marker of ART
      adherence).

      Aim 2: Examine intervention mediation and effect modification to assess whether primary
      outcomes are mediated/moderated by participant characteristics; whether key theory-driven
      variables and Behavioral Economics measures mediate/moderate intervention outcomes.

      Aim 3: Qualitatively and quantitatively examine implementation in each study condition; Aim
      4: Assess the cost and cost-effectiveness of the HIVRR+S+FL and HIVRR+S+FLM intervention
      compared with traditional HIVRR in terms of cumulative number of STI and HIV cases averted
      over the 24-month period.

      *Revision note: Following COVID-19, with approval from NIMH (on record if requested), the
      HIVRR+S+FLM treatment of the study has been combined with the HIVRR+S+FL treatment arm. The
      total sample size has been revised to 542 participants, with approval from NIMH. Moreover,
      biomarker data collection at 6 and 12 months were suspended due to COVID-19.
    
  