
    
      Research Question Does Hans Kai have a greater influence on healthy behavior change, mental
      health status, social connectedness, and self-health efficacy outcomes compared to community
      healthcare clients with access to health education programming.

      Hypothesis - Hans Kai members will experience higher mental health improvement scores
      compared to control group.

      Hans Kai members will experience greater social connectedness compared to control group.

      Hans Kai members will experience greater self-health efficacy compared to control group.

      Hans Kai members will adopt more behavior changes compared to control group.

      Null Hypothesis - There is no significant difference between Hans Kai members and control
      group in terms of mental health improvement scores.

      There is no significant difference between Hans Kai members and control group in terms of
      social connectedness scores.

      There is no significant difference between Hans Kai members and control group in terms of
      self-health efficacy scores.

      There is no significant difference between Hans Kai members and control group in terms of
      adopted behavior change numbers.

      In order to meet the demand for health programming in and reduce the prevalence of chronic
      disease NorWest developed the HANS KAI Project. Hans Kai is a self-sustaining, participant
      led health program for individuals wanting to maintain or improve their health. Hans Kai
      groups consist of 8-40 people per group in communities or workplaces. Hans Kai empowers
      individuals to take control of their own health and provides a unique opportunity for
      participants to have an active role in improving or maintaining their own health and
      well-being and that of their community.

      HANS Kai Focuses on a number of factors relating to health including:

      Healthy eating, physical activity, managing sleep and stress, mental health, physical health
      indicators, leadership and social supports. The program is participant led which enables
      members to have an active role in their health and the health of their families and
      communities.

      Currently NorWest has trained 37 people in 5 provinces across Canada to deliver HANS KAI in
      their community and demand is growing. NorWest has developed a Teen and Family HANS KAI to
      address health across the ages.

      HANS KAI's initial research phase assessed roughly 60 participants over 2 years to determine
      the impact of Hans Kai on strategic health indictors and influences. Our research and
      evaluation showed statistically significant improvements in:

      Mental Health (prior to HANS Kai 33% had Flourishing Mental Health at 12 months 69% had
      Flourishing Mental Health) Physical Activity Knowledge of Health Connection to Resources
      Increased Social Connections, and Upward trends in nutrition. As the program continued to
      evolve, community members and participants were involved in every phase, giving community
      feedback on important health related topics they wanted discussed and to be given more
      information on. This lead the researchers toward the second phase of research which now
      focuses heavily on behavior change. Putting into practice the information that participants
      learn was the highest feedback received, and this echoes trends in health promotion
      interventions, as preventative healthcare and integrated service becomes the pinnacle to
      healthy communities. Empowering people and building their resilience is dependent on needs
      and perceived value of different lifestyle influences. For instance, an economically
      disadvantaged family may struggle on a low income, but may find value in the Hans Kai
      nutrition classes on how to feed their family healthy options and recipes on a fixed budget.
      Addressing a change from eating take-out to home cooking helps to move this family towards
      better health and become economically stronger through education and application. Building on
      this scenario, Hans Kai also serves to bolster social engagement, drawing out isolated
      individuals to engage in their communities, increasing their mental health and well-being.
      The researchers strive to prove that this support carries over into the overall lifestyle,
      increasing the likelihood and motivation to improve physical activity levels with other group
      members interested in the same. This increase in self-efficacy promotes community and family
      leadership, as others see positive life choices, they are likely to join in, seeing family
      walks become routine and volunteering in community engagement on the rise.

      The researchers are wanting to prove that community led health programs lead to health
      behaviour changes in healthy lifestyle choices with social support and self-efficacy.

      After completing our first phase of research, the researchers were able to determine
      challenges and how to improve them as research heads into the second phase. Creating group
      champions to help collect interval research data and modifying our research to determine a
      power difference between a control and Hans Kai member was of the utmost importance. The
      research objectives will be looking to discover the differences between non Hans Kai
      community members and Hans Kai members in the areas of: self-efficacy, behavior change,
      physical activity, nutrition, mental health and community connectedness. Data comparisons
      from initial baselines without the Hans Kai intervention, followed by a 9 week survey after
      Hans Kai participants have completed the health school, followed by a 6 month and one year
      survey will be assessed. The purpose in completing these objectives is to determine whether
      the Hans Kai model produces better results in each of the mentioned areas for participants
      interested in a lifestyle change compared to those participants not introduced to the Hans
      Kai concept of education. If successful, the Hans Kai model will be further studied and
      promoted to more community health clinics as a low cost method to produce positive healthy
      behaviours to communities.
    
  