
    
      Executive Summary Rationale While sedation policy has shifted from deep sedation to moderate,
      minimal, or even no sedation in the general ICU, optimal sedation of the cerebrovascular
      neuro-ICU (NICU) patient is unclear and controversial. The rationale of this study is to
      analyze potential benefits, feasibility and safety of moderate as opposed to deep sedation.

      Aim and hypothesis MODERNISE is a pilot trial aiming to investigate the safety, feasibility
      and potential benefits of moderate vs. deep sedation in patients with severe ischemic stroke,
      intracerebral hemorrhage or subarachnoid hemorrhage. The primary objective is to compare
      moderate sedation and deep sedation with respect to ICU-LOS.

      Design MODERNISE is a prospective, randomized, controlled, outcome observer-blinded,
      two-center trial. Patients are randomized to either moderate sedation as defined by RASS) >=
      -3 or to deep sedation as defined by RASS < -3.

      Study Outcomes The primary endpoint is ICU-LOS. Secondary endpoints are the ventilation-free
      ICU-LOS, ventilation duration, sedation duration, complications (including episodes of
      treatment-demanding increases of intracranial pressure (ICP), episodes of hypotension,
      episodes of cerebral hypoperfusion, pneumonia, sepsis, ileus, episodes of paroxysmal
      sympathetic hyperactivity (PSH)), time within sedation goal, demand of sedatives, demand of
      analgesics, demand of vasopressors, scores (RASS, nociception coma scale (NCS), Glasgow Coma
      Scale (GCS), intensive care delirium screening checklist (ICDSC), confusion assessment method
      - ICU (CAM-ICU), ICU mortality, in-hospital mortality, modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 90
      days, PTSD at 90 days.

      Discussion To clarify the benefits of moderate sedation in critical care ventilated stroke
      patients, a randomized multicentre trial is clearly needed. If this two-center pilot trial
      shows differences in relevant parameters of the ICU course and gives promising safety and
      feasibility results, a multi-centre trial may be planned on this basis.
    
  