
    
      PELICAN is a randomised phase II trial that aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      paclitaxel plus pembrolizumab relative to paclitaxel alone, in patients with locally advanced
      or metastatic ER-positive, HER2-negative, Luminal B breast cancer who have received no prior
      chemotherapy for advanced or metastatic disease.

      Luminal B is defined as high Ki67 (≥20%) and /or histological grade 3 and / or Luminal B
      according to PAM50 assay. This study will include patients irrespective of PD-L1 expression,
      but patients will be stratified by centrally determined PD-L1 expression. The number of
      patients with PD-L1 negative tumours (<1% expression) will be capped at 50% of the total
      study population.

      Patients will be randomised (2:1) to one of the two treatment arms:

        -  Pembrolizumab every 3 weeks (Q3W) plus Paclitaxel on Days 1,8, and 15 every 28 days

        -  Paclitaxel on Days 1,8, and 15 every 28 days Paclitaxel alone

      Randomisation will be stratified by the following two factors:

        -  Centrally assessed PD-L1 expression (<1% PD-L1 expression; ≥1%)

        -  Presence vs non-presence of visceral metastases

      Paclitaxel treatment will be continued for at least 6 cycles unless there is evidence of
      unacceptable toxicity, disease progression, or if the patient requests to stop the treatment.
      If paclitaxel treatment is discontinued prior to disease progression, patients in the
      combination arm should continue pembrolizumab single agent therapy until progression or
      evidence of unacceptable toxicity up to a maximum of 2 years.

      If disease progression is documented (RECIST 1.1) while the patient is on study medication
      (in the pembrolizumab plus paclitaxel arm) it would be standard practice for the patient to
      be taken off study medication. However, in the absence of other discontinuation criteria,
      patients treated with paclitaxel plus pembrolizumab may be continued on study medication if
      in the opinion of the treating physician there is clinical benefit. In this case patients
      must meet all of the following criteria:

        -  Evidence of clinical benefit as assessed by the investigator

        -  Absence of symptoms and signs (including worsening of laboratory values [e.g., new or
           worsening hypercalcemia]) indicating clinically significant progression of disease

        -  No decline in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status that can be
           attributed to disease progression

        -  Absence of tumour progression at critical anatomical sites (e.g., leptomeningeal
           disease) that cannot be managed by protocol-allowed medical interventions (i.e., pain
           secondary to disease or unmanageable ascites, etc.), as determined by the investigator
           after an integrated assessment of radiographic data, biopsy results (if available), and
           clinical status.

      Pembrolizumab treatment will not exceed 2 years.

      Patients who were randomized to the paclitaxel alone must discontinue study treatment upon
      determination of progressive disease. No crossover is allowed. On completion of study
      treatment in both arms, patients will enter a survival follow-up period during which data on
      cancer therapy, disease status and survival status will be collected. Endocrine maintenance
      therapy is not permitted prior to disease progression.
    
  