
    
      HYPOTHESIS: Through cryopreservation it is possible to prolong the survival time of platelets
      up to 4 times, compared to those preserved under the conventional method, maintaining a
      viability equal to or greater than 50%.

      There is a direct relationship between survival time, viability and functionality of
      cryopreserved platelets depending on the model of cryoprotective solution used.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME: survival of cryopreserved platelets greater than 28 days SECUNDARY OUTCOME:
      viability of cryopreserved platelets greater than 50%

      INCLUSION CRITERIA: Concentrates from donors over 18 years of age who meet the requirements
      established by law 22990 (Of Argentine Republic) for donating blood and blood components will
      be included in this study, from whom a number of platelets greater than or equal to 3 x10 E11
      can be collected.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA: Platelet concentrates that present any of the following characteristics
      will be excluded from the investigation:

      Concentrates that have not met all of the standards required for use in humans or that at the
      time of the study more than 24 hours have passed since they were obtained.

      A blind experimental study will be carried out (those who evaluate viability and
      functionality of platelets will not know the cryopreservation times or the concentration of
      the cryopreservative)

      Aliquots of platelets with group and factor A +, A-, B +, B-, AB +, AB-, O + and O- obtained
      from those people who come to the hemotherapy center as voluntary donors and who in turn
      express their decision to participate in this protocol by signing an informed consent
      designed for this purpose.

      The interview process, taking informed consent and obtaining platelets for each potential
      donor will be carried out by a research collaborator accredited as a hemotherapy technician.
      For the procedure, you must previously have all the personal protection elements (PPE)
      stipulated by the institution for obtaining and handling blood components. All donors must
      have the following serological and laboratory tests performed:

      HIV serology (antibodies to HIV 1 and 2, p24 antigen)

      Surface antigen and anticore for Hepatitis B

      Total antibodies to Hepatitis C

      VDRL

      Serology for HTLV I / II

      · Serology for Chagas by hemagglutination and ELISA

      Serology for Brucellosis

      Group and factor determination will also be made.

      Obtaining platelets will be performed by apheresis using the Trima ACCEL cell separator,
      version 7.0, TERUMO BCT brand.

      A minimum total of 3.3 x1011 platelets will be obtained in a volume between 200 - 300 ml, for
      each donor.

      Group A

      It will consist of 70 aliquots of 3 ml each with 1.9 x109 platelets to which a solution
      composed of: 1 ml obtained from the following mixture will be added (0.8 ml of 100%
      Dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) and 4 ml of 0 sodium chloride , 9%). They will then be frozen at -80
      ° C.

      B Group

      It will be made up of 70 aliquots of 3 ml each with 1.9 x109 platelets to which will be added
      a solution composed of: 0.4 ml of 20% UNC brand albumin and 0.6 ml obtained from the
      following mixture (1.4 ml of Dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) 100% and 4 ml of Dextrose 5%). They
      will then be frozen at -80 ° C.

      Group C

      It will be made up of 70 aliquots of 3 ml each with 1.9 x109 platelets to which will be added
      a solution composed of: 0.4 ml of 20% UNC brand albumin and 0.6 ml obtained from the
      following mixture (1.4 ml of Dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) 100% and 4 ml of 0.9% sodium chloride).
      They will then be frozen at -80 ° C.

      A group of 71 aliquots of 3 ml each with 1.9 x109 irradiated platelets kept at 22 ° C under
      constant stirring for 5 days (twenty-four aliquots for each period of time evaluated) will be
      used as a reference for the comparison of results (group N).

      Viability:

      It will be evaluated through the platelet count carried out by the Beckman-Coulter system,
      the measurement of the pH of the cryopreserved platelets after being thawed (expected values
      between 6.4 and 7.4) and the immunophenotyping of the platelets by flow cytometry (CMF) using
      fluorescent anti CD61-PE antibodies.

      Functionality:

      It will be evaluated from the immunophenotyping of platelets by flow cytometry (CMF) using
      fluorescent anti-CD41 and anti-CD62-FITC antibodies.

      Before carrying out the CMF analysis, 4 microliters of a 50 mmol ADP solution will be added
      to each sample in order to induce platelet activation.

      Both the viability analysis and the functionality of the cryopreserved product will be
      carried out by 3 biochemists, collaborating members of the research in the biochemical
      analysis laboratory of the hospital.
    
  