
    
      Hypothesis: This pilot study will provide data essential for designing a larger trial to test
      the hypothesis that telmisartan treatment of obese children with insulin resistance and
      hypertension will result in improved insulin levels and systolic blood pressure. Secondary
      outcome measures will include the effects of telmisartan on total cholesterol, triglyceride,
      HDL and LDL levels, body mass index (BMI), and body fat distribution.

      Specific Aims for to Test Hypothesis:

      Aim #1: Determine the change in insulin sensitivity in adolescents with obesity and
      hyperinsulinemia before and after treatment with telmisartan. We hypothesize a significant
      increase in insulin sensitivity following medical treatment. We will measure fasting insulin
      and glucose levels for calculation of the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) [29, 30].
      Furthermore, we will calculate parameters of insulin production and insulin resistance from
      simultaneous measurements of glucose, insulin, and C-peptide levels during an oral glucose
      tolerance test (OGTT). We will check IGF BP-1 (insulin-like growth factor 1 binding protein)
      level as an indirect measurement of insulin resistance. Due to the risks associated with
      glucose clamps and continuous insulin infusion, we will not use this procedure in our study.

      Aim #2: Determine the change in systolic blood pressure in adolescents with obesity and
      hypertension before and after treatment with telmisartan. We hypothesize a significant
      decrease in systolic blood pressure following medical treatment. Subjects will have blood
      pressure checked at each clinic visit.

      Aim #3: Evaluate changes in lipid profile and body mass index as secondary outcome measures
      with telmisartan treatment. Subjects will have weight, height, and fasting lipid panel
      checked at each clinic visit.

      Aim #4: Characterize fat distribution before and after telmisartan treatment. A subset of
      study participants will undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to characterize and separate
      abdominal adipose tissue into its subcutaneous and visceral components. A one-slice MRI will
      be obtained at 2 time-points during the study (weeks 0 and 12).

      Aim #5: Determine the feasibility of using telmisartan for the treatment of hyperinsulinemia
      and hypertension in obese adolescents. Study results will provide necessary data to calculate
      the power needed for a multi-center, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of telmisartan.
    
  