
    
      Clinical evidence suggests that dopamine agonists should be considered as an initial or early
      symptomatic therapy for PD. Current information indicates that the early use of long-acting
      dopaminergic agonists may protect against the development of motor complications by
      stimulating dopamine receptors in a non-pulsatile manner and by delaying the introduction of
      levodopa. In pre-clinical primate studies, L-dopa (short-acting, pulsatile) and dopaminergic
      agonists (long-acting; non pulsatile) provide comparable clinical benefit but with agonists
      inducing significantly less dyskinesia.

      Chronic L-dopa treated animals develop gene changes that are associated with abnormal
      neuronal firing patterns and dyskinesias which are not seen with long-acting dopamine
      agonists. Based on pre-clinical and clinical study results, treatment of Parkinson's patients
      with long-acting levodopa or dopamine agonists should provide symptomatic benefit, and
      significantly delay the onset of motor complications. This can be accomplished with duodopa
      or continuous sc apomorphine but these treatments are associated with significant side
      effects. To date, no practical method of providing continuous drug delivery using a
      dopaminergic agent for therapy of patients with early PD to prevent the development of motor
      complications has been advanced through clinical trials.

      SER-214 is being developed as a weekly sc injection that provides prompt onset of
      dopaminergic stimulation. Continuous levels of released rotigotine within the therapeutic
      window for relief of motor fluctuations have been observed in MPTP-treated cynomolgus
      macaques. PK determinations in normal monkeys for up to 13 weeks of treatment show that
      weekly injections of SER-214 provide continuous drug delivery of released plasma rotigotine
      within a predictable therapeutic range.
    
  