
    
      This study is designed as a multicentre open-label, parallel randomised, controlled trial.
      Patients will be randomly allocated to two treatment arms: 1) colistin alone (control arm);
      2) colistin, plus rifampicin (experimental arm). The study will be carried out over 2 years
      according to the principles of good clinical practice.

      The study population is represented by adult hospitalised patients with severe nosocomial
      infections due to multi-drug resistant A. baumannii, susceptible to colistin. It will be
      performed in intensive or sub-intensive care units of 5 Italian clinical centres where MDR A.
      baumannii infection is endemic with epidemic phases. All adult subjects, irrespective of age,
      will be included in the study, thus also elderly subjects will be eligible. Large eligibility
      criteria are warranted by the pragmatic approach of the study, the severe prognosis of these
      patients and the lack of effective alternative treatments.

      Enrollment procedure: At the time of A. baumannii isolation, inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be checked by the pertinent centre.

      Once obtained the informed consent, subjects will be randomized to treatment. No patient may
      be enrolled in a centre before the formal approval of the Ethics Committee of that
      Institution.

      Accrual time: according to the sample size estimate (see below) and based on the current
      incidence of MDR A. baumannii severe infections of 12-14 cases per month in the five
      participating centres, the accrual time will last approximately 18 months to achieve the
      planned sample size.

      Severe infections include hospital acquired pneumonia (HAP), ventilator associated pneumonia
      (VAP), bloodstream infection, intra-abdominal infection or other organ-space infections.

      Multi-drug resistant A. baumannii is defined as clinical isolates resistant to carbapenems
      and to all other antimicrobial drug classes, except colistin, irrespective of rifampicin
      activity.

      Severity of illness is assessed by the SAPS II score. This will be considered low or high
      according to a SAPS II score below/equal to or higher than 40, respectively.

      Patients will be randomly allocated into two treatment arms: 1) colistin alone, 2 million
      units every 8 hours intravenously or according to renal function (control arm); 2) colistin,
      2 million units every 8 hours intravenously or according to renal function, plus rifampicin,
      600 mg every 12 hours intravenously (experimental arm).

      Treatment will be administered for at least 10 days and up to a maximum of 21 days. Duration
      of treatment will be established by the physician in charge. The end of treatment (EoT)
      evaluation will be performed the day of treatment discontinuation. The end of study (EoS)
      (follow-up) evaluation will be performed 30 days after randomization.

      Treatment will be discontinued in the following instances: clinical cure with or without
      microbiological eradication; occurrence of significant renal or liver toxicity; patient
      death. Throughout the study, patients will receive routine intensive care support by the
      physician in charge according to standard diagnostic and therapeutic guidelines.

      Clinical cure is defined by disappearance of symptoms and signs of infection, irrespective of
      A. baumannii eradication at the site of infection. Therapeutic failure is defined as
      worsening or no improvement of clinical conditions on therapy with persistently positive A.
      baumannii cultures.

      Renal and liver function will be monitored by daily measurements of creatinine,
      aminotransferase and direct bilirubin serum levels.

      Drug dosages will be adjusted according to renal and liver function. Renal toxicity is
      defined as decrease of creatinine clearance below 50 ml/min or >50% reduction in the
      creatinine clearance relative to the baseline. Hepatic toxicity is defined as increase of
      direct bilirubin above 3 mg/dl.

      Surveillance cultures from the original source of isolation (blood, bronchial aspirate,
      urines or drainage fluids) will be obtained on admission and repeated weekly, or whenever
      clinically needed, during and after treatment to monitor persistence versus eradication of A.
      baumannii at the infected site. In vitro activity of colistin and rifampicin will be checked
      against all A. baumannii repeat isolates to detect development of resistance. Identification
      and antibiotic susceptibility of A. baumannii isolates will be performed at each centre using
      an automated system. Species identification will be confirmed by molecular biology.
    
  