
    
      Subjects are enrolled into one of three cohorts of 12 subjects each. Cohorts are recruited
      sequentially, to facilitate on-going review of data.

      Investigational medicinal product (IMP) administration takes place between 28 and 1 days
      before the P. falciparum sporozoites (PfSPZ) challenge. Subjects are randomised to receive
      either MMV390048 120 mg or placebo in a 3:1 ratio.

      After IMP administration, each subject is inoculated with 3200 PfSPZ. The dose of IMP to be
      administered and the interval between IMP administration and the PfSPZ challenge are as
      follows:

        -  Cohort 1: Subjects receive a single oral dose of MMV390048 (9 subjects) or placebo (3
           subjects) on Day -1, prior to PfSPZ challenge on Day 0.

        -  Cohort 2: Subjects receive a single oral dose of MMV390048 (9 subjects) or placebo (3
           subjects) on Day -7, prior to PfSPZ Challenge on Day 0.

        -  Cohort 3: Subjects receive a single oral dose of MMV390048 (9 subjects; dose to be
           determined) or placebo (3 subjects) on a day (to be determined) prior to PfSPZ challenge
           on Day 0. IMP dosage and day of administration will be determined on the basis of data
           emerging from the first two cohorts, but will not exceed 120 mg nor 28 days prior to
           PfSPZ challenge.

      Parasitaemia and malaria symptoms and signs are monitored daily from Day 6 and as long as
      subjects exhibit parasitaemia (defined as either a positive thick blood smear microscopy or
      three positive quantitative polymerase chain reactions at least 12 hours apart with one
      measurement greater 100 parasites per mL), or until Day 28 if no parasitemia is not detected.
      All subjects receive antimalarial rescue therapy upon positive parasitaemia or at the end of
      the treatment period if parasites are not detected during follow-up. A final safety follow-up
      visit takes place on Day 60.

      After treating cohorts 1 and 2 (up to, and including Day 28 assessments), a safety review
      team (SRT) meeting takes place, to consider enrolment of the subsequent cohort. At the first
      meeting, the SRT reviews safety and parasitaemia data to Day 28 and determines whether
      progression to treatment of cohort 2 is indicated. If no safety concerns are identified by
      the SRT and the geometric mean time to parasitaemia is less than 12 days for Cohort 1,
      progression to Cohort 2 takes place. Should Cohort 2 be enrolled, safety and parasitaemia
      data to Day 28 and PK data to at least Day 14 from this cohort are reviewed by the SRT prior
      to enrolling Cohort 3.

      Recruitment of cohort 3 will be put on hold if:

        -  Any inoculum- or MMV390048-related SAEs are reported, or

        -  Two or more MMV390048-related severe (Grade 3 or higher) adverse events are reported in
           the same organ class, or

        -  Any significant inoculum-related adverse event is reported which may place subjects in a
           subsequent cohort at risk, or

        -  Any other critical findings are identified which may place subjects in a subsequent
           cohort at risk.

      Dosing of a subsequent cohort at the same or lower dose with the same or increased interval
      between dosing and inoculation, will not be performed if:

      • The cohort-specific geometric mean time to parasitaemia is less than 12 days.

      If progression of the study to recruiting cohort 3 is approved the by SRT, the optimal dose
      of MMV390048, as well as the time point of its administration will be estimated based on PK
      modelling, using data from all trials and assuming that asexual liver and blood stage have
      similar MMV390048 sensitivities.
    
  