
    
      Phase IIIb randomized stratified open-label comparative 2-arm superiority study with a
      pre-set non-inferiority boundary.

      Registered GnRH antagonists, degarelix, will be given at the dose of 240 mg given as two
      subcutaneous injections of 120 mg at a concentration of 40 mg/mL on day 1, followed by 80 mg
      given as one subcutaneous injection at a concentration of 20 mg/mL every 28 days (±2 days).

      External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) to a total dose of 78-80 Gy, delivered as one daily
      fraction, five days a week, started between d1 and months 6 of the androgen deprivation
      therapy as per institution policy. The irradiation is the same as in the reference therapy
      arm.

      The minimum duration of androgen deprivation with GnRH agonist or antagonist therapy is 18
      months.

      For each patient, the duration of therapy must be elected upfront by the treating physician
      among three possible options: 18, 24 or 36 months. The institution shall also declare upfront
      the duration of the neoadjuvant treatment they intend to deliver to each patient (between 0
      and 6 months).

      The primary endpoint is progression-free survival defined as the time in days from
      randomization to death, clinical or biochemical progression, whichever comes first.

      Where

        -  PSA progression based on Phoenix definition, i.e. a rise by 2 ng/mL or more above the
           nadir PSA (Ref. 17) confirmed by a second value measured minimum 3 months later

        -  Clinical progression is defined as onset of obstructive symptoms requiring local
           treatment and demonstrated to be caused by cancer progression or evidence of metastases
           detected by clinical symptoms and confirmed by imaging

        -  Start of another line of systemic therapy in absence of progression

        -  Death due to any cause

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Clinical progression-free survival

        -  Time to next systemic anticancer therapy (including secondary hormonal manipulation)

        -  Proportion of patients switching from GnRH antagonists to GnRH agonists and total
           effective duration of treatment with the originally allocated drug.

        -  Overall survival

        -  Cancer specific survival

        -  PSA at six months after completion of RT Safety will be scored by the CTCAE version 4.0.
           The major safety endpoints in this study are

        -  the incidence of clinical cardiovascular events - CCE (i.e. arterial embolic or
           thrombotic events, hemorrhagic or ischemic cerebrovascular conditions, myocardial
           infarction, and other ischemic heart disease) in patients who had cardiovascular events
           before entering the trial and in those without such events.

        -  Incidence of urinary tract infection
    
  