
    
      Hyperbilirubinemia is one of the common diseases in neonates. According to the literature,
      the incidence of neonatal jaundice is around 60~70% in Western countries, and even higher
      among newborns of Asian ethnicity. There are many causes of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, one
      of the important mechanisms is the lack of intestinal microbial flora, which causes high
      level of conjugated bilirubin to be converted to unconjugated bilirubin via β-glucuronidase
      in the intestine. The high level of unconjugated bilirubin will be absorbed or returned to
      the blood via the enterohepatic circulation, resulting in jaundice. The main treatment of
      neonatal jaundice is phototherapy: unconjugated bilirubin is converted to a non-toxic isomer
      by blue light (wavelength 425-457 nm).

      At present, it has been confirmed that Escherichia coli (E. coli) in the intestine of animals
      produces two harmful bacterial enzymes, β-glucosidase and β-glucuronidase. Therefore, in
      recent years, scientists have used probiotics that inhibit the growth characteristics of
      pathogenic bacteria to study the treatment of neonatal jaundice. Chen Yi-Ji et al. have shown
      that probiotics inhibit the activity of intestinal β-glucuronidase, preventing the conversion
      of conjugated bilirubin to unconjugated bilirubin, thereby reducing the level of unconjugated
      bilirubin in the blood. Funda Tuzun et al.'s research indicates that bifidobacteria
      probiotics prevent breast milk jaundice, and probiotics prevent jaundice by increasing
      intestinal peristalsis and microbial flora. In addition, many studies have shown that
      Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium species have inhibitory efficacy on intestinal
      β-glucuronidase activity, but there is no specific indication of which strain has the best
      inhibitory efficacy. Based on the above research, the question investigators need to clarify
      is whether oral probiotics can correct the intestinal microbial flora of newborns of
      jaundice? Is there any difference in the improvement of neonatal jaundice by the addition of
      probiotics in breast milk, formula or mixed milk? Therefore, this study will first screen out
      the probiotics that have the best inhibitory efficacy of intestinal β-glucuronidase activity.
      In the second stage, the results of the first stage will be used to perform a neonatal
      jaundice oral probiotic double-blind randomized trial and the therapeutic efficacy will be
      observed.

      This trial will be carried out in two stages in the sick baby room of the Children's Hospital
      of China Medical University (CMUH). The first stage is: the API ZYM kit was used to determine
      the β-glucuronidase activity of 9 strains of Lactobacillus and 4 strains of Bifidobacterium,
      screening out the probiotics that have the best inhibitory efficacy of intestinal
      β-glucuronidase activity; The second stage is: using the results of the first stage analysis,
      treating the newborns of jaundice by oral probiotics. The inclusion criteria of jaundice
      infants were as follows: the full-term infant (≧37 weeks) had a jaundice index greater than
      15 mg/dl on the fourth day after birth, while neonates with hypothyroidism, trisomy 21,
      maternal blood type A, B and O incompatibility, gastrointestinal disease, Glucose-6-Phosphate
      Dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD deficiency), hemangioma, cephalhaematoma or hemorrhages,
      severe asphyxia (stage III), fetal chromosomal anomalies, cyanotic congenital heart disease,
      omphalocele, early onset sepsis or liver failure were excluded. The second stage of jaundice
      newborns will be divided into three groups: (I. experimental group) light therapy +
      Lactobacillus salivarius AP-32 (L. salivarius AP-32), (II. experimental group) light therapy
      + Bifidobacterium Animalis subspecies Lactis CP-9 (B. Animalis subsp. Lactis CP-9), (III.
      control group) light therapy + placebo. The study will be conducted for 7 days, the serum
      bilirubin level will be measured by the same group of experienced nurses every day, and all
      babies are monitored for adverse conditions such as vomiting, diarrhea or bloating.

      Calculation of sample size in the second stage: According to Chou Hung-Chieh et al.'s
      research, the incidence of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia was 30.5% for a concentration ≧15
      mg/dl. investigators assume that the experimental group has a 50% improvement compared with
      the control group. If investigators allow 5% chance of type 1 error (α=0.05) and 10% chance
      of type 2 error(β=0.1), then the required sample size in each group will be 60 people (total
      180 babies).

      The research data will be based on statistical software (called IBM SPSS) for analytical
      statistics. Normally distributed data were analyzed using Student's t-test two-tailed assay,
      and non-normally distributed data were analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Data
      were presented as mean ± standard deviation (SEM) or median, with P values < 0.05 being
      considered statistically significant.
    
  