
    
      In 60 - 75% of people with multiple sclerosis (MS) an upper limb mobility dysfunction
      (unilateral or bilateral manual dexterity, sensibility impairment, tremor) is present,
      resulting in reduced participation in activities of daily living.

      Physiotherapy has a crucial impact on upper limb mobility, although there are many approaches
      applied (exercise/strengthening exercise, endurance training, sensory training,
      constraint-induced movement therapy, robotic rehabilitation therapy, etc.).

      Virtual reality is an innovative technological concept using game mechanisms that facilitate
      concentration and motivation in task performance. Current research implies that VR is a safe
      and effective method in gait and balance//stability rehabilitation therapy and with less
      evidence, for upper limb mobility improvement. It is expected that a greater therapeutic
      effect is a result of multifactorial sense stimulation and dopamine centres in the brain.

      A pilot project showed that virtual reality without the prompt feedback of a physiotherapist
      is not more effective than standard therapy. A new therapeutic software using virtual reality
      spontaneously motivating the patient for movement realization was developed in cooperation
      with the Department of informatics and computer science Faculty of applied sciences
      University West Bohemia. Accurate execution of neuroproprioceptive "facilitation and
      inhibition techniques" physical therapy combining key principles from proprioceptive
      neuromuscular stabilization (PNS) and motor program activating therapy (MPAT), ensures a
      present physiotherapist. These principles have shown the effect in therapy in pwMS.
      Participants will be randomized into two arms of the study, both implementing
      neuroproprioceptive "facilitation and inhibition" physical therapy, first in a real
      environment and second in VR.

      The investigators expect that VR intervention shall improve upper limb motor functions, trunk
      muscles coordination, improve the performance of activities of daily living and quality of
      life in pwMS more than identical therapy not using VR.

      The effect of both interventions will be assessed using validated tests for clinical
      examination- Five times Sit to Stand test (5STS), Nine Hole Peg Test (9HPT), Hand Grip
      Strength (HGS), Box and Block Test (BNB), accelerometer for tremor examination. Validated
      questionnaires will be used, specifically the Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS-29),
      EQ-5D-3L health questionnaire, Visual Analogue Scale, and a questionnaire dealing with
      individual virtual reality intervention evaluation.
    
  