
    
      Preeclampsia (PET) is one of the leading causes of maternal morbidity and mortality . Its
      pathophysiology is poorly understood. Consequently, there are no efficient preventive and
      treatment modality. PET is associated with significant perinatal morbidity and mortality
      including prolonged hospitalization and is a major contributor to a large proportion of
      iatrogenic preterm birth. Women who suffer from PET are at a greater risk of hypertensive and
      cardiovascular diseases in later life and more likely to suffer from premature death. Since
      the only treatment for PET is delivery, a logical approach to reducing the incidence and
      therefore consequences is prevention. For this to be effective those at risk have to be
      identified and any timely interventions introduced.

      Amongst the risk factors are maternal age, obesity, medical disorders such as
      antiphospholipid syndrome, hypertensive disorders, renal diseases diabetes mellitus and
      previous PET. A history of PET increases the risk of recurrence 7 fold and this is compounded
      by GA at delivery for the affected pregnancy . Moreover, both chronic hypertension and
      pre-existing diabetes increase the risk of PET which is further enhanced by the degree of
      glycemic control. Interestingly maternal and paternal history of diabetes and hypertension
      have been associated with increased risk of PET. Additionally, maternal age > 40 years and
      pregnancy interval > 10 years increases the risk of PET by two to three folds respectively .A
      BMI > 35 increases the risk of PET by 4 folds in both multiparous and nulliparous women.
      Moreover, assisted reproduction techniques and multiple gestation have also been associated
      with increased risk of PET. A combination of diabetes and obesity, which has a high
      prevalence in Qatar, significantly increases the risk of PET. Despite these risk factors only
      a fraction of those with at high risk eventually develop PET as the current criteria for
      prediction is not specific.

      Various measures to predict, prevent and treat pre-eclampsia have been investigated and tried
      by several groups/researchers. However, these have not been very successful, primarily
      because PET is a disease of theories with an unclear primary pathophysiology and thus no
      clear target for either these predictive tools or interventions. Evidence, however, does
      suggest that in patients at risk of developing PET there is inadequate trophoblastic
      invasion, placental hypo-perfusion, and endothelial cell activation . This the basis for the
      most widely noninvasive clinical tool of Doppler velocimetry of the uterine artery; but
      again, this has a poor sensitivity. An imbalance in pro-angiogenic factors such as vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and placental growth factor (PIGF) (decreased) and
      antiangiogenic factors such as soluble FMSlike tyrosine kinase -1 (sFlt-1) (increased) has
      been implicated for the inadequate remodeling of spiral arteries (which is essential for the
      maintenance of a normal placental perfusion) in women who develop PET.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an important signaling protein in health and
      diseases such as cancer, kidney diseases and PET . The VEGF family is composed of five
      members and three tyrosine kinase receptors. The signaling proteins are: VEGFA, VEGFB,VEGFC,
      VEGFD and placental growth factor (PlGF) (reviewed in (20)). The receptor tyrosine kinase
      consists of VEGFR1 (also known as Flt-1), VEGFR2 and VEGF3, with different binding capacity
      to VEGF proteins . A soluble Fms like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) a truncated form of VEGFR1,
      has also been identified which lacks the VEGFR1 cytosolic domain. In addition to ligand
      binding, VEGFR has been shown to be activated through non-ligand binding and mechanical
      forces. VEGF proteins are upregulated under hypoxic conditions such as PET, growth factor
      signaling and by hormones such as estrogen .PET is characterized by a hypoxic environment,
      resulting in considerable changes in maternal leukocyte gene expression, altered expression
      of the VEGF signaling pathway and AMPactivated protein kinase (AMPK) and secretion of sFlt-1
      into the maternal circulation.VEGF including PIGF has been identified as a crucial in the
      signaling pathway for angiogenesis and vasculogenesis during placental development .Indeed,
      deletion of a single VEGF allele in mice resulted in embryonic lethality due to immature
      angiogenesis. The invasion of maternal spiral arteries by cytotrophoblasts is vital for
      adequate oxygen and nutrient supply . This process is believed to be mediated by binding of
      VEGF and PIGF to Flt-1 . Further, fetal DNA variants at the Flt-1 region has been associated
      with PET and reported recently . However, the pathophysiology of PET is still unclear and
      understanding of its molecular mechanism is warranted. A decreased level of VEGF and PIGF
      free form has been observed that has been attributed to their blockade by the increased level
      of sFlt-1 in pre-eclamptic women . Indeed, the introduction of sFlt-1 to a pregnant rat led
      to hypertension and proteinuria similar to that seen in PET women . Furthermore, an altered
      ratio of serum PIGF/sFlt-1 has been found to be associated with PET diagnosis and disease
      severity . Indeed, there is now a drive to use this ratio in screening women at risk of PET
      but most of the data were generated in late pregnancy rather than in early pregnancy - a time
      when interventions have been shown to have maximum impact . It would seem from this greater
      understanding of the underlying physiological changes in women that develop PET that any
      interventions that have the potential to alter this milieu are more likely to be successful
      .Very recently a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, that randomly assigned pregnant
      women without diabetes who had a body-mass index of more than 35 to receive metformin, at a
      dose of 3.0 g per day, or placebo (225 women in each group) from 12 to 18 weeks of gestation
      until delivery showed a significant reduction in the incidence of PET in those who received
      metformin . Since metformin is now frequently prescribed to obese type II diabetic women and
      gestational diabetics with poor glycemic control on diet, it is hypothesized in those at risk
      of PET, metformin will not only reduce the incidence of PET but will modify the PIGF/s-Flt-1
      ratio in favor of normal pregnancies.
    
  