
    
      One of the most important causes of carpal tunnel syndrome(CTS) is the pressure increase in
      the canal. With the loading of the palmaris longus at 20 degrees of wrist extension, the
      pressure within the canal increases more than the load exerted on other flexor tendons.
      Several studies have shown the association of carpal tunnel syndrome with the presence of
      palmaris longus. Our aim in this study is to investigate how the presence or absence of the
      palmaris longus changes the EMG measurements in the median nerve. Individuals with a
      diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome or entrapment neuropathy will be given the Schaffer test,
      a standardized test to test the presence of the palmaris longus muscle. The result will be
      noted, EMG examination will be requested, and the electrophysiological properties of the
      median nerve will be recorded. If the Schaffer test that detects the presence of palmaris
      longus is negative, 4 different tests that will prove the absence of palmaris longus will be
      performed by the same practitioner. These 4 tests are Thompson's test, Mishra's test I,
      Mishra's test II and Pushpakumar's "two-finger sign" method. Routine median nerve conduction
      studies are valuable in CTS. Prolonged distal latency in motor and sensory nerves can be
      found in most cases of CTS. If routine studies are insufficient, more sensitive methods are
      needed. These; Comparison of mixed latencies in the wrist recording of the sensory responses
      of the median and ulnar nerves with palmar stimulation, median and ulnar sensory latencies
      with orthodromic or antidromic recording from the 4th finger, median and ulnar motor
      latencies with recording from the second lumbrical and second interosseous muscle, median and
      radial sensory latencies with thumb recording It is based on determining the compression
      point by centrifugation method by performing segmental sensory nerve conduction examination.
    
  