
    
      Still recognized in youth only at a stage of complete beta-cell mass destruction and insulin
      deficiency, autoimmune T1D remains a source of major morbidity through daily life and chronic
      angiopathic complications despite a better glycemic control. T1D onset is now predominantly
      pediatric, since its incidence shows a rapid and continuous increase in young European
      children, due to unknown emerging environmental changes, creating a major need for
      discoveries in the environmental field. Finding avoidable E factors can allow T1D prevention
      in the whole children population. Lack of infectious exposures ("the hygiene hypothesis"),
      viruses, early nutrition, or other factors have been suspected, but E causes of T1D remain a
      black box, as for most human diseases, that should now be approached more systematically and
      with respect to gene-environment interactions.

      The aim of our study is to complete the identification of genetic factors (G) and to
      undertake the search of environmental factors (E) predisposing to type 1 diabetes (T1D) by
      constituting a cohort of 3500 T1D patients and a control cohort. We will use the base of G
      analysis (whole genome genotyping done once a patient using methods conually updated at
      Centre National de Genotype) and innovative E analysis to develop the following long term
      objectives :

        -  Identify G and E factors influencing the process of remaining beta cells' destruction
           during the first 3 years after diagnosis (subgroup of T1D patients with a 0-3 years
           diabetes duration);

        -  Identify G factors (pharmacogenomics) of the individual response to insulin using the
           effective insulin dose as a phenotype over a period of 2 years (subgroup of T1D patients
           with negative C-peptide and well managed diabetes);

        -  Undertake a prospective research of G and E risk factors of "death in bed" syndrome in
           diabetic adolescents;

        -  Undertake a prospective research of G and E risk factors of incipient glomerular
           microangiopathy (regule measurement of microalbuminuria).

      We propose to constitute a French multicentric cohort of T1D patients, well phenotyped by 3
      data types : genetic, environmental and clinical data. The data collection scheme includes at
      entry a comprehensive 850 items environmental questionnaire for all subjects and a full
      genotyping with at least 500,000 SNPs until whole-genome sequencing can be deployed by
      CNG-CEA. Every 6 months, a standardized clinical assessment is made in patients (a WEB
      application ensuring this standardization has already been developed). Personal address(es)
      will be collected and geocoded, then mapped with environmental geographic information systems
      (GIS).

      With environmental modelling, the high dimensionality analyses (HDA) constitutes one of the
      main originality of ISIS-DIAB approaches of translational research. HDA will face not only a
      massive mass of data, but data of a remarkable diversity (genomic variants, environmental
      items from questionnaires, environmental data bases mapped to patient address, space-time
      items, characteristics of social environment, clinical phenotypes etc). A given genotype
      (defined by many genomic variants) will predispose to T1D only in a given environmental
      context (defined possibly by a number of factors) and induce a given type of autoimmune
      process (age of onset, rate of destruction, biomarkers). Since T1D is both multifactorial and
      heterogeneous, causal factors may interact in a considerable number of scenarii, thus
      platforms which study these factors should obviously interact. Without HDA, each platform
      would be left faced with its own data. The chef d'orchestre has to be HDA, to integrate the
      massive amounts of data and draw networks of causality. Technological advances in HDA
      developed in other fields of sciences, business and economics (forecasting technology) will
      be transferred to biomedical research through ISIS-DIAB. French have a strong tradition of
      high-level maths in this area. We designed the ISIS-DIAB cohort and collection of data to
      feed HDA with multidisciplinary data. In ISIS-DIAB program, HDA will identify the variables
      that have the most predictive value on several outcomes (not confined to T1D causality).
    
  