
    
      The study populations consist of a sample of the patient population (men aged 40-79 years) of
      a large, group model HMO and a community sample of men age 50-79. Follow-up interviews of men
      randomly assigned to the intervention and control groups are being conducted by telephone to
      assess issues related to prostate cancer screening and the men's use of the CD-Rom
      educational intervention. Preliminary results are available for the first 1304 follow-up
      interviews (interim response rate = 26%). Of 554 men randomized to receive the CD-ROM, 227
      (41%) reported receiving the CD-ROM, and 78 (14%) used it in a computer. About 51% of these
      78 men used the CD-ROM once only, while 42% used it twice, and 27% shared it with someone
      else. Most users reported learning some (44%) or a great deal (46%) of new information from
      the CD-ROM, and most reported that it helped them organize their thoughts about screening
      somewhat (44%) or a great deal (28%). About 19% indicated that the CD-ROM increased their
      uncertainty somewhat or a great deal about whether or not they want to be screened, 30%
      reported that the CD-ROM changed their feelings about whether or not they want to be screened
      somewhat, and 12% reported that it changed their feelings a great deal. Men who used the
      CD-ROM had higher education, higher income, higher levels of computer usage, and were more
      likely to have previously had a PSA test compared to non-users. No other subject
      characteristics were significantly related to use. Using randomized group assignment in an
      "intention to treat" analysis, prostate cancer knowledge was significantly higher in the
      intervention group; there were no differences between study groups in decisional conflict or
      realistic expectations. However, when comparing those who did and did not use the CD-ROM
      using multiple regression analysis and controlling for differences in age, race, education,
      income, insurance status, previous receipt of prostate cancer screening, and computer usage,
      use of the CD-ROM was significantly associated with higher prostate cancer related knowledge,
      lower decisional conflict, and more realistic expectations about risk of dying from prostate
      cancer. After controlling for differences between users and non-users we found evidence that
      the CD-ROM was effective in reducing decisional conflict, and increasing knowledge and
      realistic expectations related to prostate cancer screening.
    
  