
    
      Surgical site infections (SSI) are serious complications accounting for 20% of all the
      healthcare-associated infections and are considered the second most frequent type of
      hospital-acquired infection in Europe and the United States. The incidence of SSI in England
      at 30-days is 8.6% for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) and 2.2% for non-CABG operations.
      SSI after cardiac surgery is associated with delays to patient's discharge, readmissions and
      re-operations; and can result in increased hospital costs for staffing, diagnostics and
      treatment.

      Risk assessment has been identified as potentially useful intervention in SSI prevention and
      in identifying at risk populations who may benefit from targeted interventions to reduce this
      possible complication of cardiac surgery. However, there is currently a lack of evidence as
      to which risk tools are the most valid and reliable to be used in clinical practice. The
      investigators developed and locally validated the Barts Heart Centre Surgical Infection Risk
      (B-SIR) tool to include patients with various types of cardiac surgeries and found that the
      B-SIR tool has a greater predictive power of SSI risk compared with the existing cardiac risk
      tools in the study population.

      However, various literatures recognised that the predictive performance of a risk model tends
      to vary across settings, populations and periods. Verification of the robustness and
      generalisability of a developed model is highly recommended in one or more external
      validation studies. Hence, the investigators aim to do a multi-centre validation of the newly
      developed B-SIR tool and apply all the other tools (Australian Cardiac Risk Index and
      Brompton and Harefield Infection Score) to identify what tool performs best that can
      potentially be use for the UK population.

      This study is a secondary data analysis that will utilise prospectively collected data that
      were locally collected in 6 UK cardiac centres for the National Institute for Cardiovascular
      Outcome Research (NICOR) and Public Health of England (PHE) Surgical Site Infection
      Surveillance. Data on various patients' risk factors will be collected and analysed to
      compare the ability of each risk assessment tool in predicting SSI after cardiac surgery. The
      outcome of this study will be beneficial to future cardiac surgery patients to assess their
      risk of developing SSI and help identify those patients who may benefit from targeted
      interventions.
    
  