
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces serum level of
      alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces serum levels of des-gamma
      carboxyprothrombin (DCP) and alpha-fetoprotein-L3 (AFP-L3) in patients with advanced liver
      disease due to chronic hepatitis C (hepatocellular carcinoma tumor markers).

      II. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks alters biochemical markers of liver
      disease (e.g., serum alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST],
      albumin, or bilirubin, etc.) and hepatitis C viral load in patients with advanced liver
      disease due to chronic hepatitis C (hepatitis C liver disease).

      III. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces serum levels of tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), plasma levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), 4-hydroxynonenal
      (4-HNE) and urine levels of F2-isoprostane in patients with advanced liver disease due to
      chronic hepatitis C (oxidative stress).

      IV. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces plasma levels of methionine
      and homocysteine and increases plasma glutathione (GSH) and SAMe in patients with advanced
      liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C (SAMe metabolites).

      V. To determine the safety, tolerability and quality of life of SAMe treatment (up to 2,400
      mg/day) for 24 weeks in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive SAMe orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 24 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO once daily (QD) for weeks 1-4, PO BID for weeks 5-8, and
      PO three times daily (TID) for weeks 9-24 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks.
    
  