
    
      Heart failure is nowadays one of the leading problems in cardiology. Heart failure is
      associated with high morbidity and mortality, as well as high social costs, resulting mainly
      from a large number of hospitalizations. Galectin-3 and ST-2 have an important role in
      remodeling and fibrosis of the left ventricle, one of the key pathophysiological mechanisms
      leading to the development of heart failure. Galectin-3 is a protein secreted by activated
      macrophages, that stimulate inflammation and fibrosis of the myocardium. ST2 molecule is a
      soluble glycoprotein belonging to the family of interleukin-1 receptor, secreted by
      inflammatory cells, cardiomyocytes and endothelium. The ST2 has two clinically relevant
      isoforms - transmembrane (ST-2L, ST-2 ligand) and soluble (sST-2, soluble ST-2) circulating
      in the bloodstream. sST2 is present in the extracellular environment and through competitive
      binding with IL-33 prevents its connection with ST2L, and triggers myocardial fibrosis.

      There is evidence of a prognostic value of both biomarkers in prediction of outcomes in heart
      failure patients. However, studies evaluating the role of Gal-3 and ST-2 in patients with
      ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) are lacking.

      The study will include consecutive patients with first STEMI treated with percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) in 1st Chair and Department of Cardiology, Medical University of
      Warsaw. The control group will consist of patients with risk factors for cardiovascular risk
      factors, but without history of coronary artery disease or heart failure. Patients will be
      followed for 12 months.

      Blood will be sampled twice during the study: 72-96 hours after hospital admission and during
      a follow-up visit at 12 months. Blood will be collected for routine laboratory tests, Gal-3,
      ST-2 and other biomarkers: cardiac troponin I (cTnI), C-reactive protein (CRP) and N-terminal
      pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP). Two-dimensional echocardiography will be
      performed 24-48 hours after PCI and during a follow-up visit at 12 months.

      The aim of the study is to assess the prognostic value of Gal-3 and ST-2 in patients after
      first STEMI treated with PCI in prediction of left ventricular systolic and diastolic
      dysfunction, development of heart failure, need for cardiovascular hospitalization and death
      during one year follow-up after STEMI.

      Furthermore, the baseline concentrations of biomarkers in the study and control groups will
      be compare.
    
  