
    
      The goal of this study is to examine how tau works in the Human Central Nervous System
      (CNS)and to test the hypothesis, that tau is altered (i.e. increased production, decreased
      clearance, and increased collection rate) with age, and in diseases caused by the disruption
      of how tau usually works. We will first test this hypothesis in AD and then test and compare
      other tau diseases in future studies. We have recently developed a novel approach to measure
      tau in the human CNS. We propose to utilize this approach to address fundamental questions of
      human tau production and metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. Researchers have designed this
      study to determine how long tau stays in the body. It involves labeling or marking tau with a
      special type of an essential amino acid called leucine. Our bodies naturally get leucine from
      the foods that we eat.

      In this study, the participant will either be given labeled leucine through intravenous
      infusion, or be given labeled leucine in a drink. The researchers think that it would be more
      convenient for the participant if the study was done giving the leucine by infusion but this
      method has not been tested with tau. The first part of the study is to test the infusion
      method and find the optimal infusion rate and length of time to hopefully see tau. If the
      method cannot be confirmed with the young normal control group the study will move on to
      using the oral method of labeling. This has been proven to work but it will be more
      burdensome for the participants. The leucine is a stable form of carbon found in nature and
      has no side effects but it will stick to certain proteins such as tau making the tau
      "visible" to researchers. Once labeled, the researchers will take samples of Cerebral Spinal
      Fluid (CSF) at different time points and determine how long the tau stays in the system. This
      amount of time is called the "half-life". Knowing the half-life of tau will help researchers
      to develop clinical trials that target tau and future therapeutic interventions for AD.

      The first type of labeling is Intravenous Infusion of Leucine. After successful screening,
      the subject would come to the CARS at 07:00 AM, (fasting from 10:00 PM the night before), and
      have an intravenous catheter placed. The researchers do not know exactly how much Leucine it
      will take to successfully label Tau so that they can see it. The first studies will be with
      Young Normal controls ages 18 and older. The researcher will test the following amounts of
      leucine; Leucine infusion for 24 hours at a rate of 4 mg/kg/hour. The researchers will
      process the samples immediately. If tau is visible at this amount a second participant will
      receive a lesser infusion time, leucine infusion for 16 hours at a rate of 4mg/kg/hour. The
      researchers will process the samples immediately, if tau is visible at this amount a third
      participant will receive a lesser amount of leucine to label tau. Leucine infusion at a rate
      of 2/mg/kg/hour for 24 hours. The samples will be tested and if the tau is seen at this
      amount then a lesser amount of infusion time will be tried. The leucine infusion will be done
      at at rate of 2/mg/kg/hour for 16 hours. This would be the goal of the study to infuse the
      least amount of leucine for the least amount of time.

      All meals are prepared by the Research Kitchen. When receiving leucine the participant has to
      have their meals controlled for the natural leucine found in our diets. The participant
      receives three meals and three snacks in the 24 hours and then a BJC cafeteria breakfast
      after their first lumbar puncture.

      Once the amount and time of leucine infusion is optimal more Young Normal Controls will
      repeat the infusion study for confirmation. Each participant will complete a total of 5
      Lumbar Punctures over time.

      If the infusion method is not capable of showing adequate levels of tau the study will move
      on to the Oral method of labelling. Participants will come to the Research Kitchen on day one
      to pick up meals for two days, leucine for two days, as well as a diet diary. Participants
      will receive a great deal of explanation and support as this method is burdensome because of
      the visits, three days a week to pick up their food, as well as needing to mix, and drink
      leucine in Kool-Aid 3 times a day for 10 days, and keep a diet diary.

      Once participants are labeled the Lumbar Punctures are performed. The Infusion and the Oral
      method each have a schedule of Lumbar Puncture days.

      Fundamental questions of tau kinetics and processing have not been addressed in humans. There
      has been no reliable technique to measure in vivo tau metabolism. Questions such as 1)what is
      the half-life of tau in the human central nervous system (CNS), 2)is cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) tau increased due to over-production or under-clearance, 3)are tau kinetics altered in
      Alzheimer's Disease (AD), and 4)how much should tau be modulated by drugs which target tau
      have not been addressed to date in humans. We propose to apply a recently developed tau
      stable isotope labeling kinetics (SILK) method to measure tau kinetics in AD patients and
      age-matched cognitively normal controls to determine physiological and pathophysiological
      changes in tau metabolism. We hypothesize that tau production will be increased in AD.

      Aim 1: To measure physiological tau kinetics with the tau SILK method in the CNS of normal
      human participants and determine the effects of age. (a) We will quantify in vivo CNS tau
      SILK kinetics of 10 YNCs (Age 18-64) and determine the physiological kinetics of human tau.
      (b) We hypothesize that tau half-life and clearance are slowed with increasing age. Tau
      kinetics under normal physiological conditions will be compared across different age groups.
      The participants with normal CSF tau concentrations and normal tau PET imaging results from
      10 age-matched controls (age 65 and greater) from Aim 2 will be included in the analyses.

      Aim 2: To determine pathological changes in tau kinetics in AD dementia. We hypothesize that
      soluble tau production is increased in AD with subsequent increase in aggregation rates and
      irreversible loss of soluble tau. We will examine the kinetics of CNS tau in 10 participants
      with late-onset AD dementia and 10 cognitively normal age-matched controls (age 65 and
      greater).

      Results from this tau SILK study will help elucidate the dynamic kinetics of human CNS tau in
      physiology and pathophysiology of tauopathies. The tau SILK method will facilitate future
      efforts to evaluate the efficacy of tau-targeted therapies and help effectively design future

      Genetic and biochemical evidence suggest that amyloid beta and tau contribute to the
      pathogenesis and pathophysiology of Alzheimer's Disease(AD). Tau cerebral spinal fluid (CSF)
      levels correlate with cognitive decline in AD, but currently we have little knowledge of tau
      metabolism in humans as no prior method could test the hypothesis that kinetics of tau are
      altered in disease. We pioneered the Stable Isotope Labeling Kinetics (SILK) to determine
      Abeta; kinetics and demonstrated increased Abeta42 production in mutation carriers of early
      onset AD and decreased Abeta; clearance in sporadic AD. We now propose to use recently
      developed tau SILK method to determine the tau kinetics in human central nervous system
      (CNS). Previous studies using mouse models suggest that tau is a slow turnover protein with a
      half-life of approximately 2 weeks. It is also less abundant compared to Abeta; however, we
      have utilized sensitive mass spectrometry method to detect and measure labeled tau in human
      CSF.

      Quantitation of the physiological and pathological kinetics of tau in this proposal will be
      crucial for understanding the pathogenesis of AD and other tauopathies. For example,
      questions such as 'why is tau increased in AD CSF - overproduction or impaired clearance?'
      need to be addressed to guide therapeutic targeting. By quantifying the changes in tau
      production and clearance, better estimates of target engagement can be made. The tau SILK
      method will be an invaluable tool in future studies to determine the pathophysiology of tau
      in AD and other neurodegenerative diseases (e.g. Corticobasal degeneration (CBD), Progressive
      supranuclear palsy (PSP), and Frontotempral Dementia (FTD)) and to evaluate potential drug
      candidates and genetic manipulations which target Tau. A combination of the tau SILK protocol
      and a novel tau PET (T807) imaging allows us to examine in-depth the in vivo human soluble
      and aggregate tau dynamics.
    
  