
    
      Trial Design: Mixed method approach to development of an intervention: observational cohort
      study, focus groups, staff survey, theory informed intervention development using 'The
      Behaviour Change Wheel'.

      Trial Participants:

        1. Patients admitted to hospital for an episode of decompensated HFrEF who have been
           referred to the Heart Failure Nursing Service (HFNS) and are eligible for referral for
           cardiac rehabilitation.

        2. Carers of patient participants

        3. Health care professionals involved in the referral to or provision of cardiac
           rehabilitation services for people with chronic heart failure

      Planned Sample Size:

      203 patients in observational study; 50 participants in focus groups; 40 health care
      professionals

      Follow-up duration:

      Part 1 of the study: Observational Cohort: from discharge to 6 weeks post discharge; Part 2
      of the study: Focus groups: participation in 1 focus group not before their 6 week follow up
      from observational study. Feedback on final proposed intervention. Carers: participate in one
      focus group not before patient's 6 week follow up visit. ; Part 3 of study: Health care
      professional: single participation in survey and subgroup of HCP feedback on final proposed
      intervention

      Planned Trial Period 24 months (including feasibility study of intervention)

      Primary Objective: The primary objective of this study is to determine the key modifiable
      patient related factors associated with the acceptance of referral to cardiac rehabilitation
      in patients post discharge following an episode of decompensated chronic heart failure.

      Secondary Objectives: Using the Behaviour Change wheel synthesize the data from the
      observational study, stakeholder perspectives and the literature on behaviour change
      interventions, develop a theory based intervention to increase the uptake of referral to
      cardiac rehabilitation in patients post discharge following an episode of decompensated
      chronic heart failure.

      Primary Endpoint:

      Observational study: Uptake of referral to cardiac rehabilitation by patients following an
      episode of decompensated heart failure at baseline visit.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Observational study: Uptake of referral to cardiac rehabilitation by patients following an
      episode of decompensated heart failure at 6 weeks post discharge.

      Focus groups and staff survey: Identify patient, carer and health care professional perceived
      barriers and facilitators to the uptake of referral to cardiac rehabilitation by patients
      following an episode of decompensated heart failure.

      In consultation with experts in theory based interventions, data from all steps of the
      programme of study will be used to develop an intervention aimed at improving rate of
      acceptance of referral to CR in this patient population.

      Further stakeholder involvement The intervention will be presented back in written form to
      focus groups members for further comment either written or via telephone contact. Health care
      professionals (HFNS team and CR team) will be invited for feedback on expected effectiveness
      and acceptability following which further adaptation of the intervention may occur
    
  