
    
      Objectives

      The primary objectives of this pilot-feasibility study were:

        1. To design and adapt a brief CBT-i intervention to be provided by PCPs for the treatment
           of chronic insomnia in individuals who are 18 to 65 years-old.

        2. To define usual care (UC) for the treatment of chronic insomnia provided by PCPs as a
           comparative intervention (control group).

        3. To assess the training activities for the CBT-i intervention by determining GPs' and
           nurses' satisfaction with the content and applicability of the intervention.

        4. To determine the acceptability of the intervention by GPs and nurses.

        5. To assess PCPs and patient recruitment, follow-up, and adherence to the intervention The
           secondary objective was to assess the quality of sleep in patients after 3 months of the
           CBT-i.

      Methods Design This pilot-feasibility study of a cluster parallel randomized design comparing
      CBT-I against usual care (UC) was performed from September 2014 to April 2015 at two primary
      health care centers of Majorca (Spain) with 56,000 registered inhabitants.

      Collection of information and follow up Intervention The CBT-i intervention was developed by
      two family physicians (IT and CV) and two psychologists (ET and MRP-P). First, a review of
      the literature on the use of CBT-i was performed, with a focus on interventions applied in
      primary care. After the literature review, the CBT-i created by Morin [24] was adapted to our
      setting, in which there were fewer sessions and shorter sessions. The CBT-i included sleep
      hygiene counseling, stimulus control, cognitive restructuring, relaxation techniques, and
      benzodiazepine therapy or withdrawal (when needed). To conduct the intervention, guidelines
      for GPs and nurses and graphic and written materials for patients (sleep diary, registry of
      behavior habits, and cognitive problems) were developed.

      Usual care The usual treatment for persistent insomnia in a primary care setting was
      previously described in two cross-sectional studies performed by general practitioners and
      family nurses of the Primary Care Majorca Department during 2011 and 2015
    
  