
    
      At the present time, there is no consensus about the position of the knee during tensioning
      anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) graft fixation at the time of reconstruction, although it
      can be assumed to be one of the key factors for successful ACL reconstruction (ACLR). In
      studies that have investigated transtibial ACLR, it was suggested that 20 degrees is the
      ideal KFA to optimize graft force and the relative Antero-Posterior (AP) tibiofemoral
      relationship, while several other authors have advocated fixation in full extension to avoid
      overconstraining the knee. In the setting of anatomic ACLR, it has been reported that the
      tensioning of the graft at 30 degrees of knee flexion was associated with loss of knee
      extension when the anatomic femoral tunnel was chosen. Previous studies have performed gait
      analysis during walking in 24 patients with ACLR with hamstring autograft where graft
      fixation was performed at 25 degrees of knee flexion. In these study, the trans tibial (TT)
      technique resulted in significantly greater anterior femoral translation than healthy
      controls during the swing phase and excessive tibial internal rotation (IR) was found at
      midstance. In knees repaired with the anteromedial portal (AMP) technique, subjects were
      significantly less extended (5 degrees) compared with controls in late stance phase. While
      the AMP technique has the potential to improve overall joint stability, patients were shown
      to have increased difficulty with knee extension. It has also been demonstrated that since
      the anteromedial (AM) and posterolateral (PL) bundles of the ACL are at their longest in knee
      extension, the best angle for fixation would be near full extension. The aforementioned
      studies support the concept that anatomic ACL has an increased likelihood of anisometry and
      as a result the chosen KFA for fixation becomes increasingly important.

      The lack of consensus regarding the optimal KFA in ACLR is reflected in the practice patterns
      of surgeons. A survey of Canadian Orthopaedic Surgeons demonstrated that 40% of surgeons fix
      the ACL at a 30 degree KFA while 30% perform fixation in full extension. The purpose of this
      study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial to determine if the KFA during ACLR graft
      fixation has an effect on postoperative outcomes. Patients undergoing single bundle BPTB ACLR
      will be randomized to have the surgical repair done with a KFA of either 0 degrees, or 30
      degrees (measured by sterile goniometer) during anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) fixation.
      Patients will be followed for 24 months post surgery, with a number of qualitative patient
      surveys and clinical measurements being collected at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months post op, with
      changes being compared to baseline survey response and clinical measurement scores.
    
  