
    
      The goal of this study is to explore if the SynPhNe system can be used easily at home for
      people who suffered a stroke. With this study, we are also investigating if the SynPhNe
      system used could improve your hand function when it is used with a few sessions of research
      therapy.

      SynPhNe is a non-invasive device. It consists of a piece worn around the forearm, a head
      component and it communicates wirelessly via Bluetooth with the computer to provide subject
      with feedback while performing motor tasks with their hand. The head cap records your brain
      activity and gives feedback to help relaxing while exercising.

      We are combining the use of the device with a research oriented rehabilitation program in a
      supervised environment. The SynPhNe system has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration.

      Subjects will be randomized by chance (like a coin toss) to one of the two groups: lab-based
      upper extremity research therapy alone or lab-based upper extremity research therapy in
      addition to the SynPhNe system for home-based exercises.

        -  The lab-based upper-extremity research therapy in its content is similar to regular
           occupational therapy and will focus exercise movements of arm and hand.

        -  The group testing the SynPhNe system at home will have the system lent at no cost.

      The study last for up to 12 weeks and involves up to 22 sessions in total:

        -  Up to 3 sessions will be for testing arm movements (at baseline, after research therapy
           and at 1 month follow-up).

        -  18 research therapy sessions. 10 of them will be done at Spaulding Rehabilitation
           Hospital with a therapist and 8 of them by yourself, at home. Subjects will either be
           using the SynPhNe system or use the therapy plan recommended by the therapist, depending
           on the randomization. Each of these visits will be an hour long. They will be scheduled
           3 days per week for six weeks.
    
  