
    
      A total of 48 Subjects are planned to be enrolled in a 6-cohort SAD study (36 in the
      treatment groups and 12 in the control groups). All SAD cohorts will have 6 Subjects in the
      treatment group and 2 Subjects in placebo group. All cohorts in the SAD study will
      incorporate sentinel dosing which will include 1 active and 1 placebo Subject. All remaining
      Subjects will be dosed at least 24 hours after the sentinel cohort participants. A total of
      24 Subjects are planned to be enrolled in a 3 cohort MAD study (18 in the treatment groups
      and 6 in the control groups). All MAD cohorts will have 6 Subjects in the treatment group and
      2 Subjects in placebo group.

      (2R,6R)-Hydroxynorketamine hydrochloride will be administered intravenously over a 40-minute
      period as a solution in a 25 mM sodium phosphate 0.9% w/v saline solution. The SAD doses will
      range from 0.1 mg/kg to 4.0 mg/kg and the investigational drug product will be diluted into a
      53 mL total volume of formulant. Placebo will be made up of a 0.9% w/v saline solution (53 mL
      total volume) also administered via slow IV infusion over a 40-minute period.

      Serial PK blood samples will be collected during the SAD portion for each Subject receiving
      drug and placebo at 9 timepoints (preinfusion, end-of-infusion [approximately 40 minutes], 1,
      2, 4, 8, 12, 24, and approximately 48 hr after the start of the infusion). Pharmacokinetic
      urine samples will be collected during the SAD study for each Subject receiving drug and
      placebo at set intervals following the initiation-of-infusion (0-4, >4-8, >8-12, >12-24 hr).
      Serial PK blood and urine samples will be collected for the first and fourth (last) dosing in
      the MAD study for each Subject receiving drug and placebo. Blood PK samples will be obtained
      at 9 timepoints (preinfusion, end-of-infusion [approximately 40 minutes], 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24,
      and approximately 48 hr after the start of the infusion). A single PK blood sample will be
      collected for the second and third dosing in the MAD study for each Subject receiving drug
      and placebo at approximately 10 minutes predose. Pharmacokinetic urine samples will be
      collected during the MAD study for each Subject receiving drug and placebo at set intervals
      following the initiation-of-infusion (0-4, >4-8, >8-12, >12-24 hr) after the first and last
      dose.

      Safety will be assessed throughout the study. Baseline and follow-up safety assessments will
      include height, body mass index (BMI), weight, temperature, medical, visual and ocular
      history, physical examinations, ocular examinations, visual acuity, color vision tests,
      electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital signs (VS), clinical laboratory tests (hematology, serum
      chemistry, and urinalysis), the Profile of Mood States (POMS), the Columbia-Suicide Severity
      Rating Scale (C-SSRS), the Clinician Administered Dissociative States Scale (CADSS), and
      adverse events (AEs). Safety assessments will include AEs, ECGs, VS, clinical laboratory
      results, and physical observations. Assessment of each Subject's level of alertness/sedation
      will be accomplished using the Modified Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation (MOAA/S).
      Evaluation of safety in the MAD study will utilize the same safety assessments used in the
      SAD study. Monitoring of AEs will be governed by change from baselines established during
      prescreening and Day -1 examinations and clinical laboratory tests. Dose escalation in the
      SAD study or continued dosing in the MAD study may be stopped according to the predefined
      halting rules or if a Subject's scores demonstrate acute suicidality on the C-SSRS assessment
      or at the discretion of the study Principal Investigator and/or sponsor. Determination of
      whether to escalate to the next dose level in the SAD study or continue dosing in the MAD
      will be made by the Principal Investigator in consultation with the Medical Monitor and Study
      Sponsor.
    
  