
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Exercise is a key component of behavioral weight loss programs because of its effect on
      weight loss, body composition, cardiovascular disease risk factors, and other obesity related
      diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus. Despite these benefits, it is unclear whether
      there is an optimal exercise duration and/or intensity that will enhance long-term weight
      loss. The current public health recommendation for physical activity is for individuals to
      participate in at least 30 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity on most days of
      the week (approximately 150 minutes per week total). However, it is unclear whether this
      amount of exercise is adequate for long-term weight loss. Moreover, cross-sectional studies
      have shown that individuals that have been successful at long-term weight loss participate in
      levels of physical activity that are greater than the current public health recommendations.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The researchers hypothesized that adopting higher levels of exercise duration and/or
      intensity, coupled with a strong behavioral intervention would enhance long-term weight loss.
      To test this hypothesis, they recruited 200 overweight women and randomly assigned them to
      one of four treatment groups: (1) moderate intensity, moderate 1000cal/wk duration exercise,
      (2) vigorous intensity moderate duration exercise, (3) moderate 2000cal/wk intensity, high
      duration exercise, and (4) vigorous intensity, high duration exercise. All subjects
      participated in a 24-month behavioral weight loss program, with subjects attending group
      meetings and receiving periodic telephone contacts from the weight loss program, with
      subjects attending group meetings and receiving periodic telephone contacts from the
      interventionists. In addition, to facilitate the adoption of the exercise protocols, all
      subjects were provided with a home treadmill. Assessment of body weight occured at 0, 6, 12,
      and 24 months and exercise participation was measured throughout the program. In addition,
      body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, cardiovascular disease risk factors, and
      mediators of behavior change were measured at 0, 6, 12, and 24 months.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  