
    
      A total of 60 cancer patients who are aged 18 years or above and have persistent peripheral
      neuropathy for at least 3 months after completion of oxaliplatin-, paclitaxel-, or
      docetaxel-based chemotherapy will be recruited. After randomization, the experimental group
      (n = 30) will receive high-frequency rTMS, while the control group (n = 30) will receive sham
      rTMS. The rTMS will be delivered over M1 (hand representation) of dual hemispheres with 10
      trains of 10 Hz pulses for 10 seconds, with a total of 1,000 pulses per hemisphere. The rTMS
      intensity will be set as 80% resting motor threshold and the interval between each train of
      pulses will be set as 50 seconds. The rTMS will be delivered as daily session for five
      consecutive days, followed by two fortnightly maintenance sessions during the follow-up
      period after the completion of five daily sessions. The rTMS will be delivered by designated
      physical therapists using "figure-of-8" shaped coil connected to an electromagnetic
      stimulator in the rehabilitation therapy room of the study hospitals in mainland China.

      The research outcomes are feasibility (1. recruitment: i.e. the length of time spent on
      recruiting participants, the mean number of participants been recruited each month, and the
      proportion of eligible patients who are finally recruited in the study; 2. eligibility: the
      proportion of screened patients meeting the inclusion criteria; 3. retention and attrition
      rates: the proportion of recruited participants who complete the study or who drop out from
      the study with or without any reason; and 4. appropriateness of clinical outcome measures:
      the proportion of incomplete questionnaires and neurological tests, as well as the
      characteristics of the missing data.), acceptability (Chinese version of the Patients' Global
      Impression of Change [PGIC] scale), safety, and trend of improvement in pain, other related
      symptoms, and quality of life by rTMS in cancer patients with CIPN.
    
  