
    
      Trial name: PAracetamol and NSAID in combination: A randomised, blinded, parallel, 4-group
      clinical trial

      Trial acronym: PANSAID

      Background: Effective postoperative pain management is essential for the well-being and
      rehabilitation of the surgical patient. No "gold standard" exists after total hip
      arthroplasty (THA) and combinations of different non-opioid medications are used with
      virtually no evidence for additional analgesic efficacy compared to monotherapy.

      Objectives: The objective of this trial is to investigate the analgesic effects and safety of
      paracetamol and ibuprofen and their combination in different dosages after THA.

      Intervention: Patients are randomised to 4 groups: A) paracetamol 1 g x 4 and ibuprofen 400
      mg x 4; B) paracetamol 1 g x 4 and placebo (ibuprofen); C) placebo (paracetamol) and
      ibuprofen 400 mg x 4; and D) paracetamol 0,5 g x 4 and ibuprofen 200 mg.

      Design: Placebo controlled, parallel 4-group, multicentre trial with adequate centralised
      computer-generated allocation sequence and allocation concealment with varying block size and
      stratification by site. Blinding of assessor, investigator, caregivers, patients, and
      statisticians.

      Sample size: 556 eligible patients are needed to detect a difference of 10 mg morphine the
      first postoperative day with a standard deviation of 20 mg and a type 1 error rate of 0,004
      (two-sided) and a type 2 error rate of 0,10.

      Sub-studies: We preplan the following sub-studies. :

        1. A subgroup analysis of benefit outcomes (pain and opioid consumption) with respect to
           the following sub-groups: sex, age (below vs above 65 years old), ASA-score (I+II vs
           III), Use of analgesic medication before surgery (none vs any) and anaesthetic technique
           (general anaesthesia vs. spinal anaesthesia). Please find a detailed protocol at
           www.pansaid.dk

        2. A subgroup analysis of harm (serious adverse events and adverse events) with respect to
           the following groups sex, age (below vs above 65 years old), use of NSAIDs before
           surgery, and ASA-score (I+II vs III). Please find a detailed protocol at www.pansaid.dk

        3. Longer follow-up than the specified 90 days (1 year)

        4. An analysis of the association between VAS-scores and opioid consumption

        5. Time-to-event analyses regarding use of PCA-morphine

        6. An analysis of the association between preoperative analgesic use and pain/morphine
           consumption

        7. An analysis of the individual patients: how many will achieve "no worse than mild pain"
           (NRS<3). Please find a detailed protocol at www.pansaid.dk

      More sub-studies may be performed post-hoc and they will be clearly identified as such.

      Oversight of amendments and approvals Protocol version 2: Approved 12 August 2015: First
      approved version of the trial protocol

      Protocol version 3: Approved 21 January 2016: Clarification of what happens in case of an SAE
      and definition of major protocol violations

      Protocol version 4: Approved 15 June 2016: Clarification of the primary outcome,
      clarification that steroids are not permitted in the intervention period, and addition of an
      exploratory outcome (dizziness)

      Protocol version 5: Approved 21 December 2016: Clarification of the exclusion criteria of
      contraindication to paracetamol and addition of stub-studies
    
  