
    
      As liver function is preserved, quality of life is the main outcome in PLD. Patient reported
      outcomes are increasingly utilized to assess treatment efficacy & can include any endpoint
      derived from patient reports & are usually assessed by questionnaire. Several existing
      generic questionnaires assess gastrointestinal symptoms, but include irrelevant items for
      polycystic liver disease (PLD) & do not examine relevant extra-abdominal symptoms. Also, a
      questionnaire that assesses the full range of PLD related problems is more likely to be
      responsive to changes after treatment initiation. Therefore, a tool that accurately detects
      changes in PLD symptoms is required.

      The development and first steps of validation of this questionnaire are already completed in
      Netherlands. We will further develop this questionnaire for English speaking patients and
      validate it in Mayo Clinic cohorts.

      The study contains three phases. Phase 1: pilot testing of the directly translated
      questionnaire (from dutch into english) in a small group of polycystic liver disease (PLD)
      patients. We will include both symptomatic & asymptomatic patients (i.e. from mild to severe
      PLD). Phase 2: further refinement of the questionnaire using the results of the pilot test
      and input of Mayo patient and clinician focus groups. Phase 3: Further validation in a large
      cohort of 200 PLD patients with (1) comparison with 200 controls without PLD, (2)
      cross-sectional correlation with total liver (TLV) & kidney volumes (TKV), (3) comparing
      ADPKD patients with & without PLD (5) against other validated questionnaires (e.g. SF36) &
      (5) development of a custom "Worry Questionnaire" examining disease-related worries &
      concerns. Finally, longitudinal analyses will be performed to assess PLD-Q sensitivity to
      change in symptoms. Statistical & psychometric analyses will be provided by Mayo Clinic
      quality of life Research group, & developed in accordance with Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) guidance on patient-reported outcome measures in consultation with their Study
      Endpoints & Labeling Development Division.
    
  