
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Significant seasonal variation of blood cholesterol levels has been shown in a number of
      cross-sectional studies, with important implications for national screening and therapeutic
      guidelines. However, the phenomenon has not been well studied: little is known about etiology
      or about seasonal variation of lipid subfractions.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators assessed the magnitude and timing of the seasonal effect for total
      cholesterol and the important lipoprotein subfractions (low-density lipoprotein, high-density
      lipoprotein, triglycerides, apolipoproteins AI and B, and lipoprotein (a)) in both sexes and
      at different ages. They also identified and quantified the effects of the main factors
      determining the variation and assessed the seasonal variation of other blood elements thought
      to play a role in the development of coronary heart disease, including hemostatic factors and
      antioxidants Finally, they explored the implications of the phenomenon for public health
      policy.

      Baseline and serial measures were repeated quarterly for one year. These included measures
      of: serum lipids and lipoproteins; antioxidant vitamins; platelets and hemostatic factors;
      demographic factors; weight, waist-hip ratio, height, body mass index (BMI) and blood
      pressure; dietary intake; physical activity; light exposure; and psychologic factors.
      Meteorologic data were also collected. Data were collected by written questionnaire and by
      the use of computer-assisted evening telephone interviews (CATI), which were used for the
      collection of dietary, physical activity and individual light-exposure and other lifestyle
      data. Activity and light data were verified in a subset of 80 patients by the use of a
      monitoring device. Analyses included methods to describe the seasonal variation in dietary,
      physical activity, psychologic, and light exposure data and repeated measures in linear
      regression models to determine the roles of specific dietary, physical activity, psychologic,
      and light-exposure related covariates in explaining variability in blood lipids, antioxidant
      vitamins, and hemostatic factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  