
    
      Rationale: External beam radiotherapy is one of the standard treatment options for patients
      with prostate cancer. The overall treatment time of a standard fractionated schedule varies
      between 7 and 8 weeks (i.e. 35-40 fractions, 5x/week). Recent studies have identified a
      proportionally longer overall treatment time as a potential adverse factor for treatment
      outcome in prostate cancer patients who were treated by conventional radiotherapy schedules.
      Furthermore shortening of the overall treatment time promotes patient convenience. An extreme
      shortening of the overall treatment time is possible by using hypofractionated treatment
      schedules with simultaneous integrated intraprostatic tumor boosting to overcome local
      recurrences.

      Objective: In this study we will investigate the feasibility and safety of a reduction in the
      overall treatment time of radiotherapy for prostate cancer patients, making use of
      hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy with focal boosting. We are looking for the
      optimal overall treatment time for this treatment strategy in the Hypo-FLAME 2.0 trial. In
      this study the total treatment time will be halved (15 days) in comparison with the total
      treatment time in the former Hypo-FLAME trial (29 days). Besides a potential biological
      advantage, the reduced overall treatment time offers benefits with respect to patient
      convenience.

      Study population: One hundred twenty four patients with histologically proven intermediate-
      or high-risk prostate cancer will be included in this multicenter phase II study. Patients
      referred for external beam radiotherapy who fulfil the inclusion criteria and without any of
      the exclusion criteria will be included in the present trial after written informed consent.

      Intervention: Patients will be treated with a stereotactic body radiation therapy technique
      up to 35 Gray in 5 fractions of 7 Gray to the whole prostate gland. Additionally a
      simultaneously integrated focal boost to the macroscopic tumor nodule(s) visible on MRI up to
      50 Gray (10 Gray/fraction) will be delivered. Treatment fractions will be delivered twice
      weekly, resulting in an overall treatment time of 2,5 weeks.

      Main study endpoints: The primary endpoint of this study is acute gastrointestinal and
      genitourinary toxicity, scored using the Common Terminology Criteria Adverse Events version
      5.0. Secondary endpoints are late gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicity, quality of
      life and biochemical disease free survival defined by the Phoenix consensus definition.
    
  