
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the feasibility and patient acceptability of radical cystectomy vs
           selective bladder preservation (SBP) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with
           muscle-invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder.

        -  To determine compliance rates of patients with their assigned treatments.

        -  To determine if bladder preservation is equivalent to radical cystectomy, in terms of
           overall survival, in responders to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the overall survival of patients receiving SBP vs radical cystectomy.

        -  To determine the rate of salvage cystectomy in patients undergoing bladder preservation.

        -  To determine and compare the toxicity of treatment in both arms.

        -  To determine and compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare locoregional progression-free and metastasis-free survival of patients
           treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to cancer center and
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients are assessed after completion of 3 courses of
      pre-study neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Patients with poor response (≥ pT2, residual pT2,
      macroscopic invasive tumor) undergo immediate radical cystectomy (within 6 weeks fo
      completing chemotherapy). Patients* with responsive disease (≤ pT1 tumor or macroscopically
      normal bladder) proceed to course 4 of chemotherapy (on-study) followed by treatment
      according to randomization arm.

      NOTE: *Patients with a clear bladder or those who are unsure of their histological results
      prior to course 4 also proceed to chemotherapy.

        -  Course 4 of neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over
           30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and cisplatin IV over 4 hours on day 1.

        -  Arm I (radical cystectomy): Patients undergo a radical cystectomy, including pelvic
           lymphadenectomy, between 4 and 6 weeks after initiating course 4 of chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II (selective bladder preservation): Patients with no visible residual tumor (cT0 or
           pT0) or residual but superficial tumor (pTa, pT1) undergo radiotherapy beginning within
           4-6 weeks of day 1 of course 4 and continuing for 6.5 weeks.

      Health-related quality of life is assessed periodically.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  