
    
      Plasma BNP is regarded as the most sensitive test for congestive heart failure (CHF).
      Multiple studies have shown that BNP is a distress hormone released by the distended left
      ventricular myocardium which correlates significantly with left ventricular wedge pressure
      and all-cause mortality in those with CHF and acute coronary syndromes. BNP has also been
      found to be highly prognostic across a wide variety of other conditions including pulmonary
      hypertension, pulmonary embolism and in the general population where mild increases are
      associated with stroke and heart attack. BNP is weakly and variably correlated with renal
      function. How much of this elevation is related to renal clearance or the perturbations of
      the circulation that uremia, hypertension and chronic fluid overload cause is speculative.

      There is a paucity of information about BNP levels in hemodialysis (HD) patients.
      Intuitively, BNP levels should be an ideal marker for left ventricular preload or dry weight
      in the HD population. Furthermore since BNP has a short half-life of 20 minutes, serial
      measurements during dialysis would be expected to rapidly reflect ultrafiltration and fluid
      status. Currently the amount of fluid removed during dialysis is defined clinically by
      inter-dialysis weight gain, hypertension, edema or dyspnea. Accurate assessment of ideal or
      dry weight is critically important in HD patients as both fluid overload and intravascular
      dehydration can have fatal consequences in this very frail population.

      The few published articles on BNP as a marker for adequacy of dialysis have given conflicting
      data and have been flawed by both small sample size and not doing sequential measurements on
      each patient.

      Cardiac troponins are well-established markers of myocardial injury. Both troponin I and T
      subtypes are regulatory proteins that help coordinate the actions of actin and myosin.
      Existing both in the cytosol and in the structure of the myocardium, their release is
      believed to correlate with the breakdown of actin and myosin in the area of myocardial
      damage. Elevated troponin levels have also been correlated with pulmonary embolism and other
      sources of right heart strain. Their use in the setting of patients with ESRD has been less
      clear. Sampling of asymptomatic ESRD patients found a significant percentage of them to have
      elevated troponins. Proposed mechanisms for this increase include impaired renal excretion,
      left ventricular hypertrophy, endothelial dysfunction, stretch mediated troponin release, and
      leakage of cytoplasmic free troponin secondary to poor membrane integrity. Regardless of the
      mechanism, a large study of asymptomatic patients found significantly increased mortality in
      those with increased troponins.

      While the correlation between increased troponins and mortality has been shown, the effects
      of hemodialysis on troponin levels has yet to be demonstrated in published studies.

      HYPOTHESIS: We believe that each dialysis patient will have an ideal or "dry" BNP level which
      will accurately and reproducibly reflect their optimal fluid status. Subsidiary hypotheses
      are that baseline BNP and troponin, as well as changes in BNP and troponin during dialysis,
      will be highly predictive of mortality and adequacy of dialysis.
    
  