
    
      Data from literature suggest that control of postoperative pain remains difficult and
      insufficient despite interventions to improve the management of children's home-based
      postoperative pain. In 2017, a recent Australian prospective audit confirms that pain is
      still underestimated and under-treated by medical staff and home-based families. Currently,
      no recent review of pain profiles at home has been performed on the pediatric population in
      France following general surgery in children. The aim of this study is to evaluate the
      duration and severity of pain felt by children using a mobile phone application.

      The study is an epidemiological, observational, prospective and multicenter trial. All
      children operated in the different centers and leaving home will be included in the study.
      The peri-operative analgesic treatment will be left to the discretion of the various centers.
      In addition to the surgical follow-up, post-operative follow-up at home will be carried out
      using the smartphone application for all patients.

      The use of the application will have been explained during the intervention's programming.
      The application will be downloaded by the parents at home. Parents will be alerted by
      notifications when they have tracking data to enter. The primary endpoint will be the
      evaluation of postoperative pain thanks to PPMP-SF scale. Data on prescribed and administered
      analgesia, nausea-vomiting, behavioral problems and parental satisfaction will be collected.

      Statistical analysis will first include a descriptive study of the population. Qualitative
      data will be expressed as means and standard deviations, and quantitative data as numbers and
      percentages. Before carrying out each comparative analysis, the application's conditions of
      the tests used will be verified. The different tests will be considered significant at the 5%
      threshold unless otherwise specified.

      The expected results are an inventory's objective observation of postoperative pain profiles
      at home following the different pediatric surgeries in France. The study will also highlight
      the different risk factors of postoperative pain (type of surgery, parental causes, reasons
      due to the child, medical causes).

      A recent study in Sweden in adult population has shown that systematic e-assessment can
      improve patients' quality of recovery.

      A mobile phone application on postoperative pain assessment in pediatric population would
      improve the management of children's pain and therefore improve the quality of postoperative
      recovery at home.
    
  