
    
      Objective of this two parallel component study is to develop interventions for the visual and
      cognitive related health literacy disabilities of older veterans. The first component will
      test two interventions for improving functional health literacy performance (enhancing the
      design of health literacy materials and training reading skills) by using a 2 x 2 between
      subjects factorial design. The second component consists of patient, family, and provider
      focus groups who will help determine where to apply and disseminate the interventions by
      identifying problematic sources of text-based health materials. Finally, as a result of both
      components, improved health information design guidelines and training protocols will be
      developed as rehabilitative interventions for health literacy disability.

      Specific research questions are:

        1. Can the lower functional health literacy performance of veterans be improved by
           following text design directives intended to account for age-related visual and
           cognitive changes (enhanced version)?

        2. Does instruction in skills and strategies for reading yield improvements in functional
           health literacy performance?

        3. Does instruction in reading skills and enhanced text design improve functional health
           literacy to a greater extent than either intervention alone?

        4. Are reading gains maintained over time?

        5. What everyday sources of functional health literature are problematic for today's
           veterans?

        6. How do visual, cognitive, and descriptive factors contribute to change in functional
           health literacy score?

        7. What is the functional health literacy of older veterans who utilize Atlanta VA health
           care?

      Focus Groups: Three two-hour focus groups will be composed of 15 VA health professionals, 15
      outpatient veterans aged 65 and older with low functional health literacy, and 15 family
      members of veterans with low functional health literacy. These focus groups will identify
      sources of text-based health information which they find to be problematic from their
      respective perspectives. These sources, as well as recommendations for the application and
      dissemination of guidelines and directives for improved health information designs and
      training protocols, will be compiled using transcription and analysis of focus group
      sessions.

      Interventions: Community dwelling veterans aged 65 and older will be recruited from the
      Geriatric Primary Care Clinic and the Veteran's Learning Center. Ethnicity, education, health
      status, general literacy, and other descriptive information will be recorded. Visual baseline
      measures will include assessments of visual skills for reading and visual function. Cognitive
      baseline measures will include assessments of word recognition, text comprehension ability,
      verbal working memory, perceptual speed and vocabulary level. Functional health literacy,
      measured by the TOFHLA, will be the main outcome measure. This objective and standardized
      instrument measures the ability of adults to read and understand medical instructional and
      health care information presented in prose passages and passages containing numerical
      information. Two hundred and forty participants demonstrating inadequate functional health
      literacy scores (by the screening instrument STOFHLA) will be randomly assigned to one of
      four groups: control (N=60), enhanced only (N=60), reading skills and strategies instruction
      only (N=60), or enhanced with reading skills and strategies instruction (N=60). All
      participants will receive vision and cognition testing and will then participate in two
      2-hour sessions. Depending on group assignment participants will either 1) read standard
      health-related material (control) 2) read enhanced health-related material (enhanced) 3)
      receive reading skills training (training) 4) receive reading skills training with enhanced
      materials (training and enhanced).
    
  