
    
      This study is designed to be a multicentre, prospective, comparative, randomised trial,
      evaluating the efficacy of two surgical strategies for the treatment of generalised
      peritonitis due to perforated diverticulitis. Results will be analysed according to an
      intention to treat principle. The diagnosis will be established by the surgeon investigator
      on clinical data, imagery and operative findings during a laparotomy or laparoscopy. After
      selection and patient consent and immediately before surgery, the patient will be randomly
      assigned to sigmoidectomy with primary anastomosis or to sigmoidectomy with primary
      anastomosis and diverting stoma. Sigmoidectomy will be performed through a midline laparotomy
      or laparoscopically according to the standard technique, with lateral to medial mobilisation
      of the left colon, mobilisation of splenic flexure and identification of left ureter. The
      rectosigmoid junction will be exposed and transected with a stapler. Proximal section will be
      performed on a healthy colonic segment. The anastomosis will be performed according to the
      surgeon investigator's preference (mechanical or manual anastomosis; end to end or side to
      end).

      Decisions to clean the colon intraoperatively and to place a drain will be left to the
      surgeon's discretion. In the control arm, a protective stoma will be performed at the end of
      surgery. A stoma reversal operation will be performed at least 3 months after the first
      operation and after performing a cologram by water soluble contrast between 4 and 8 weeks to
      check for the absence of fistula or stenosis at the level of the anastomosis. Stoma reversal
      will be performed with a trephine incision.

      Post-stoma closure follow-ups will be planned and all morbidity/mortality will be recorded.
      All patients will be examined at 6, 12, and 24 weeks after the initial surgery, in the
      surgical department where they were operated; a final study visit will be carried out 12
      months (evaluation of primary endpoint) after surgery. The parameters explored at medical
      examinations will be: • Occurrence of complications • Quality of life assessment
    
  