
    
      One of the key-words to a successful IVF it is the response to the ovarian controlled
      stimulation. Nowadays, one of the most common protocols includes exogenous gonadotropins and
      GnRH antagonist, followed by IVF. The GnRH antagonist avoids the premature peak of LH and has
      advantages in relation to the GnRH agonist; however it might have a negative effect over the
      pregnancy rate. One possible explanation is the heterogeneity of the follicular cohort at the
      moment of ovarian puncture, due to the rise of FSH at luteal-follicular transition. The
      estrogen can inhibits this rise of Follicle-Stimulating Hormone (FSH), resulting in a more
      synchronic cohort. Previous studies have demonstrated a reduction in the cancellation rates
      with estradiol in the luteal phase of the cycle prior to the beginning of IVF using GnRH
      antagonist protocol, with a trend towards better quality of transferred embryos and better
      implantation rates when compared to the standard protocol with antagonist. The use of
      androgens is based on the assumption that they generate an increase in FSH receptors in the
      granulosa cells, increase in follicular growth and estrogen production, according to animal
      and human studies. Despite promising initial results, further studies are needed to evaluate
      the benefit of testosterone as a pretreatment in women undergoing IVF.

      The study protocol is the following: Around the 20th day of the cycle prior to the choice of
      IVF, transvaginal pelvic ultrasound and serum progesterone dosage will be performed in all
      patients. After confirmation of ovulation and no contraindications for the continuation of
      the study, according to the randomization, testosterone gel, estradiol oral or no treatment
      will be initiated. Both medications will be continued until the first day of subsequent
      menstruation. After the menses, between the second and third day of the cycle, a new
      transvaginal ultrasound will be performed and blood tests will be collected for the dosage of
      FSH, Luteinizing Hormone (LH), progesterone and estradiol. On the same day, subcutaneous hMG
      (Menopur®) will be started at a dose between 150 and 300 IU / day, according to age and HAM,
      which will be subsequently adjusted according to the ovarian response on serial
      ultrasonography. When the largest follicle reaches a mean diameter of 14 mm, the GnRH
      antagonist (Orgalutran ®) will be initiated to prevent early LH peak, and monitored
      follicular growth with echography every 1-2 days. HCG will be administered at a dose of
      10,000 IU (Choriomon®) when three or more follicles reach a mean diameter of 17 mm. After
      36h, follicular puncture will be performed transvaginally, under general anesthesia. Embryo
      transfer will occur between the third and fifth day after in vitro fertilization. Luteal
      support will be given with administration of progesterone 600 mg / day vaginally, initiated
      after the transfer and maintained until the first trimester of pregnancy if it occurs. Serum
      beta-HCG measurement will be performed on the 12th day after transfer, for evaluation of
      pregnancy implantation. Clinical gestation will be considered when there is evidence of
      intrauterine embryo with cardiac beats present on the ultrasound, after 6 weeks of transfer
      of the embryo (s).
    
  