
    
      This is a parallel group, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study. Participants with MDD
      (n=90) and HC (n=90) will be randomly assigned (2:1) to receive either lipopolysaccharide
      (LPS) (0.8ng/kg of body weight; E. coli group O:113) or placebo (same volume of 0.9% saline)
      administered as an intravenous bolus. This will yield the following groups: MDD-LPS (n=60),
      MDD-Placebo (n=30), HC-LPS (n=60), HC-placebo (n=30). Individuals who are eligible for the
      study will be randomly assigned through the use of a block randomization scheme to ensure the
      inclusion of equal numbers of HC and MDD participants in each group. MDD participants will
      complete up to 10 study visits (V1-V10) while the HCs will complete up to four visits
      (V1-V4). At visit 1 (V1), each subject will be consented and will complete the following:
      self-report and clinician-administered scales (including the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating
      Scale), a physical exam that includes an EKG and vital signs (temperature, pulse, blood
      pressure), safety labs (CBC, CMP, TSH, HbA1C, HIV, HCV, SARS CoV-2), a urine drug screen, an
      alcohol breathalyzer, and a baselineMRI session comprising the following scans: clinical,
      anatomical, visceral interoceptive attention (VIA) task, and resting state fMRI. Vital signs
      will be assessed in a supine position with a completely automated device. Blood pressure and
      heart-rate measurements will be preceded by at least five minutes of rest in a quiet setting
      without distractions. Blood will be drawn via venipuncture using sterile techniques by a
      trained phlebotomist or nurse.

      Subjects that pass the safety screen return two days later for the experimental session (V2).
      Prior to infusion of LPS or saline, the Columbia, EKG, urine drug screen, and breathalyzer
      are repeated, vital signs are taken, and baseline (T0) rating scales and blood draws are
      completed. A nurse will insert a catheter with a heparin lock into the non-dominant forearm
      for blood draws and a continuous saline flush, and one into the dominant forearm for LPS or
      saline administration. Prior to the LPS/saline infusion, participants will be hydrated with
      500cc of saline. The LPS to be used in the study will be obtained from the NIH Clinical
      Center. Vital signs will be assessed every 30 min post infusion of LPS/saline for the first 2
      hours (and thereafter every hour). Blood samples will be taken at baseline (T0), at T1, and
      then at T2 and T3 (~ peak response) and prior to discharge at T6. Participants also will
      complete hourly measures of sickness symptoms (e.g., fatigue, pain), anxiety, depression, and
      anhedonia. Symptoms will be recorded and graded according to FDA criteria. Two hours
      post-infusion at the approximate peak of the inflammatory response, the participants will
      complete the same MRI scans as at baseline. Subject to the judgment of a physician, the
      participants will be discharged 6 hours post injection so that the total experimental
      procedure will take ~8 hours to complete. Participants return the following day (V3) and one
      week later (V4) for mood ratings, blood draws, and identical MRI sessions. MDD participants
      will also be followed longitudinally for 6 months (phase 2), in the process completing remote
      or in-person psychological assessments at months 1 through 6 post LPS-infusion.

      Participants will be recruited from the Tulsa metropolitan area through internet, radio,
      print advertisements and will be evaluated at LIBR. We may also advertise the study to
      students on Tulsa-area campuses using flyers and potentially also recruitment tables on
      campus, and discussions with organizations, classes, and faculty where permission from the
      appropriate university officials is obtained. A total of 200 human participants (180
      completers of phase I) will be involved in the proposed research. Half the participants will
      be males or females between the ages of 18 and 65 with MDD and current symptoms of depression
      (mild to severe) and half the participants will be HC with no personal history of psychiatric
      illness. A DSM-V diagnosis of MDD will be made with the MINI International Neuropsychiatric
      Interview and current symptoms of depression will be measured with the clinician-administered
      Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), the self-report Patient Health
      Questionnaire (PHQ-9), and the Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms (QIDS-SR). Depressed
      participants will be required to be in good general health (as evaluated during the screening
      visit, including physical exam, safety labs and EKG) and to be 18-65 years of age. MDD
      participants will be required to have symptoms of depression, that is, a MADRS score of ≥7 or
      a PHQ-9 score ≥10. MDD participants are also required to be unmedicated for at least 4 weeks
      (8 weeks for fluoxetine) or currently receiving treatment with only one anti-depressant
      medication. HC participants will be required to be in good general health and to be 18-65
      years of age.

      There are three main aims: to identify immune pathways and neural circuits that respond
      differently to LPS in MDD vs. HC subjects; (2) to test whether the strength of inflammatory
      changes induced by LPS is associated with degree of change in anhedonic symptoms and neural
      circuits in the MDD group, and (3) to identify a biotype of MDD that shows a differential
      immunological and neurophysiological response to LPS. The main outcome variables are symptoms
      of anhedonia measured with the Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale (SHAPS), cytokines (Il-6, IL-8,
      IL-10, and TNF), and BOLD signal change in the neural circuitry mediating interoceptive
      processing, i.e. the insula and cingulate cortex. The exploratory aim is to determine whether
      the acute inflammatory response to LPS can predict the clinical course of depression over a
      period of six months. The main outcome of this component of the study is self-reported
      depressive symptoms assessed with the QIDS-SR.
    
  