
    
      This study is designed to provide insight into effective treatment of veterans with current
      Post Traumatic Stress Disorder [PTSD] that resulted from sexual assault that occurred during
      their active military duty [MST]. This issue is of critical importance, as (1) Congress
      mandated VA to provide counseling to veterans with sexual trauma. (2) Based on the national
      MST surveillance data of 1.7 million VA patients, 22% of women and 1% of men have experienced
      MST. (3) With 20,000 Operation Iraqi Freedom [OIF] veterans having already sought healthcare
      since deployment, VA will begin to serve a higher percentage of women from combat zones,
      where the epidemiology of sexual assault and the efficacy of conventional treatments are
      essentially unknown. Finally, (4) findings from our MST-Study of 270 women veterans strongly
      suggests that MST is clinically different from civilian adult or child sexual trauma,
      bringing into question whether conventional civilian-based treatment will be effective with
      MST veterans.

      Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) is a therapy developed to treat civilian rape-related
      PTSD. The efficacy of CPT has been shown with female civilians with sexual assault histories.
      However, there has not been any research examining the effectiveness of CPT in treating
      symptoms associated with sexual assault that occurs in military settings. The difference
      clinically between sexual assault in civilian and military settings is important, as revealed
      by our clinical experience and empirical findings. In working with veterans with MST for over
      13 years we have noted that the assaults are often perpetrated by trusted military personnel
      and the victim is often without access to immediate treatment or care. Empirically, our
      research demonstrates that MST is associated with higher rates of PTSD compared to civilian
      sexual assault.

      The primary goal of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of CPT treatment versus
      Present Centered Therapy (PCT) for PTSD and associated symptoms resulting from MST. The study
      objectives will be met by three levels of hypotheses. Hypotheses focus on the primary outcome
      (PTSD symptoms), confirmatory outcomes (depression symptoms, quality of life), and
      exploratory outcomes (cost and utilization). Based on the results of the study, we intend to
      produce an educational CD-ROM, which will include a training manual to educate practitioners
      on the use of the more effective treatment with veterans. It will be designed for
      administration by clinicians who represent a range of disciplines (e.g., psychologists,
      nurses, social workers) and levels of training (e.g., bachelor through doctoral degrees).

      This is a randomized controlled clinical trial involving veterans from the VA North Texas
      Healthcare System (VANTHCS). Data will be obtained from face-to-face interview and written
      questionnaires at baseline, treatment completion, 2-month, 4-month, and 6-month follow-ups.
      Patients will be randomized to one of two conditions (CPT or PCT). Patients will receive
      biweekly sessions of the respective individual therapy from trained therapists for a 6-week
      period (total of 12 sessions), followed by scheduled assessments. The primary endpoint is the
      CAPS score, a measure of PTSD severity. Secondary endpoints include anxiety, depression,
      quality of life, and healthcare utilization.
    
  