
    
      Osteoporosis is a major health problem worldwide characterized by reduced bone mass and
      disrupted bone architecture that leads to increased susceptibility to fractures. It has
      become one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in older males and females,
      occurring more commonly in post-menopausal women.1 The prevalence of osteoporosis varies from
      16% to 30% in Caucasian women with 39.7% women risked at sustaining a fracture once in a
      lifetime.1In a study conducted upon middle aged Indian women, a high prevalence of osteopenia
      (52%) and osteoporosis (29%) was found, with nutritional deficiency being the causative
      factor. 2 With such high prevalence rates, the need for timely detection cannot be
      overemphasized. The disease being largely asymptomatic, comes under the radar of the
      clinician only when a fracture occurs. The diagnosis is largely centered around measurement
      of bone mineral density by use of Single and dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), Ultrasonic
      measurement of bone, Computed tomography and Radiography with DXA being the gold standard and
      also the most commonly used technique.3 Dental radiographs are usually advised for a variety
      of dental diseases and conditions. This provides an opportunity to use dental radiographs as
      a screening tool for predicting osteoporosis. The role of pantomographs as a screening tool
      is well established.8,9 Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT), since its advent in 1999, has
      been specialised for dental use with its various advantages over conventional CT such as
      lower exposure dose, higher spatial resolution and space saving. Nowadays, CBCT is the
      modality of choice for patients requiring implant planning.it provides high resolution images
      in all three planes thereby allowing accurate quantitative measurements of hard structure.
      Over the recent years, many clinicians have attempted to establish CBCT as a modality to
      evaluate bone mineral content(BMC) and have concluded that lumbar vertebrae and femoral neck
      osteoporosis can be predicted accurately from the radiodensity values of the body of the
      mandible and it is possible to evaluate BMC from the voxel values of CBCT for dental implant
      treatment5,6.

      However, there is still a controversy regarding use of CBCT for determination of bone
      quality. CBCT gray values give an approximate density and therefore cannot be expressed as HU
      as in conventional CT.

      Few researchers have explored the use of radio morphometric indices such as computed
      tomography mandibular index superior (CTI(S)), computed tomography mandibular index inferior
      (CTI(I)), computed tomography cortical index (CTCI) and the computed tomography mental index
      (CTMI: inferior cortical width) and have been instrumental in establishing the fact that
      these indices can be used to differentiate between osteoporotic and non-osteoporotic
      patients7. Very few studies have been done using CBCT and no such study is available in the
      literature on an Indian population. Thus, this study will aim at determining the utility of
      these CBCT indices in detection of osteoporosis (confirmed through DXA scan) to aid in timely
      detection and therefore timely intervention to increase the quality of life and reduce
      morbidity and mortality occurring as a consequence of this disease.
    
  