
    
      Smartphones have become integral parts of students' everyday life. Research has shown that
      students excessively use their smartphones during semester times, in lectures, and while
      studying and that their smartphone use seldomly serves educational purposes. Unsurprisingly,
      smartphone interferences within such academically relevant situations can impair students'
      performance. For instance, it has been shown that students are more distracted, experience
      less study-related flow, evaluate their own performance more negatively, and achieve lower
      grades when engaging with their smartphones in academic contexts. Besides these
      performance-related downsides, research also suggests that smartphone use can impair
      students' well-being. Excessive use of smartphones and social media applications has been
      linked to various well-being-related issues such as negative affect, stress, and anxiety. As
      students have been identified as a high-risk group prone to smartphone overuse and smartphone
      addiction, they should be particularly susceptible to such well-being-related consequences.

      The overall goal of all institutions of higher education must be the promotion of students'
      academic success as well as students' well-being as these two interrelated factors act as
      important predictors for both individual and public health and functioning. Consequently,
      while it is valuable to examine the negative effects of smartphone use on performance and
      well-being in academic contexts and understand their underlying processes, it is just as
      important to explore possible interventions to mitigate such negative outcomes. Here, it is
      necessary to answer questions regarding the effectiveness of such interventions (e.g.,
      smartphone abstinence) on a variety of outcome variables and incorporate possible mediating
      or moderating influences relevant to the effects of such interventions on students'
      performance and well-being. Unfortunately, intervention studies in this regard are scarce.
      Yet, existing research indicates inconsistent findings. In fact, there is some evidence that
      short separation phases from smartphones result in higher anxiety levels. Moreover, phases of
      smartphone and social media abstinence appear to go along with smartphone cravings and
      potential overuse after the intervention is over. However, some studies found promising
      effects of separation phases on well-being, life satisfaction, procrastination, perceived
      stress or depression. A first study that investigated separation phases from smartphones
      among students revealed positive effects on individual well-being and performance by
      enhancing personal lifestyle, health, and academic management and reducing smartphone
      overuse. Yet, such intervention studies are extremely limited and need to be studied more
      rigorously. Especially moderating or mediating variables need to be taken into account to
      explain the effectiveness of smartphone abstinence interventions. In this light, smartphone
      addiction and fear of missing out (FOMO) seem to play an important role concerning the
      detrimental effect of smartphone abstinence on well-being. Finally, existing studies have
      mainly focused on the effects of smartphone separation phases lasting several hours or even
      days. As these are rather unrealistic settings, future interventions should be designed in
      ways that integrate pauses from smartphone use into people's everyday life.

      Consequently, the present study aims at investigating the effectiveness of an intervention in
      which students are to develop action plans (BCT 1.4; ) as well as coping plans (BCT 1.2)
      allowing them to study without smartphone interferences. Planning is a very simple strategy
      with impressive effects, as indicated by medium to large effect sizes on behavior observed
      across various populations and behaviors. During a planning intervention, an individual is
      linking a situational cue (when/where) to an intended behavioral response (how) by mental
      simulation of anticipated situations. Thus, the goal is to link a specific cue to an intended
      action in order to translate goal intentions into behavior. In addition, planning is often
      complemented by coping planning (anticipation of barriers and the formation of plans on how
      to overcome them). In this study, individuals are to complete a planning sheet that contains
      both action and coping plans to restrict their own smartphone use during learning periods.

      The measured outcomes include a variety of performance- (i.e., ability to concentrate,
      perceived learning achievement, exam grade, exam-related stress) and well-being-related
      variables (e.g., positive and negative affect, anxiety, subjective well-being). Furthermore,
      in this study, the mediating role of variables sought to be promoted through the intervention
      (i.e. decreased daily smartphone use, decreased daily use of social media applications,
      increased exam preparation-related flow) and possible moderators (i.e. smartphone addiction,
      FoMO) are also investigated.

      The aims of the present study are threefold. First, the effectiveness of planning a
      separation from the smartphone during an exam phase is compared against a control group on a
      device-based assessment of smartphone use. Besides this first main aim, it is also aimed at
      specifically comparing the effectiveness of the planning intervention to a control group on
      academic performance and well-being among students. Third, this study examines the assumed
      underlying mechanisms as well as possible moderators of the planning intervention.

      Research questions and hypotheses

      Research question 1: Is planning an effective strategy to reduce smartphone use among
      students during an exam period?

      Hypotheses 1.a - 1.b: Students in the planning intervention group will display a) shorter
      overall smartphone use, b) decreased use of social media applications than students in the
      control group.

      Research question 2: What are the underlying mechanisms of the planning intervention in
      students regarding smartphone use reduction?

      Hypotheses 2.a - 2.b: The effect of planning on smartphone use reduction is mediated by a)
      individual action planning, and b) individual coping planning.

      Research question 3: Does the planning intervention result in higher academic performance?

      Hypotheses 3.a - 3.d.: Students in the planning intervention group will a) display greater
      ability to concentrate, b) experience lower study-related stress, c) evaluate their perceived
      learning achievement more positively, and d) achieve better exam grades than students in the
      control group.

      Research question 4: What are possible moderators of the relationship between the planning
      intervention and academic performance?

      Hypotheses 4.a - 4.b.: The effect of the intervention on students' academic performance will
      be moderated by their levels of a) fear of missing out, and b) smartphone addiction.

      Research question 5: What are the underlying mechanisms of the planning intervention
      regarding academic performance in students?

      Hypotheses 5.a - 5.d.: The effect of the planning intervention on students' academic
      performance will be mediated by a) shorter overall smartphone use, b) decreased use of social
      media applications, and c) enhanced exam preparation-related flow.

      Research question 6: Does the planning intervention result in more well-being in students?

      Hypotheses 6.a - 6.d.: Students in the planning intervention group will a) display higher
      levels of positive affect, b) lower levels of negative affect, c) less anxiety, and d) higher
      subjective well-being than students in the control group.

      Research question 7: What are possible moderators of the relationship between the planning
      intervention and well-being in students?

      Hypotheses 7.a - 7.b.: The effect of the intervention on students' well-being will be
      moderated by their levels of a) fear of missing out and b) smartphone addiction.

      Research question 8: What are the underlying mechanisms of the planning intervention in
      students regarding well-being?

      Hypotheses 8.a - 8.d.: The effect of the planning intervention on students' well-being will
      be mediated by a) shorter overall smartphone use and b) decreased use of social media
      applications.

      Study Design

      The present study utilizes an online longitudinal randomized control trial conducted at
      nationwide universities in Germany over a course of 3 months per data collection period.
      Assessments will be conducted in a student sample weekly before the examination phase
      (t1-t3), after the first exam (t4), and after the exam grades have been announced (t5).
      Students will be randomly assigned to an intervention and a control group.

      First, interested individuals have to fill in a prescreening questionnaire. In case all
      inclusion criteria are met, students have to fill in the Baseline assessment. At the end of
      the Baseline measurement, all students will be given general advice on how to organize their
      study environment and behavior to improve their overall learning performance (e.g.,
      organization of materials for exam preparation, pauses during exam preparation). Participants
      in the intervention group will also be instructed to develop individual action and coping
      plans to decrease smartphone interferences when studying. Students in the control group have
      to fill out questionnaires on general health behavior instead. Students in both groups will
      also be asked to install a mobile application on their smartphones which objectively measures
      each participants' daily smartphone use, screen activations, and specific application usage.
      The application will not inform participants about their smartphone use but log the data in
      the background. Participants will be instructed to not uninstall the application before the
      measurement time point t4.

      One week after the Baseline measurement and the intervention, participants receive the online
      questionnaire t2, and two weeks after the Baseline measurement, questionnaire t3 follows.
      After the first exam which was asked for in the Baseline assessment, participants will
      receive questionnaire t4. Two month later participants will receive a short questionnaire
      (t5) that ask for the exam grades. All participants will be debriefed at the end of the
      study. Through their participation, students can participate in a voucher raffle; this
      information is provided before study participation and again at the end of each
      questionnaire.
    
  