
    
      Torsades de pointes (TdP) is a ventricular tachycardia associated with prolongation of the
      corrected QT (QTc) interval, and which may be caused by > 150 widely used drugs. TdP results
      in catastrophic outcomes, including sudden cardiac death. Older age is a risk factor for
      drug-induced TdP, possibly due to declining serum progesterone and testosterone
      concentrations in postmenopausal women and men, respectively. The ECG biomarkers J-Tpeak and
      Tpeak-Tend, represent early and late repolarization, respectively, as well as dispersion of
      repolarization (Tpeak-Tend). Preclinical evidence and preliminary data from our group
      indicate that progesterone and testosterone exert protective effects against drug-induced
      prolongation of ventricular repolarization. Effective means of reducing the risk of
      drug-induced QTc interval prolongation and TdP in high risk populations requiring therapy
      with QTc-prolonging drugs have not been identified, and the effects of sex hormones on early
      vs late ventricular repolarization and dispersion of repolarization are unknown. The
      objectives of this research are to evaluate novel therapeutic approaches to attenuate
      drug-induced QTc lengthening. Our central hypothesis is that drug-induced QTc lengthening is
      attenuated by administration of oral progesterone and transdermal testosterone. Specific Aim
      1: Determine the efficacy of oral progesterone as a preventive method to attenuate
      drug-induced QTc interval lengthening in postmenopausal women. Specific Aim 2: Determine the
      efficacy of transdermal testosterone as a preventive method to attenuate drug-induced QTc
      interval lengthening in men ≥ 65 years of age. Specific Aim 3a: Determine the influence of
      oral progesterone on drug-induced lengthening of early and late ventricular repolarization in
      postmenopausal women. Specific Aim 3b: Determine the influence of transdermal testosterone on
      drug-induced lengthening of early and late ventricular repolarization in men ≥ 65 years of
      age. Specific Aims 1&3a will be achieved via a prospective, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled two-way crossover study in postmenopausal women age ≥ 50 years (n=48).
      Each subject will take oral progesterone 400 mg or matching placebo daily for 7 days (≥
      14-day washout period between phases). On day 7, each subject will receive a single dose of
      the QTc-lengthening drug ibutilide 0.003 mg/kg. Specific Aims 2&3b will be achieved via a
      prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled two-way crossover study in men ≥ 65
      years of age (n=35). Each subject will apply transdermal testosterone 1% 100 mg or
      transdermal placebo once daily for 3 days (≥ 7-day washout period between phases). On day 7,
      each subject will ibutilide 0.003 mg/kg. In both studies, post-ibutilide QT, J-Tpeak and
      Tpeak-Tend intervals and serum ibutilide concentrations will be determined serially. Primary
      outcome measures: 1) Maximum post-ibutilide QTc intervals, 2) Maximum post-ibutilide % change
      in QTc intervals, 3) Area under the QTc interval-time curves, and 4) J-Tpeak and Tpeak-Tend
      intervals. This research will identify effective approaches for reducing the risk of
      drug-induced QTc interval prolongation in high-risk patients.
    
  