
    
      Study Objectives:

        1. To identify if the LyfeMD app improves diet quality, perceived stress, depression,
           anxiety, well-being, quality of life, sleep, and physical activity minutes.

        2. To identify if the LyfeMD app helps improve intestinal inflammation measured by fecal
           calprotectin in CD and UC patients in clinical remission.

      Methods:

      This 1-year study at the University of Calgary (n=44) will have a RCT study design.
      Participants will be randomly allocated to receive the intervention LyfeMD mobile application
      (INT) for 12-weeks or conventional management (CM) from the IBD clinic at the Foothills
      hospital.

      Intervention Group(INT): The INT group (n=22) will meet with the health coach over the phone
      or video chat. The health coach will orient the participant to the LyfeMD app, answer
      technology related questions and ensure that the participant has received a nutrition plan in
      the app. Participants will be asked to complete the app assessment tools to design a
      personalized nutrition, physical activity and yoga and meditation program. Participants will
      set goals in each area that they are interested in implementing.

      The health coach will then follow-up by phone, video chat or email 2 weeks after the initial
      meeting, then monthly with the participants for 2 more months (total of 4 meetings). The
      health coach will use the following schedule to discuss app related content: First visit
      nutrition content; second visit behaviour change tools; third visit Yoga, meditation and
      breathing plans, and; the fourth visit the physical activity plans. The health coach will
      also be available to answer questions when required using email. Goal attainment will be
      collected weekly within the app.

      Conventional Management (CM): The CM group (n=22) will receive conventional care as well as a
      similar health coaching schedule as the intervention group. The health coach will meet the
      patrticipants over the phone or video chat to outline their role over the next 3 months and
      to provide general nutrition guidelines using Canada's Food Guide and Alberta Health Services
      online resources. The health coach will then follow-up participant by phone, video chat or
      email 2 weeks after the initial meeting, then monthly for 2 more months (total of 4
      meetings). The health coach session topics will be same as the intervention group. For
      example, the second visit will provide online resources from Alberta Health Services focused
      on promoting behaviour change, the third visit will orient the patient to Alberta Health
      Services focused online stress management tools and the final visit will share online
      versions of the Canadian guidelines for physical activity and sedentary time.

      The health coach will be available to answer questions when required using email.

      Following completion of the 12-week study, participants in the control group will receive
      complimentary access to the LyfeMD app for 12-weeks.

      Both groups will meet with the study coordinator face to face at the start and end of the
      study (13th week). At this time, participants will be given all the study materials they
      need.

      Relationship to Pfizer:

      From a Pfizer perspective, the investigators recognize that Inflectra is growing in market
      share. The LyfeMD program will be used together, in a complementary way alongside biologic
      therapy. The recent diet study led by the principle investigator indicates that the
      customized diet using anti-inflammatory principles will induce remission in 6 weeks and
      maintain remission in patients with CD. The investigators would expect that combining diet
      therapy with biologics would bolster the effect of the biologic and longevity of remission.
      With the wellness additions (physical activity and yoga/meditation programs), the
      investigators predict patients will lead happier lives.

      Investigators believe that the LyfeMD app will fill a current gap in the market. The
      availability of Registered Dietitian (RD), Exercise Physiologists, and Certified yoga and
      meditation instructors in AB/Canada is inadequate to provide care to every patient with IBD
      in a convenient and personalized way.
    
  