
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related mortality in both men and women. In the
      U.S. alone, an estimated 160,340 lung cancer related deaths occurred in 2012, accounting for
      about 28% of all cancer related deaths. Approximately 85% of lung cancer is classified as
      non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with roughly two-thirds of these patients presenting with
      advanced disease. Histologically, NSCLC can be subdivided into adenocarcinoma, squamous cell,
      large cell, and non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be further classified. Those tumors
      that are not squamous (adenocarcinoma, large cell, not classified) are collectively termed as
      non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer (NS-NSCLC) and account for roughly 75% of all non
      small cell cancer cases.

      The most accepted upfront treatment for patients with advanced stage NSCLC has been platinum
      based chemotherapy. Current standard practice for treatment of stage IV non-squamous NSCLC
      patients with cytotoxic chemotherapy has evolved over the past decade. In a sentinel study in
      2005, Sandler and colleagues demonstrated that the addition of bevacizumab to platinum
      doublet chemotherapy (carboplatin/paclitaxel) followed by maintenance bevacizumab conferred a
      survival advantage when compared to platinum doublet chemotherapy alone (12.1 mos vs. 10.
      mos) in patients with stage IV non squamous, non-small cell lung cancer. Following this, the
      largest phase III study ever conducted in stage IV NSCLC randomized more than 1700 patients
      with stage IV lung cancer to either cisplatin/pemetrexed or cisplatin/gemcitabine. This study
      was the first to reveal an interaction between chemotherapy and histology,demonstrating a
      survival advantage for the subset of patients with non-squamous cell treated with
      cisplatin/pemetrexed when compared to those treated with cisplatin/gemcitabine (11.0 vs 10
      mos, p<0.05. Building upon this, a recent study evaluating maintenance pemetrexed (continuing
      treatment after the four cycles of platinum doublet therapy) in non-squamous cell lung cancer
      demonstrated a significant survival advantage for patients receiving maintenance pemetrexed
      vs. placebo after four cycles of cisplatin/pemetrexed (13.9 mos vs. 11.0 mos, p<0.05). Based
      on these studies, a regimen of cisplatin or carboplatin with pemetrexed followed by
      maintenance single agent pemetrexed has become one of the most accepted frontline treatments
      for patients with stage IV non-squamous, non small cell carcinoma.

      Recently, there has been a firmer understanding of the relevant signaling pathways critical
      for lung cancer growth, leading to the development of novel, targeted therapies. The
      discovery of the EGFR and ALK pathways in lung cancer and the subsequent development of drugs
      that target these pathways, erlotinib and crizotinib respectively, has yielded unprecedented
      survival times in stage IV non-squamous, non small cell lung cancer. Unfortunately, only 25
      to 30% of patients harbor these mutations, and platinum based chemotherapy remains the
      cornerstone of treatment for the 60-70% of patients with stage IV disease without
      identifiable targets. In attempts to improve outcome, a large need remains to develop novel,
      effective agents to combine with platinum therapy that possess a favorable toxicity profile
      at a reasonable cost.

      Metformin:

      Metformin, an oral biguanide agent used for the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes
      mellitus, is now prescribed to more than 120 million people worldwide. Its glucose lowering
      effects result from both inhibition of liver gluconeogenesis and increased insulin
      sensitivity in peripheral tissue. Metformin has limited adverse effects with little or no
      risk of hypoglycemia in healthy, nondiabetic controls. In addition to its anti-diabetic
      properties, metformin has demonstrated both chemopreventative and therapeutic effects in both
      prostate and breast cancer. Jiralersprong et al reported that diabetic patients with breast
      cancer receiving metformin had a 24% complete pathological response rate to neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy compared to only 8% of those in the non-metformin group. More recently Joshua et
      al reported reduced tumor Ki-67 rate as well as significant reductions in fasting glucose,
      insulin growth factor 1 and BMI (body mass index) in prostate cancer patients receiving
      neoadjuvant metformin prior to radical prostatectomy. Large epidemiological studies
      consistently have shown substantially lower incidence of cancer occurrence and death in
      diabetic patients taking metformin compared to those receiving other therapies. Most
      recently, a retrospective study of patients with ovarian cancer found that 5-year
      disease-specific survival was significantly better for diabetic patients who took metformin
      than for those who did not (67% vs 47%; P = .007). Based on these important observational
      studies, there are currently several, ongoing prospective studies evaluating metformin in
      nondiabetic patients with both early stage and late stage breast cancer and prostate cancer,
      respectively.

      The role of metformin as a preventative and therapeutic agent in lung cancer is beginning to
      be assessed. A recent epidemiological study from Taiwan demonstrated a 39-45% decreased risk
      of lung cancer in diabetic patients being treated with antidiabetic drugs including metformin
      versus those not taking these agents. These studies have triggered preclinical and clinical
      observational trials that further support metformin's potential as an antineoplastic agent.
      In a recent in vitro study, Ashinuma et al. was able to demonstrate inhibited clonogenicity,
      cell growth and proliferation in four different human lung cancer cell lines exposed to
      variable concentrations of metformin. These and other preclinical data have triggered in vivo
      experiments in mice. Memmott and colleagues showed that oral administration of 1 or 5mg/mL of
      metformin decreased lung tumor burden by 38% and 53% respectively in A/J mice injected with
      tobacco carcinogen 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1 byutanone (NNK). Importantly, steady
      state levels of metformin were similar to those achieved in diabetic patients using
      metformin, suggesting the treatment and prevention of lung cancer could be achieved with
      standard oral dosing. Finally, two observational studies in humans have reinforced
      metformin's potential role as a therapeutic agent in lung cancer. In the first, Mezzone et
      al. showed that diabetic patients with lung cancer previously treated with metformin or
      thiazolidinediones had a lower incidence of metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis and a
      reduced risk of death compared to those who did not receive the same treatment. More
      recently, a retrospective study performed by Tan et al. evaluated the outcomes of three
      groups of diabetic patients with NSCLC treated with first line chemotherapy and receiving
      various diabetic drugs. In this study, patients treated with chemotherapy with metformin had
      superior outcomes compared to those patients treated with chemotherapy with insulin or with
      drugs other than metformin (OS, 20 months vs. 13.1 months vs 13.0 months, respectively,
      p=0.007). The remarkable activity of this agent in both preclinical and clinical lung cancer
      models as well as its low toxicity and tolerability in non diabetic patients warrants further
      prospective studies evaluating the therapeutic efficacy with platinum based chemotherapy in
      NSCLC.

      Metformin's Biological Effects:

      A nascent understanding of metformin's biological effect on malignant cells may provide
      explanation to the aforementioned preclinical and clinical observations and solidifies the
      basis for further clinical exploration. Preclinical models suggest a variety of mechanism
      including inhibition of "energy sensing" pathways involved in cellular growth, interference
      with the IGF1-insulin axis and blockade of VEGF. Metformin is thought to activate
      AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a major sensor of cellular energy levels and a key
      enzyme limiting cellular growth during times of cellular stress. Once activated, this enzyme
      restricts anabolic processes such as protein, cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis and
      inhibits mTOR, a protein kinase responsible for dysregulated growth. MTOR is upregulated in a
      variety of tumors, including NSCLC providing rationale to exploit this pathway with
      metformin. Secondly, metformin reverses hyperinsulinemia leading to down regulation of
      insulin-like growth factors (IGFs). These factors are associated with malignant and
      non-malignant tumorogenesis via their aberrant activation of PI3K/Akt pathway, a well known
      pathway that contributes to tumorigenesis. Finally, metabolic reprogramming from oxidative
      phosphorylation to aerobic glycolysis, known as the Warburg effect, is a hallmark of cancer
      cells that constitutes an undisputed advantage in tumor growth. Despite this glycolytic
      shift, some malignant cells retain the capacity to continue oxidative phosphorylation for
      energy production which may enhance malignant potential. In vivo models indicate that
      metformin inhibits mitochondrial complex I thereby suppressing oxidative phosphorylation
      which may force cells to engage in survival processes like autophagy leading to eventual cell
      death. In summary, metformin's inhibition of tumor cell growth by disrupting both the MTOR
      and insulin pathways by AMP kinase activation represents a novel way to treat lung cancer.
    
  