
    
      Methods

      Aim:

      With this mixed-methods study, we aim to investigate the impact of the implementation of a
      newly designed nvHAP prevention bundle on the nvHAP incidence rate among inpatients in our
      tertiary care hospital. We will quantify the adherence to the individual bundle elements and
      qualitatively identify the factors that influence successful implementation.

      Objectives:

        1. To determine the nvHAP bundle effectiveness on the nvHAP incidence rate

        2. To determine the adherence the nvHAP bundle and each of the bundle elements

        3. To relate adherence to nvHAP bundle elements with nvHAP incidence rate

        4. To qualitatively monitor changes and identify trends in implementation outcomes
           throughout the study periods

        5. To identify which factors in the implementation setting are associated with the actual
           degree of local implementation of the nvHAP bundle

      Study setting:

      The study is conducted at the University Hospital Zurich (UHZ), Switzerland, a 950-bed
      tertiary-care teaching hospital covering all medical specialties except paediatrics and
      orthopaedics.

      Study population:

      The study population consists of all patients hospitalized in nine predefined medical and
      surgical departments and their corresponding wards chosen based on the following criteria; 1)
      nvHAP rate above the 50th percentile according to UHZ nvHAP data from the year 2017; 2) high
      absolute number of patients with nvHAP according to UHZ nvHAP data from the year 2017; 3)
      organizational structure, e.g. departments sharing same nursing or medical personnel; 4)
      representing both medical and surgical specialties.

      Intervention:

      The nvHAP bundle: The University Hospital Zurich nvHAP bundle was designed by an
      interprofessional and interdisciplinary group of experts. Elements were chosen based on the
      evidence, although scarce, of their effectiveness and based on their anticipated feasibility
      and implementability. The bundle consists of five prevention measures (details see Annex
      nvHAP Bundle).

        1. Oral care, i.e. mechanical and pharmacological oral care

        2. Identification and treatment of patients with dysphagia, i.e. by applying a 'modified
           swallowing assessment' (MSA) adapted from the 'Standardized Swallowing Assessment' by
           Perry et al. (15) (Annex 'MSA Perry')

        3. Mobilization, i.e. mobilization at least twice daily

        4. Stopping unnecessary PPI and antacids

        5. Respiratory therapy As not all bundle elements apply to all patients, the patients will
           first be assessed for indication of the respective prevention measure after admission,
           clinical deterioration, and major surgery during hospital stay. The execution of the
           bundle element has to be documented in the electronic medical record (EMR).

      Implementation strategy and formative evaluation: Our implementation strategy is designed to
      increase ownership and local adoption in each department by engaging local implementation
      teams, who establish department-specific actions based on local needs. This strategy is also
      intended to facilitate adaptability, i.e. the degree to which the intervention can be adapted
      to meet local needs (16, 17). Based on an initial behavioural analysis informed by
      sensitizing frameworks (see below, "Implementation Frameworks") (16, 18, 19), we identified
      the following as promising intervention functions to increase adherence to the nvHAP bundle:
      increasing knowledge and understanding about the nvHAP bundle elements through education;
      imparting skills through technical training; and changing the physical context to increase
      awareness and support performance of nvHAP measures through environmental restructuring.
      Whereas these intervention functions to increase adherence to the nvHAP bundle elements make
      up the foreseeable core intervention components, each department is encouraged to adapt the
      delivery of these components and to employ additional promotional components according to
      local context, making up the 'soft periphery' of the intervention.

      Local implementation teams, composed of one nurse, one physician and one physiotherapist,
      will be established in each department. During recurrent "action plan" meetings, the local
      implementation team from each department, with support from the nvHAP study team, will be
      responsible for assessing the current implementation status with respect to each bundle
      element and establishing an "action plan" with a list of planned actions aimed to increase
      adherence to bundle elements according to local needs. Local implementation teams will be
      responsible for implementing the nvHAP bundle in their respective departments. Established
      "action plans" will be revisited to assess progress and refine necessary actions, as
      described below.

      The nvHAP study team, based in the infection prevention department, will form a central
      coordinating team to provide local teams with support, example training materials, and
      feedback on process and outcome data. Additionally, we will employ a formative approach,
      during which we aim to continuously identify influences on implementation efforts (e.g.
      barriers and facilitators) and feed these insights back to local implementation teams to
      optimize the potential for implementation success (20). This formative evaluation will occur
      in stages throughout the project, as described by Stetler and colleagues (20) and presented
      in Table 1. The formative evaluation will rely primarily on "action plan" meetings as an
      opportunity to feed information back to local implementation teams regarding identified
      barriers and facilitators to implementation and to refine implementation action plans
      accordingly.

      Study design:

      This mixed methods study collects and analyses quantitative and qualitative data collected
      during the three study periods (baseline, implementation, and intervention period).

      Study periods:

      Baseline period will start at the same time for all departments and will be of different
      length (minimum 12 months) as implementation of nvHAP prevention measures will occur at the
      department level and the start of implementation activities is chosen by every department,
      primarily relying on availability of resources.

      We define three study periods on the department level, 1) department baseline period, before
      implementation of nvHAP bundle in the specific department; 2) department implementation
      period, a two month time frame starting with the beginning of implementation activities in
      the respective department; 3) department intervention period following the department
      implementation period.

      On the hospital level the three periods are defined as follows: 1) hospital baseline period,
      before starting implementation in the first department; 2) hospital implementation period,
      from the beginning of the implementation period of the first department until end of
      implementation period of the last included department; 3) hospital intervention period
      following the hospital implementation period.

      Implementation framework:

      Our study is theoretically informed by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research
      (CFIR) (16) and the Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF). Both the CFIR and the TDF integrate
      findings from theoretical literature into synthesized frameworks consisting of constructs
      that may mediate behaviour change. Whereas the TDF domains represent a set of constructs
      related to individual behaviour change, the CFIR domains include constructs relating to
      broader organizational behaviour change. For the current inquiry, we find the use of both
      frameworks useful to capture influencers of behaviour at the individual level, as well as the
      department, the overall hospital, and the wider environmental context. The CFIR and the TDF
      will inform the intervention implementation strategy, as previously described, and guide the
      qualitative data collection (semi-structured interview guides) and analyses (use of TDF as
      deductive coding framework). In particular, use of these sensitising frameworks throughout
      our study will facilitate the timely identification of barriers and facilitators and will
      also provide insights as to which additional intervention components are most likely to be
      successful in addressing the identified barriers.

      Data collection:

      Data sources: In the study hospital, all patient data are charted electronically via an EMR
      system. Selected data are stored in a clinical data warehouse.

      NvHAP surveillance We apply the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)
      definition criteria for pneumonia that are used in the ECDC point prevalence studies (10)
      (Annex 'ECDC Definition nvHAP') and a validated semi-automated surveillance system for nvHAP
      is used (22). Place of nvHAP acquisition is defined as department, ward and room to which the
      patient was affiliated 48h before first symptoms of nvHAP, unless shorter incubation period
      was evident from patient history.

      Process indicators:

      Process indicators portraying adherence to the nvHAP bundle elements will be monitored in two
      ways. First, for all five prevention measures, at least one surrogate parameter for adherence
      is continuously extracted from the EMR of the total patient population (continuous process
      indicators; see Annex 'Process indicators'). This parameter, e.g. toothbrushing provided by
      nurses, will be expressed per department, and month, and either hospital days or admissions.
      Second, we will monitor process indicators on a sample basis with individual assessment of a
      subset of patients at four different time points per department (intermittent process
      indicators; see Annex 'Process indicators'). The latter allows a more detailed description of
      adherence, including non-documented prevention measures (e.g. oral care executed by patient)
      and takes into consideration the individual need of patients for the specific prevention
      measure (e.g. respiratory therapy is indicated only in a subset of patients). From the
      intermittent process indicators the 'nvHAP adherence score' will assess patient based
      adherence per department and time point. The score is based on samples of 50 patients, the
      'nvHAP adherence indicator' takes the value 1 in the case the specific prevention measure was
      completed in the specific patient, 0 if that was not the case, and "empty" in the case of
      missing values. The 'nvHAP adherence score' is calculated by summing up the five proportions
      of patients with completed specific prevention measures (i.e. 'nvHAP adherence indicator'=1)
      dividing it by factor five (Annex 'nvHAP adherence score').

      Qualitative data collection:

      Longitudinal qualitative data will be collected throughout the project as portrayed in Figure
      2, including action plan interviews with local implementation teams, drop-in interviews with
      frontline staff, and focus group interviews, as described in Table 2. These three data
      collection activities will allow for rigorous triangulation of findings among data sources
      and will all inform the ongoing formative evaluation (see Table 1).
    
  