
    
      Eating Disorders (EDs) constitute a serious public health issue that affects mainly women and
      appears typically in adolescence or early adulthood. EDs often result in serious physical
      health consequences as well as enduring psychological difficulties and behavioral
      complications. Prevention of EDs is paramount as it will reduce such adverse effects, improve
      the quality of the patient's and his/her family's life and decrease costs incurred by EDs. To
      date, prevention approaches have not been uniformly effective for EDs and as a consequence
      there is great room for improvement. There is a growing body of evidence supporting the
      functional relationship between EDs symptomatology and controlling emotional states either by
      avoiding or inhibiting the emotional response. Furthermore, theories support that AN begins
      with a general need of self control and not just emotional control. Current prevention
      programs for EDs have largely ignored on the problem concerning self-control. This study will
      propose a new prevention program based on the cognitive-behavioral theory, which suggests
      that one of the main features of anorexia is a general need of self-control, and the
      psychological inflexibility theory, which suggests that this need of experiential control may
      lead to a broader state of psychological inflexibility. A prevention program based on
      mindfulness, acceptance and change is hypothesized to be able to target ineffective control
      strategies in individuals at high-risk for developing EDs, prior to the disorder manifesting
      itself. A treatment which is based on mindfulness and acceptance is Acceptance and Commitment
      Therapy (ACT), a 3rd wave CBT that targets ineffective control strategies and inflexibility
      found in a range of psychopathology problems. This study will apply an ACT based prevention
      program for EDs in an internet based delivery modality delivered to high-risk individuals.
      The hypotheses made are the following: participants receiving the prevention program will 1)
      develop greater body image flexibility, 2) decrease their control behaviours (e.g. dieting,
      exercising, body image avoidance behaviors), and 3) have significantly fewer ED symptoms,
      decreased body dissatisfaction, decreased risk for developing EDs and have significantly
      higher quality of life, as compared to the wait-list control group at the end of prevention
      and at 1-month follow up. We also hypothesized that changes in ACT-related process measures
      (defusion, mindfulness, values, willingness, body image flexibility, self as context) will
      mediate improvements in EDs outcome measures (eating disorder risk, eating disorder symptoms,
      dieting, exercising, body image avoidance behaviour). For the purposes of the study,
      high-risk participants developing EDs will be recruited from high schools and vocational
      schools. Participants will be randomly assigned either to the internet-based ACT intervention
      or the wait list control group. Participants will complete process and outcome measures at
      baseline, post treatment and follow-up. Results will be then analyzed and conclusions will be
      made. Repeated measures MANOVA will be used to assess the changes and the differences between
      the prevention group and the wait list control group. Furthermore, to assess whether ACT
      variables such as values, mindfulness, defusion, self as context, willingness will mediate ED
      symptoms mediation analysis will be used.
    
  