
    
      Like many unforeseen medical emergencies, a TSCI could lead to early death in the absence of
      essential emergency and acute care. Hence, the single most important indicator of the quality
      of medical care is reflected in short- and long-term mortality. However, in order to improve
      survival after TSCI, it is also important to identify factors and processes of routine
      practice related to mortality. This could be accomplished by examining the extent to which
      processes of care reflect international guidelines and standards. These guidelines
      specifically stress the importance of a systematic approach towards the management of TSCI,
      which include specialized and comprehensive care that is delivered in a multi-disciplinary
      manner. More specifically, established success factors of TSCI healthcare have proven to
      include appropriate emergency management (e.g. transfer logistics to trauma unit), early
      spinal surgery and admission to specialist units, as well as multidisciplinary care. As a
      collective, literature has shown that a systematic approach towards the management of TSCI
      leads to a reduction in mortality, secondary complications and re-hospitalizations, as well
      as better functional outcomes.

      In Sweden, a systematic approach towards the management of TSCI was initiated around the
      1970's. A number of studies investigating the acute management and mortality after TSCI found
      better aligned processes of care, and significantly greater survival, in Sweden, compared
      with a non-systematic approach to care followed in Greece. More specifically, transfer
      logistics from the accident scene to a specialized trauma unit, key therapeutic
      interventions, and timing of spinal surgery were better aligned to the international
      guidelines for the acute management of adults with SCI. In addition, numerous societal
      services, such as vocational rehabilitation, modifications of living conditions and workplace
      insurance, are provided to survivors of TSCI to enhance their independence and societal
      participation.

      Unlike Sweden, South Africa had yet to fully implement a systematic healthcare approach to
      TSCI management. Access to specialized healthcare services is not only a historic problem in
      South Africa, but it is further exacerbated by the lack of resources. Only one specialized
      SCI unit is available in South Africa, serving around 8 million people in the Western Cape
      Province. With the high incidence of TSCI in South Africa, mainly high risk TSCI patients
      (e.g. those in need of stabilizing spinal surgery) get access to specialized care at the SCI
      unit. In contrast, those not prioritized for treatment at the specialized SCI unit are
      treated at hospitals, including both secondary and tertiary level of care, providing
      non-specialized SCI health care. The common occurrence of non-specialized care of TSCI
      survivors in South Africa is alarming, especially as such care has shown to be related to a
      high mortality rate and the occurrence of preventable secondary complications. To improve the
      outcome of TSCI in South Africa, there is a crucial need to audit the nature and timing of
      essential processes of care and model their relationship with mortality, complications and
      long-term outcomes. Furthermore, given the low one-year mortality in Sweden, a comparison of
      processes of care between Sweden and South Africa could provide empirical evidence pointing
      to processes which could be modified.

      As a first step to strengthening the management guidelines for TSCI care in South Africa, the
      overarching aim of this study is to explore health-care processes and outcomes of TSCI care
      in South Africa and Sweden. Specific aims are to: 1) describe acute processes of TSCI care in
      South Africa and Sweden in comparison to international guidelines, 2) determine acute- and
      long-term outcomes of TSCI care, including survival status, secondary complications and
      functioning in South Africa and Sweden and 3) identify predictors for survival, secondary
      complications and functioning 12 months post-injury in South Africa and Sweden.
    
  