
    
      Purpose and design

      This research aims to find out if massively multi-player online games (MMOs), a relatively
      new type of video game, can be used as a form of therapy for people who have survived an
      acquired brain injury.

      Numerous previous studies have shown that video games can be used as therapy in many
      contexts. However, there is some evidence that video games are not an effective form of
      cognitive rehabilitation for brain injury survivors (Malec et al., 1984). The difference in
      this research is that MMOs incorporate social interaction into the game play experience. It
      is proposed that this strengthening of social bonds will be more beneficial than a similar
      single-player game.

      Due to the narrow focus of the research it is anticipated that the number of potential
      participants will be small, on the order of ten participants. It is recognised that such a
      small sample size is not compatible with a randomised controlled trial. Instead, the research
      will employ a single-subject research design, where a higher number of participants will
      strengthen the external validity of the results.

      The research question and design have been developed primarily by the Chief Investigator (PhD
      student), with critique from the supervisory team. Feedback has also been received from
      healthcare professionals who have been contacted by the C.I.

      Participants will be asked for their feedback on a video game and its user interface. This is
      to ensure that the video game is suitable for the participant, and that the participant is
      able to play it. This stage is expected to consist of three or four sessions of 30 mins
      duration, every 2 weeks.

      Participants will then be asked to play the video game for a number of sessions. The number
      of sessions is 21. The duration of each session is one hour. The sessions are to be held once
      per week.

      Null/alternative hypotheses

      The null hypotheses are that a single-player video game will not improve cognitive skills;
      and that a multi-player online video game will not improve cognitive skills. The alternative
      hypotheses are that a single-player game will improve cognitive skills, and a multi-player
      online game will provide further improvement.

      Study design

      The first stage of the research will be to design and refine a prototype online multi-player
      video game, working in collaboration with participants, firstly able-bodied, and then
      disabled. The researcher will work with each participant to develop a user interface which
      enables him or her to play the video game.

      The study will then employ a single-case research design for each disabled participant. An
      RCT would not be valid given the expected number of participants. Time-series data will be
      collected in three phases: to obtain a baseline; to measure the effects of a single-player
      video game; and to measure the effects of a multi-player online game. Each phase has seven
      sessions. The sessions are one hour, weekly.

      During the baseline phase, The participant will engage in a non-game task using the interface
      defined in the pre-trial phase. This phase may compensate for researcher effects. For the
      next phase, the participant will engage in a single-player version of the video game. For the
      final phase, the participant will engage in a multi-player online game.

      Player activity in the single- and multi-player games will be logged for analysis. Interviews
      with participants will be used to build a thick narrative of each participants' experience
      over the course of the study.

      Recruitment

      Participants will be recruited by contacting head injury units, day care centres, and
      organisations such as Headway and the ARNI Trust. The C.I. will meet with potential
      participants who express an interest in the study.

      A cornerstone of rehabilitation is that the goals are relevant to the client's everyday life.
      Therefore the details of how any individual's cognitive improvements will be measured must be
      based on a dialogue with each individual.

      Consent

      Informed consent must be given by a participant before any involvement in the study.

      A participant information sheet will be provided. The C.I. will be present to talk through
      the issues with the participant. The NHS guidelines for writing clear information sheets will
      be followed.

      Due to the nature of the participants' injuries, particular care and emphasis is placed on
      establishing capacity to give consent. The Department of Health gives guidelines on gauging
      capacity but family members and care workers will be a key source of guidance.

      It is expected that participants will provide a written signature on a consent form, but
      again due to the nature of the participant's injuries this may not be possible. In this case
      the verbal consent of the participant would be recorded and witness(es) would sign the form.

      Risks, burdens and benefits

      The main medical risk of playing video games is the possibility of epileptic seizure due to
      photosensitive epilepsy, (PSE). Minor risks are: the possibility of aches and pains; eye
      strain; and stress caused by extended periods of vigilance. These risks are mitigated by
      conducting the research at day care centres where medical staff will be on hand, and by
      limiting play to one hour per week, broken into smaller play sessions (e.g. 3 * 20 mins).
      Additionally, again to minimise risk of photosensitive seizure, screen luminance will be kept
      to a minimum.

      Other issues to consider when using video games as therapy are: video game "addiction";
      violent content; and the offensive nature of some games. The issue of any potential addiction
      is mitigated by the short playing times; the issue of game suitability will be managed by
      previewing and discussing game content with participant, family members and carers as
      appropriate.

      Potential benefits to participants: Playing a suitable game should provide feelings of
      well-being and improved self esteem. With the added social aspect of multi-player online
      games, participants could also feel less isolated. These improvements in emotional health may
      have beneficial effects on cognitive skills such as communication.

      Confidentiality

      Participant personal details will be kept confidential. When data is reported, random numeric
      IDs will be used to refer to individuals. Guidelines issued by the Office of National
      Statistics will be followed when tabulated data contains cells with zeros or extremely low
      numbers, so that potential identification of participants is prevented.
    
  