
    
      Because of its close association with sensorineural hearing loss, tinnitus is a prevalent
      issue for veterans who are proportionally more hearing-impaired than the civilian population.
      The VA system disburses $110 million per year to over 115,000 veterans for their
      service-connected tinnitus disability, thus it is clearly a problem for veterans and for the
      VA. Unfortunately, most VAMCs do not have systematic clinical care available for their
      veterans suffering from tinnitus. The most obvious needs are to develop effective treatment
      methodologies for veterans, and to standardize a procedure for quantifying the disorder. Each
      of these concerns is a focus of this laboratory, and the present proposal addresses the
      latter need as a continuation study to develop reliable techniques to measure tinnitus.

      The goal of this proposed study is a fully functional system, documented for response
      reliability and ready for clinical implementation at VA audiology clinics outside of
      Portland. To achieve that end goal, the study will be conducted as three concurrent projects:
      (1) Further laboratory development of the automated technique for comprehensive tinnitus
      quantification; (2) Development of a technique to test for tinnitus "malingering"; and (3)
      Evaluation of the automated technique in the clinical environment.

      For Project 1, a series of experiments is proposed to reduce the time of testing, and to add
      new measurement capabilities. Each experiment will involve specification, design, and
      implementation of program modifications, human subject testing, analysis of results, and
      further modifications as indicated. Another series of experiments (Project 2) will be
      conducted to develop a tinnitus malingering exam. With such a test, veterans with true
      tinnitus would provide reliable responses, while those feigning tinnitus would have
      difficulty responding reliably. For Project 3, a duplicate measurement system will be
      installed at the Portland VA Regional Tinnitus Clinic. The automated technique will be used
      to quantify tinnitus in veteran patients during their tinnitus evaluation. Patients will be
      invited to return for repeat testing, which will provide reliability data for clinical
      responses. This project will promote clinical feedback that will be important for final
      development of the system as a clinical tool.

      The three projects outlined above are designed to develop an efficient clinical technique to
      quantify tinnitus perception. Because the technique is computer automated, its implementation
      at VA clinics will involve a minimum of training and expenditure. The technique is further
      expected to impact the medical care of non-VA clinics, and could
    
  