
    
      Surplus lymph node tissue collected from patients undergoing routine surgical treatment for
      head & neck disease will be investigated using vibrational spectroscopy.

      The project will develop a combined FNA/Raman spectroscopy needle probe. This study will
      evaluate this device on excised lymph node tissue to gather data for submission of approvals
      for an in-vivo study to follow. Raman & FTIR (fourier transform infrared) spectra will be
      correlated with routine histopathology results using multivariate analysis methods. Cytology
      samples taken using the device will be compared with histopathology results.

      Aims

      To demonstrate that the FNA/Raman spectroscopy probe device, developed as part of this
      project, can:

      Safely perform measurement of Raman spectra on excised lymph node tissue Safely perform FNA
      (fine needle aspiration) biopsies on excised lymph node tissue To evaluate the performance of
      a Raman needle probe to detect lymphoma & malignancy in excised head & neck lymph nodes and
      differentiate from benign nodes.

      To develop the investigators understanding of vibrational spectroscopy signal characteristics
      in head & neck lymph nodes (through Raman & FTIR mapping measurements of tissue sections).

      Objectives To test a new combined FNA and spectroscopic device on ex vivo tissue in
      preparation for an in vivo study.

      Outcome

      Primary Outcome Measures The FNA/Raman spectroscopy probe device can be used safely on
      excised lymph nodes to measure tissue spectra and collect FNA biopsies.

      Diagnostic performance of vibrational spectroscopy for differentiation of lymphoma &
      malignant nodes from benign nodes.

      Secondary Outcome Measures Evaluation of the performance of a Raman needle probe to detect
      lymphoma & malignancy in excised head & neck lymph nodes and differentiate from benign nodes.
      To develop the investigators understanding of vibrational spectroscopy signal characteristics
      in head & neck lymph nodes (through Raman & FTIR mapping measurements of tissue sections).

      Evaluation of the performance of a Raman needle probe to measure head & neck lymph nodes
      (ergonomic design, ease of use etc.).
    
  