
    
      This study will be a prospective, single-blinded, randomized controlled trial aimed to
      compare two different rehabilitation programs in PD disease and to evaluate the effect of
      Virtual Reality on cardiocirculatory system.

      Patients will undergo Conventional or Virtual Reality Rehabilitation Program for 6
      consecutive weeks, 3-times in a week for a 40 minute session. Moreover, in order to acquire
      data on cardiocirculatory system during the first and the last sessions an Holter-
      electrocardiography will be used. Data will be compared with healthy subjects (matched for
      age and gender).

      The used protocols are reported below.

      Conventional (C) Rehabilitation Program The Conventional rehabilitation program will be
      performed according to the " Royal Dutch Society for Physical Therapy Guidelines for physical
      therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease". In each C rehabilitation session, patients
      will undergo 3 phases: 1) Warm-up phase: passive mobilization of main joints and muscular
      strengthen of lower limbs; 2) Active phase (both standing than seated): exercises of motor
      coordination with upper and lower limbs, balance training, start and stop exercises,
      deambulation training; 3) cool-down phase (with seated patient): manipulation exercises,
      mobilization exercises, respiratory exercises.

      Virtual Reality (VR) Rehabilitation Program Each session will consist of multiple exercises.
      These ones are described below, each exercise will be performed by the patient for 4 minutes
      followed by a 1 minute of rest.

      Exercise 1 (named Trumpet H2D1): patients placed in the center of the room and asked to
      randomly touch a moving trumpet displayed on the wall screen. When the trumpet will be
      reached by patient's arm, it will disappear giving out a sound.

      Exercise 2 (named Pink rose hemiarch left and right H1D2): patients placed in the center of
      the room and asked to touch the rose projected on the wall screen as a hemiarch, in this
      exercise the sequence of rose to touch and therefore the distance between the target and the
      patient will be decided by the physical therapist.

      Exercise 3 (named Doggy): patients placed in the center of the room and asked to lead a dog
      in the four corner of the wall screen. Patients will be free to move in the room.

      Exercise 4 (named Eggs): patients placed in the center of the room and asked to touch as fast
      as possible eggs projected in the wall screen in a random order. When the egg will be reached
      by patient's arm, it will disappear giving out a sound.

      Exercise 5 (named Mole): patients placed in the center of the room and asked to reach a mole
      that will go out from a hole. The patients will know where the mole will be and they will
      move in the room. When the mole will be reached by patient's arm, it will disappear giving
      out a sound.

      Exercise 6 (named Stay Or Move In Between): patients placed in the center of the room and wre
      asked to perform the motor task as indicated by physical therapist while maintaining balance
      between two lateral bars in order not to touch them and not make them sound.

      Exercise 7 (named Leaves): patients placed in the center of the room and asked to clean from
      wall screen as fast as possible all the leaves projected in the wall.
    
  