
    
      Abdominal computed tomography (CT) scans are performed daily on a regular basis. Since its
      advent, rapid technical advances in CT continuously improved image quality. Besides scan
      technique, the contrast media (CM) injection protocol is the crucial factor in abdominal
      imaging. Parenchymal contrast enhancement is determined by patient related factors (e.g.
      cardiac output, blood volume and patient weight), the CM injection protocol and the scan
      protocol. Much literature has been performed with regard to optimizing CM application and the
      scan protocol. Flow rate of the CM and patient discomfort have been thoroughly investigated
      in our department. Heating CM up to body temperature has been daily clinical routine in our
      department for years.

      According to the recent recommendations (ESUR guidelines 10.0) it is advised to warm
      iodine-based CM before administration. Warming the CM is expected to result in a higher
      patient comfort, based on clinical observation. Kok et al. showed in phantom experiments that
      high temperature, low iodine concentration and low viscosity significantly decreases
      injection pressure. Subsequently, as increased temperature reduces the viscosity of the CM,
      the decreased viscosity is hypothesized to reduce the risk of extravasation. A decreased
      viscosity might also have a substantial impact on individual tailored CM injection protocols
      in daily routine scanning as it is speculated that a decrease of viscosity and subsequent
      decrease in peak injection pressure could influence patient comfort during injection. The
      EICAR trial showed that prewarmed CM can be safely injected at high flow rates, without
      patient discomfort, pain or stress. However, the latter was not compared to CM at room
      temperature.

      Different CM concentrations are used in different hospitals throughout the world. The higher
      the concentration, the higher the viscosity of the CM. In present study, only one CM
      concentrations (e.g. 300 mg/ml) will be used, which is used in daily clinical practice for
      years. Heating the CM decreases the viscosity. It is therefore expected that the preheated CM
      in a concentration of 300 mg/ml has a lower viscosity in comparison to the CM at 20° C.

      Pre-warming CM might be regarded as best clinical practice. No studies have been performed to
      investigate this statement, nor is there any literature that shows that prewarmed CM has a
      favorable patient comfort compared to CM injected at room temperature. For these reasons,
      there remains to be some reluctance and many clinics still not pre-warm their CM. One study,
      in which CM is injected in to the cavity of the uterus to check for any anatomical variants
      and causes for infertility, showed a preference for prewarmed CM in hysterosalpingography
      (HCG). This study found that prewarmed CM alleviates the pain and decreased the incidence of
      vasovagal episode during the HCG.

      The hypothesis is that although using CM at room temperature (~23°C [~73°F]) might result in
      lower attenuation of the liver parenchyma than would be achieved using CM pre-warmed to body
      temperature, diagnostic image quality, patient safety and comfort will not be compromised by
      not pre-warming CM in this setting. Pre-warming CM requires special equipment and more
      complex planning and logistics. On the other hand, pre-warming CM may yield higher
      attenuation levels, comfort and image quality. In case this study does not show a significant
      difference in patient comfort and diagnostic quality between groups, pre-warming the CM can
      be stopped, resulting in a considerable simplified workflow.
    
  