
    
      Dental plaque is the primary etiological factor in the initiation of caries, gingival
      inflammation and subsequent destruction of periodontal tissues. Effective oral hygiene
      eliminates microbial plaque leading to resolution of gingival inflammation. Livionex Dental
      Gel is a toothpaste that is effective in reducing plaque in adults while not containing the
      additives found in other toothpastes that can cause increased gingival irritation. The
      investigators hypothesize that brushing with Livionex toothpaste creates an oral environment
      that prevents dental plaque accumulation and promotes oral health in children.

      This study will prospectively enroll 70 children aged 9 months to 6 years from UCSF
      affiliated pediatrics or pediatric dental clinics. Upon obtaining an informed consent,
      children will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the use of test (Livionex Dental Gel) and
      control toothpaste (a standard children's toothpaste containing 1500 ppm fluoride ). All
      patients will be provided a soft brush at enrollment, and the child and/or the parent will be
      taught to brush/clean after the first exam, with the assigned dentifrice, at the study center
      before they go home. Additionally, each subject will receive a new brush at every 3-month
      visit. Subjects will undergo a dental exam by a trained dentist including caries assessment
      (at baseline, 1, 3, 6 and 9 months), dental plaque photograph, (at baseline, 1, 3, 6 and 9
      months), and swab samples for dental plaque and saliva will be collected at all study visits.
      A questionnaire will be given to address dentifrice and brushing experience at monthly phone
      call and each study visit. A monthly phone call will be made to assess compliance with the
      study protocol, and to answer any questions or concerns. Data on compliance and side effects
      of toothpastes will be collected at each of the calls.
    
  