
    
      According to Espen (European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism) intensive care
      nutrition guide; in critically ill patients under mechanical ventilation support, early
      enteral feeding (24-48 hours) is recommended. Nutrition, which is an important part of
      intensive care treatment; accelerates wound healing in critically ill patients, regulates the
      immune system, decreases mortality rates, and plays a role in shortening hospital stay. As a
      result of the early initiation of enteral feeding, the gastrointestinal system barrier
      mechanisms are preserved and mucosal atrophies are prevented.

      Gastrointestinal, mechanical, and metabolic complications may occur in patients who are fed
      enterally in an intensive care unit and feeding is interrupted in these cases. Studies have
      shown that problems such as diarrhea, constipation, abdominal distension, aspiration
      pneumonia, increased gastric residual volume, and feeding intolerance occur in patients in
      whom enteral feeding is initiated. As a result of a study conducted with 341 children
      connected to mechanical ventilation, it was found that only 66.6% of the children reached
      their daily enteral nutrition goals on the 7th day of their hospitalization.

      Massage has been used as therapeutic treatment in medicine for many years. Abdominal massage
      stimulates the digestive system and increases peristaltic movements. It is thought to
      accelerate food passage and digestion because it causes mechanical and reflexive movements in
      the intestines. In adult age group studies where, abdominal massage is applied; It has been
      reported that there is less aspiration pneumonia, the gastric residue is reduced, less
      vomiting is experienced and abdominal distension is less common. Similar results are seen in
      studies with preterm babies. It has been reported that gastric residual volume decreases, the
      frequency of defecation increases, and less vomiting is observed in preterm babies who are
      massaged. In a meta-analysis study by Biarag and Mirghafourvand, it was reported that
      abdominal massage reduced the frequency of vomiting and less gastric residue was removed in
      preterm babies. In the study conducted by Kim, it is seen that preterm babies who were
      massaged started enteral feeding before. In addition, it has been reported that massage helps
      weight gain in preterms by increasing nutritional tolerance.

      There is no study in the literature on the effect of abdominal massage on critical patients
      in pediatric intensive care, and studies are needed in this area.
    
  