
    
      This is an observational study to understand if the use of whole genome sequencing (WGS)
      increases the speed to diagnosis and how clinical management is changed in an intensive care
      population of neonates. This project utilizes approved genome sequencing methods at
      CLIA-certified facilities.

        1. Neonate subjects who are eligible and whose parents consent to the study will undergo
           blood sample which will be sent for WGS and bioinformatics analysis, filtering first
           with a targeted panel of 1722 genes most likely to cause genetic disorders in the first
           year of life, and then with a whole exome filter if no obvious diagnosis is determined
           using the 1722 gene panel filter. Testing is completed in a CLIA-certified laboratory.
           Pathogenic, likely-pathogenic, and variants of uncertain significance in genes related
           the child's clinical features will be returned to the care team and to the parents in
           the setting of genetic counseling for use in clinical decision making about management.
           A report is added to the neonates EMR. Consent will include permission to access
           financial records of the hospitalization, to compare costs and length-of-stay to matched
           controls.

        2. Parents of identified neonates who consent to the study for the for the purpose of trio
           analysis will have samples collected which will undergo concurrent analysis with the
           child to assist in determining the pathogenicity of variants in genomic sequencing.
           Pathogenic and likely-pathogenic secondary findings in the ACMG 59 later-onset medically
           actionable genes will be reported to the parents in the setting of genetic counseling
           ONLY if the parents opt in to learn these results AND they are identified in the child.

        3. Siblings of participating neonates, if needed for interpretation of the neonate's
           genetic studies, will have samples collected for use in the genetic analysis. Pathogenic
           and likely-pathogenic results in childhood-onset disorders will be reported to the
           parents in the setting of genetic counseling.

        4. Historical controls will be identified and matched to study participants. Historical
           controls will include infants in the ICU having a genetics consult ordered during their
           initial admission over the prior 24 months. Matching between study participants and
           matched controls will be performed using Propensity Scores. We will fit a logistical
           regression model to the combined treatment and control groups, and will then use the
           nearest neighbor matching to create matched pairs. The matching will help reduce bias
           and increase power to detect true effects. These controls will only be used for the
           fiscal and length of stay analyses; no genetic testing will be done on this cohort.
    
  