
    
      Bloodstream infections (BSI) with multi-drug resistant (MDR) bacteria such as extended-
      spectrum betalactamase producing Enterobacteriaceae (ESBL-E) are associated with significant
      morbidity and mortality, particularly in the immunocompromised patient. In recent years,
      rapid spread of ESBL-E on a global level has been observed. While guidelines on effective
      infection control and treatment measures are urgently needed, the required basis of evidence
      is yet to be generated. Particularly data from interventional trials is lacking.

      From October 2011 to December 2012, a multicenter cohort study on ESBL-E colonization and
      infection in haematology/oncology patients has been conducted within the Deutsches Zentrum
      für Infektionsforschung (DZIF) and allowed for a detailed description of the epidemiology of
      ESBL-E in this patient population. Based on these results, the sample size calculations for
      this study were carried out.

      Rapid and rational health-care interventions are of great importance to efficiently combat
      the emergence of resistant and virulent bacteria. In recent years, spread of ESBL-E on a
      global level has been observed.

      In 2012, the KRINKO (Kommission für Krankenhaushygiene und Infektionsprävention) at the
      Robert Koch Institute in Berlin, German, published their new recommendations on the
      management of colonization and infection with Gram-negative MDR bacteria, including ESBL-E.
      In high-risk settings, e.g. haematology/oncology wards and intensive care units, contact
      isolation is recommended for all patients who are colonized or infected with ESBL-E. While
      recommendations of the KRINKO are not legally binding, many institutions are now integrating
      these suggestions into their standards of care, given the recent increase in the prevalence
      of ESBL-E. This development is putting a considerable strain on patients and treating
      physicians. Firstly, previous studies have demonstrated the negative impact of long-term
      isolation on the patients' frequency of contacts with health care workers, a decrease in
      scores for self-esteem and an increase in scores for anxiety and depression.Secondly, proper
      contact isolation requires treatment in a single room. Many hospitals are, however, not
      equipped with sufficient numbers of single rooms, to accommodate all patients carrying MDR
      bacteria. Apart from problems associated with contact isolation, immunocompromised patients
      who are colonized with ESBL-E are at an increased risk of subsequent bloodstream infections
      (BSI).

      Medical care providers are used to be faced with similar problems when dealing with
      methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). However, nowadays, eradication regimens
      offer the possibility to remove MRSA from the skin and mucosa of colonized patients, thus
      interrupting its further spread to a considerable extent. For ESBL-E, effective eradication
      regimens are not yet available. The current study therefore aims to assess a new approach to
      ESBL-E eradication. To avoid administration of the eradication regimen to patients at low
      risk of subsequent BSI with ESBL-E, the study population will be restricted to
      immunocompromised high-risk patients.

      The human intestinal tract is known to be colonized by hundreds of different bacterial
      species and other microbes. Based on the experience with fecal microbiota therapy in the
      treatment of recurrent Clostridium difficile infections, it can be hypothesized that the
      intestinal microbiome may influence the success or failure of the present study intervention.
      Thus, at selected sites, a metagenomic analysis of the intestinal microbiome will be
      performed to explore possible associations between certain microbiome patterns and the
      successful eradication of ESBL-E.

      There is an ongoing discussion on whether antibiotic regimens used for eradication and
      selective digestive tract decontamination (SDD) might lead to the emergence of multi-drug
      resistant bacteria.11 Emergence of resistance under long-term administration of SDD to ICU
      patients has been previously reported.12 However, a recently published meta-analysis,
      including 64 studies in ICUs, of which 47 were randomized controlled trials and 35 included
      data for the detection of antimicrobial resistance, no relation between the use of SDD and
      the development of antimicrobial resistance could be detected.13 Even without this
      information, the risk for emergence of resistance should be classified as very low,
      considering that patients will receive eradication treatment for the duration of only seven
      days. Nevertheless, the possible emergence of non-ESBL multi-drug resistant bacteria in the
      intestine will be assessed during the study intervention.

      Concerning the choice of an antibiotic regimen with a high chance of effectively eradicating
      ESBL-E from the gut, data from previous studies has been taken into account. Most previous
      study concepts were based on the idea of SDD.14-16 SDD aims to eradicate abnormal aerobic
      gram-negative bacteria, while preserving anaerobic bacteria. In this setting, the problem of
      adverse events caused by systemic effects of the antibiotics used can be discarded. However,
      if only locally active antibiotics are used for achieving eradication, patients are less
      likely to clear concurrent ESBL-E colonization of the throat, skin and urinary bladder. These
      body sites may then serve as a source of intestinal re-colonization with ESBL-E. Therefore,
      the current pilot study uses a combination of a non-absorbable enterally administered
      antibiotic and a systemic antibiotic. To facilitate the choice of an optimum non-absorbable
      antibiotic, antimicrobial susceptibility testing of clinical isolates of ESBL-E from
      haematological high-risk patients was carried out at the University Hospital Cologne in 2012.
      Virtually no resistance towards colistin could be detected (data not published), such that
      colistin was chosen as the non-absorbable component. As previous studies have shown promising
      results for a combination of colistin and gentamicin, the latter was added to the eradication
      regimen. Concerning the choice of a systemically active antibiotic, promising data on the
      clinical efficacy of fosfomycin in ESBL-E infections and in the reduction of ESBL-E in the
      intestinal flora have been published. Given the additional convenience of an available oral
      formulation - a prerequisite not given for most other ESBL-E active treatments - fosfomycin
      was chosen for combination with oral colistin and gentamicin. For the treatment of urinary
      tract infections, oral fosfomycin is usually administered as a single dose of 3g. However,
      several studies have assessed treatment of complicated or chronic urinary tract infections
      with repetitive administrations of 3g fosfomycin.

      Since a single dose may not suffice to reduce the intestinal ESBL-E burden below the limit of
      detection, a schedule of 3g p.o. every 72h was chosen for this study.
    
  