
    
      Potential participants who meet key eligibility criteria [adults who have undergone renal
      transplantation and have a history of infection with the Target Multidrug Resistant Organisms
      (MDRO)] will be approached for consideration of study participation. For this study, Target
      MDRO colonization is defined as a positive bacterial culture of either carbapenem-resistant
      Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE), Extended Spectrum
      Beta-Lactamases (ESBL), and/or multidrug resistant (MDR) Pseudomonas from stool or perirectal
      swab sampling.

      The 20 trial participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of two arms: the control
      arm [not receiving Allogeneic Human Stool in Glycerol (10%; AHSG) via Fecal Microbiota
      Transplant (FMT)] and the experimental arm (receiving AHSG via FMT). Participants in the
      control arm participants can crossover to receive the treatment after completing a study
      cycle without FMT. Each cycle lasts 6 weeks and participants will complete a maximum of 2
      treatment cycles; participants randomized to the experimental arm will complete a maximum of
      two cycles and those randomized to the control arm will complete up to three cycles. Upon
      completion of the final cycle, all trial participants will be followed for just over 6
      months.

      In addition to the trial participants, there will also be one stool donor participant. The
      consented, screened, and eligible stool donor will be identified from an established group of
      stool donors and will undergo screening procedures that are specific to this study. This
      individual will donate human stool for the preparation of the AHSG (known as the
      investigational new drug (IND) product for this study). Upon processing of AHSG, the stool
      donor will enter the Follow-Up Period and remain available for communication to the study
      team (if necessary) until the Study Completion Date. However, no scheduled study assessments
      are required of the stool donor.
    
  