
    
      The patients will be selected out of the patients with Erectile Dysfunction who received Low
      intensity shock waves and Were Partial Responders to the treatment.

      At the first meeting the patient will receive a full explanation of the study, the potential
      efficacy and risks. After that the patient will be asked to sign an informed consent form.
      The patient's general medical condition and any problems related to sexual dysfunction are
      already known from the previous study he was participating. Also the patient's sexual
      function is already known by sexual function questionnaires that were filled out in previous
      study. The criteria for inclusion and exclusion will be reviewed, as well as physical
      examination. Then shall the patient obtain reporting sexual encounter diaries (SEP) and will
      be asked to avoid using PDE5i's for a month (washout), if he did not do so of some reason
      after ending the previous study, then it would be the first visit (Visit 1). At visit 1 The
      patient will be questioning the sexual function questionnaires without PDE5i's and will pass
      examination performance Endothelial - FMD, the test takes about 10 minutes, it is not an
      invasive test (not involved in inserting an instrument or any medication) and is painless.
      The patient may be asked to also undergo Doppler ultrasound. At the end of visit 1 the
      patient will begin Series of 12 treatments, in which the subject will be treated twice a week
      for 3 weeks (6 treatments), then would be discontinuation of the study for 3 weeks, and at
      the end of this period will be treated twice a week for 3 weeks (6 treatments). Four weeks
      after the treatment series ends the patient will come for another visit and will be asked to
      fill in questionnaires and perform the FMD and/or Doppler ultrasound test again. The
      patient's ED condition will be followed up for a long term after the end of his participation
      in the study.
    
  