
    
      The Boston Scientific Jetstream XC catheter is a rotating, aspirating, expandable catheter
      for active removal of atherosclerotic disease and thrombus in peripheral vasculature. The JS
      XC System has been cleared by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the
      peripheral vasculature to treat denovo and non-stent infrainguinal lesions

      Several studies have shown that stenting of the FP artery leads to higher long term patency.
      Bare metal stents however have not shown conclusively to reducemTLR which is in contrast to
      drug coated balloons (DCB) and drug coated stents (DCS). Irrespective, stenting has several
      disadvantages including a continued high rate of restenosis and stent fractures that is
      progressive with time. FP ISR occurs in more than one third of patients at 1 year and up to
      49% at 2 years. Complex lesions (long, Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus II C/D lesions,
      total occlusions), certain demographics (female gender, diabetes mellitus), critical limb
      ischemia and significant stent fractures are associated with a higher rate of restenosis.
      Also the majority of occluded stents are restenotic-thrombotic and generally are more
      challenging to treat.

      Recently 3 randomized trials were presented in treating FP ISR; the EXCImer Laser Randomized
      Controlled Study for Treatment of FemoropopliTEal In-Stent Restenosis (EXCITE ISR) trial
      (randomized laser + PTA vs PTA alone), the RELINE trial (Propaten Bioactive Surface vs.
      standard balloon angioplasty for treatment of in-stent restenosis in the superficial femoral
      artery) and the Randomized Femoral Artery In-Stent Restenosis (FAIR) Trial. All these studies
      showed superiority over PTA in treating FP ISR. Early animal data (porcine model of FP ISR)
      and feasibility human data (JetStream ISR study) have shown that the JetStream device is
      effective in ablating restenotic tissue within restenotic FP stents and had no safety
      concerns within well apposed stents and in the absence of Class III and IV fractures.

      The purpose of this study is to assess and estimate the effect of treating FP ISR with plaque
      excision using JS in combination with adjunctive PTA and compare this to historic control of
      PTA. The comparator arm is historic data from PTA derived from a study-level meta-analysis of
      the 3 published randomized trials in the field.
    
  