
    
      COVID-19 is a viral disease caused by a novel coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), that can cause severe pneumonia and ARDS. Respiratory viral load
      may peak within 5 days after onset, while symptoms are still mild. Many patients rapidly
      (within 1 to 2 weeks of infection) develop dyspnea and pneumonia and require hospitalization
      for respiratory support.

      Preliminary clinical data from COVID-19 patients indicate that severe symptoms with
      SARS-CoV-2 infection are associated with an exaggerated immune response driven by interleukin
      (IL)-6 IL-10, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α, and other cytokines. The ultimate result is
      progressive destruction of the alveolar epithelium leading to pneumonia and/or ARDS.
      Moreover, the exudative phase of ARDS is thought to be due to an influx of myeloid cells
      (neutrophils and macrophages) and elevations of inflammatory cytokines, with higher levels of
      both IL-6 and IL-8 levels being correlated with increased mortality. Therefore,
      immunomodulatory therapy may be beneficial in reducing the deleterious effects of lung
      inflammation and mitigating progressive lung injury.

      Tofacitinib is an inhibitor of Janus kinase (JAKs) 1 and 3, with partial selectivity to JAK
      2. Tofacitinib suppresses pro-inflammatory signaling that may be important pathogenetically
      to progression to more severe lung disease and ARDS in patients with COVID-19.

      The purpose of the study is to assess the safety and efficacy of tofacitinib plus standard
      pharmacologic and supportive measures in treating hospitalized participants with COVID-19
      pneumonia.

      Participants with laboratory confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection as determined by a positive PCR
      or other commercially available or public health assay, who have agreed to participate, will
      be screened within 72h hours after admission to the hospital to determine eligibility.

      Eligible participants will be randomized on Day 1 to the tofacitinib plus standard of care
      treatment group or the placebo plus standard of care treatment group in a 1:1 ratio,
      stratified by site and need for oxygen Participants will receive treatment for up to 14 days
      or until discharge from the hospital, whichever is earlier.

      Participants will be assessed daily (up to Day 28) while hospitalized for clinical, safety,
      and laboratory parameters. Follow-up visits will occur on Day 14 and on Day 28.
    
  