
    
      Pregnant women will be asked to consume dietary supplements (2 capsules, from the Pennington
      Biomedical Pharmacy) each day during pregnancy. They will begin taking the capsules around 17
      weeks of pregnancy and take them each day until their babies are born. Women will be
      randomized to one of two groups. Randomization means they will be put into a group by chance,
      similar to flipping a coin. One group, the placebo group of the study, will take capsules
      containing oil '1 ' which is a mixture of corn and soy oils . The other group, the supplement
      group, will take capsules containing oil '2' which is an algal oil. Both oils are found in
      our diets. Neither the subject nor the study staff will know which group women are in.

      Women will also keep a diary of how many capsules they take. At around 17, 22, 24, 26, 30,
      32, and 36 weeks of pregnancy, women will go to Woman's Hospital to get new capsules and
      return any remaining capsules and their capsule diary. If they are not able to go to Woman's
      Hospital at weeks 22, 26, or 32 a researcher will arrange to meet them at an agreed upon
      prearranged place, such as a pharmacy, a library, or Pennington Biomedical, for example. At
      the same visits to Woman's Hospital at weeks 17, 24, 30, and 36 weeks of pregnancy women will
      also have their blood drawn (approximately one tablespoon).

      At 17, 22, 24, 26, 30, 32 and 36 weeks of pregnancy we will also ask women about the foods
      they are eating. We will do this by a prearranged phone call; women will not need to meet us
      in person for this.

      Researchers will contact subjects weekly by phone to inquire about compliance with
      consumption of capsules. Contact will only take place during weeks in which a visit or phone
      call regarding diet is not required.

      At 17, 24, 30, and 36 weeks of pregnancy small blood samples will be collected from their arm
      (approximately one tablespoon at each collection) for laboratory analyses. At the birth of
      their baby a sample of blood will be collected from the umbilical cord after their baby is
      delivered. All blood samples will be stored at Pennington Biomedical. Blood samples will be
      analyzed by the researchers who are involved in the study. Some analyses will take place at
      Pennington Biomedical and Louisiana State University (LSU). Deidentified (without subject
      names) samples will be sent to study researchers at Northeastern University in Boston, LSU
      Health Sciences Center in New Orleans, and DSM Nutritional Products in Columbia, Maryland for
      some of the analyses. At the end of the study remaining blood samples will be discarded
      unless women consent for their blood to be used for future research. Should women decide to
      withdraw from the study, any samples collected thus far will be included in the study since
      they will be deidentified and the investigators will not know which samples belong to each
      person. We will also collect information about the baby's birth weight, length, and health
      from the baby's hospital chart.

      When the baby is 2 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months of age we will measure the baby's body fat
      and lean tissue. To do this measurement the baby will lie or sit in an enclosed chamber where
      the mother can see her baby during the measurements. There are no attachments made to the
      baby. At these times we will also determine the baby's body fat by measuring the thickness of
      the baby's skinfold; this is done by gently lifting a double fold of skin on the baby's hip,
      upper arm (triceps), and back of the thigh and measuring the thickness of that fold with a
      handheld instrument with two hinged arms that fit over the skinfold. There is no discomfort
      associated with this procedure. The measurements will be made at Woman's Hospital. During
      these visits we will also ask questions about how the mother is feeding her baby. Between
      these visits (when the baby is 2, 4, 8, and 10 months old) we will phone to ask about how the
      baby is being fed and to inquire about the mother's and baby's well-being.
    
  