
    
      Screening at the first evaluation:

      The anamnesis for each potentially eligible patient will be performed to assess whether the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria are met.

      If the selection criteria for inclusion in the study are met, the patient will be proposed to
      participate in the study with the delivery of the patient information sheet and the form will
      be delivered to obtain written and signed informed consent.

      Only after having signed the signature on the form, the patient will in fact be eligible for
      the study.

      Randomization assigns to each patient the treatment strategy assigned by the random process,
      as well as the numerical code that uniquely identifies the patient in the study.

      Once the randomization has been carried out, the following information will be collected at
      the moment before the tape application:

        -  Name and surname.

        -  Age.

        -  Profession.

        -  Type of surgical intervention.

        -  Side of the surgical intervention.

        -  Previous or concurrent diseases.

        -  Eventual adverse events.

        -  Thickness of skin and subcutaneous tissue, detected by ultrasound.

        -  Thickness of liquid, detected by ultrasound.

        -  Pain referred by the patient (VAS Scale).

        -  Patient satisfaction level (VAS Scale).

        -  Scar quality measured by the blind surgeon (Vancouver Scar Scale)

        -  Disability of the patient (DASH Questionnaire)

      Screening for subsequent evaluations:

      The following information will be collected:

        -  Thickness of skin and subcutaneous tissue (edema) and serum collection (seroma) detected
           by ultrasound.

        -  Quality of the scar measured by the blind surgeon (Vancouver Scar Scale).

        -  Subjective pain sensation (VAS Scale).

        -  Patient satisfaction level (VAS Scale).

        -  Disability of the patient (DASH Questionnaire).

      Treatment:

      Kinesio Tex Tape strips are applied to the patient in the experimental group following the
      technique of Dr. Kenzo Kase for lymphatic drainage. The choice of tape's length and of
      strips' number to be applied is based on the area of the breast edema and / or presence of
      seroma, which must be completely covered. The patch is cut into a fan strip: a length of
      kinesio tex tape is solid at one end and cut to create 4-6 narrow strips or tails. Corners
      are rounded to prevent detachment. The application area must be clean and dry. The major base
      is positioned near the functioning lymph node stations closest to the edema and / or seroma
      area. The bases and the tails of the fan must be applied with zero tension, while for the
      central part is reached 15-25% of tension, which is created manually or by extending the
      structures involved. Tails are applied in parallel, with a small distance between them.The
      first application takes place on the 1st post-operative day, while the second is performed on
      the 7th post-operative day. In the event that the tape is detached from one application to
      another, it is necessary that the patient resume in the clinic for a new application, so as
      to ensure continuity of the therapeutic effect; otherwise, the patient is eliminated from the
      study. The experimental group also receives the expected standard treatment. By standard
      treatment we mean physiotherapeutic evaluation and physiotherapy counseling. The educational
      part, the demonstration of the exercises to be performed autonomously and the demonstration
      of prosthesis mobilization are included in this treatment.

      Temporary or ultimately treatment interruption:

      There are no conditions that allows to interrupt and then restart the study. If a subject
      decides to interrupt the study, the decision will be ultimate and a conclusion visit will be
      carried out in order to understand the drop out motivations; data will be analysed for
      intention-to-treat analysis.

      • Statistics considerations

      Sample size:

      In order to assess the 1st co-primary endpoint (seroma resolution at 30 days) the percentages
      will be compared; from our clinical experience we except the 50% of subjects without tape
      will resolve seroma at 30 days, while 90% of subjects with kinesio-tape treatment will
      resolve at the same time.

      In order to highlight this difference we will need to recruit 30 subjects per group with 2,5
      % alpha error and 80% statistical power.

      Regarding the 2nd co-primary endpoint (edema reduction), taking as reference the mean of five
      ultrasound breast acquisition, a size of 30 subjects in each group and a 80% statistical
      power will be required to determine a difference of 1.69 mm between null hypothesis which
      establishes the mean of both groups is 10.00 mm and alternative hypothesis establishing the
      2nd group mean is 8.31 mm, taking a standard deviation of 2.00 mm for both groups.

      • Statistics analysis

      Demographics data and outcomes in the study will be analysed through descriptive statistics.

      In case of Gaussian distribution, the continuous variables will be described through mean and
      standard deviation, while in case non-Gaussian distribution the continuous variables will be
      described through median and interquartile range. Categorical variables will be described
      through frequency percentages.

      Considered variables' normal distribution will be verified through Shapiro-Wilk Test.

      For the 1st co-primary endpoint (seroma resolution) at 30 days proportions will be compared,
      and in order to make the survival analysis seroma resolution times will be considered.

      Curves will be estimated through Kaplan and Meier method and two groups comparison will be
      carried out through log-rank test.

      For the 2nd co-primary endpoint (edema reduction) means at 30 days will be compared through
      repeated measures analysis of variance.

      The analysis will be conducted through intention-to-treat population analysis, considering
      the two groups as randomized.

      Also a confirmation analysis will be conducted on population who has correctly carried out
      the treatment (per-protocol population).

      • Ethical and regulating considerations:

      This clinical study will be conducted according to the main laws drawn up by the 18th World
      Medical Assembly (Helsinki, 1964) and to all the applicable amendments drawn up by World
      Medical Assembly, and to the ICH guide lines for Good Clinical Practice.

      This clinical trial will conducted with reference to all international laws and regulations,
      and to national laws and regulations in force in the Nation where it is carried out, as well
      as to each applicable guide line.

      • Informed consent:

      The investigator, or a person appointed by him and under his responsibility, will inform
      exhaustively participants about all aspects pertaining to the clinical trial, according to
      all the applicable regulating dispositions.

      All participants will be exhaustively informed about the study, using words and language they
      will be able to understand.

      Before taking part to the clinical trial the subjects will have had signed the informed
      consent forms.

      The patients will be told they will be able to drop out the study whenever they want, without
      any requested explanations, and that their decisions will not have any consequence.

      Every informed consent will be included in the investigator's files. The patient will be
      given a dated and signed copy of informed consent.
    
  