
    
      Patients with ischemic heart failure (HF) and reduced left ventricle ejection fraction are at
      high risk for recurrence of VA, ultimately leading to death. Such patients often require
      ablation. On the other hand, ablation of the VA in patients with post-infarction scar is a
      technically difficult procedure and often is associated with short-term efficacy.

      Risk factors for recurrence of VA are difficult to identify, although there are mentioned
      e.g. reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, exacerbation of chronic HF and electrolyte
      abnormalities.

      VA is triggered by ongoing inflammation and fibrosis, which are reflected by a level of
      biomarkers. Thus, it is worth searching for biomarkers that increase the possibility of
      effective stratification of risk of arrhythmia recurrence in patients undergoing ablation of
      sVT or ES.

      The hypothesis of this study is that biomarker-related risk stratification may be beneficial
      for patients with ES or sVT.

      Sample size assessment was made to specify the number of participants necessary to
      demonstrate an effect.

      The study will include at least 50 patients (who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria) with
      ischemic heart failure, with reduced left ventricle ejection fraction admitted to hospital
      and qualified for ablation due to ES or sVT.

      For every patient will be provided case report forms (CRFs) including their clinical status
      at admission and at discharge, laboratory findings, management during index hospitalization,
      data from ablation procedure, pharmacotherapy, as well as in-hospital and one-year outcome.

      Serum will be collected before ablation and 1-month after discharge from hospital for
      biomarkers measurements. Patients will be tele-monitored for ≥12-months. There will be
      carried out two control visits (including assessment of clinical, echocardiographic,
      electrocardiographic and Holter-ECG parameters) on 1- and 3 months after discharge.
    
  