
    
      Peripheral neuropathy is a debilitating disease of the nerves which can be a dose-limiting
      toxicity of chemotherapeutic agents. The symptoms of peripheral neuropathy can lead to
      considerable patient distress and discomfort, discontinuation of chemotherapy, and
      limitations regarding the selection of future chemotherapeutic regimens. Symptoms such as
      numbness, weakness, burning pain (especially at night), and loss of reflexes may take months
      before they improve and permanent deficits may remain. Epoetin alfa, already used in the
      treatment of chemotherapy-induced anemia, has been shown to have neuroprotective effects in
      preclinical studies. The purpose of this randomized (patients are assigned different
      treatments based on chance), double-blind (neither the patient nor the physician knows
      whether drug or placebo is being taken, or at what dosage), placebo-controlled study is to
      evaluate the neuroprotective effect of PROCRIT (epoetin alfa) administered once every week in
      patients with cancer who develop chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy due to treatment
      with combination Taxane and Platinum-Based chemotherapy. Patients will receive injections
      subcutaneously or intravenously of either epoetin alfa or placebo once weekly for up to 18
      weeks. Doses may be adjusted in the range of 20,000 to 60,000 Units once a week, depending on
      the patient's hemoglobin levels. Safety evaluations will be conducted throughout the study at
      specified intervals and will consist of assessment of laboratory tests (Hemoglobin level,
      Complete Blood Count (CBC), Blood Chemistries), vital signs, physical examinations and
      occurrence and severity of adverse events. In addition, the occurrence of anti-erythropoietin
      antibodies at baseline and study completion/early withdrawal will be evaluated in patients
      who received PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) after database lock and unblinding has occurred. The
      primary measure of effectiveness is the change at Week 12 in the National Cancer Institute
      Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) neuropathy score. The study hypothesis is that epoetin
      alfa will be more effective in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy
      than placebo as measured at Week 12 by the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria
      (NCI CTC) neuropathy score. Patients will receive injections subcutaneously (SC, under the
      skin) or intravenously (IV, in a vein) of either epoetin alfa or placebo once weekly for up
      to 18 weeks. Doses may be adjusted depending on the patient's hemoglobin levels to the
      maximum 60,000 Units once a week. The minimum dose can be 20,000 Units once a week.
    
  