
    
      Rosacea is a common condition that has multiple subtypes that exhibit inflammation and
      deficits in the skin/eye barrier function. Cutaneous rosacea is estimated to have an
      incidence of 10-22% while the prevalence of ocular rosacea ranging from 6-72%. Although
      rosacea is not an infection, antibiotics are widely used as first-line therapy due to their
      anti-inflammatory and skin-barrier function supporting effects. The most common class of
      antibiotics used are the tetracyclines, such as doxycycline and minocycline. With the
      emergence of community acquired methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) as well as
      macrolide resistant Streptococci and Staphylococci, there is growing concern for the
      widespread use of antibiotics for non-infectious conditions.

      The current clinical gap in practice is that there are few alternative therapies to
      antibiotics and this is partly due to our lack of understanding of what leads to the impaired
      skin/eye barrier and inflammation in rosacea. Few lipid-based studies have been performed in
      rosacea but there is early evidence for the importance in the lipidome to rosacea. The sebum
      in those with papulopustular rosacea was identified to have an abnormal profile to their
      sebum with a deficiency in long chain saturated fatty acids6 that correlates with the
      deficient skin barrier that is seen in rosacea. Treatment with minocycline was shown to
      restore skin barrier function in papulopustular rosacea but no lipid profile related measures
      were performed. Moreover, no studies have evaluated the role of other lipid mediators that
      are closely associated with the skin barrier and inflammation such as the ceramides and the
      eicosanoids.

      The question that the investigators aim to address in this proposal is how the local lipid
      mediator profiles of ceramides and eicosanoids are altered in cutaneous and ocular rosacea
      and how antibiotics alter the lipidome. The investigators also seek to understand how the
      microbiome is changed in those with and without rosacea, and how the microbiome is altered in
      those with rosacea. Understanding how the lipidome is modulated in rosacea with antibiotic
      treatment will serve as the first step in targeting therapies toward directly altering the
      lipidome to reduce inflammation and ultimately reduce the use of antibiotics.
    
  