
    
      Current practice of SFA revascularization almost always results in use of a Nitinol (a
      nickel-titanium alloy) BMS. Balloon angioplasty of complex SFA lesions, such as CTO or ≥60 mm
      lesions is associated with >50% restenosis at 1-year and Nitinol stents have outperformed
      stainless-steel stents in the SFA. Debulking strategies are employed selectively and rarely
      as a stand-alone therapy of SFA CTO. Stent use in long SFA lesions and CTO is fraught with
      the risk of fracture, mechanical deformation, neo-intimal hyperplasia and thrombosis, each of
      which is associated with loss of patency. Repeat procedures for in-stent restenosis are
      technically difficult, carry a higher morbidity compared to the initial procedure and provide
      less symptom relief. Therefore improving the patency of the initial procedure is in the best
      interest of the patient and the operator. Though long SFA lesions and CTO constitute ≥50% of
      all SFA lesions, it is systematically under-represented in the current SFA randomized trials.
      Stenting has not been shown to be superior to balloon angioplasty for short (30-60 mm) SFA
      lesions.SFA stenting is associated with lower patency rates and is especially less durable in
      diabetics, who have a higher prevalence of long lesions and CTO. In one of the largest to
      date outcome analyses of Nitinol stents in the SFA, 56% of lesions constituted a CTO. Seventy
      two percent of lesions treated with stents presented with in-stent restenosis compared to 52%
      of lesions stented for non-CTO lesions (p<0.001). In a multivariate analysis of stent
      patency, presence of a long lesion or CTO was an independent adverse predictor (hazard rate
      or HR=5.075, 95% confidence interval or CI 2.715-9.487). It is important to note that the
      benefit of stents is greater for longer and more complex lesions, including SFA CTO and long
      (≥60 mm) lesions.

      Study subjects will be recruited from the group of patients who are referred for clinically
      indicated endovascular treatment of SFA for claudication at the Dallas VA Medical Center and
      at other participating study sites. The study the investigators propose is significant
      because: (a) it would affect many veterans, (b) the consequences of early SFA stent failure
      are grave, (c) treatment of SFA lesions is challenging, and (d) outcomes after treatment of
      SFA lesions are poor and may be improved with DES. In summary, failure of stent patency after
      initial revascularization with stenting is common and carries significant morbidity. If
      restenosis rates of SFA stents can be reduced with DES, it could significantly improve
      procedural success, durability of treatment, quality of life of patients, reduce the need for
      repeat revascularization procedures, and potentially reduce healthcare costs.

      The proposed study is a phase 3, randomized controlled, parallel-group study in patients with
      long SFA lesions and SFA CTO, undergoing clinically indicated stent-based percutaneous
      revascularization.

      End points :

      The primary study end point is binary restenosis, as assessed by duplex ultrasonography
      performed at 12 months post-procedure or earlier if clinically indicated. Binary restenosis
      is defined as ≥2.5 fold increase in PSVR within the stented segment and within 10 mm of its
      proximal and distal edges to that recorded proximal to the stented segment or by the presence
      of an occluded stent with no flow. Secondary endpoints included change of resting
      ankle-brachial index (ABI) and symptoms (Rutherford-Becker stages), at 12 months
      post-procedure. Patients will be asked to complete a walking impairment questionnaire (score
      range: 0 to 14,080) pre-intervention, and then at 12 months for the first year
      post-procedure.19 All analyses will be performed in a blinded fashion at the Veterans Affairs
      North Texas Clinical Angiographic and Ultrasound Core Laboratory and clinical adjudication
      and adverse events monitoring will be performed by an independent data oversight and safety
      monitoring board.

      Statistical analysis :

      The investigators calculated a priori that 55 vascular segments would be needed in each study
      arm to have 80% power to detect a reduction in binary restenosis from 40% in the BMS arm to
      15% in the DES arm, assuming 10% attrition and an alpha of 0.05. Continuous variables will be
      summarized as mean ± standard deviation and compared using the t-test or the Wilcoxon
      rank-sum test, as appropriate. Discrete variables will be presented as frequencies and group
      percentages compared using the chi-square test or Fisher's Exact Test, as appropriate.
      Freedom from restenosis will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier curves and log-rank test. For all
      comparisons a two-sided probability of <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
      All analyses will be performed using SAS 9.1 (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, North Carolina).
    
  