
    
      AIM 1: Develop a career counseling and development treatment manual for Veterans with
      psychiatric disorders (CCD-V) along with a fidelity monitoring checklist based on veteran and
      provider needs assessment (n=16).

      Procedures. Manual development will be an iterative process that spans over Aim 1 and Aim 2
      (Open Trial) and will include: 1) reviewing clinical procedures and interventions of the
      Vocational Evaluation Center (VEC) for career counseling and development in vocational
      rehabilitation, related treatment manuals (Opening Doors), and relevant career development
      theory; 2) conducting veteran and provider focus groups to gather perspectives on necessary
      treatment components; 3) developing a preliminary version of the manual through a two-day
      retreat attended by key CDA-2 mentors and consultants, and 4) revising the manual based on
      mentor, provider, and veteran feedback. A fidelity monitoring checklist will also be
      developed to monitor treatment adherence of clinicians implementing the CC&D-V protocol. The
      fidelity monitoring checklist will be used in Aim 2 and Aim 3 of this study to monitor
      treatment adherence of the study clinicians.

      Needs Assessment Focus Groups. Two focus groups will be conducted with veterans (n=8), and
      two focus groups will be conducted with mental health providers (n=8) with knowledge in
      vocational rehabilitation practice (psychologists, social workers, and vocational
      rehabilitation specialists). The providers will be recruited from outside the Bedford VA to
      capture perspectives from clinicians who are not familiar with the Bedford VA Vocational
      Evaluation Center. Half of veteran participants will be recruited from currently enrolled TWE
      veterans. The other half of veteran participants will be individuals who previously
      participated in TWE and were unsuccessful in obtaining employment. Focus groups will be 90
      minutes, and will be audio recorded for future transcription and analysis with NVIVO.
      Transcription will be completed by a VA approved contractor.

      A qualitative interview guide drawing upon Psychology of Working theory, protocol developed
      through the Vocational Evaluation Center (VEC) as well as the Opening Doors manual when
      conducting provider and veteran focus groups. Overall, the goal is to gain an unfiltered
      perspective on career development and factors related to successful vocational recovery,
      while also querying on aspects of existing practices An open-ended interview guide consisting
      of open-ended questions will focus on 1) barriers, potential solutions, and perceived needs
      to promote successful career outcomes among veterans with psychiatric disorders; 2) obtain
      feedback on the useful elements of Psychology of Working theory, as well as the VEC and
      Opening Doors protocols as it relates to their clinical experience/expertise; 3) explore
      issues related to augmenting VA vocational services with career counseling and development
      interventions.

      The purpose of the veteran focus groups are to gather personal accounts from people with
      lived experience on career development/vocational recovery, and to connect that to the best
      available research and clinical practice to inform treatment development. The qualitative
      interview guide will consist of open-ended questions to gather the following information: 1)
      barriers, potential solutions, and perceived needs to promote successful career outcomes
      among veterans with psychiatric disorders; 2) obtain feedback on the useful elements of
      Psychology of Working theory, as well as the VEC and Opening Doors protocols as it relates to
      their lived experiences; 3) gather information regarding preferred methods of implementation
      of adjunctive career counseling and development services.

      Sample. The eight provider participants will be recruited through emails to vocational
      providers and will be scheduled for one of two one hour focus group of providers only during
      regular work hours. These focus groups will be held via teleconference. Half of the eight
      veteran participants will be recruited from the Compensated Work Therapy TWE program, while
      half will be former TWE recipients who did not secure competitive employment. Veteran
      participants will be scheduled for a one of two one hour focus group of veterans only. All
      participants will be consented for participating in the interview and having their
      participation audio-recorded.

      Qualitative Analysis. A Hamilton Rapid Turn-around Analytic Approach will be used. This
      technique is suited to short-term projects using targeted interview guides. It improves on
      past rapid procedures through its systematic, rigorous approach, yielding results that are
      slightly less nuanced but more efficient. The PI will develop an analytic template organized
      by the topic areas from the semi-structured interview guiding qualitative interviews. The PI
      and two other researchers will apply the template to summarize two interviews to test the
      usability and relevance of the template to the transcripts. All three researchers will meet
      to establish consistency in how the template is used to summarize the transcripts. From here,
      all focus groups will be individually summarized (each focus group will be analyzed by two
      researchers to ensure reliability). PI will then transfer all the summary points into a
      master matrix (respondent x topic area) as an important step in drawing conclusions and
      deriving meaning from the transcripts. PI will then condense the summaries in the master
      matrix by identifying and organizing recurring themes. The other two researchers will review
      the condensed matrix to the original master matrix to confirm all central themes have been
      identified and to ensure consensus.

      Two-Day Retreat. Data gathered from the veteran and provider focus groups will be used to
      inform the design of the treatment protocol as well as the fidelity monitoring checklist. The
      retreat will be coordinated at the Bedford VA, and will be facilitated by Drs. Stevenson and
      Mueller and attended by mentors (Drs. Bakken, Blustein, Ellison, and Kelly), as well as
      consultants (Drs. Millner, Kenny, Duffy, Allan, and Autin). Drs. Stevenson and Mueller will
      facilitate the retreat beginning with an opening agenda and ground rules for facilitating
      dialogue and resolving conflicting viewpoints about focus group material, expert knowledge,
      and research evidence. Every theme will be presented and reviewed. Drs. Stevenson and Mueller
      will facilitate conversation about each theme and whether or not thematic content could be
      integrated into the treatment protocol considering the integrity of best available research
      and practice. In situations where consensus among content experts cannot be reached, the
      majority stance will determine inclusion or exclusion of content into the treatment manual.

      Content and Structure of the CCD-V Intervention. Foremost, the intervention will largely be
      based upon the results of the needs assessment focus groups and qualitative analysis
      discussed above. Some of the proposed content is based on Psychology of Working Theory (PWT)
      and the corresponding Psychology of Working Counseling (PWC) model which identifies critical
      areas of intervention in vocationally-oriented treatment (e.g., assessment of work-related
      needs in terms of survival/power, social connection, and self-determination; increasing
      skills related to proactivity and adaptability to navigate career development processes;
      increasing awareness to environmental or other contextual factors influencing career choice
      and development; increasing sense of choice and agency over one's career development; and
      improving relational support systems to enhance vocational career development outcomes). In
      addition, the preliminary treatment goals and interventions for the CCD-V intervention take
      into account current VEC practices among veterans with psychiatric disabilities (e.g.,
      exploring the impact of psychiatric and physical disability on one's work like and career
      choices) as well as the Opening Doors treatment manual (e.g., a person-environment fit model
      of career development that espouses a three step process of knowing oneself, knowing one's
      work-related options, and embarking on a career path that fits with self-knowledge).
      Anticipated length of treatment is eight weekly sessions which is informed by the average
      length of treatment veterans receive through the VEC. Sessions will be delivered to veterans
      through individual, face-to-face weekly meetings with a masters-level (or higher) trained
      counselor.

      Qualitative Inquiry of Initial Treatment Protocol. After developing an initial version of the
      CCD-V manual, qualitative interviews will be conducted among the eight mental health
      providers who participated in the first set of focus groups. A copy of the CCD-V manual will
      be given to each of these mental health providers. These reviewers will be asked to evaluate
      aims, structure, concerns, and other issues of acceptability of this intervention. After
      everyone independently reviews the manual, Dr. Mueller and I will set up two focus groups,
      which will include open-ended questions and general reactions to a short walk-through of the
      intervention. The purpose of these questions is to assess the perceived feasibility of the
      CCD-V intervention (as discussed by Bowen and colleagues). Specifically, our interview guide
      will explore perceived acceptability, demand, implementation, and integration of the proposed
      CCD-V intervention. Interviews will be audio recorded and will be transcribed by a VA
      approved contractor. These transcriptions will be analyzed using NVIVO. The same qualitative
      analytic approach previously discussed (Hamilton Rapid Turn-around) will be utilized for this
      qualitative inquiry. Any themes suggesting problems with acceptability, demand,
      implementation, and integration will be presented (via video conferencing) to the experts
      attending the two day manual development retreat. If consensus cannot be reached among the
      mentor and content expert about whether or not to make changes to the manual based on this
      qualitative inquiry, final decisions about treatment modifications will be based on the
      majority perspective.

      AIM 2: Pilot test the manual by treating a small number of Veterans (n=10) in an open trial.

      Sample/Recruitment/Screening. The sample will consist of 10, newly enrolling, Veterans in
      TWE. All Veterans who enter TWE will be informed about this voluntary research study. The
      study candidates will be invited to meet personally with a research assistant or the PI who
      will conduct the screening, thoroughly explain all procedures, and answer any questions
      before obtaining written informed consent on the consent form approved by Bedford VAMC
      Institutional Review Board (IRB). Any participant who is found to meet any exclusion criteria
      will not be eligible to participate in the study. The inclusion or exclusion of subjects will
      not be based on ethnic or racial characteristics. After screening and informed consent
      procedures are completed, the PI will begin meeting with the subject for weekly appointments
      following the CCD-V manual. Veterans participating in this phase of research will complete
      several surveys and questionnaires throughout the treatment.

      It is estimated that two Veterans per month will be recruited (total of 5 months to reach
      target sample of 10 subjects). During FY18, the Bedford VA enrolled 148 Veterans through TWE
      and 97.7% of these Veterans had a psychiatric diagnosis. Moreover, the average length of stay
      of Veterans in CWT programs was 419.6 days. Thus, recruitment of 10 subjects to participate
      in an eight-week treatment program, will be an achievable goal.

      Assessment Measures and Timeline. A variety of reliable and valid measures will be used in
      this phase to assess demographics, career development constructs, vocational behavior,
      employment functioning, working alliance, and client satisfaction.

      Qualitative Exit Interviews. At termination of treatment, participants will participate in a
      semi-structured, 30-minute exit interview with a research assistant who was not involved in
      the delivery of treatment. Questions for these qualitative exit interviews were derived from
      the items on the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire-8 (CSQ-8) - which will be completed by
      research participants at treatment termination - in order to provide more detailed
      information about the nature of participants experiences impacting satisfaction with
      treatment. The CSQ-8 measures satisfaction, perceived quality, and effectiveness of
      treatment. The following content areas will be assessed through these interviews
      (corresponding items from the CSQ-8 are listed but the items are not reproduced due to
      copyright): (1) general thoughts/experiences with treatment (CSQ-8 Question #1, 2, 3, 5); (2)
      perceived benefits of participating in treatment (CSQ-8 Questions #2, 3, 4, 6, 8); (3)
      specific changes and outcomes obtained because of participating in treatment (CSQ-8 Questions
      #6, 8); (4) perceived limitations of the treatment (CSQ-8 Questions #1, 4, 7, 8); (5)
      recommendations for enhancement/improvement of services (CSQ-8 Questions #1, 2, 5, 7, 8). We
      will also ask open-ended questions about usability of measures/assessments. Exit interviews
      will be audio recorded, for transcription and analysis.

      Data Management. Subject files will be kept in a locked cabinet with a locked office at the
      Bedford VA. Subjects will be given an ID number unrelated to any identifying information. An
      electronic, password protected file linking participants to their ID number will be kept on a
      VA computer on a secure, VA approved server. Data gathered through quantitative measures will
      be will be stored on a VA computer on a secure, VA approved server. All audiotaped interviews
      will be professionally transcribed by a VA approved contractor (see Budget Justification).
      These transcriptions will be stored on a VA computer on a secure, VA approved server.

      Data Analysis. The same qualitative analysis plan described in Aim 1 (the Hamilton Rapid
      Turn-around Analytic Approach) will be used for this aim. NVIVO will be used for analysis.
      Quantitative data gathered throughout the open trial will be used to triangulate findings
      from the qualitative exit interviews. A weaving approach will be used to integrate
      qualitative and quantitative findings through narratives on a theme-by-theme, or
      concept-by-concept basis. In this case, the themes/concepts will be based on the CSQ-8 (e.g.,
      satisfaction with treatment, perceived quality of treatment and effectiveness of the
      treatment). We will assess for fit between the data looking for confirmation of results and
      possible expansion of findings. Patterns of concern, challenges, dissatisfaction, or
      improvements found in integrated data will be reviewed by the PI and mentors, possibly
      resulting in treatment modification prior to pilot RCT in Aim 3. Discordance in qualitative
      and quantitative results will also be reviewed by the PI and the primary mentor team,
      possibly resulting in modification to the assessment of client satisfaction (i.e., CSQ-8 or
      Qualitative Exit Interview questions) prior to pilot RCT in Aim 3. Whether or not to modify
      treatment will be based on fidelity to best available research and feasibility of
      implementing recommended changes. If consensus cannot be obtained among the mentor team, then
      the majority perspective will be used to make final decisions. Patterns in incomplete or
      missing data, reported fatigues, or issues with the measurement paradigm in this Aim of the
      study will be addressed before implementation during pilot RCT in Aim 3.

      AIM 3: Conduct a randomized controlled pilot study comparing CCD-V (n=25) to treatment as
      usual (n=25).

      Sample/Recruitment/Screening. The sample will consist of 50, newly enrolling, Veterans in
      TWE. Only veterans entering TWE will be recruited for this study, currently enrolled TWE or
      SE veterans will not be eligible. Recruitment, screening, and inclusionary/exclusionary
      criteria are the same as Aim 2

      Study Procedures. Veterans who have completed screening and informed consent procedures will
      be randomized to one of two study arms: CCD-V (intervention) or treatment as usual (TAU;
      control). To ensure equal distribution across the intervention and control conditions, a
      permutated block randomization method will be utilized. Randomization will use
      computer-generated numbered lists; one for each condition (treatment and control). The lists
      will be generated through a block design where the block sizes are randomly selected among
      block sizes of either 4 or 6. There will be five rounds of each of the block sizes to
      randomize the 50 veterans into either the treatment or control condition. With this approach,
      every study arm assignment on the randomization list will consist of an even number of
      treatment or control assignments in random order. This approach has been discussed by
      previous researchers and not only guarantees balance in the two conditions, but also ensures
      that the investigator is not able to predict the treatment sequence as they will not know if
      the block size is 4 or 6. This procedure will result in 25 participants per condition which
      is in line with previous recommendations of a minimum of 15 subjects per condition. Subjects
      randomized to the treatment group will receive the full CCD-V treatment protocol, in addition
      to TWE (i.e., treatment as usual). Subjects randomized to the control group will receive
      treatment as usual (i.e., TWE). Subjects will be asked to attend a brief meeting with a
      researcher at a three-month follow-up. During this follow up meeting, participants will
      complete a variety of self-report questionnaires.

      Control Condition. Treatment as usual will serve as the control group for this aim of the
      study. Treatment as usual will consist of participation in Transitional Work Experience
      (TWE). Upon admission, veterans in TWE are quickly placed into a structured work setting.
      These time-limited work settings may be within the community, many are within the VA. CWT
      pays veterans through funds received by contracts from companies who contact TWE labor. There
      is minimal formal assessment or other vocational services prior to a veteran being placed
      into a work site. Work sites vary by TWE program. Common TWE placements at the VA include
      housekeeping, laundry, grounds maintenance, and food services. TWE program staff, which can
      range from peer support staff to masters trained vocational counselors, provide some on-site
      and off-site job coaching to help veterans maintain their TWE placement, in addition to some
      guidance on competitive job searching. TWE program staff tend to have (1.5 to 2 times larger
      caseloads that counselor in supported employment; approximately 25-40 veterans).

      Clinician Recruitment. The PI will recruit and train at least four master's-level trained
      clinicians, in the delivery of the CCD-V treatment protocol (two clinicians per 15 months).
      All clinicians will be employed at the Bedford VA.

      Treatment Adherence. There will be multiple fidelity checks to ensure treatment adherence
      among study clinicians. First, all CCD-V clinicians will participate in a didactic training
      introducing clinicians to the treatment protocol. Training of study clinicians is modeled
      after the VHA evidence-based practice (EBP) national training program. The national EBP
      training programs consist of an initial, three-day intensive didactic training. For this
      proposed study, Dr. Stevenson, as well as Drs. Mueller and Blustein, will lead a 9-hour
      workshop held over the course of three days (3 hours/day) for an initial didactic overview of
      the CCD-V protocol. Secondly, CCD-V clinicians will be required to attend weekly group
      consultation with the Dr. Stevenson (1 hour/week) for the first three months of providing
      treatment to address technical issues in the provision of the treatment. Thirdly, all CCD-V
      sessions will be video recorded, and these sessions will be reviewed and rated (on a variable
      time schedule) for treatment adherence by two staff researchers using the fidelity checklist
      developed in Phase One. Other researchers96 have noted that using a variable schedule to
      monitor treatment adherence among study clinicians can be an effective methodological
      approach to offset the time and resources needed to rate every-single session (in this
      proposed study there will be 25 Veterans assigned to the treatment condition, which consists
      of eight sessions, totaling 200 sessions). Once a session is rated, researchers will provide
      in-person, individual feedback to clinicians.

      Assessment Measures and Timeline. The same measurement paradigm described for Aim 2
      (screening, first session, last session) will be used for Aim 3 with the addition of a
      three-month follow up. At the three-month follow up Veterans will complete the same battery
      of measures completed at their final session. Qualitative interviews will be conducted and
      will be conducted as described in Aim 2, with some additional (new) questions regarding
      acceptability of randomization.

      Data Management. The same data management system described for Aim 2 will be used for Aim 3.

      Data Analysis. Consistent with the recommended stage model for development of behavioral
      therapies, the aim of this Stage I Pilot RCT is to inform future treatment development, and
      research and evaluation plans. To have .80 power to detect differences at a two-tailed alpha
      level of .05, a medium effect would require N=125. This is beyond the scope of a CDA-2 award
      and is more appropriate for a Stage II trial. A total sample size of 50 is feasible and
      consistent with recommendations of 15 to 30 subjects per condition for stage I behavioral
      treatment development. Outcomes gathered from this study will provide feasibility and
      acceptability data, as well as preliminary efficacy.

      Primary analyses will involve examination of the feasibility and acceptability of a RCT of
      CCD-V. Feasibility will be verified by adequate 1) recruitment rates (i.e., 2-3 Veterans per
      month), 2) >90% fidelity of clinician adherence to the treatment protocol, and 3) data
      retention (i.e., 70% of participants who attend at least 6 sessions of CCD-V. An acceptable
      level of attrition will be 30% in each condition. We will also examine the willingness of
      Veterans to be randomized with a goal of 80% of those approached who agree to randomization,
      the number of referrals from clinicians, ease of recruitment based on the average number of
      contacts needed to get consent and to schedule visits, the number of eligible participants
      from the pool of potential participants, and adherence and compliance to the treatment
      protocol. We will compare Veteran acceptability between groups by conducting an independent
      samples t-test on the CSQ-8. We will compare attrition rates (<15% vs. >15%) between the two
      groups using a chi square and logistic regression analysis. We will also obtain qualitative
      data about the feasibility and acceptability of the CCD-V treatment and randomization
      procedures to confirm and expand upon quantitative data. The Hamilton Rapid Turn-around
      analytic strategy (previously discussed in Aim 1 and 2) will be utilized for Aim 3
      qualitative analysis.

      While efficacy is not our major analytic aim, given the preliminary nature of this study, we
      will examine differences in measures of vocational identity, vocational functioning,
      psychiatric functioning, work importance and confidence, career adaptability, job search
      behavior, decent work, and job need satisfaction to identify empirical targets for further
      refinement of the treatment and inform the design of the future Merit Review. Based on the
      intent-to-treat principle, all participants randomized to treatment will be included in
      analyses. We will run descriptive statistics as well as internal reliability (Cronbach's
      alpha) for all measures, Pearson's r to look at relationships between variables, and Cohen's
      D for any continuous measures and Cramer's v for any categorical measures to look at effect
      size. We will also look at individual trajectories of response to gain better insight into
      which participants do particularly well (or poorly) in the two interventions. Effect sizes
      and 95% confidence intervals will be used as only one element to estimate power and sample
      size to help plan for a Merit Review study.
    
  