
    
      Introduction The daily application of estrogen in the vagina can improve the hydrogen
      potential (pH), vaginal dryness, burning sensation, dyspareunia, and urinary symptoms.
      Dyspareunia is highly prevalent after menopause as well as in women after gynecological and
      breast cancer treatment. However, prescription of topical estrogen therapy (THT) to these
      women is still controversial, and they are allowed to use only moisturizing cream and vaginal
      lubricants.

      Studies have shown increased serum concentrations of estrogens (estradiol and estrone) after
      intravaginal suppository containing estradiol use. However, a cohort of 13,479 women treated
      for breast cancer, 271 received topical hormone therapy (THT), and no increased risk for
      recurrence was shown in this population.

      The main blood supplement to the vagina is mainly from vessels that irrigate proximal vaginal
      wall, a region where possibly the drug uptake is more intense. However, one study showed that
      the concentration of estradiol is similarly high regardless of whether the drug was applied
      to the proximal or distal wall of the vagina. Nevertheless, this study has not been
      replicated yet.

      THT promotes an improvement of coital pain when used in the proximal vagina, but a large
      population of women with clinical conditions such as thrombophilia and breast cancer cannot
      benefit from this resource. It is not known if the estriol applied in the distal vagina wall
      can lead to high serum levels of this hormone.

      OBJECTIVES This study aims to evaluate the impact of topic estriol therapy applied in distal
      vagina wall in coital pain, sexual function, and mood after estriol use. To evaluate serum
      level of this hormone after estriol use.

      METHODS Study design This is a prospective, blind, and randomized clinical trial including
      post-menopausal women complaining of pain during intercourse. The selected women will be
      randomized into three groups: estriol proximal group (PEG), estriol distal group (DEG), and
      gel group (GG). Participants and the assistance staff will not be blinded to the
      intervention.

      Sample Size The sample size was based on the estimated Cohen effect size. Assuming an effect
      size measure of 0.7 (considered large by Cohen) between groups, and considering a power test
      of 90% and a significance level of 5%, at least 44 subjects in each arm are required for a
      total of 132 participants.

      Randomization Randomization will be conducted in blocks of random sizes to generate the
      random allocation sequence. Participants will be randomized in 23 blocks and distributed in
      intervention groups according to their position in each block.

      Participants Sexually-active post-menopausal women between 40 to 65 years old complaining of
      coital pain will be invited to participate in this study. Sexual activity must include
      penis-vagina penetration.

      Hormonal profile evaluation Blood samples will be collected before the intervention to
      measure basal serum levels of fasting glucose, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH),
      follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and serum estriol. These parameters will be applied in the
      12th week of intervention. The measurements of FSH, TSH, and estriol will be performed by
      chemiluminescence with IMMULITE® 2000 device (DPC IMMULITE® 2000 (Diagnostic Products
      Corporation, Los Angeles, California, United States of America (USA)). For the measurement of
      estriol free will be used IMMULITE® kit 2000 unconjugated estriol (SIEMENS, USA). The
      measurement of hormonal status will be held before the intervention (time 1) and at the end
      of the intervention (12 weeks). Glucose will be determined by automated spectrophotometry
      using the liquid enzymatic glycemia kit (Wiener Laboratory, 2000, Rosario, Argentina) Sexual
      function Sexual function will be evaluated with the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI). It
      has 19 questions, with 6 subscales that assess desire, arousal, lubrication, orgasm,
      satisfaction, and pain. Each question is multiple choice and scored from 0 or 1 to 5. For
      calculation of the total score (range: 2 to 36), the score of each subscale was multiplied by
      a factor, and the 6 scores were summed. A lower score corresponds to a worse sexual function,
      and a score below 26.55 indicates sexual dysfunction.

      Emotional condition The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) was used to assess mood.
      This scale has 14 items and two subscales, with 7 questions regarding anxiety (HAD-A) and 7
      regarding depression (HAD-D). There are four responses to each question (score of 0 to 3),
      and the sum of scores of each subscale provides a total score from 0 to 21. A cut-off score ≥
      9 for anxiety and depression characterizes the mental state of the woman.

      All questionnaires will be applied individually by a gynecologist before the intervention
      (time 1) and at the end of the intervention (12 weeks) when women attend to collect blood
      samples. Before applying the questionnaires, women will be informed about the content and
      objectives of the research, and will also be informed about the issue of confidentiality.

      Coital pain evaluation Coital pain will be assessed by the Analogic Visual Scale and the
      McGill Pain Questionnaire, a multi-dimensional tool that consists of 4 groups of constructs
      divided into 20 subgroups: Sensory-discriminative group (subgroups 1 to 10) relates to
      traction, heat, twist, among others; the motivational-affective group (subgroups 11 to 15)
      describes the affective dimension aspects of tension, as well as fear punishment, and
      neurovegetative responses; the descriptors of the cognitive component evaluation (subgroup
      16) allows the patient to express the overall assessment of the painful experience; subgroups
      17-20 comprise miscellaneous items. The subject can choose only one alternative for each
      subgroup, so the greater the number of most marked pain intensity descriptors, wherein the
      maximum score is 78. This questionnaire will be applied individually by a gynecologist at the
      beginning and at 12 weeks of intervention.

      INTERVENTION For the PEG group, women will receive professional guidance to use an applicator
      only 3 cm inside the vagina, once at night, each other night, while lying down to sleep, with
      a woman in the dorsal position inserting the applicator 3 cm through the vaginal introitus.
      For the DEG group, women will receive professional guidance to use an applicator totally
      inside the vagina. The application will be recommended once each other night, while lying
      down to sleep, with a woman in the dorsal position inserting the applicator 10 cm through the
      vaginal introitus. Lubricant will be acquired by the researcher in commercial form and should
      be used during sexual intercourse in the vagina introitus prior to penetration of the penis.

      Certification of correct use of prescription A researcher will contact the patient by
      telephone every two weeks to certify the proper use or any adverse symptoms related to the
      use of medication.

      ETHICAL ASPECTS This project was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee in Research,
      and all women shall sign the Informed Consent. This project will be guided according to the
      ethical standards by Resolution 196/96 of the National Health Council on research with the
      human being.

      Statistical analysis Qualitative variables are described considering the absolute and
      relative frequencies, as quantitative variables are expressed by central position and
      dispersion measurements. The comparison between the study groups will be performed using the
      linear regression model of mixed effects; the model residue analysis will be representing
      through normal graphics. Cohen measure will be used as the size measure, which is expressed
      by the difference between the mean divided by the standard deviation. The Statistical
      Analysis System (SAS) will be used for data analysis.
    
  