
    
      The Institute for Research on Viral and Hepatic Diseases, Inserm Unit UMR_S 1110, in
      Strasbourg, studies hepatic diseases such as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH),
      non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (CHC).
      These diseases can be induced by hepatitis viruses, B (HBV), C (HCV) and D (VHD), but also a
      poor lifestyle combining overeating and the sedentary lifestyle of our current living
      patterns.

      To date, no treatment is available to cure non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), cirrhosis,
      and prevent the development of liver tumors. One of the reasons for the lack of specific
      treatment is the limited knowledge of the pathophysiology of the liver and the hepatic
      microenvironment. In addition, the heterogeneity of HCC and associated underlying liver
      diseases, and the lack of adequate preclinical models are at the root of the difficulties in
      identifying an effective therapeutic target for these diseases.

      Thus, new molecular profiling techniques and strategies are needed to meet these medical
      needs, in particular the prediction of the response to treatment of HCC, which is still
      largely unsatisfactory, and the discovery of new therapeutic targets. Using innovative
      approaches, UMR_S 1110 utilizes single cell RNA sequencing, which is a high resolution
      technique to analyze gene expression at the individual cell level. This technique represents
      the most advanced tool for studying heterogeneous tissues such as cancerous tissue.

      An in-depth knowledge of HCC and the liver tumor environment at the single-cell level is
      crucial for understanding the progression of liver disease, for identifying new therapeutic
      targets and improving clinical outcomes by allowing for estimate the response to treatment
      and thus improve the patient's vital prognosis, by offering him an adapted personalized
      treatment. In order to identify factors determining hepatocarcinogenesis, predictors of
      response to treatment and new therapeutic targets, the investigators propose to analyze
      tissues from patients with chronic liver disease.

      The investigator aim :

        1. / to establish ex vivo models of chronic hepatic disease and hepatic tumors, in order to
           study and validate the therapeutic targets identified in the laboratory from single cell
           RNA sequencing from hepatic tissues obtained from patients. These models include
           spheroid cultures and models of mice developing liver tumors from xenografts of tumors
           from patients. To ensure the successful establishment of these complex models, the use
           of autologous sera is necessary.

        2. / profile the hepatic tumors and the hepatic tissue adjacent to the tumor, the site of
           chronic liver disease, using single-cell RNA sequencing in order to study the
           heterogeneity and complexity of the tumor, to identify novel therapeutic targets and
           tumor phenotypes that correlate with response to treatment.

      Patient-derived preclinical models, developed at unit UMR_S1110, will allow us to better
      understand the biology of chronic liver disease and liver tumors at the patient level,
      identify the most appropriate treatment for the patient, and evaluate new treatments and
      biomarkers to non-invasively diagnose the onset of liver disease, for the benefit of
      personalized medicine for the benefit of the patient.

      Blood samples obtained from patients with chronic liver disease will also allow us to:

        -  Advance knowledge on viral hepatitis, in particular HCV, HBV and HDV;

        -  Implement new strategies for the development of a vaccine for HCV;

        -  Identify new biomarkers of hepatic carcinogenesis by comparing the metabolomic and
           inflammatory profiles of patients.

      The partnership between Inserm, the University of Strasbourg and the University Hospitals of
      Strasbourg makes it possible to create unique synergies that will ultimately help identify
      new targets for therapeutic and preventive strategies against these diseases which represent
      a major public health problem.
    
  