
    
      Background Between 3 to 5 % of Swedish 10 yr olds are obese and an additional 20 % are
      over-weight. Being physically inactive in childhood increases the risk for becoming obese
      both in child- and adulthood and a correlation between BMI and arterial-sclerotic markers can
      be seen already in childhood. Physical activity (PA) in children improve their insulin
      sensitivity and reduce metabolic risk regardless of the proportion of fat mass. Published
      questionnaire data suggests that the level of PA has decreased in children between the years
      1968 to 2001.

      Study aims To study whether a targeted intervention can increase PA in sedentary 8-yr old
      children (2nd grade Swedish elementary school) and how it affects secondary measures such as;
      metabolic- and cardiovascular risk markers; self-reported quality of life, PA and motor
      skills; BMI; body composition; bone mineral density (BMD); PF. To identify factors of success
      that could be implemented in schools and pre-schools and in the commune and health-care
      parent support.

      Subjects and methods With informed written consent of parents/caretakers we will screen at
      selected schools with questionnaires and accelerometers to identify sedentary children. The
      30% most inactive children will be offered participation in the study. Cut off values for
      inactivity is obtained from a large reference-material based on 1800 measurements on 6 - 10
      yr old children from the STOPP study. The intervention will be delivered through sessions
      aiming at developing healthy habits regarding PA and via supplementation with fish liver oil.
      The sessions will be performed by trained health workers (coaches) and carried out in the
      families' homes and later on via telephone. All families will meet with their coach during at
      least 6 times. The coaches will use the technique of Motivational Interviewing (MI). However,
      extra efforts, such as group work-out sessions and out-door activities, will be made. The
      individual work with these families is delicate and the intervention staff group will
      therefore have continuous education and guidance from a qualified MI tutor. All included
      children will be randomized to equally sized intervention or control group. All outcome
      measures will be assessed at 0 and 15 weeks (completion) of the intervention. The study is
      limited by the school semesters. Screening is therefore scheduled to the fall- and
      intervention program to spring semester.
    
  