
    
      The timing of renal replacement therapy (RRT) in the context of severe acute kidney injury
      (AKI) is one the most debated issues in critical care medicine. The Artificial Kidney
      Initiation in Kidney Injury (AKIKI) was the first large prospective multicenter randomized
      trial published on this topic. This study conducted by our team (published in the New England
      Journal of Medicine, July 2017) showed no significant difference between an early and delayed
      RRT initiation strategy in term of mortality. Nearly 50% of patients escaped RRT in the
      delayed strategy and this strategy was associated with less catheter-related infections and
      faster renal function recovery. Two (serum urea concentration >40 mmol/l and oliguria/anuria
      for more than 72 hours) of the 5 criteria which mandated RRT in the delayed strategy are
      still open to debate since they have never been shown to put patient at danger. To go further
      into our investigation of RRT criteria,the investigators designed a study that would compare
      the "delayed strategy" used in AKIKI that can now be considered as "standard" with another in
      which RRT is delayed for a longer period in the absence of a potentially severe complication
      (such as hyperkalemia or severe overload pulmonary edema).

      The AKIKI 2 study will be a prospective, multicenter, open-label, two-arm randomized trial.

      The study will involve 2 stages (an observational stage and a randomization stage) At any
      time during these two stages, the occurrence of a potentially severe condition defined below
      will mandate strong consideration for immediate RRT initiation unless a medical treatment can
      very rapidly resolve the situation.

      Criteria that mandate strong consideration for RRT initiation at any time during the 2 stages
      of the study

        1. Serum potassium concentration >6 mmol/l

        2. Serum potassium concentration >5.5 mmol/l persisting despite medical treatment

        3. Arterial blood pH <7.15 in a context of pure metabolic acidosis (PaCO2 <35 mmHg) or in a
           context of mixed acidosis with a PaCO2 >50 mmHg without possibility of increasing
           alveolar ventilation

        4. Acute pulmonary edema due to fluid overload despite diuretic therapy leading to severe
           hypoxemia requiring oxygen flow rate >5 l/min to maintain SpO2>95% (oxygen saturation)
           or FiO2>50% (inspired oxygen fraction) under invasive or non-invasive mechanical
           ventilation

             -  Observational Stage: All patients receiving (or who have received for the present
                episode) intravenous catecholamines and/or invasive mechanical ventilation and
                presenting with AKI classification stage 3 of KDIGO classification [defined by at
                least one of the following criteria: serum creatinine concentration of more than 4
                mg/dl (354 µmol/liter) or greater than 3 times the baseline creatinine level,
                anuria (urine output of 100 ml/day or less) for more than 12 hours, oliguria (urine
                output below 0.3 ml/kg/h or below 500 ml/day) for more than 24 hours] and who have
                no potentially severe condition mandating strong consideration for immediate RRT
                initiation as described above will be included in an observational study. Clinical
                and metabolic conditions will be closely monitored and RRT consideration will be
                mandatory if one or more of these conditions (see above) occurs.

             -  Randomization stage: Patients presenting, either immediately after inclusion or
                during their follow-up in the observational study, one or both of following
                criteria: a serum urea concentration >40 mmol/l and/or an oliguria/anuria for more
                than 72 hours even in the absence of an above-mentioned potentially severe
                condition will be randomly allocated to one of the two study treatment arms. One
                arm is termed "standard strategy" (which was the delayed arm of AKIKI 1) and the
                other a "delayed RRT strategy".

      "Standard strategy": RRT is initiated within 12 hours after documentation of serum urea
      concentration >40 mmol/l and/or an oliguria/anuria for more than 72 hours. The timing of
      initiation will be recorded and RRT sessions will be performed until criteria for cessation
      are observed (see below).

      "Delayed strategy": RRT will be initiated only if one or more of above-mentioned potentially
      severe situations (see "Criteria that mandate strong consideration for RRT initiation at any
      time") occur (identical to those used during the observational study) or if serum urea
      concentration reaches 50 mmol/L (this level being chosen in order to avoid extreme elevations
      of serum urea levels as mentioned above). As already explained, the physician in charge will
      be allowed to try a medical treatment of hyperkalemia, acidosis or pulmonary edema and the
      decision to start RRT or not will be taken by him, according to his usual practice. The
      duration of anuria will not constitute a criterion per se for RRT initiation. When required,
      RRT will be performed with the same modalities and stopped according to the same criteria as
      in the standard strategy, with special care to avoid dialysis disequilibrium syndrome.

      The choice of RRT modality (intermittent or continuous technique) will be left at the study
      site discretion. Several RRT modalities can be used in the same patient, according to
      attending physician's indication. Duration of and interval between sessions, and device
      settings as well as modality of anticoagulation are left at the investigator's discretion.
      However, RRT will be prescribed and monitored according to national guidelines in order to
      ensure optimal efficacy of RRT.

      In case of RRT initiation in a context of high serum urea concentration (> 40 mmol/l),
      prevention of dialysis disequilibrium syndrome will be recommended. The management will be
      left at clinician's discretion and will include one or several of the following measures :

        -  Slow, gentle initial hemodialysis (dialysis time <2 hours and low blood flow rate)

        -  Increasing dialysate sodium levels

        -  Administration of osmotically active substance by using a high-glucose-concentration
           dialysate or administering hypertonic glucose in the venous line of the dialyser during
           dialysis.

      All study centers have extensive experience in both acute kidney injury management and RRT
      techniques.

      Renal replacement therapy discontinuation will be contemplated when spontaneous diuresis >500
      ml/24h, and highly recommended if diuresis is >1000 ml/24h without diuretic administration or
      >2000 ml/24h, in patients receiving diuretics.

      Renal replacement therapy cessation will be mandatory if diuresis (as defined above) is
      present and serum creatinine level decreases spontaneously.

      If improvement of renal function is insufficient to achieve a spontaneous decrease in
      creatinine level and/or if diuresis becomes lower than 1000 ml/24h without diuretics (or
      lower than 2000 ml/24h under diuretics), RRT will be resumed.

      Renal function recovery will be defined according to urine output as mentioned above and RRT
      cessation without need for resumption in the following 7 days.

      RRT will be initiated only if one or more of above-mentioned potentially severe situations
      occur (identical to those used during the observational study. The physician in charge will
      be allowed to try a medical treatment.) or if serum urea concentration reaches 50 mmol/L
      (this level being chosen in order to avoid extreme elevations of serum urea levels as
      mentioned above). Patients will not receive RRT whatever the duration of anuria/oliguria if
      none of the above-mentioned indications for RRT is present. When required, RRT will be
      performed with the same modalities and stopped according to the same criteria as in the
      "standard" RRT strategy, with special care to avoid dialysis disequilibrium syndrome.

      The decision to initiate RRT in the "delayed strategy" arm of the trial will have to be
      approved by the attending physician(s) involved in patient's care in order to make sure that
      it corresponds to her/his usual practice.
    
  