
    
      Plasmodium falciparum parasite clearance rates (PCRs) after oral artesunate treatment of
      patients with uncomplicated malaria were recently found to be significantly slower in Pailin
      (Western Cambodia) compared to Wang Pha (Eastern Thailand). This difference in PCRs has been
      attributed to different histories of artesunate drug pressure in the two areas. In Pailin,
      artesunate monotherapy has been used inappropriately for 30 years and is hypothesized to have
      selected for artemisinin-resistant parasites (slow PCRs). To investigate the potential
      contribution of human factors to the artemisinin resistance phenotype, we have identified a
      study site in Eastern Cambodia where artemisinin-resistant parasites are not believed to be
      present. The main aims of this study are to 1) determine whether the artemisinin resistance
      phenotype (i.e., a half-life longer than the 2-hour half-life observed in Wang Pha) is
      present in Eastern Cambodia, 2) determine whether hemoglobin E affects parasite clearance
      rates in vivo, 3) determine whether age-associated acquired immunity affects parasite
      clearance rates in vivo, and 4) identify parasite-heritable traits that are associated with
      slow parasite clearance rates in vivo. To meet these aims, we are conducting a prospective,
      longitudinal study to recruit Cambodian residents of Lumphat District in Ratanakiri Province
      who complain of fever and/or symptoms of malaria. Patients diagnosed with uncomplicated
      malaria will be treated with weight-based doses of artesunate given orally each day for 3
      days followed by mefloquine given orally for 2 days. During this time, finger prick blood
      smears will be obtained every 6 hours until parasite density is zero. From these data, we
      will estimate parasite clearance rates using a half-life parameter. We will also collect
      parasitized red blood cell samples from malaria patients prior to antimalarial drug
      administration. These parasites will be tested in short-term in vitro culture experiments to
      determine their susceptibility to artemisinins and other antimalarial drugs.
    
  