
    
      Infection by the hepatitis-C virus (HCV) in people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) has
      progressively gained distinction since the survival increase generated by the use of highly
      active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has enabled the presentation of complications from HCV
      chronic infection. There are approximately 10 million coinfected individuals, that is, 25% of
      the total PLHA as both viruses share transmission routes.

      HCV infection can be regarded as an opportunistic disease in this population once there is
      the acceleration of its natural history represented by the HCV high viral load, early hepatic
      fibrosis and greater occurrence of steatosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, leading
      to greater morbid-mortality by terminal hepatic disease. The scenario is not also favorable
      as regards HCV treatment, since the response rate in coinfected individuals is significantly
      lower than in mono-infected HCV patients.

      The complex relationship between immune response and HCV determines the velocity and the
      distinct outcomes found. The major determinant for the development of cirrhosis and hepatic
      insufficiency is the accumulation of fibrosis and inflammatory activity closely related to
      collagen synthesis by fibroblasts and hepatocyte-apoptosis induction related to TGF-β
      production. In individuals with more severe hepatic lesion, there is the prevalence of
      expression of the Th-2 profile in the peripheral blood, which is characterized by high levels
      of IL-4 and IL-10, whereas, in the hepatic tissue, a larger expression of cytokines of the
      Th-1 profile, such as IL-2 and INF-γ, is observed. This phenomenon is known as
      "compartmentalization" of the immune response.

      If the immunopathogenic dynamics is already complex in HCV mono-infected individuals, in the
      HIV/HCV coinfection condition, few studies specifically approach the topic, without, however,
      evaluating the correlation between specific T-cell response and hepatic-lesion staging. In
      HIV mono-infected patients without antiretroviral treatment and with disease progression, the
      prevalence of the Th-0/Th-2 profile is observed, which is particularly influenced by IL-10
      increase. Even in individuals treated by HAART, there is no recovery of the capacity to
      express the Th-1 profile, and most of such patients show the mature Th-0 profile and low IL-2
      levels.

      HCV viral load in PLHA is higher in both the plasma and the hepatic tissue, and the
      replication of HCV in macrophages, CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes as well as in lymphnodes is also
      observed in such condition. TGF-β is particularly high in this coinfection, thus justifying
      the onset of faster fibrosis. The reduction of CD8 T lymphocyte response to IFN-γ also
      occurs, which favors the persistence of infection and prevents specific T-cell response. As
      regards HIV treatment, there is evidence that coinfected patients non-treated by HAART tend
      to present a Th-2 profile more often than treated individuals, without, however, significant
      differences in TGF-β levels.

      Due to the lack of studies correlating the production tendencies of both pro-inflammatory and
      fibrogenesis-inducing cytokines with histopathological findings from hepatic biopsy in
      coinfected individuals, investigations are necessary in order establish parameters that will
      allow the prediction of a better or worse prognosis and also more accurately indicate the
      performance of hepatic biopsy.

      This study aims at correlating TNF-α, INF-γ, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β values as dosed by
      ELISA and mRNA expression by real-time PCR with histopathological hepatic biopsy findings in
      individuals with HIV/HCV coinfection. This population will be divided into three groups (G1:
      with no HAART; G2: with detected HIV viral load (HIV VL); G3: with undetected HIV VL), which
      will be then compared to two control groups with monoinfection by HIV or by HCV, in addition
      to a third control group comprising normal blood donors.
    
  