
    
      1. Baseline investigations of patients with mild cognitive deficits

           We are conducting a prospective, longitudinal study in which we consecutively include
           patients with mild cognitive deficits (MCI), who seek medical care at the
           Neuropsychiatric Clinic (Malmö, Sweden) or Unit for Cognitive Medicine (Lund, Sweden).
           At baseline the MCI patients undergo detailed neurological and psychiatric examination,
           including assessment of depressive symptoms and ADL-capacity as well as cognitive and
           motor tests. Patients are also genotyped for APOE. Samples of plasma, blood (for DNA and
           mRNA) and CSF are also collected. All patients undergo an advanced MRI scan of the
           brain. A subset will undergo 18F-Flutemetamol PET. We will include patients over a
           period of three years.

           1.2 Follow-up of MCI patients

           Thereafter, we follow patients for up to 10 years with repeated testing and clinical
           evaluation. During clinical follow-up we estimate how many of the patients develop any
           type of dementia, for instance AD. Moreover we also estimate how aggressive the
           progression of the disease is in those patients that develop AD with the help of
           repeated cognitive testing.

        2. Baseline investigations of healthy elderly volunteers

           To answer the question if new biomarkers could detect early signs of AD in healthy
           people, we have included cognitively healthy elderly subjects. These people are
           recruited from a population-based study in Malmö ("Malmö Kost Cancer") where people
           without memory problems or cognitive difficulties, and who performs well on cognitive
           tests, are offered to participate. These individuals will undergo the same baseline
           studies that MCI patients (see above), including cognitive tests, psychiatric
           assessment, lumbar puncture, blood tests and MRI scan. A subset is also examined with
           18F-Flutemetamol PET.

           2.1 Follow-up of elderly volunteers

           This population will also be followed-up for 10 years with repeated cognitive tests to
           determine which subjects develop cognitive impairment (e.g. memory problems) over this
           period of time.

        3. Analyses of CSF and plasma/blood

           CSF and plasma/blood sampling is done at baseline, 2, 4, 6 and 10 years of follow-up. To
           find novel and better biomarkers to predict AD in both healthy and MCI patients, the
           CSF, plasma and blood will be analyzed by various biomedical techniques. We will also
           screen for biomarkers that can help us to predict how fast the disease will progress. We
           will use two different approaches, namely: a) analysis of various candidate biomarkers
           and b) unbiased screening using proteomics.

        4. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) MRI is done at baseline, 2, 4 and 6 years of follow-up,
           using the same MRI scanner. We will evaluate the potential benefits of new MRI protocols
           for prediction of future AD. MRI will also be used to study the pathogenesis of AD.
           These new approaches include: 3D-MP RAGE, T2* GRE, DTI/DTT, ASL and MRS.
    
  