
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disease that mainly affects the joints and
      results in pain, swelling and decreased mobility. The disease over the course of time, leads
      to joint deformity and disability. The disease ranks third as major cause of disability after
      osteoarthritis and gout and affects roughly 1% of global population. Decrease mobility in
      patients results in decreased productivity and further worsens their quality of life. While
      pharmacological treatment may be essential in managing the acute flares and episodic pain
      associated with the disease, self-care and home-based management of RA is another important
      area of care which patients need to incorporate to manage it effectively.

      Several studies have reported that self-care in RA effectively reduces acute flares. This
      could be done through the use of patient education and counselling. Pharmacist provide
      pharmaceutical care that incorporates these areas of care. Pharmaceutical care is an
      individualized patient-centric health service delivered by pharmacists that incorporates, but
      is not limited to, disease education, therapy management, self-care and self-management of
      disease and therapy as well as motivational guidance.

      Evidence from several randomized trials indicate that patient counselling, disease education
      and telephonic interventions have improved self-care practices of patients. Educating
      patients about managing RA empowers them in understanding signs and symptoms of disease and
      devise ways to reduce or limit aggravating factors. A randomized trial conducted by Petkova
      that involved community pharmacy-based patient education program improved treatment outcomes
      of arthritis patients. Moreover, Mary and colleagues demonstrated positive effect of mobile
      phone short message service on medication adherence of patients with RA.

      In the last decade there has been only few studies that have evaluated the impact of
      pharmacist-led pharmaceutical care on treatment outcomes in patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis. In Pakistan, no study has been conducted till date that evaluates the same. Since,
      the disease prevalence has increased in Pakistani population of late, and mainly affects the
      middle-aged individuals, it is expected to affect their productivity, employ-ability and
      income. This would worsen their health-related quality of life and adds to economic burden of
      this disease on the society. Therefore, a need was felt to evaluate the impact of
      pharmacist-delivered pharmaceutical care on treatment outcomes in Pakistani patients with
      rheumatoid arthritis.
    
  