
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To compare the impact of tailored intervention vs standard intervention vs usual care on
           patient utilization of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening.

        -  To compare the impact of these interventions on CRC screening preference.

        -  To compare the impact of these interventions on patient perceptions about CRC screening.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Participants are stratified by practice and study wave
      and blocking. Participants are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

        -  Arm I (usual care): Participants receive usual care in accordance with their normal
           patterns of interaction with study practices.

        -  Arm II (standard intervention [SI]): A generic screening invitation letter, a colorectal
           cancer (CRC) screening informational booklet, stool blood testing (SBT) cards, and
           instructions for arranging a colonoscopy screening appointment are mailed to
           participants on day 15. On day 45, a reminder letter is mailed to participants who have
           not completed SBT or undergone a screening colonoscopy.

        -  Arm III (tailored navigation intervention [TNI]): A test-specific screening invitation
           letter, a CRC screening informational booklet, and additional test-specific materials
           (i.e., instructions for arranging a colonoscopy screening appointment or SBT cards) are
           mailed to participants on day 15. On day 30, a patient navigator contacts participants
           by telephone who have not completed SBT or undergone a screening colonoscopy. The
           patient navigator re-assesses screening test-specific decision stage; addresses CRC
           screening barriers; develops a personalized CRC screening plan to move the participant
           towards screening use (i.e., explains the steps in completing the SBT or scheduling a
           colonoscopy appointment); and facilitates screening plan implementation. On day 45, a
           reminder letter is mailed to participants who were contacted by the navigator.

      Participants in all arms complete a survey at baseline and then at 6 months. Medical records
      for each participant are reviewed at 6 months.
    
  