
    
      Study Aims The primary aim of the proposed research is to compare impact of three different
      treatment strategies of Seasonal malaria chemoprevention (SMC) on malaria incidence in
      Koulikoro health district Specific aims: Assess the effect of SMC (Sulfadoxin
      Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin) on malaria incidence and infection prevalence in different age
      groups across sites; Study the effect of SMC with Dihydroartemesinin - Piperaquin compared to
      SMC with Sulfadoxin Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin among children less than 10 years; Determine the
      cost-effectiveness for each treatment regimen; Explore factors determining effective SMC
      implementation including coverage of children targeted to receive treatment by community
      distributors, receipt of a full course of treatment, perception of medications by parents and
      health care providers, and sustainability; and Establish a district-based system to identify
      severe cases.

      Research questions and hypotheses

      Primary research question:

      -Is SMC extension to children 5-9 years old with Sulfadoxin Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin more
      effective on reducing malaria mortality and morbidity during the high malaria transmission
      season? Null hypothesis (H0): There is no benefit to SMC extension to older children with
      Sulfadoxin Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin over standard SMC for children less than 5 years reducing
      confirmed P. falciparum case incidence, infection incidence, or community parasite prevalence
      during malaria transmission season

      Secondary research questions:

        -  Could Dihydroartemesinin - Piperaquin be used as an alternative drug for SMC in case of
           significant resistance of P. falciparum to SP? Null hypothesis (H0): Dihydroartemesinin
           - Piperaquin is less effective than Sulfadoxin Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin when used for
           seasonal malaria chemoprevention among children < 10 years' old

        -  Is extension of SMC to children < 10 years associated with a decline in the proportion
           of infected malaria vector, and Entomological Inoculation Rates?

        -  Are there difference in frequency of adverse effects to children receiving Sulfadoxin
           Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin vs. children receiving Dihydroartemesinin - Piperaquin?

        -  What are the barriers to high and effective SMC implementation and effectiveness

        -  What is the cost and cost-effectiveness of SMC according to target groups and drugs
           used?

        -  What is the best delivery strategy for effective implementation and community adherence
           to SMC Research Activities

        -  Mapping and census enumeration including household geolocation of the study area will be
           undertaken in June 2019. The household census will be completed using house-to-house
           enumeration. This will be used to identify 9 candidate study villages for approximately
           5,000 children aged 3 months to <10 years old. From the 9 villages, three (3) study arms
           will be formed (3 villages per arm). Village will be randomly allocated to sites
           according to geographic and environmental characteristics as well as population size.

        -  The census data will be used as a sampling frame for conducting the enrollment and
           follow-on deployment of the interventions, for cohort selection and for determining the
           population denominator for incidence calculated using passive case detection reported
           through the routine surveillance system.

        -  Enrollment. Before SMC, all children < 10 years old will be selected to participate. A
           study specific consent for will be addressed to parents of children and only children of
           parents who voluntarily consent will be enrolled. At enrollment, finger print, facial
           recognition and picture of children for whom consent was obtain will be collected and
           study card with picture and individual ID number will be generated for each child.
           Fever, Anemia and malaria infection prevalence will be collected during enrollment and
           infected cases will be given malaria treatment according to the Mali NMPC
           recommandations and free of charge.

        -  Sensitisation of the population to the proposed study and Community. Study investigators
           organized a first workshop in Koulikoro to explain the study purposes and goals.
           Attendees to this meeting will be the Regional and District level health authorities,
           Director of the 9 community health centers, Malaria focal points in Koulikoro district
           health center, Community leaders, Community health workers and health agents of the
           selected study area.

        -  Randomisation. From the census data, the geographical and environmental characteristics
           of each village, Clusters will be randomize villages to study arm considering:

             -  3 levels of population: low, medium, and high stratified and 3 regions (Northern,
                Central, and River).

             -  The first study arm will be under standard SMC

             -  The second study arm will receive SMC with standard drugs for < 10 years

             -  The third study arm will receive SMC with alternative drug for < 10 years

             -  SMC delivery. According the National Malaria Control Program, the first round of
                SMC will start in July 22nd, 2019 and a total of four monthly round will be
                performed. This study will follow the national calendar for SMC. During each round,
                teams will be deployed on each site for a week to oversee the drug distribution and
                monitor adherence through direct and indirect observation. A post SMC household
                survey will be performed to assess adherence to treatment, adverse side effects and
                reasons for non-compliance to SMC treatment

             -  Selection and training of community health workers. For each site a list of
                community health workers (CHWs) and Community Health Agents (CHAs) will be
                established. A special on-site training will be organized for each health district
                before the first round of SMC. Training will be on SMC treatment, doses and
                coverage; electronic data capture, use of RDT, prompt administration of ACTs and
                referral to the Community health center of complicated malaria cases) Communities
                will be made aware of the new duties of their CHW/CHA before the project start.

             -  Implementation science. Qualitative and quantitative research methods will be
                applied including observations, in-depth interviews and focus group discussions to
                examine all of the steps in the implementation of SMC.

             -  Capture costing data. SMC drugs and delivery costs will be collected following a
                standardized protocol to estimate the financial and economic costs of each
                treatment regimen. Final cost will be compare to total expenditure for malaria
                treatment at community level in absence of SMC.

             -  Entomological collections. During malaria transmission season, a total of three
                mosquito collection will be performed in each study village. Collection methods
                will include PSC inside houses, and HLC in and out doors. Up to 100 female
                anophelines per site per survey will be dissected for age grading, and tested by
                PCR for species identification and sporozoite ELISA.

             -  Environmental context. Monthly monitoring of weather (temperature, humidity,
                rainfall) will be undertaken. Additionally, proximity and productivity of breeding
                sites will be monitored monthly. Daily weather data (temperature, humidity,
                rainfall) will be collected from the nearest weather station on a district level.

                3. Methodology 3.1. Study sites : Koulikoro Health District, Mali is situated in
                southwest Mali about 50 miles (18 km) north of Bamako and 255 miles (410 km) from
                the Guinea border. The district maintains 21 health zones and 71 community health
                posts. The current population in the district is 282,570 with approximately 4%
                under 1 year of age and 18% between 1 and 4 years of age. The total number of
                villages covered by a community health center varies from 8 to 31 villages.
                Kolebougou is the most populous village with 34,712 persons and Souban is the
                smallest with only 5,085 persons. Ongoing malaria control activities include case
                management (rapid diagnostic tests [RDTs] and artemisinin-based combination therapy
                [ACT]), IPT in pregnant women, SMC, and long-lasting insecticide treated nets
                (LLINs). The health centers in Koulikoro District maintain clinical and laboratory
                research capacity and full-time staff and clinicians for malaria screening and
                patient care. The site was chosen as the proposed research because of its diverse
                range of malaria control interventions, collaborative research agreements with
                USTTB, high malaria transmission rates, and rural location. All data for this
                project will be collected at Koulikoro Health District sites. According to
                geographical location, the 9 study sites are: Gouni, Kenenkou, Kamani, Doumba,
                Sinzani, Koula, Sirakorola, Monzombala and Chola.

             -  Along the River Niger: Gouni, Kenenkou and Kamani

             -  Central zone: Doumba, Koula and Sinzani

             -  Northern zone: Sirakorola, Monzombala and Chola 3.2. Study Design: A cluster
                randomized design will be used. A total of three treatment arms will be formed (see
                the graphic below): Arm 1: Standard of care defined as Sulfadoxin
                Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin for children less than 5 years old according the NMCP
                national politic for malaria control Arm2: Sulfadoxin Pyrimethamin+Amodiaquin will
                be delivery to children 3 months to less than 10 years (extension of SMC to
                children 5-9 years with current drug) Arm 3: Dihydroartemesinin - Piperaquin will
                be delivery to children 3 months to less than 10 years
    
  