
    
      Background: There is evidence that obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) increases the risk
      of cardiovascular events. Sympathetic nervous system and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)
      axis activation may be the mechanism of this relationship. We evaluate HPA axis and metabolic
      consequences in obese patients with and without OSAS and we determine if continuous positive
      airway pressure therapy (nCPAP) influenced responses.

      Methods: Plasma inflammatory cytokines, insulin resistance index, 24-hour ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring and overnight cortisol suppression test with 0.25 mg of dexamethasone
      were performed in 22 severe obese patients with OSAS and 23 obese controls. Ten patients with
      severe apnea were re-evaluated three months after nCPAP therapy.

      Results: Body mass index, abdominal circumference, blood pressure levels and insulin
      resistance indexes of OSAS patients and obese controls were very similar. In OSAS patients,
      adiponectin (p<0.05) and salivary cortisol suppression pos DEX (p<0.05) were lower, while
      heart rate (p<0.05) and TNF-alpha levels (p<0.05) were higher compared with obese controls.
      After nCPAP therapy, patients showed a reduction in heart rate (p=0.036) and a higher
      cortisol suppression after dexamethasone (p=0.001) and there were no differences in insulin
      resistance (HOMA p=0.139), arterial blood pressure (p=0.183) and adipokines compared with
      baseline. Cortisol suppression was positively correlated with the improvement of apnea
      hypopnea index while on nCPAP therapy (r= 0.799, p=0.010).

      Conclusions: Patients with OSAS present nocturnal hypercortisolism, hyperactivity of
      sympathetic central nervous system, a higher degree of inflammation and hypoadiponectinemia
      independent of the body mass index. Furthermore, hyperactivity of HPA axis and sympathetic
      nervous system are recovered by nCPAP.
    
  