
    
      Precision medicine is considered to be one of the major issues in patient care. A lot of
      research has already proven itself with the implementation of targeted therapies including
      immunotherapies offering patients improved response and survival rates. But despite these
      major therapeutic advances, resistance to anti-cancer treatment is a major obstacle in the
      care of patients. Indeed, to date, many patients die of cancer, 9.6 million deaths worldwide
      in 2018. Nowadays, improving understanding of the mechanisms of resistance of cancer cells to
      anti-tumor treatments is therefore a major issue. The great diversity of molecular mechanisms
      involved in the phenomena of resistance to treatment, whether intrinsic (de novo, or primary)
      or acquired (secondary), constitutes a real therapeutic challenge. Indeed, a better
      understanding of the mechanisms of resistance would make it possible to explore new
      therapeutic strategies making it possible to circumvent these phenomena of escape in
      different types of cancer. It is in this context that the OncoSNIPE project was developed.
      The objective of this project is to identify early and / or late markers of resistance to
      treatment in 3 different pathologies concerned with resistance issues : triple negative
      breast cancer or lum B or locally advanced or metastatic non- small-cell lung cancer or
      pancreatic cancer. In this project, in order to best cover the diversity of mechanisms
      involved in these resistances, the investigators propose a multidisciplinary approach with
      clinical, genomic, transcriptomic and immunological dimensions of the pathology through the
      data collected from 600 patients (200 for each pathology) for 4 years.

      The patient populations targeted in this study have one common thing: rapid progression of
      their pathology, making it possible to obtain models for evaluating markers of early and / or
      late responses over the period of follow-up of 2-year post-inclusion patients, and thus
      provide the information necessary to understand the resistance mechanisms.

      To explore the phenomena of resistance, during the therapeutic response and / or the
      progression of the pathology, the investigators will used a multidisciplinary approach
      including high-throughput sequencing (Exome-seq and RNAseq) and immunological profil by ELISA
      . Patients will have long-term follow-up with different biological samples, at baseline
      (blood and biopsy) and at each tumoral evaluation or tumoral progression evaluated by medical
      imaging.
    
  