
    
      The incidence of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is rising among Asian population. A
      recent systematic review showed among Chinese population, the prevalence of GERD can be up to
      5% (2). Currently, the standard treatment for GERD is acid suppression using proton pump
      inhibitors (PPI) which can achieve a symptomatic relief of more than 90%. However, more than
      50% of patients with GERD will required long term PPI. As the usual occurrence of GERD is at
      the age of 40 to 50, the need of long term PPI among these young adults renders them playing
      a sick role for a long period of time. This imposed a major impact on these patients' quality
      of life, and a significant medical expenditure to the society.

      Since Rudolf Nissen first reported the use of fundoplication as a treatment of
      gastroesophageal reflux disease in 1956, there has been a development in variety of different
      fundoplication. It can be classified into a complete or partial wrapping at the lower
      esophageal sphincter around the esophago-gastric junction (EGJ). From the results of numerous
      randomized studies, Fundoplication is considered as an alternative to long term proton pump
      inhibitors. Recent controversies abound upon the use of partial or complete fundoplication.
      Several randomized studies reported that a partial fundoplication can reduce the incidence of
      post-operative dysphagia. However, this benefit is off-set by an increase in the incidence of
      recurrence. From our retrospective review on 28 patients treated by laparoscopic
      fundoplication, the recurrence of GERD is significantly higher in patients treated with
      partial compared to a complete fundoplication. The effectiveness of partial against complete
      Nissen fundoplication in control of reflux among Chinese patients is still unknown. Our study
      aimed to compare Laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication against Anterior partial on the control
      of gastroesophageal reflux disease.
    
  