
    
      Title: Evaluation of Success Rate of Non Vital Mature Anterior Teeth with Periapical Lesion
      Following Single versus Two Visit Regenerative Treatment Protocol (A Randomized Clinical
      Trial) Regenerative endodontics can be defined as biologically based procedures designed to
      replace damaged structures, including dentin and root structures, as well as cells of the
      pulp-dentin complex.

      The majority of endodontic patients are adults, thus the application of the tissue
      engineering concept to mature teeth could provide a biological treatment modality instead of
      the conventional one. In fact, several advantages were reported about regenerative procedures
      in well developed mature teeth. Reconstitution of the neurovascular system in root canals by
      pulp regeneration will provide pulp tissues with an immune system, which will function as the
      first line of defense against microbial challenge. Moreover, restoration of pulp dentine
      complex will protect the tooth during loading and mastication.

      Different treatment protocols for pulp regeneration were reported in the literature regarding
      irrigation (type, concentration and time), intracanal medication, pulpal space barrier,
      incorporation and lack of scaffolds (blood clot, PRP,PRF, collagen) as well as recall visits.

      Rationale for conducting the research and choice of comparators:

      Multiple visits protocol has been the commonly used technique in regenerative endodontic
      procedures. It involves the placement of intracanal medicaments between visits (calcium
      hydroxide and triple antibiotic paste) which have many drawbacks such as difficulty in
      removal, tooth discoloration, weakening of the root and tooth loss.

      Completing revascularization in one visit has many advantages. First, it reduces the chance
      of additional bacterial contamination of the space. Second, a single revascularization
      protocol may overcome the problem of poor patient compliance and reduce the number of
      appointments needed. Third, it can help to combat potential injury of the tooth and tooth
      discoloration Unfortunately, up till the moment it is not clear which protocol is the most
      effective. Thus randomized clinical trials are required to provide plausible answers to this
      question In the present research the recent single visit regenerative treatment for necrotic
      mature teeth will be compared to the conventionally used two visit one
    
  