
    
      Uveal melanoma (UM) is an uncommon malignancy (0.6-0.7 cases/100.000/year) that, in the case
      of metastatic stage, has a poor prognosis for response to treatment and survival. It is
      remarkable for its purely hematogenous pattern of dissemination, most commonly to the liver
      (60%) and lungs (25%). Current approaches using percutaneous hepatic perfusion (PHP) with
      melphalan resulted in response rates of up to 40% in the liver (1, 2) (for results of our own
      phase II study see paragraph 6.3.2). However, a main part of the patients developed
      extrahepatic disease in the follow-up, whereas the liver metastases were mainly stable.

      Checkpoint inhibitors have been shown to improve overall survival in metastasized cutaneous
      melanoma in phase III studies (3-6), but seem to have limited activity as monotherapies in
      metastasized uveal melanoma (7-9). The combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab has achieved 2
      out of 6 patients PR in a retrospective analysis (10). Interestingly, both patients had a
      liver-directed therapy (SIRT and chemoembolization) before the immunotherapy.

      Combination of radio-frequency ablation (RFA) and anti-CTLA-4 enhanced antigen-loading of
      dendritic cells, and induced long-lasting anti-tumor immune responses in a murine melanoma
      model without induction of any severe side effects (11, 12). A phase Ib/II trial by Blank et
      al. (13) showed unconfirmed responses in some patients when RFA was combined with ipilimumab
      in uveal melanoma, but long-term disease stabilization was not achieved. Most of the
      responses were seen in extrahepatic metastases. Combining percutaneous hepatic perfusion
      (PHP) with checkpoint inhibitors could together lead to control of hepatic and extrahepatic
      disease. Therefore, we propose the current trial: Phase1b/2 Study Combining Hepatic
      Percutaneous Perfusion with Ipilimumab plus Nivolumab in advanced Uveal Melanoma (CHOPIN).
    
  