
    
      There are few studies that apply and evaluate respiratory physiotherapy and / or postural
      hygiene in children with neurological affections. This study aims to improve the quality and
      effectiveness of physiotherapy interventions in paediatric patients with neurological
      problems and respiratory symptomatology, providing scientific evidence to respiratory
      physiotherapy protocols that are carried out in daily clinical practice and implementing the
      practice of therapeutic education on postural hygiene.

      HYPOTHESIS: Children with neurological chronic disease and respiratory affection benefit from
      mucociliary clearance techniques and workshops on postural hygiene to optimize respiratory
      status and quality of life.

      OBJECTIVES

        -  To evaluate the effectiveness of mucociliary clearance techniques in improving
           respiratory clinical signs and to increase expectoration of bronchial secretions in
           children with chronic neurological disease.

        -  To analyse the effectiveness of mucociliary clearance techniques combined with workshops
           to improve the quality of life of children with chronic neurological disease with
           respiratory complications.

        -  Establish the effectiveness of mucociliary clearance techniques and workshops to reduce
           the number of exacerbations due to respiratory infection in children with chronic
           neurological disease.

        -  To determine the effectiveness of mucociliary clearance techniques and workshops to
           reduce hospital admissions for respiratory complications in children with chronic
           neurological disease.

        -  MATERIAL AND METHODS It is an experimental study before - after a single group of
           children with non-progressive chronic neurological affectation (Cerebral Palsy, Down
           Syndrome, encephalopathies, ...) and respiratory involvement with intervention of chest
           therapy and workshops of postural hygiene directed to their parents or guardians Each
           individual has been their own control in the successive evaluations. The physiotherapist
           who has performed the techniques of chest therapy and workshops has been the same as the
           physiotherapist evaluator, so that there has been neither simple nor double blind.

      The project was previously approved by the Clinical Research Ethics Committee of the San
      Carlos Clinical University Hospital (internal code nº 15/152-E); He was awarded the 2014
      Research Fellowship of the Spanish Society of Pulmonology and Thoracic Surgery (SEPAR).

      ESTIMATION OF SAMPLE SIZE The sample size necessary to obtain a good internal validity was
      calculated, considering a normal distribution of the data, making a population estimate
      according to Granmo for paired means (repeated in a group). And the Bonferroni correction was
      taken into account, that is, the significance of at least 0.05 divided by the number of
      comparisons (in this case 8) was considered for each contrast.

      So, estimating a significance of 0.00625 (0.05 / 8) and a power of 0.8, in a bilateral
      contrast, 27 subjects are required to detect a difference equal to or greater than 3.5 units.
      A standard deviation of 5 is assumed.

      The participants were recruited from four centres of early care and foundations of the
      Community of Madrid. From their respective centres, all the parents of children with chronic
      neurological syndromes, who could enter the study according to the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria previously described, participated in the project.

      The informed consent of the parents or guardians of each participant was filed outside their
      medical history and they were informed of the confidentiality of the data according to the
      Organic Law 15/99 of December 13 of Data Protection of personal character.

      Subsequently, a first evaluation of the participants was performed, in which the descriptive
      data, the clinical exams, the number of exacerbations that each participant underwent during
      the 6 months prior to the beginning of the study were collected and the PedsQL quality of
      life questionnaires Through a personal interview with the parents.

      After this first evaluation, the clinical evaluations were performed, including the clinical
      exams of the participants before and after each session. And, after each session, the volume
      of secretions expectorated by each participant was measured. In the last session (session 6)
      the PedsQL quality of life questionnaires were completed again.

      Finally, in the evaluation of evolutionary control, clinical examinations were performed, the
      PedsQL quality of life questionnaires were again completed and the number of exacerbations
      due to respiratory complications that each participant had during the six months after the
      study was started.

      Chest therapy was performed twice a month. The intervention of the workshops was done every 3
      months.
    
  