
    
      Aims and Objectives

        -  To compare the clinical outcome of the SCCS with WVC in non-surgical root canal
           treatment.

        -  To compare the radiographic outcome of the SCCS with WVC in non-surgical root canal
           treatment using periapical radiographs and CBCT scans.

        -  To assess the difference in postoperative pain between the 2 groups.

        -  To assess the difference in the time required to complete the obturation between the 2
           groups.

      Materials and Methods

        -  Patients who are referred to the Kuwait Board of Endodontics for non-surgical root canal
           treatment and fulfil the inclusion/exclusion criteria of the study will be included

        -  Pre-operative periapical radiograph, CBCT scan and 11-point Numerical Rating Scale (NRS)
           will be taken.

        -  Upon completion of root canal instrumentation, the participants will be randomly
           allocated to either Group A: obturation using SCCS or Group B: obturation using WVC. The
           participants will be blinded to the type of treatment received and the clinician will
           only be informed of the obturation method once the canal/canals are ready for
           obturation.

        -  All teeth will then be restored definitively.

        -  The participants will be contacted via telephone 1, 3 and 7 days post-treatment to
           report their NRS pain score.

        -  The participants will be recalled after 1 year for clinical and radiographic assessment
           using periapical radiograph and CBCT scan.

        -  The participants will then be followed-up annually for up to 4 years.

        -  Statistical analysis will be performed.

        -  The design of the study will conform to the CONSORT statement.

      Statistical and Analytical Plans

      Sample size estimation for the treatment outcome was performed using PASS 2019 computer
      software, utilizing information from previous studies on healing outcome after initial
      endodontic therapy. For a two independent-samples t-test of proportions, at power of 80% and
      5% significance level for two-tailed test, detecting a 10% difference of healing rate
      required a sample size of 148 teeth. Adjusting for a dropout rate of 30%, the required sample
      size was 212 teeth. The slightly high 30% dropout rate is anticipated because most of the
      patients we treat are non-Kuwaiti nationals and their presence in the country after 1 year is
      not guaranteed.
    
  