
    
      Bipolar type II depression is a very frequent condition for which we still have a significant
      lack of acute treatments. There is now consistent evidence that light-therapy treatment
      produced a significant decrease of depressive symptoms for seasonal and non-seasonal unipolar
      depression. But there are no long-term studies of light therapy for the treatment of
      non-seasonal unipolar depression. It is also important to note that many of these studies
      involved co-therapy with antidepressant drugs or sleep-deprivation, making the interpretation
      of the results even more difficult.

      Therefore, we propose to study the efficacy and safety of light therapy for the treatment of
      bipolar type II patients relapsing into a depressive phase during the period of September to
      mid-March. This will be a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study. Bipolar II
      out-patients will be recruited from our bipolar disorders program and from our 5 general
      psychiatry out-patient clinics. We will recruit bipolar type II patients facing a depressive
      phase and after they give their informed consent and we had verified they meet all inclusion
      and exclusion criteria, they will be randomized blindly to Bright-light (10 000 lux) vs
      Dim-light placebo (100 lux) therapies. Both, patient and investigator/rater will be blind to
      the type of light treatment assigned to the patient. The light therapy will take place during
      30 minutes daily in the morning AFTER the usual awakening time of the patient in order to
      avoid even partial sleep deprivation which would confound the results if we were to observe a
      greater switch rate into mania or hypomania.

      Reasons for study termination can be serious side-effects, development of suicidal ideations
      or hypomanic/manic symptoms, patient's own decision, or any other of the exclusion criteria
      being fulfilled during the course of the study.

      Depressive and manic/hypomanic symptoms, quality of life, sleep quality and side-effects will
      be assessed at baseline and during the study. Biological parameters will also be measured
      along the study. We think that this study will allow us to determine the efficacy and safety
      of a 5 weeks bright light therapy for Bipolar type II depression and provide open label data
      as to the long term benefits of this treatment if prolonged over 5 weeks during the "dark"
      months of the year.
    
  