
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the rate of major cytogenetic response (MCyR) of an alternating schedule of
      axitinib and bosutinib in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, chronic phase (CML-CP)
      after failure of/intolerance to >= 3 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) using standard
      response criteria. (Chronic Phase Cohort) II. To determine the recommended phase II doses
      (RPTDs) of axitinib and bosutinib in combination in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia
      (CML) in accelerated phase (CML-AP) or blast phase (CML-BP). (Advanced phase [AP] patients
      must have received >= 1 prior TKI). (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase I Portion) III. To
      evaluate the rate of major hematologic response (MaHR) of combined treatment with axitinib
      and bosutinib in patients with CML-AP or CML-BP using standard response criteria. (AP
      patients must have received >= 1 prior TKI). (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase II Portion)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of complete cytogenetic response (CCyR), breast cancer gene
      (BCR-ABL/ABL) =< 10% and =< 1%, major molecular response (MMR), molecular response 4-log
      (MR4), molecular response 4.5-log (MR4.5), and complete molecular response (CMR), overall and
      at different time points. (Chronic Phase Cohort) II. To determine the duration of response
      (DOR), event-free survival (EFS), transformation-free survival (TFS), failure-free survival
      (FFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients with CML-CP treated with alternating axitinib
      and bosutinib after failure of/intolerance to >= 3 TKIs. (Chronic Phase Cohort) III. To
      determine the safety and tolerability of alternating therapy with axitinib and bosutinib
      after failure of/intolerance to >= 3 TKIs. (Chronic Phase Cohort) IV. To establish the
      response rate of concurrent administration of axitinib and bosutinib to patients with CML-AP
      or CML-BP. (AP patients must have received >= 1 prior TKI). (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase I
      Portion) V. To determine the rate of complete hematologic response (CHR), complete
      cytogenetic response (CCyR), BCR-ABL/ABL =< 10% and =< 1%, major molecular response (MMR),
      molecular response 4-log (MR4), molecular response 4.5-log (MR4.5), and complete molecular
      response (CMR), overall and at different time points of combined treatment with axitinib and
      bosutinib in patients with CML-AP or CML-BP. (AP patients must have received >= 1 prior TKI).
      (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase I Portion) VI. To determine the DOR, EFS, TFS, FFS and OS for
      patients with CML-AP or -BP treated with combined axitinib and bosutinib. (AP patients must
      have received >= 1 prior TKI). (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase II Portion) VII. To evaluate
      the probability of developing Abl kinase domain and other somatic mutations in patients with
      CML treated with alternating (CP) or concurrent (AP/BP) axitinib and bosutinib. (Advanced
      Phase Cohort - Phase II Portion) VIII. To analyze differences in response rates, duration and
      survival according to pre-treatment mutations and patient characteristics in both the CP and
      AP/BP cohorts. (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase II Portion) IX. To characterize mechanisms of
      resistance in patients who develop resistance to alternating (CP) or concomitant (AP/BP)
      therapy with axitinib and bosutinib. (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase II Portion) X. To
      evaluate symptom burden in patients with CML receiving axitinib and bosutinib, whether
      alternating (CP) or in combination (AP/BP). (Advanced Phase Cohort - Phase II Portion)

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation followed by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1
      of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients with chronic phase CML receive either bosutinib orally (PO) once a day
      (QD) or axitinib PO twice a day (BID) alone for 3 months. Patients then switch to the other
      drug for 3 months and alternate between the two every 3 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT II: Patients with accelerated or blastic phase CML receive bosutinib PO QD and
      axitinib PO BID for 3 months. Courses repeat every 3 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month.
    
  