
    
      The current obstetrical practice at birth in the United States is that the umbilical cord of
      the very low birth weight (VLBW) infant is clamped immediately. When immediate cord clamping
      occurs, up to 25% of the fetal-placental blood volume may be left in the placenta acutely
      increasing vulnerability to hypovolemia. Hypovolemia can precipitate a cascade of physiologic
      events including poor tissue perfusion, ischemia, and initiation of the fetal/neonatal
      inflammatory response. Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is a major cause of brain injury for
      preterm infants and is a predictor of poor neurodevelopment outcomes. Late onset sepsis (LOS)
      is also associated with morbidity and mortality in the NICU and later developmental delay. Of
      the approximately 57,000 infants born annually at less than 1500 grams, 10% develop cerebral
      palsy and 25 to 50% show later cognitive and behavioral deficits affecting school performance
      with higher rates found in males. We propose a trial with a sample of 212 randomized infants
      to validate our prior findings that delaying the cord clamping lowers the incidence of
      intraventricular hemorrhage and late onset sepsis, and to identify the mechanisms of effect
      through the study of biologic markers including measurement of cytokines, circulating stem
      cells, and red cell volume. Enrolled women in preterm labor will be randomized at birth to
      the immediate cord clamping group or the delayed clamping group. Assessment of motor outcomes
      is planned at 7 months corrected age. This study will help to establish a scientific basis
      for the timing of cord clamping of VLBW infants. The innovation of this study is in the
      simplicity of delaying cord clamping for 30 to 45 seconds and lowering the VLBW infants at
      birth. This low-tech change in a clinical practice has the potential to reduce the risk of
      disease and disability and to improve the neonatal and early childhood outcomes for these
      most vulnerable preterm infants.
    
  