
    
      Background:

      Cytoreductive surgery plus aggressive combination intraperitoneal chemotherapy may
      significantly alter the natural history of peritoneal carcinomatosis. The purpose of this
      study is to examine the treatment results of continuous hyperthermic peritoneal perfusion
      (CHPP) with cisplatin plus early postoperative intraperitoneal dwell therapy with 5-FU and
      paclitaxel after cytoreductive surgery for peritoneal carcinomatosis.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine response and survival after continuous
      hyperthermic peritoneal perfusion with cisplatin and early postoperative intraperitoneal
      dwell therapy with 5-FU and paclitaxel. Response can only be assessed by measuring the time
      to clinical or radiographic recurrence of disease.

      The secondary objectives include the determination of pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel and 5-FU
      delivered into the peritoneal cavity and the impact that continuous hyperthermic peritoneal
      perfusion with cisplatin and early postoperative intraperitoneal dwell therapy with 5-FU and
      paclitaxel has on patients' health related quality of life.

      The evaluation of pure populations of tumor and normal mesothelial cells to

        -  determine if signal transduction pathways are distinct in tumor versus normal tissue

        -  to see if specific cell pathways are activated or inhibited as a consequence of therapy.

        -  to validate that this technology can provide informative data about these events as a
           potential surrogate for clinical benefit from therapy or biological behavior of the
           tumor.

      Eligibility:

      The patient greater than or equal to 30 kg must have histologically proven peritoneal
      carcinomatosis from one of the following histologies: 1) primary peritoneal mesothelioma; 2)
      low grade mucinous adenocarcinoma (including low grade mucinous neoplasms of borderline
      malignant potential); 3) adenocarcinoma of gastrointestinal tract origin (other than low
      grade mucinous, excluding pancreatic cancer), with disease confined to the peritoneal cavity.
      Patients may not have had treatment for their disease within the previous 30 days and have
      recovered from all toxicity. Patients must meet certain safety laboratory criteria and may
      not have major medical disorders that would place them at unacceptable risk for a major
      surgical procedure. Patients may not have received prior intraperitoneal platinum therapy.

      Design:

      Patients will undergo cytoreductive surgery followed by CHPP with cisplatin. A peritoneal
      dialysis catheter will be inserted into the peritoneal cavity at the time of laparotomy. In
      the early postoperative period (day 2 - 10) intraperitoneal dwell chemotherapy with
      paclitaxel (125 mg/M^2) and 5-FU (800 mg/M^2) will be administered. Patients will be seen 4 -
      6 weeks after discharge for a physical examination and laboratory screen and QOL evaluation.
      Tumor marker will be included at this stage. Patients will then be seen every 3 months for
      the first year after surgery and every 6 months thereafter. At each visit they will undergo
      physical examination, laboratory screening (including tumor marker) and a CT scan of the
      chest, abdomen and pelvis and QOL evaluation.

      The objective of this pilot study is to estimate the ability of peritoneal perfusion to
      achieve potentially tolerable disease free survival in patients with a variety of tumors. For
      each class of tumors, an appropriate, distinct median disease free survival will be targeted
      as the principal endpoint. The trial will be conducted as a set of three single-stage phase
      II studies, with an early stopping rule for clearly unacceptable outcomes. It is expected
      that accrual for 59 patients with adenocarcinoma of gastrointestinal origin (other than low
      grade mucinous), 48 patients with low grade mucinous adenocarcinoma, and 96 patients with
      primary peritoneal mesothelioma (total accrual of 203) will require approximately 5 -6 years.

      Results will be assessed by following the time to radiographic or clinical recurrence of
      disease and survival. Patients will be stratified for entry based on histology. This will
      include 3 cohorts: 1) peritoneal mesothelioma; 2) low grade mucinous adenocarcinoma
      (including low grade mucinous neoplasms of borderline malignant potential); and 3)
      adenocarcinoma of gastrointestinal origin (other than low grade mucinous).
    
  