
    
      Pinto and colleagues, for a walking level from 55 to 65% HRmax, estimated a reduction of
      fatigue in post treatment. Supervised exercise show greater adherence to short-term practice
      at home. However, there are a growing number of studies suggesting a practice at home, the
      most activity being walking. The authors do not justify the choice of the type of
      supervision. But physical activity with a professional and / or group in a specific place
      definitely has different effects in relation to practice at home. Segal and his colleagues in
      2001 for the first time wished to compare the two types of supervision. The results are in
      favor of supervised exercise. The training was identical. However, to answer the five weekly
      sessions requested, the patient group had to complete two supervised practice sessions at
      home. So, the investigators really can not quantify the difference in impact between home
      practice and supervised practice. In a meta-analysis, Velthuis and colleagues conclude a
      significant difference in fatigue during treatment for a supervised aerobic exercise against
      a home that does not show significant difference. If the training is the same in both
      situations, the investigators should not find any difference in physiologic responses.
      However, the psychological impact can vary from one situation to another.

      The following protocol will focus at this problem. It will consist of a brisk walking program
      twice a week over a period of 6 weeks, at an intensity of 60% of HR pic during 20 minutes.

      Biweekly session from 60% of the heart rate pic during 20 minutes will be proposed.

      Each patient of supervised walking group will meet the student each session. Each patient of
      home-based walking group will be called by phone every week by the student to inform the
      patient of the progress of the training, collect the work and answer any questions.
    
  