
    
      This research proposal will determine the immediate impact of expiratory muscle strength
      training (EMST) on fatigue of the respiratory and swallowing musculature, whether objective
      decompensation translates to subjective dyspnea and fatigue, and whether high resolution
      cervical auscultation (HRCA) signal features can noninvasively capture and characterize
      physiologic decompensation that relates to fatigue in patients with amyotrophic lateral
      sclerosis (PALS) via three Specific Aims.

      Aim 1) Determine the impact of one EMST session on objective respiratory and swallow
      function.

      Hypothesis 1) One EMST session will result in reduced pulmonary function tests (PFTs)
      (maximum expiratory pressure, forced vital capacity, peak cough flow) and declines in swallow
      function (Videofluoroscopy (VF), HRCA). PALS will have greater reductions in PFTs, and
      objective declines in swallow function after the experimental condition compared to the
      control condition.

      Aim 2) Determine if objective decompensation translates to subjective ratings of dyspnea and
      fatigue after one EMST session.

      Hypothesis 2) Subjective ratings of dyspnea and fatigue (Situational Fatigue Scale; Dyspnea
      ALS-15) will be associated with objective decompensation in respiratory and swallow function
      (PFTs, VF, HRCA) after one EMST session.

      Aim 3) Investigate whether HRCA signal features analyses can non-invasively characterize
      immediate post-exercise physiologic changes in swallowing function that are related to
      fatigue.

      Hypothesis 3) Pre- to post-EMST changes in HRCA signal features will be associated with
      physiologic changes in swallowing as measured by VF analyses.

      This study will be a prospective study with randomized experimental and control conditions;
      and is directly related to the NIH funded research studies currently conducted in the
      Computational Deglutition (CD) Lab under the leadership of Dr. James Coyle and Dr. Ervin
      Sejdic.

      Participants: 20 PALS will be recruited to undergo VF before and after undergoing the
      randomly ordered experimental and control conditions on two separate nonconsecutive days
      within a two-week time frame.

      Baseline Procedures:

      PALS will be instructed not to eat a meal or engage in exercise within two hours of their
      visit. Following consent, baseline assessment procedures be obtained. All baseline
      measurements of swallowing and pulmonary function will be performed before any potentially
      fatigue-inducing procedures are performed (i.e. exercise training).

        1. The ALS functional rating scale revised (ALSFRS-R) (an instrument used to assess changes
           in functional status over time in PALS), will be completed.

        2. Prior to completing swallowing and pulmonary measurements, PALS will complete the
           situational fatigue scale (SFS), which measures fatigue that results from completing
           functional daily activities.

        3. Before undergoing swallowing and pulmonary measurements, PALS will also complete the
           Dyspnea ALS-15 (DALS-15), which is a measure of dyspnea that is known to be related to
           fatigue in PALS.

        4. PALS will undergo an assessment of swallow function with concurrent recordings of
           videofluoroscopy (VF) and high-resolution cervical auscultation (HRCA) signals prior to
           undergoing PFTs to mitigate fatigue from the PFTs as a confound. VF procedures will be
           conducted first, because ten swallows of thin liquid are unlikely to cause fatigue of
           the respiratory and swallow musculature that would impact PFTs.

        5. PALS will be seated upright in a chair and viewed in the lateral plane. HRCA signals
           will be simultaneously recorded from neck sensors (a contact microphone and
           accelerometer) that are attached to the anterior laryngeal framework with tape. VF and
           HRCA signals will be recorded onto a Labview Workstation. During each stage (pre-, post
           EMST) of VF, PALS will swallow ten thin liquid boluses of barium. Five liquid swallows
           will be a self-selected comfortable sip from a cup and five will be 3mL by spoon
           administered with a command to swallow. Presentation order for the liquid swallows will
           be randomized using a random number generator. If more than one aspiration event is
           observed during VF, the exam will be terminated immediately in order to ensure patient
           safety.

        6. PFTs following VF will include maximum expiratory pressure (MEP) (measured with the
           MicroRPM handheld MEP device (Micro Direct Inc., Lewiston, ME)), peak cough flow (PCF)
           (measured with a handheld peak flow meter (BV Medical, Barrington, IL)), and FVC
           (measured with the Spirodoc spirometer and WinspiroPRO computer software (Medical
           International Research, New Berlin, WI)). All PFTs will be completed three times with
           PALS sitting in an upright seated position with a nose clip in line with standard PFT
           protocols. The highest of three measurements will be used for analyses.

      EMST Training: PALS will use the EMST-150 device (Aspire Products, Gainesville, Florida) or
      the Philips Threshold PEP trainer (Philips Respironics, Cedar Grove, New Jersey). During the
      experimental condition, EMST devices will be set to 50% of PALS' highest MEP from their
      baseline PFT assessment. During the control condition, no resistance will be added, and the
      loaded spring will be removed from the device. For both experimental conditions, PALS will
      undergo the following standard treatment protocol:

        1. PALS will complete five sets of five repetitions using an EMST device.

        2. For each repetition, PALS will be instructed to take a deep breath in and blow until the
           valve releases.

        3. Between repetitions, PALs will have 10-15 seconds of rest before the next repetition.

        4. After each set, PALS will rest for one minute before completing the next set.

      Post-treatment procedures: Following the EMST session with either the device set to 50% load
      or the sham device, PALS will undergo the same procedures (VF, HRCA, PFTs) as described above
      in steps 1-6 of the baseline procedures
    
  