
    
      Background: Many cancer survivors suffer a range of physical and psychological symptoms with
      may persist for years or months after treatment finishes. Despite the known benefits of
      exercise and its potential to address many of these adverse effects of treatment, the role of
      exercise as well as its optimum duration, frequency, and intensity in this population has yet
      to be fully elucidated. Many cancer rehabilitation programmes presented in the literature are
      very long, have tight eligibility criteria and are not likely to be practical in the majority
      of cancer survivors. We plan to investigate a novel brief 8-week intervention which aims to
      increase physical fitness, and address other physical symptoms in a heterogeneous cancer
      survivor population.

      Methods/design: Approximately 60 cancer survivors 2-6 months after completion of
      chemotherapy, usually adjuvant, with curative intent will be recruited through oncology
      clinics in a single institution and randomised to usual care or an exercise intervention. The
      exercise intervention consists of two specifically tailored, supervised, moderate intensity
      aerobic exercise sessions per week for 8 weeks. All participants will be assessed at baseline
      (0 weeks), post intervention (8 weeks), and at 3-month follow-up. The primary outcome measure
      is fitness, and secondary patient-related outcome measures include fatigue, quality of life,
      and morphological outcomes. A further secondary outcome is process evaluation including
      adherence to and compliance with the exercise program.

      Discussion: This study will provide valuable information about the physical outcomes of this
      8-week supervised aerobic programme. Additional process information and economic evaluation
      will inform the feasibility of implementing this program in a heterogeneous population after
      chemotherapy treatment with curative intent.
    
  