
    
      The aim of the 'Acupuncture to improve quality of life and fatigue in cancer patients
      undergoing Radiotherapy Treatment' (ART) project is to investigate all aspects of the
      feasibility of undertaking clinical research on acupuncture with patients having radiotherapy
      at the University College Hospital (UCH) Cancer division.

      The program includes an exploratory feasibility randomized controlled trial to investigate
      all aspects of a future definitive randomized controlled trial, including: organizational and
      procedural issues, patient group (including cancer diagnosis and stage), statistical power
      calculation, primary outcome measure and time point. It is NOT intended to deliver definitive
      results in terms of clinical outcomes.

      ART aims to establish a platform for the investigation of integrating complementary therapy
      into cancer care, between the Royal London Hospital for Integrated Medicine (RLHIM) and the
      UCH cancer division. The development of a research project to investigate the use of
      acupuncture, a therapy not currently provided by the cancer division, to address the key
      concerns of cancer patients was the starting point. The intention is to evaluate the
      feasibility of such research, not to produce definitive results.

      The greatest concerns of people with cancer include anxiety, fatigue, sleep problems and pain
      as a consequence of their disease and its treatment. Many patients find complementary
      therapies beneficial for these problems. UCH and RLHIM are both part of the University
      College London Hospital NHS Trust. The RLHIM is a specialist provider of complementary
      therapies, and offers treatment to cancer patients attending for radiotherapy and
      chemotherapy at UCH.

      ART uses multiple methods, including a systematic review of the literature, model validity
      expert consensus, a novel therapy (acupuncture) and mode of delivery (specially trained
      health professionals already working in the radiotherapy department), and standard measures
      of outcome, culminating in a feasibility randomized controlled clinical trial.

      The research program will evaluate all involved processes, resources, interventions and
      procedures. Outcomes measured included patient clinical outcomes, and the views of patients
      and stakeholders.

      The research team comprises the Royal London Hospital for Integrated Medicine (RLHIM)
      research team, UCH Cancer Clinical Trials Unit (CCTU), a Steering Group including
      representatives of all interested parties including patients, an International Scientific
      Advisory Committee, an Acupuncture Expert Panel, with support from Quality Health Ltd.
    
  