
    
      The data that will be collected in the scope of this registry includes:

        1. data that is sourced from the subject, which will be collected by the physical therapist
           managing that subject;

        2. data that is generated by the physical therapist through interaction with the web-based
           Portal (i.e. session composition in terms of exercises, sets, repetitions, usage or not
           of external resistance)

        3. data that is generated by the subject through interaction with the app (i.e. pain and
           fatigue levels, satisfaction)

        4. data that is generated automatically by the medical device (i.e. range of motion,
           compliance)

      Collection and objective analysis of the collected data will allow:

        1. Continuous monitoring of the safety of this medical device, under the post-marketing
           surveillance process;

        2. Monitoring of user needs, engagement and satisfaction to guide further improvements;

        3. Analysis of the effectiveness of rehabilitation programs using this medical device;

        4. Correlation of clinical outcomes with patient's demographic and clinical profiles;

        5. Compilation of patient cohorts to increase and disseminate knowledge on each disorder,
           its progression and response to physical therapy programs;

        6. Explore the cost-efficiency of physical therapy programs involving SWORD Phoenix®

        7. Development of novel intelligent tools to assist therapists with patient management.

      Clinical outcomes

      The primary outcome will be the evolution of patient's clinical condition along the
      rehabilitation program, objectively estimated through the monitoring data collected using
      SWORD Phoenix®, as part of patients' supervision routine. Depending on the condition, primary
      and secondary outcome measures vary.

      In any case, this registry will include a complete characterisation of the clinical
      condition, as well as the periodic assessment of: a) joints' range of motion (collect by the
      medical device); b) performance indicators (through condition-specific tests); c)
      patient-reported outcomes (obtained using internationally validated pathology-specific
      questionnaires); d) pain and fatigue levels (reported by patients by the end of each
      therapeutic exercise session); e) compliance; f) patient satisfaction
    
  