
    
      Hirschsprung's disease (HD) is diagnosed shortly after birth and is characterized by the
      absence of enteric nerves in parts of colon [Amiel et al.]. Following surgical correction
      many patients develop HD-associated enterocolitis (HAEC), a condition distinguished by
      intestinal inflammation resulting in abdominal distension, severe diarrhea, fever and sepsis
      [Demehri et al.]. The underlying factors leading to HAEC remain poorly understood and likely
      involve a defect in epithelial barrier, including decreased mucin production and insufficient
      immunoglobulin translocation. The establishment of the epithelial barrier is dependent on
      epithelial recognition of microbial products by innate immune receptors, like toll-like
      receptors (TLRs) [Peterson et al.]. TLR-dependent epithelial recognition of microflora also
      coordinates the immune response away from harmless commensal bacteria and towards pathogenic
      invaders. Both innate and adaptive effector cell functions are influenced by
      epithelial-derived signals. Under homeostatic conditions commensal bacteria induce
      anti-inflammatory cytokines in epithelial cells which trigger a tolerogenic phenotype in
      mucosal antigen presenting cells (APC) resulting in generation of commensal-specific
      regulatory T cells (Tregs) [Curotto de Lafaille et al.]. During infection, recognition of
      pathogenic organisms by epithelial cells leads to secretion of inflammatory cytokines thereby
      inducing an inflammatory APC phenotype which promotes T effector cell (Th1, Th17) generation.
      The enteric nervous system is directly located underneath the epithelium and controls
      epithelial cell function. Ablation of enteric glia cells, one of the two cell types of the
      ENS, in mice is associated with inflammation and enterocolitis [Cornet et al.]. In a study
      from 2011 Flamant and co-workers demonstrate that enteric glia cells protect from a shigella
      flexneri invasion by preventing lesions in the epithelial barrier mediated by the glia cell
      derived neurothrophic factor S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) [Flamant et al.]. We hypothesize
      that the lack of an enteric nervous system in HD patients modulates the microbial recognition
      of epithelial cells and thereby the phenotype of underlying mucosal APCs and effector T
      cells; this might be associated with the manifestation of HAEC.
    
  