
    
      NRD can be assessed by measuring parasternal electromyogram (EMG). Readings are taken by
      applying two small electrodes in the second intercostal space either side of the sternum and
      one to the shoulder. The electrodes are similar to those used in ECG acquisition.
      Measurements are then taken during normal breathing and also during maximal breathing effort
      ('sniff' procedure). Tests may be taken with patient recumbent at 45 degrees and supine. The
      test is non-invasive, has been safely performed in patients in previous studies and is not
      anticipated to cause any harm or distress. The total time for measurements will be around 20
      minutes per patient.

      NRD will be calculated as root mean square of normal tidal breathing as a proportion of
      maximal inspiratory effort (maximum inspiration from functional reserve capacity, taken as a
      sniff manoeuvre). Measurements will be performed in a ward based setting at the patient's
      bedside.

      At the end of the inpatient stay for diagnosis, some patients are commenced on treatment and
      followed up in clinic. It would be the intention of the investigators to reassess these
      patients at clinic to test NRD and compare how this changes over time compared to other
      clinical parameters.

      In addition, we will collect further readings of NRD in these patients when they attend for
      their standard follow up appointment. For the majority of patients, this will be after 3-4
      months. For a subset of patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, this may
      be up to one year after initial readings because these patients may be suitable for surgical
      intervention, which is not done locally and usually takes place 6-12 months after diagnosis
      at SPVU.

      As such, the investigators intend that a patient will take part in the study for 52 weeks
      maximum, with most patients taking part for 16 weeks, and the study will not require them to
      have any additional attendances at hospital outwith their standard hospital admission for
      diagnosis and clinic follow up.
    
  