
    
      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Male, adult patients

        -  ASA I-III patients

        -  Non-complicated primary inguinal hernia (classification according to Gilbert
           I-II-III-IV-V-VI, modified. according to Rutkow and Robbins) performed in non-emergency
           setting and repaired with a Lichtenstein's hernioplasty using polypropylene or Surgisis
           mesh

        -  Informed consent

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Recurrent hernias

        -  Any condition preventing a correct evaluation of pain (non-cooperative patient, blind
           patient, drug addicted)

        -  Hypersensitivity to any drug in study

        -  Patients with an intra-operative findings of different pathology will be excluded from
           the study

      Outcomes:

      General objectives of the study will be:

        1. to determine the safety of the Lichtenstein's hernioplasty with Surgisis ES by noting
           any complications observed intraoperatively and postoperatively

        2. to determine the efficacy of the Lichtenstein's hernioplasty with Surgisis ES in
           comparison with the traditional method with polypropylene mesh by noting the grade of
           postoperative pain, discomfort, quality of life, the rate of wound infection and other
           complications, and the recurrence rate.

      The specific objectives of the study will be:

        1. to measure the degree of post-hernioplasty acute and chronic pain with visual analogue
           scale (VAS), simple verbal scale (SVS) and parenteral/oral analgesic consumption in the
           two groups.

        2. to measure the degree of postoperative acute and chronic discomfort with visual analogue
           scale (VAS) and simple verbal scale (SVS).

        3. to measure the postoperative health general status and quality of life with the Short
           Form 36 (SF-36) questionnaire.

        4. to rate the wound infection risk.

        5. to monitor any other postoperative complication observed in the immediate, mid-term and
           long-term postoperative period.

        6. to measure the recurrence rate.
    
  