
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the therapeutic activity of erlotinib vs temozolomide or carmustine in patients
           with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.

        -  Compare 6-month progression-free survival in patients treated with these drugs.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the safety of these drugs in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral erlotinib* once daily on day 1-28. Courses repeat every 28
           days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients treated with enzyme inducing anti-epileptic drugs (EIAEDs) receive a higher
      dose of erlotinib than patients not receiving any anti-epileptic drugs or EIAEDs.

        -  Arm II: Patients who have not received prior temozolomide are assigned to receive
           temozolomide. Patients who have received prior temozolomide are assigned to receive
           carmustine. Patients receive 1 of the following treatment regimens:

             -  Patients receive oral temozolomide* once daily on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28
                days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Patients receive carmustine IV once daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 56
                days for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

      NOTE: *Chemotherapy-naïve patients receive a higher dose of temozolomide than patients who
      have received prior adjuvant chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 8 weeks until disease progression and then every 3 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100-110 patients (50-55 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study.
    
  