
    
      Use of injectable prophylactic intracameral antibiotics during cataract surgery is gaining
      popularity worldwide due to the growing body of scientific evidence supporting its use. To
      date, there is no sterile-packaged antibiotic that has FDA approval for this indication.
      Surgeons using intracameral injectable antibiotics during cataract surgery must use existing
      pharmaceuticals off-label and/or rely on imprecise and sub-sterile compounding pharmacies to
      dispense these types of medications. Both of these scenarios may pose significant risk to
      patient safety.

      Description of the Treatment: Approximately 0.2 mL of either pre-loaded sterile vancomycin
      hydrochloride 1% solution (1 mg/0.1 mL of normal saline) or moxifloxacin hydrochloride 0.15%
      solution (150 μg/0.1 mL of normal saline) is injected into the eye with a blunt tip 30 gauge
      cannula through a small clear corneal incision as the last step in the cataract removal
      procedure. The purpose of the treatment is for prophylaxis against post-operative infections
      and endophthalmitis.

      Description of Effector Pharmaceuticals/Drugs: Vancomycin is a hydrophilic glycopeptide
      antibiotic that has been well studied in many different forms: intravenous injectable, oral
      tablet and even topical eye drop solutions. It is derived from Actinobacteria spp.
      Moxifloxacin is a synthetic fourth generation fluoroquinolone and has, likewise, been
      available in many forms including intravenous injectable, oral tablet and topical eye drop
      solutions. In this study, a contracted compounding pharmacy will produce the two
      pharmaceutical agents at the concentration/dosage mentioned above under the USP 797
      guidelines.

      Therapeutic Mode of Action: The primary mode of action for vancomycin is inhibition of cell
      wall synthesis in gram positive bacteria. The molecule forms hydrogen bonds with terminal
      amnio acid moieties of the N-acetylmuramic acid (NAM) and N-acetylglucosamine (NAG) polymer.
      The disruption to the polymerization and cross-linking of NAM-NAG complexes undermines the
      structural integrity of the bacterial organism leading to bacteriostasis and eventually cell
      death. The primary mode of action for moxifloxacin is inhibiting DNA gyrases, both type II
      topoisomerase and topoisomerase IV. These enzymes are essential for bacterial DNA replication
      to occur.
    
  