
    
      Background

      The alveolar process is a tooth dependent tissue and develops in conjunction with the
      eruption of teeth. The size and the form of the tooth, the axis of eruption and eventual
      inclination determine the local volume as well as the shape of the alveolar process. It has
      been shown that after removing all teeth in humans, the alveolar ridge undergoes a process of
      resorption and atrophy.

      In a recent animal study, Cardaropoli et al. (2003) assessed the healing events occurring in
      the extraction socket following tooth removal. The findings of this study demonstrated that
      the healing of an extraction socket involved a series of events including the formation of a
      coagulum that was replaced by a provisional connective tissue matrix, woven bone and lamellar
      bone and bone marrow. On day 30, mineralized bone occupied 88% of the socket volume. Hard
      tissue formation had started already after 2 weeks of healing, and then, after a month, the
      socket was filled with woven bone. Later, the woven bone was gradually replaced by lamellar
      bone and bone marrow. After 3 months of healing, a hard tissue bridge was consistently found
      to cover the crestal portion of the extraction site, which was formed by woven bone and
      lamellar bone. Araújo et al. (2005) analysed in an experimental study in dogs the ridge
      alterations following the extraction of premolars in the mandible. The authors observed that
      the resorption of the buccal and lingual walls occurred in two overlapping phases. Phase 1:
      The bundle bone - that lost its function and blood supply - was resorbed and replaced with
      woven bone. Vertical resorption was considerably greater on the buccal aspect of the alveolar
      crest, since this bone wall was much thinner then the lingual wall and was primarily
      comprised of bundle bone. Phase 2: An additional resorption occurred from the outer surfaces
      of both bone walls. The reason for this additional resorption has not been clearly
      ascertained. The hypothesis could be: Impaired superficial vascularisation by raising a
      mucoperiosteal flap; adjusting to the lack of continuous function; or the reestablishment of
      the ridge shape, which is genetically determined in the absence of teeth. A recent animal
      study confirmed that flap elevation plays an important role for a more pronounced superficial
      bone resorption following extraction , therefore, it seems critical that tooth extraction
      should be carried out without elevation of a mucoperiosteal flap. Even ridge preservation
      techniques are not able to prevent the contour changes after tooth extraction.

      Objective

      The aim of the present clinical study is to examine the dimensional changes of the alveolar
      ridge following single tooth extraction in the anterior maxilla of patients, in particular on
      the facial aspect of the alveolar ridge. These horizontal and vertical changes will be
      sequentially documented up to 8 weeks of healing before an implant is inserted using the
      concept of early implant placement. The study will also provide information about the
      anatomic situation of the facial bone wall in the anterior maxilla at the time of extraction,
      and the prevalence and extent of bone deficiencies on the facial aspect, when teeth need to
      be extracted.

      Methods

      To document these changes over time, two methods will be applied. Firstly, two cone beam
      computed tomographies (CBCT) will be obtained, one directly after tooth extraction, the other
      one at 8 weeks of socket healing prior to implant placement. The two CBCT's will be analyzed
      with a novel software program (InVivo Dental). Secondly, consecutive impressions will be made
      at day 0 (day of extraction), day 14, 28, 42, and 56 to digitally produce virtual 3D study
      models. These models can be analyzed with another software program (Geomagic) to document the
      variations of the soft tissue in the extraction site.
    
  