
    
      The human gut microbiome is a complex ecosystem, which contributes essential functions to
      human physiology. Changes to the microbiome are associated with several chronic diseases
      characterised by inflammation, including neurodegenerative and autoimmune diseases.
      Microbiome-derived effector molecules comprising nucleic acids, (poly)peptides and
      metabolites are present at high levels in the gut but have so far eluded systematic study.
      This gap in knowledge is limiting mechanistic understanding of the microbiome's functional
      impact on chronic diseases such as Parkinson's Disease (PD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
      Here, for the first time a combination of advanced high-resolution methodologies will be
      integrated to comprehensively identify the constituents of this molecular complex and their
      impact on the human immune system. First, a quantitative, integrated multi-omic analysis on
      microbiome samples collected from healthy individuals and patients with newly diagnosed PD or
      RA will be performes.

      Using contextualised prior knowledge (ExpoBiome Map) and machine learning methods, we will
      identify microbial molecules associated with condition-specific immunophenotypes. Second, the
      biomarker signature during a model clinical intervention (therapeutic fasting) will be
      validated and tracked to predict treatment outcomes. Third, microbes and molecules will be
      screened in personalised HuMiX gut-on-chip models to identify novel anti-inflammatory
      compounds. By providing mechanistic insights into the molecular basis of human-microbiome
      interactions, the project will generate essential new knowledge about causal relationships
      between the gut microbiome and the immune system in health and disease. By facilitating the
      elucidation of currently unknown microbiome-derived molecules, it will identify new genes,
      proteins,metabolites and host pathways for the development of future diagnostic and
      therapeutic applications.
    
  