
    
      A two-group observational study will be performed to determine if comorbidities associated
      with MA are more prevalent in the setting of large PFO. Potential subjects will be screened
      to assure that initial inclusion criteria are met (age, diagnosis of MA, monthly migraine
      frequency). Those who meet criteria will complete questionnaires including general medical
      history, migraine and aura frequencies, migraine-related disability, and treatment and
      preventive medications. In addition, subjects will be asked to complete two surveys on
      insomnia and sleep quality. Presence or absence of large PFO will be assessed by transcranial
      Doppler (TCD) bubble test. Subjects will also be screened for arterial variations in the
      Circle of Willis ("fetal origins") and carotid artery stenosis by duplex ultrasound
      examination of the arteries of the head and neck. If a subject is found to have a
      small-to-medium PFO on TCD evaluation, fetal origins, or carotid artery stenosis, s/he will
      be excluded from remaining study procedures.

      Subjects who have either a large PFO or no PFO will undergo measurement of brain blood flow
      dynamics using TCD and carbon dioxide (CO2) stimulation to assess cerebral vasomotor
      reactivity. A blood specimen will be collected to assess three platelet activation biomarkers
      including CD40 ligand (sCD40L), P-selectin, and thromboxane B2 (TXB2). Subjects will be
      screened for sleep apnea using a portable sleep monitor for home use; results will be
      analyzed by a sleep medicine specialist. Finally, each subject will undergo a battery of
      performance -based cognitive function tests that measure visual and auditory memory,
      processing speed, attention, and eye-hand coordination. If magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      evaluation has been performed within the past 5 years, the film will be reviewed by a
      neuroradiologist to assess the presence of white matter lesions. Additional MRI will not be
      performed as part of the study. Completion of the study will necessitate up to three clinic
      visits (total 5-6 hours) and the home sleep study.

      The research questions are as follows:

        -  Does the presence of a large PFO have any impact on cognitive function, particularly in
           brain regions supplied by posterior circulation, in migraine aura?

        -  Does cerebral vasomotor reactivity differ between migraineurs with aura, with and
           without large PFO?

        -  Do migraineurs with aura and large PFO have higher biomarkers of platelet activation
           (soluble P-selectin, sCD40L, TXB2) than migraineurs with aura without PFO?

        -  Are there differences in the prevalence and severity of sleep apnea, as assessed by
           apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), in migraine aura, with and without large PFO?

        -  What is the effect of large PFO on monthly migraine frequency (MMF) and aura frequency?
    
  