
    
      Background:

        -  Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is a powerful immunostimulatory cytokine with a broad range of
           biological activities.

        -  In contrast to IL-2, IL-15 inhibits the activation-induced cell death (AICD) of T-cells
           and is not involved in the maintenance of CD4+CD25+ T regulatory cells that act as
           inhibitory checkpoints on the immune response.

        -  IL-15 is involved in the proliferation, differentiation and activation of CD8+ T-cells
           and NK-cells, and the maintenance of long term CD8+ memory T-cells.

        -  In preclinical studies, vaccinia-based vaccines expressing IL-15 induced long lasting,
           high-avidity cytotoxic CD8+ T-lymphocyte (CTL) mediated immunity, whereas the immunity
           mediated by IL-2 expressing vaccines was short-lived. Furthermore, IL-15 can overcome
           the lack of CD4 help in CTL induction.

        -  IL-15 is highly active against a number of syngeneic mouse tumor models and it is also
           effective in augmenting the activity of NK-cells and CD8+ T-cells in rhesus macaques
           indicating that it may be active against human cancers.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective of this trial is to determine the safety, toxicity profile,
           dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intravenous recombinant
           human IL-15 (rhIL-15) administered as a daily intravenous bolus infusion for 12
           consecutive days in subjects with metastatic malignant melanoma and renal cell cancer.

        -  Secondary objectives include determination of rhIL-15 pharmacokinetics, in particular
           the time course of the decline of rhIL-15 from the serum following intravenous
           administration and the definition of the immunogenicity of rhIL-15 in subjects receiving
           this drug.

        -  To characterize the biological effects of rhIL-15 on the proportions and absolute
           numbers of circulating NK-cells, and CD45RO+CD8+ T-cells and central or effector memory
           subsets based on expression of CD28, CD95, CCR7 and CD62L by flow cytometry and to
           determine its effects on the plasma levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines.

        -  Obtain preliminary information on the antitumor effects of repeat cycles of rhIL-15 in
           patients with metastatic malignant melanoma and renal cell cancer.

      Eligibility Criteria:

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years-old with pathologically confirmed metastatic
           malignant melanoma or metastatic renal cell cancer.

        -  Patients with metastatic renal cell cancer must either have refused treatment with,
           failed to tolerate, or have progressive disease after receiving sorafenib or sunitinib,
           and temsirolimus.

        -  Patients with measurable disease.

        -  Absolute granulocyte count (AGC) of at least 1500/mm(3) and a platelet count of at least
           75,000/mm(3).

      Design:

        -  This is a single institution, open-label, non-randomized 3 + 3 design phase I
           dose-escalation study to determine the safety, toxicity and MTD of rhIL-15 in patients
           with metastatic malignant melanoma and renal cell cancer.

        -  Groups of 3 to 6 patients will receive rhIL-15 at doses of 0.3, 1, 3, 7, 10, 15, 20 or
           25 mcg/kg/day for 12 days provided that DLT had not been observed.

        -  Correlative protocol studies will be obtained prior to treatment and at specific times
           points during and after treatment including pharmacokinetics for the clearance of
           rhIL-15 from the serum, immunogenicity testing for the development of neutralizing
           anti-rhIL-15 antibodies and immunological study endpoint evaluation for the effect of
           rhIL-15 on immune cell subset populations and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels in the
           peripheral blood.
    
  