
    
      The accurate staging of rectal cancer is essential to define therapy and for prognosis
      assessment. Imaging modalities usually provide useful information for pre-operative planning
      of primary tumour resection and may indicate the need of neoadjuvant treatment. It is
      recommended the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for local staging and computed
      tomography (CT) of chest, abdomen and pelvis for detection of distant metastasis. Patients
      with rectal cancer and vascular invasion might benefit from an intensive pre-operative
      staging in order to early detect distant metastasis, favouring a better therapeutic planning.
      There is no consensus regarding the use of PET/MR for initial staging of patients with rectal
      cancer. It has been shown that although changing pattern's in patients' stage, the use of
      PET/MR for colorectal cancers did not impact disease management. New studies are required for
      identifying the subgroup of patients with changes in the pre-operative MR that might benefit
      from the use of PET/MR for initial staging of rectal cancers.

      Patients with rectal cancer will undergo pelvic MR, whole-body CT and whole-body PET/MR.
      According to the tumour characteristics on MR, there will be defined two group of patients:
      with EMVI-RM (group A) and without EMVI-MR (group B). The whole-body CT and PET/MR will be
      evaluated for the detection of loco-regional lymph nodes disease and distant metastasis. The
      total number of lesions and their respective sites will be recorded and compared for each
      method. The PET/MR management impact will be determined from the medical record or by direct
      contact with the treating clinician. The impact of PET/MR on management will be defined as
      high (the treatment modality or intent was changed), medium (the treatment modality or intent
      remained unchanged, although the method of treatment delivery or planned diagnostic procedure
      was changed), low (PET/MR results were consistent with planned management, and treatment
      modality or intent was unchanged), or none (the management plan was not changed, despite
      being inconsistent with the PET/MR stage-that is, PET/MR results were ignored). Overall
      survival will be used to evaluate prognostic significance. Clinical follow-up will be
      performed 3 monthly for 2 years. Imaging and, eventually biopsy, will be performed to
      evaluate symptoms or signs suggestive of residual or recurrent disease.
    
  