
    
      This is staged Phase 3 study to gather information on the safety and immunogenicity of a
      2-dose heterologous regimen. In this regimen, Ad26.ZEBOV will be administered as a Dose 1
      vaccination followed by the candidate vaccine MVA-BN-Filo (Dose 2 56 days later) and a
      booster dose of A26.ZEBOV will be administered 2 years post Dose 1 vaccination to
      participants in Stage 1 who consent to this. The study will take place in Sierra Leone and
      will consist of a screening phase, an active phase (vaccination) and a follow-up phase. The
      active phase of the study will be conducted initially in two stages. In the first stage
      approximately 40 adults aged 18 years or older will be vaccinated to gain information about
      the safety and immunogenicity of the 2-dose heterologous vaccine regimen. In stage 2 a larger
      group of approximately 976 individuals will be vaccinated to further evaluate the safety and
      immunogenicity of the 2 dose heterologous vaccine regimen across different age groups. In
      this stage, children aged 1 year or older, adolescents and adults will be included. Solicited
      local and systemic adverse events will be collected until 7 days after the Dose 1 and Dose 2
      vaccination. Unsolicited adverse events will be collected from signing of the informed
      consent form (ICF) onwards until 56 days after the Dose 2 vaccination in Stage 1 and then
      again from the day of the booster vaccination until 28 days after the booster vaccination,
      and until 28 days after each vaccination in stage 2. Serious adverse events will be collected
      from signing of the ICF onwards until 12 and 36 months after the Dose 1 vaccination in Stage
      2 and Stage 1, respectively. These data will be reviewed by an independent data monitoring
      committee (IDMC) to assess whether initiation of vaccination in the next stage or age group
      can be provided. Safety evaluations will include assessment of adverse events, which will be
      monitored throughout the study. Participants in Stage 2 will be followed up for safety and
      immunogenicity until 12 months (children and adolescents) or 24 months (adults) after the
      Dose 1 vaccination. Participants in Stage 1 will be followed up for safety and immunogenicity
      until 36 months after the Dose 1 vaccination or until 1 year after the booster vaccination.
    
  