
    
      The study design will be a non-randomized phase II. Forty patients receiving an ablative
      preparatory regimen will receive pasireotide subcutaneous (0.9 mg, b.i.d.) one day prior to
      initiation of the preparatory regimen and continuing for eight days following the completion
      of the preparatory regimen not to exceed 14 days total dosing. We select matched controls
      from existing patients who did not take the drug to minimize the time it takes to complete
      the trial.

      Myeloablative preparatory regimens are defined as those including either TBI ≥ 1200 cGy or
      busulfan ≥ 12.8 mg/kg. The most common regimens combine TBI with cyclophosphamide (TBI/Cy) or
      busulfan with cyclophosphamide (Bu/Cy) (Appendix E). However, any regimen meeting the above
      definition of myeloablative preparatory regimen may be used.

      The study will collect data at screening, at baseline prior to initiation of the drug (day of
      study drug start), transplant day 0, day +7, day +14 and weekly thereafter until day +100,
      and on days +180, +270, and +365. The total days on pasireotide therapy will be recorded as
      well as any SAE that is outside the expected for stem cell transplantation. We will also
      follow the incidence and severity of acute and chronic GVHD.

      At Duke only, a video capsule endoscopy will be performed in a subset of ten study patients
      between transplant days +4 through +6. This substudy is descriptive in nature and only used
      to collect a source of preliminary data that may suggest further study.

      Patients must agree to participate in this portion of the study and will be asked to sign a
      clinical consent for performance use of the video capsule endoscopy. Patients will be given
      detailed instructions to prepare for the procedure. An investigator who is blinded to the
      group allocation of the patients/volunteers separately will review the images obtained from
      each of the capsule examinations. Images will be examined for evidence of the four following
      types of abnormalities: reddened/edema/villous blunting, erosion, ulcer and stenosis. Each of
      these categories will be scored from 0-3 and summed to obtain an overall index that will
      range from 0 (normal study) to 12 (severely abnormal in all categories).

      Citrulline assay Measurement of citrulline concentration has been used as a marker for
      cytotoxic treatment-induced intestinal damage and it is highly reproducible. The citrulline
      concentration appears to be a quantitative parameter that is independent of the underlying
      cause for epithelial cell loss and functions well in the post-SCT setting. Six mls of blood
      will be collected in heparinized tubes on days 0, 7, and 14. Tubes will be centrifuged
      according to manufacturer's instructions and the plasma will be collected and stored at -80C
      until shipment to the laboratory performing the assay.

      Calprotectin assay Calprotectin has been described as another biomarker of GI injury. During
      radiation-induced inflammation, leucocytes infiltrate the mucosa and increase the level of
      fecal calprotectin. At least 50 mg of stool specimen will be collected from patients on days
      0, 7, and 14. Samples will be stored at -80C until shipment to the laboratory performing the
      assay. Calprotectin will be measured with an ELISA kit (CALPRO, Oslo, Norway) in accordance
      with the manufacturer's instructions.
    
  