
    
      This is a prospective, randomized and controlled clinical trial designed to evaluate the
      clinical and radiographic outcomes 12 months after two treatment modalities of IBDs: PRF +
      ABG into defects in the test subjects( TS); membrane + ABG in the control subjects ( CS). The
      patients enrolled exhibit unfavourable IBDs and all experimental sites will be accessed with
      a simplified papilla preservation flap ( SPPF) procedure. The filling material (ABG) is
      common to both treatments: therefore, the investigation will focus on the addictive effect of
      PRF used in place of MEMBRANE. MEMBRANE is chosen as the active control ( AC) as it is
      currently considered as the biological "gold standard" agent for the treatment of IBDs.

      A non-inferiority trial ( NIT) is designed to prove that using PRF instead of MEMBRANE could
      achieve a similar result, reducing the treatment's cost and allowing the clinicians to use
      autogenous material only.

      An AC (comparator) is present, but the investigators do not include a third experimental arm,
      a group of IBDs treated using Open Flap Debridement ( OFD) alone, as it is widely accepted in
      NITs.

      The estimate of the AC effect vs. placebo is assumed from a recent meta-analysis, by the
      Lower Bound of a 95% Confidence Interval ( CI) of the mean of MEMBRANE + ABG, while an OFD
      estimate from the corresponding 95%.. The difference between estimates is set as the added
      benefit of the AC and as a ground for the assay sensitivity.

      44 patients affected by moderate-to-severe chronic periodontitis, will be selected for the
      study. Each patient will participate in the study with a single experimental site. The
      participants will receive verbal and written information and they will sign a consent form
      approved by the Ethical Committee of the G. DAnnunzio University of Chieti - medical faculty.
      The study protocol is in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki of 1975, revised in
      Tokyo in 2004. Four months before the surgical treatment, all 44 patients will undergo SRP by
      ultrasonic instruments and hand curettes and motivational instructions on oral home care.

      Non-inferiority margin. A reliable estimate of the expected clinical attachment level ( CAL)
      gain from an MEMBRANE+ ABG treatment is drawn from a recent meta-analysis, reporting on 548
      IBDs in 434 patients.

      By literature, CAL gain obtainable by OFD surgical treatments alone is 2.47 mm. The
      differential effect of using MEMBRANE amounts about 1 .

      Each defect will be assigned a defect number and will be randomly allocated to one of the two
      treatment regimens. Assignment will be performed by a custom made computer-generated table.
      To conceal allocation, opaque envelopes will be assigned to the specific experimental site
      and will be opened during surgery Preoperative and 3- 6- 12-months postoperative intraoral
      standardized radiographs will be taken by the paralleling technique using an individual
      film-holder device consisting of a bite block rigidly connected to an acrylic dental splint
      to achieve identical film placement at each evaluation. Pre- and postoperative radiographs
      will be evaluated by two experienced clinicians who will be masked with respect to the
      provenience of the radiographs and the clinical measurements. The positions of alveolar crest
      level and of the bottom of the defect distance and will be marked by a pencil on the
      radiographs and bottom of the defect will be measured by a millimeter grid. Linear distances
      between the most coronal interproximal alveolar crest level and the bottom of the defect will
      be obtained by counting the walls
    
  