
    
      Upper arm non-invasive blood pressure (NIBP) measurement is the most commonly accepted method
      of blood pressure (BP) monitoring. During a cesarean delivery it may be challenging to obtain
      an accurate measurement from the automated devices in over 50% of the attempts due to arm
      movement.1 Patients may voluntarily move their arm, but more often neuraxial (spinal,
      epidural, combined spinal-epidural) anesthesia is known to induce shivering that causes the
      patient's arm to shake.2 To eliminate the effect of movement of the upper arm, NIBP has been
      tested on the leg because it is immobilized during neuraxial anesthesia. However, studies
      monitoring NIBP on an ankle or a calf were unable to accurately detect changes (increase or
      decrease) in blood pressure in patients undergoing a cesarean delivery.3,4 It seems
      clinically reasonable that in the case of a shivering patient, the forearm, with less muscle
      mass, would shake less and could be stabilized more easily than the upper arm (stabilizing
      the forearm is easily done by holding the patient's hand with a light pressure on the arm
      rest). Therefore, positioning an NIBP cuff on the forearm (near the wrist) may be useful to
      obtain an accurate blood pressure measurement in shivering patients.

      Previous studies have found that forearm BP overestimates blood pressure measured at the
      upper arm in a variety of clinical settings and patient populations under static (patient at
      rest, not submitted to an intervention that might alter BP) circumstances.5-8 It is unknown
      whether this overestimation is clinically relevant when blood pressure change occurs rapidly,
      such as during a cesarean delivery. During neuraxial anesthesia for cesarean delivery, it is
      important for the anesthesiologist to know both absolute values and clinically significant
      changes in blood pressure to determine their treatment. The detection of dynamic changes in
      blood pressure (as when the patient is submitted to an intervention that might alter BP per
      se, e.g. neuraxial anesthesia) has been studied in obstetric patients. Nevertheless, either
      due to the location where the BP cuff was placed4 (as on the lower limb with interference of
      the aorto-caval compression) or to the technology used to measure blood pressure,9 (the penaz
      technology was not consistent with oscillometric technology in a previous study) the forearm
      blood pressure was not comparable to upper arm blood pressure when measured using an
      oscillometric monitor.

      This study will compare the upper arm (the current gold-standard) and the forearm NIBP
      measurements in patients undergoing an elective cesarean delivery under subarachnoid
      anesthesia. We hypothesize that the forearm systolic BP measurement values will be within 10%
      (lower or higher) of the systolic BP values measured in the upper arm at the same time-points
    
  