
    
      Aim The purpose of this study is to investigate course of illness leading to reoperation
      after primary anti-reflux surgery and investigate the utilization of anti-reflux treatment,
      both medical and surgical, in the period 2000-2017

      Methods The study is a two-part register-based cohort study based on data from The National
      Patient Registry, The Civic Registry and Danish Anaesthesia Database in the period 1996-2017.
      The two individual parts of the study concerns the same population.

      The population is defined as all adult Danish patients undergoing anti-reflux surgery
      (Nomesco: KJBC00, KJBC01, KJBC02, KJBW96, KJBW97) from 2000-2017 identified from The National
      Patient Register.

      Age, sex, Charlson Comorbidity Index at date of surgery and length of stay in relation to any
      surgery and any surgical or endoscopic procedure performed after anti-reflux surgery
      (including diagnosis 30 days postoperatively to establish possible morbidity) are derived
      from the National Patient Registry.

      ASA-score, weight, height, use of alcohol or tobacco and priority of any surgery (emergency
      or planned) during the study period are retrieved from The Danish Anaesthesia Database. From
      the Civic Register, data on mortality in the study period are retrieved.

      Information on the use of pharmacological treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease on
      population level is retrieved from MEDSTAT and data on population size on population level
      are retrieved from Statistics Denmark.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Course of illness leading to reoperative anti-reflux surgery Data will be analyzed using
           STATA15. Descriptive analysis of age, sex, comorbidity (Charlson Comorbidity Index,
           ASA-score, BMI, alcohol/tobacco use), complications to surgery, rate of endoscopic
           dilation and mortality comparing patients with only primary anti-reflux surgery and
           patients with reoperation during the study period, will be performed using Student's
           t-test, Chi2-test and Mann-Whitney-U test.

           Logistic regression will be performed with reoperation (laparoscopic, open or other) as
           primary outcome and age, sex, comorbidity (Charlson Comorbidity Index, ASA-score, BMI,
           alcohol/tobacco use), complications to surgery and endoscopic or surgical procedure
           during study period as independent variables. If the number of patients is sufficient,
           subanalysis will be performed with emergency reoperation as dependent variable/outcome.

           Secondary analysis will be performed using Cox-regression investigating time to
           reoperation with age, sex, comorbidity (Charlson Comorbidity Index, ASA-score, BMI,
           alcohol/tobacco use), complications to surgery and endoscopic or surgical procedure
           during study period as independent variables.

        2. Utilization of treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease. The rate of anti-reflux
           surgery per 100.000 inhabitants for each year during the study period will be calculated
           using census data from Statistics Denmark. From MEDSAT the rate of use of
           pharmacological anti-reflux treatment per 100.000 inhabitants will be calculated using
           abovementioned census-data. Trends in the utilization of surgery are investigated with
           trend-analysis in the form of Poisson-regression alternatively negative binominal
           regression.
    
  