
    
      It has been proposed that the nigrostriatal and cortical dopaminergic systems are involved in
      motor learning in health and disease. However, it is not known to which extent dopamine
      influences use-dependent plasticity (UDP), one of the crucial functions that mediate recovery
      of motor function after stroke. Understanding the role of dopamine on UDP in healthy
      volunteers and patients with stroke may impact the development of rationale strategies to
      promote functional recovery after this condition.

      The aim of the present protocol is to provide evidence for the influence of dopaminergic
      function on UDP in health and disease. We plan to address this issue in two different,
      complementary ways (main experiment): (a) determine if UDP is positively correlated with the
      decrease in raclopride binding potential (RAC-BP) in the contralateral dorsal striatum
      (primary outcome measure), and (b) determine if administration of a dopaminergic drug will
      enhance UDP and elicit a decrease in RAC-BP in the contralateral dorsal striatum.

      Before the main experiment, we will assess the ability of a dopaminergic drug to enhance UDP
      (prestudy 1, motor training only), and the effects of a dopaminergic drug on RAC-BP during
      resting condition (prestudy 2, RAC-PET during resting condition only).

      UDP will be assessed using a technique developed in our lab, in which we have extensive
      experience. In short, we will evaluate TMS-evoked thumb movement directions after a period of
      motor training consisting of performance of voluntary thumb movements for 30 minutes.
      Striatal and cortical dopamine release will be assessed with positron emission tomography
      using the dopamine-D2 receptor radioligand [(11)C]raclopride, after administration of
      placebo, and after administration of a dopaminergic drug. The study will be initially done in
      a group of healthy volunteers and then in a group of patients with chronic subcortical stroke
      who experienced good motor recovery.
    
  