
    
      Objective: In the central nervous system, short-term plasticity can be defined as a change in
      connection strength that is induced by receiving presynaptic inputs. Dopamine (DA), a
      neuromodulatory neurotransmitter, is believed to play a role in short-term plasticity.
      [18F]dopa positron emission tomography (PET) studies have shown progressive impairment of
      presynaptic dopaminergic (DAergic) function in both healthy elderly subjects (HES) and
      patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Both PD and HES are characterized by a progressive
      decline in performance on some motor tasks and changes in activity in brain areas involved in
      motor control (including motor control by cognitive functions) as shown by functional imaging
      studies. However, little is known about the exact neurobiological mechanisms linking DAergic
      function, brain activity and motor (and cognitive) performances in PD and HES. In the present
      study, we hypothesize that impaired performance on some motor tasks in those subject groups
      is related to a dysfunction of task-specific functional connections between areas
      participating in motor control. In addition, the brain activation with fMRI across sessions
      and across subjects in the healthy group will be examined to investigate the reliability of
      the fMRI techniques.

      Study population: We will study two groups of participants: one group of patients with
      mild-to-moderate PD and one group of healthy subjects.

      Design: We will measure cerebral activity in baseline condition and during the execution of
      sequential finger movements using perfusion functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in
      the three subject groups. The reliability of fMRI data across sessions and across subjects in
      the healthy young group and brain activity in patients with PD will be studied "off" and then
      "on" medication.

      Outcome measures: Imaging data will be compared in terms of both regional activity and
      effective connectivity using the statistical parametric mapping (SPM) software.

      These experiments should lead to better understanding the pathophysiology of the
      mesencephalic DAergic system in human motor control and may lead to better treatment
      strategies in PD.
    
  