
    
      Study center The prospective diagnostic study will be conducted on the basis of Uzbek State
      University of Physical Education and Sport and Research Institute of Epidemiology,
      Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, Tashkent, Uzbekistan during the period from January
      2017 till January 2019.

      Both informed and written consents will be obtained from the athletes and healthy
      individuals.

      Study participants Aproximately 40 elite athletes engaged in water sport and 60 healthy
      individuals will be included to the study.

      All the participants will be residents of Uzbekistan.

      Serological tests Five milliliters of peripheral venous blood will be taken (after 8-12 hours
      of fasting) from each participant and will be collected into Human Tube Serum Gel - C/A for
      ELISA. All blood samples will be collected in August and January.

      Serum levels of 25(OH) VD and TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-4 and IL-6 will be detected by ELISA
      technique.

      Enzyme immunoassay for the quantitative measurement of total 25-OH-Vitamin D (Vitamin D2 and
      D3) in human serum.

      Solid phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) based on the competition principle. An
      unknown amount of antigen present in the sample and a fixed amount of enzyme labelled antigen
      compete for the binding sites of the antibodies coated onto the wells. After incubation the
      wells are washed to stop the competition reaction. After the substrate reaction the intensity
      of the developed colour is inversely proportional to the amount of the antigen in the sample.
      Results of samples can be determined directly using the standard curve.

      A sandwich enzyme immunoassay for in vitro quantitative measurement of TNFa The microplate
      provided in this kit has been pre-coated with an antibody specific to TNFa. Standards or
      samples are then added to the appropriate microplate wells with a biotin-conjugated antibody
      specific to TNFa. Next, Avidin conjugated to Horseradish Peroxidase (HRP) is added to each
      microplate well and incubated. After TMB substrate solution is added, only those wells that
      contain TNFa, biotin-conjugated antibody and enzyme-conjugated Avidin will exhibit a change
      in color. The enzyme-substrate reaction is terminated by the addition of sulphuric acid
      solution and the color change is measured spectrophotometrically at a wavelength of 450nm ±
      10nm. The concentration of TNFa in the samples is then determined by comparing the O.D. of
      the samples to the standard curve.

      IFN-γ, IL-4 and IL-6 will be detected and measured by the same enzyme immunoassay method
      presented above.

      Data analysis will be performed with the program Origin 6.1 (OriginLab, Northampton, MA).
    
  