
    
      Background: A major challenge to psychological treatment for Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) is
      patient non-compliance. A promising new treatment approach that is hypothesized to increase
      treatment compliance is blended treatment, consisting of face-to-face contact with a
      therapist combined with modules delivered over the Internet within the same protocol. While
      this treatment concept has been developed and proven effective for a variety of mental
      disorders, it has not yet been examined for AUD.

      Aims: The study described in this protocol aims to examine and evaluate patient compliance
      with blended AUD treatment as well as the clinical and cost effectiveness of such treatment
      compared to face-to-face treatment only.

      Methods: The study design is a pragmatic, stepped-wedge cluster randomized controlled trial.
      The included outpatient institutions (planned number of patients: n=1800) will be randomized
      in clusters to implement either blended AUD treatment or face-to-face treatment only, i.e.
      treatment as usual (TAU). Both treatment approaches consist of motivational interviewing and
      cognitive behavioral therapy. Data on socio-demographics, alcohol consumption, addiction
      severity, treatment retention, treatment duration and intensity, and type of conclusion of
      treatment (dropout vs. compliance), will be retrieved from the National Register of Alcohol
      Treatment (NAB). In addition, all patients will be assessed for alcohol consumption,
      consequences of drinking and quality of life at treatment entry and six months after
      treatment conclusion. Data will be analyzed with an Intention-to-treat approach by means of
      generalized mixed models with random effect for cluster and fixed effect for each step. Also,
      analyses evaluating cost-effectiveness will be conducted.

      Discussion: Blended treatment may increase treatment compliance and thus improve treatment
      outcomes due to increased flexibility of the treatment course. Since this study is conducted
      within an implementation framework it can easily be scaled up, and blended treatment has the
      potential to become an alternative offer in the majority ofmany outpatient clinics
      nationwide.
    
  