
    
      Total knee arthroplasty [TKA] is an estabilshed treatment for symptomatic end-stage knee
      osteoarthritis, but there is a higher disatisfaction rate when compared to total hip
      arthroplasty. The exact aetiology of this is not clear but recent studies have shown one
      possible reason to be conventional TKA with mechanical alignment [MA] may force the knee into
      an unnatural position. This may lead to altered knee anatomy and kinematics that may
      compromise patient satisfaction.

      Total knee arthroplasty using functional alignment [FA] aims to restore the patient's
      prearthritic knee anatomy and native joint kinematics. Early clinical and functional outcome
      studies have reported promising outcomes in TKA with FA but results of longer term studies
      have not yet been published.

      There are very few prospective studies exploring clinical and radiological outcomes in MA
      versus FA for TKA. It is possible to improve on previous studies by recording a more
      comprehensive range of clinical and functional outcome measures, blinding patients and
      observers recording outcomes of interest, and using longer follow-up times.

      Robotic-arm assistance can be used to improve the accuracy of implant positioning. Clinical
      and functional outcomes should also be correlated to longer-term outcomes to better establish
      the "safe zone" for functional alignment. The findings of this study will enable an improved
      understanding of the clinical and functional benefits of FA compared to MA. These outcomes
      will improve our understanding of the optimal TKA alignment with possible improved outcomes;
      improved cost-effectiveness by reduced revisions and better patient satisfaction and
      function; and improved long-term implant survival.

      100 patients will be enrolled in a 1:1 ratio between the two treatment groups. Trial patient
      will be allocated to either the MA TKA ['Control group'] or to the FA TKA ['Investigation
      group']. Outcomes will be recorded at specific milestones.
    
  