
    
      Subjects will receive durvalumab and AZD6738 combination therapy. The arm is composed of 45
      subjects.

      Durvalumab 1500mg via IV administered for every 4weeks(fixed dosing for subjects > 30 kg body
      weight) in Day 1 of each cycle and AZD 6738 240mg bid per os administered in each cycle days
      15 and 28. One cycle is consisted of 28 days.

      Tumour evaluation using CT or MRI, RECIST 1.1, CEA, NSE and LDH will be conducted at
      screening (within 28days prior to first dose of Cycle1 Day1) and every 8weeks(±1week) for the
      first 56weeks relative to the start of combination therapy(Cycle1 Day1), and thereafter every
      12weeks(±1week) until objective disease progression.

      Study treatment will be continued until objective disease progression (unless other criteria
      for treatment discontinuation are met). Subjects may continue durvalumab and AZD6738 beyond
      progression(according to RECIST 1.1), at the discretion of the investigator if they are
      clinically benefiting from the treatment and they do not meet any other discontinuation
      criteria.

      If a subjects discontinues study treatment prior to disease progression, they should continue
      to be assessed using RECIST 1.1 until disease progression and then followed up for survival.

      Assessments for survival should be made every 3months following objective disease
      progression. The details of first and subsequent therapies for cancer, after discontinuation
      of durvalumab and AZD6738 treatment, will be collected.

      The imaging modalities used for RECIST 1.1 assessment will be CT or MRI scans of chest,
      abdomen and pelvis. And CEA, NSE and LDH tests are also used for the evaluation. RECIST 1.1
      scans will be analysed by the investigator on site.

      Subjects may also be requested to provide tumour samples from the primary or metastatic
      tumours on progression to understand resistance mechanisms. Sample provision is optional and
      depend on the subject's will.
    
  