
    
      Up to one third of patients with clostridium difficile infection treated with antibiotics
      experience recurrent or relapsing symptoms within a few weeks. Even with subsequent
      antibiotic treatment, multiple recurrences/relapses are frequent. Fecal microbiota
      transplantation (FMT) has been shown to be significantly more effective in curing recurrent
      CDI than repeated antibiotic treatment. In current guidelines, FMT is proposed as a treatment
      option after multiple recurrences/relapses of CDI. The rationale to reserve transplantation
      of donor feces for recurrent and difficult cases of CDI is a possible risk of pathogen
      transmittance and the process of finding a donor and screen for communicable disease.

      The effect of FMT for recurrent CDI, however, suggests that this therapy may be more
      effective than antibiotics in inducing a durable cure also for primary CDI. If the
      therapeutic effect of FMT proves to be equal (non-inferior) or more effective than
      antibiotics, FMT may be the preferable treatment option due to favourable ecological impact
      compared to antibiotics. In an era with increasing concerns about overuse of antibiotics and
      emergence of antibiotic resistant bacteria, it is important to investigate therapeutic
      alternatives that may reduce the need for antibiotics.

      This trial is a phase III multicentre, randomized controlled, open-label non-inferiority
      parallel group trial with two arms (FMT and antibiotics), and is a continuation of the phase
      II trial IMT for Primary Clostridium Difficile Infection (NCT02301000). In the current trial,
      patients with Clostridium difficile infection and no previous CDI within 12 months prior to
      inclusion will be randomized 1:1 to FMT or 10 days of guideline-recommended antibiotic
      therapy (vancomycin 125 mg four times a day).

      Patients are recruited in Norwegian hospitals.

      The investigators plan to use frozen microbiota, because supply is easier to organize,
      compared to fresh fecal samples. Patients in the FMT treatment group will receive one rectal
      dose of FMT, originating from screened, healthy donors. Patients who are not cured by the
      first dose is offered a protocol defined additional FMT treatment. In the case of clinical
      deterioration, appropriate measures will be undertaken according to current guidelines.

      Patient treatment outcomes are evaluated after 14, 60 and 365 days from inclusion and
      treatment initiation.

      An interim analysis is planned after inclusion of the first 94 patients (corresponding to 50%
      of the planned number of patients).
    
  