
    
      10 adult volunteers, including African American, Caucasian, male and female participants,
      will be recruited from parents of patients seen in the pediatric dermatology clinic. Each
      participant will receive 7ml of broccoli sprout extract (BSE) in jojoba oil, containing
      3500nmol of sulforaphane (Please see the preparation of broccoli sprout extract below).
      500nmol of sulforaphane will be applied each night. The participants will apply the
      BSE-jojoba oil mixture over a circle, 3cm in diameter, on the upper arm every night for 7
      consecutive nights. The control arm will have only jojoba oil applied. Both arms will be
      occluded with saran wrap every night. After the seventh night, the volunteers will have a 6mm
      biopsy taken from each arm (2 total), performed by a dermatology resident. The biopsies will
      be cleaned with alcohol, numbed with 0.5-1cc of 1% lidocaine with epinephrine, and closed
      with one 4-0 nylon nonabsorbable suture. The biopsy site will be covered with Vaseline and a
      bandaid. The area will be kept covered for 24 hours, after which it may be washed with soap
      and water and then recovered with Vaseline and a bandaid. The suture will be removed 10-14
      days after the procedure. From the initial visit through the final visit for suture removal,
      we expect the duration of the trial to last approximately 1 month. The participants will be
      told to avoid applying any topical medications or over the counter lotions or creams for the
      duration of the study and will also be told to wash with Dove soap in the shower. They will
      also be advised to avoid a diet high in cruciferous plants such as broccoli, mustard, and
      horseradish. The biopsy results will each be divided in half. One half to be frozen for
      cryosectioning and immunofluorescence staining and the other half to be used for protein or
      RNA extraction for molecular assays (real time polymerase chain reaction and/or quantitative
      polymerase chain reaction for select messenger RNAs and western blotting for select protein
      antigens). The levels of keratin 1, keratin 5, keratin 10, keratin 14, keratin 16, keratin
      17, and Nrf2 will be studied with both immunofluorescence and RNA PCR.
    
  