
    
      The overall goal of this proposal is to better understand the molecular basis and structural
      and physiologic consequences of airway remodeling in severe asthma and how remodeling changes
      over time. In that context, the investigators propose to study a well-characterized cohort of
      adult and pediatric subjects with severe asthma using a multidisciplinary approach that
      includes state-of-the-art morphometric, imaging, and physiologic measurements of airways. The
      investigators will contrast these findings to those in groups with well-controlled asthma,
      normal controls, and diseased controls (chronic bronchitis) to identify features that can
      provide biologic targets unique to severe asthma. The investigators have demonstrated that
      epithelial hyperplasia, goblet cell metaplasia and mucin production are features of airway
      remodeling in subjects with severe asthma, and that epithelial remodeling was due to
      increased epithelial proliferation and decreased cell death. The investigators propose that
      individuals with severe asthma, in comparison to well controlled asthma, have: (I) increased
      airway remodeling as evidenced by goblet cell metaplasia and mucin production, (II) greater
      airway thickness by multidetector-row CT of the chest (MDCT) leading to ventilation defects
      demonstrated by hyperpolarized helium (3He) MRI and air trapping demonstrated by MDCT, and
      (III) airway remodeling associated with more severe and progressive airflow obstruction. The
      investigators hypothesize that the goblet cell metaplasia and increased mucin The
      investigators have observed in severe asthma are being driven by an IL-13- and EGFR-dependent
      mechanism that inhibits epithelial cell apoptosis and allows IL-13 differentiation of the
      airway epithelium into goblet cells (Aim I). The investigators further hypothesize that this
      remodeling of segmental airways in severe asthma leads to distal ventilation defects and air
      trapping (Aim II). In an effort to define potential predictors of subsequent decline in lung
      function in severe asthma, the investigators hypothesize that baseline airway remodeling as
      reflected by MDCT airway wall area (AWA%) is predictive of FEV1
      (post-corticosteroid/bronchodilator FEV1) decline (Aim III). The identification of potential
      variables associated with remodeling and severe asthma will help identify individuals at risk
      whom would benefit from specific targeted therapy. The concerted efforts of this project
      together with the SARP will lead to new insights on the mechanistic basis for severe asthma,
      further elucidate how it differs from mild-moderate asthma, identify potential targets for
      intervention, and will provide imaging metrics to objectively evaluate outcomes for new
      treatments.
    
  