
    
      Binocular OCT has the potential to allow for objective, quantitative measurement of pupillary
      reflexes, that can be performed in a fast, safe, and automated manner. Importantly, binocular
      OCT pupillometry can be performed alongside binocular retinal OCT imaging in a single testing
      session, in an automated manner (imaging of the retina using OCT is the commonest ophthalmic
      imaging procedure worldwide - in 2011, it is estimated that more than 20 million retinal OCT
      images were obtained, more than the sum of all other ophthalmic imaging procedures combined).

      Assessment of pupillary reflexes is an essential component of a comprehensive ocular
      examination. In patients with visual loss, for example, detection of an RAPD often indicates
      the presence of serious ophthalmic diseases, such as optic neuropathies or severe retinal
      disease. As such, RAPD testing is essential as a screening test in the assessment of patients
      with less serious conditions such as cataract.

      RAPD testing is commonly performed using the swinging flashlight method (SFM). A positive SFM
      test suggests the presence of asymmetric damage involving the afferent limb of the pupillary
      light reflex pathway. The SFM is a qualitative test, and relies upon visualising no pupillary
      constriction or immediate or delayed pupillary dilation; if either of these responses is
      observed, an RAPD is believed to be present. The SFM requires a trained examiner and many
      potential sources of error may confound the results, including anisocoria, off-axis pupil
      illumination, and unequal retinal bleaching. Pupil abnormalities may be subtle and easily
      missed using the SFM.

      Automated pupilometers allow examiners to precisely and objectively quantify the pupillary
      response to light by measuring parameters such as minimum and maximum pupil diameter, the
      amplitude of constriction, latency of constriction, velocity of constriction, and duration of
      maximum constriction. Dedicated pupillometry devices are commercially available and have been
      shown to be highly sensitive and specific for RAPD detection e.g. RAPDx; Konan Medical USA,
      Inc., Irvine, CA. These devices are also capable of detecting the presence of more subtle
      RAPD, typically not found using the SFM, in diseases such as glaucoma.

      Unfortunately, automated pupilometers such as the Konan RAPDx system are not widely used in
      clinical practice. This is largely because they are expensive devices, limited to a single
      purpose. A binocular OCT system that could perform both automated pupillometry and retinal
      OCT imaging would thus have great clinical utility.
    
  