
    
      The "in-patient" phase is a comparative circadian study of three groups of participants and a
      non-placebo controlled study of the renal effects of indomethacin with special reference the
      renal handling of sodium.

      The ambulatory phase is designed as a randomized double blind, crossover placebo controlled
      for indomethacin study of the efficacy and safety of a combination treatment with
      indomethacin and dDAVP.

      In-patient phase: Primary effect parameters will be the diuresis, urinary osmolality, sodium
      excretion prior to and after the administration of indomethacin.

      Secondary effect parameters will be the following: GFR, K+ excretion, creatinine excretion,
      urea excretion, as well as urinary concentrations of aquaporin 2 (AQP2), PGE2, AVP, URO,
      Na-transporter protein, concentration of renin, ANG II, ALDO, ANP, in plasma, prior to and
      after the administration of indomethacin.

      Ambulatory phase: Primary effect parameter will be the number of dry nights achieved in the
      two treatment periods. Secondary effect parameters will be the nocturnal urine production,
      and the enuresis volumes In-patient phase: Day-night ratios will be calculated for all
      parameters tested. The circadian rhythm of hormones blood pressure and electrolyte excretion
      will be analyzed using COSINOR analysis.

      The effect of indomethacin on the parameters tested will be compared to the basal
      measurements using student's t-test, ANOVA for repeated measurements or non-parametric tests.
      All statistical inference will take place on a "protocol population" basis.

      Ambulatory phase: The efficacy of the combination treatment will be tested against placebo
      (only for indomethacin) with help of student's t-test, x2 test or non-parametric tests.

      The results from the home recordings will be compared for the two treatment periods using
      non-parametric tests. The effect parameters that will undergo statistical analysis are the
      number of wet nights, the enuresis volume and the nocturnal urine production. The analysis
      will be on the basis of intention to treat population.
    
  