
    
      Glucocorticoids influence performance on declarative memory tasks and tasks of memory for
      emotional information. The cognitive effects of exogenous glucocorticoids depend on dose, the
      time period between administration and testing, and the time of testing within the diurnal
      pattern of cortisol secretion. Additionally, glucocorticoid administration can influence
      mood, and with chronic administration glucocorticoids may lead to development of mania or
      depression.

      A potential mechanism by which glucocorticoids may influence emotional behavior is via their
      effects on the neurophysiological activity of the amygdala and prefrontal cortical structures
      known to participate in emotional processing. Human imaging studies indicate that amygdala,
      ventral medial prefrontal, and other prefrontal cortical areas are activated during tasks
      requiring processing of affective stimuli. These data converge with lesion analysis and
      electrophysiological studies performed in humans or experimental animals to indicate that
      these structures participate in brain circuits that process emotional information. These
      brain structures contain dense concentrations of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid
      receptor mRNA, glucocorticoid receptors and mineralocorticoid receptors. Increased
      glucocorticoids appear to potentiate activation of the amygdala and affect processing of
      emotionally laden stimuli based on both experimental animal studies and correlational human
      studies.

      The present study investigates the influence of glucocorticoids on the hemodynamic response
      that occurs while processing emotionally-valenced visual stimuli known to activate the
      amygdala and anatomically-related areas of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in healthy humans.
      Functional magnetic resonance images will be acquired during the performance of tasks that
      involve viewing emotionally expressive faces both before and following either hydrocortisone
      (synthetic cortisol) (0.15 mg/kg or 0.45 mg/kg bolus) or placebo administration. The change
      in the BOLD signal in structures of interest will be compared across high dose cortisol, low
      dose cortisol and placebo conditions. In addition, the effects of hydrocortisone on relative
      blood flow in the amygdala and PFC will be assessed using an arterial spin labeling (ASL)
      technique to measure perfusion. The findings of this study will guide future research into
      the effects of glucocorticoids on emotional perception in subjects with mood disorders.
    
  