
    
      Endometriosis is a chronic inflammatory disease1 that affects 5 -10% of reproductive aged
      women1,2. It is characterized by the presence of uterine endometrium outside the uterus. The
      condition causes health distress through pelvic pain and decreased QOL. Current therapies to
      temporarily control symptoms include surgery as well as medical options that prevent
      pregnancy and have significant side-effects.3,4 The most common symptoms with endometriosis
      include dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia and NMPP. Ultimately these lead to a decrease in QOL. All
      current medical therapies to treat endometriosis pain prevent or contradict pregnancy.

      Inflammation is a well-established central figure in the pathophysiology of endometriosis(1).
      Increasingly, data is suggesting that IL-1 is a mediator of inflammation in endometriosis (2,
      3). In addition, there are data that single nucleotide polymorphisms at the IL-1A gene locus
      are associated with endometriosis risk (4). Hence, it is rational to assess anakinra, an IL-1
      antagonist, in the control of symptoms and inflammation due to endometriosis. Therefore, we
      propose this pilot study testing an FDA approved medication (anakinra) to reduce IL-1 and on
      dysmenorrhea due to endometriosis without stopping periods (a sign of ovulation).

      Anakinra is a self-administered subcutaneous injectable medication that is FDA approved for
      the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. As an IL-1 antagonist, it works by decreasing
      inflammation and is administered daily by the patient. Because Anakinra interferes with the
      immune system functioning, the major concern with the use of Anakinra is reduced resistance
      to infection. Others include injection site reactions such as redness, itching, rash, and
      pain. Bruising or bleeding also can occur, but it is rare. These effects usually stop after
      one - two weeks. Headaches and low white blood cell counts can also occur, but these are very
      rare. Anakinra should be used with caution in those with chronic kidney disease.

      Anakinra is not specifically FDA approved for endometriosis. Although no data on its use in
      women with endometriosis have been published, there is no reason to expect women with
      endometriosis would be at any particular or increased risk than those in the general
      population.

      This study is a randomized, double blinded, placebo controlled, cross-over clinical pilot
      study of 20 women. Patients diagnosed with laparoscopically proven endometriosis within the
      last 5 years will be randomized to either treatment with an FDA approved medication
      (Anakinra) or a placebo. This is an investigator initiated single center study sponsored by
      the Swedish Orphan Biovitrum (SOBI). SOBI will provide the study drug and placebo.
    
  