
    
      Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is a complication of 5 to 10% of deliveries and is the leading
      cause of maternal mortality, all over the world. In France, as in other developed countries,
      20% of maternal mortality is related to PPH complications with a high rate of avoidance (85%)
      due to inappropriate or delayed therapeutic measures). The management of PPH is based on
      recommendations highlighting the need for early detection and treatment of coagulopathy,
      which is predictive of the hemorrhage severity. The prognosis of the PPH is directly related
      to the rapidity of the coagulopathy treatment (30 to 60 minutes after diagnosis). Severe PPH
      is often associated with clotting disorders of either primary origin (disseminated
      intravascular coagulation) or secondary origin (coagulation factors loss due to hemorrhage).
      A hypofibrinogenemia < 2 g/L is the best predictor of a severe PPH with a positive predictive
      value of 100% . Similarly, abnormal coagulation tests appear to be predictive of the severity
      of the bleeding and the subsequent need for invasive procedures.

      The assessment of coagulation is currently based on standard laboratory hemostasis tests, but
      with delayed time to obtain results, generally greater than 60 minutes. Therefore, early and
      fast assessment of hemostasis during PPH is essential to estimate the bleeding severity and
      allow early and adequate administration of pro-coagulant products, leading to an improved
      prognosis of PPH. The medical interest of thromboelastography (TEG) to early diagnose and
      guide the treatment of a coagulopathy in PPH is regularly discussed.

      A previous observational study performed by our team in 2013 during PPH (95 patients and133
      samples) compared the TEG 5000 parameters with the standard laboratory hemostasis tests. Our
      results confirm the good predictability of TEG 5000 for the early detection of a
      hypofibrinogenemia ≤ 2 g / l and/or thrombocytopenia ≤ 80 000 platelets / mm3 (AUC between
      0.91 and 0.97). Among the biological parameters analyzed by the TEG 5000, the parameters
      K-MRTGG and FF-MRTGG (maximum rate of thrombus generation) were also evaluated. Their
      predictabilities were as good as the usual K-MA or FF-MA (comparable AUC) and were available
      more rapidly than usual parameters (3 ± 3 min for FF-MRTGG and 8 ± 3 min for K-MRTGG),
      allowing a very early evaluation of hemostasis.

      The aim of this prospective observational study is therefore to evaluate the performance of a
      new delocalized hemostasis monitoring device (thromboelastography - TEG ®6S) for the
      diagnosis of coagulopathy during PPH.
    
  