
    
      Procedures Patients will be approached at the preadmission clinic or in the general ward
      before operation. The analgesic methods will be explained and s/he will be recruited into the
      study if s/he agrees. The patient will be randomized into one of three groups. The patients
      in the first group (C) will receive intraoperative morphine, local wound infiltration with
      local anaesthetic, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor post-operatively, and post operative
      Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA) morphine. Patients in the second (K1) and third groups
      (K2) will receive different doses of intraoperative intravenous ketamine in addition to
      intraoperative morphine, local wound infiltration with local anaesthetic, COX-2 inhibitor,
      and PCA morphine.

      Randomization and blinding Patients recruited for mastectomy will be stratified in
      randomization. To ensure equal distribution of patients between each type of operation
      (modified radical mastectomy with axillary dissection and mastectomy with sentinel lymph node
      without axillary dissection) block randomization will be used. There will be 9 blocks of 15
      patients for each type of operation. The allocation order will be selected by a computer
      generated random sequence.

      This is a double blind randomized control trial. Both the patients and the investigators will
      be blinded to the allocated analgesic modalities: ie the administration of ketamine. Ketamine
      or normal saline (placebo) will be prepared by clinical staff who will not participate in
      observation and data analysis.

      Data collection

      The following data will be collected during the perioperative period:

        -  Demographics

        -  Time of admission

        -  Intraoperative vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation)

        -  Estimated intraoperative blood loss

        -  Volume of intraoperative fluid/blood infusion

        -  Duration of anaesthetic or analgesic procedures before surgical procedure

        -  Duration of surgical procedures

        -  Time from end of surgical procedure to extubation

        -  Demands and goods of PCA morphine use

        -  Cumulative morphine consumption

        -  Vital signs and NRS pain scores at rest and during cough/ipsilateral arm movement upon
           recovery every hour for 4 hours, and then once every 4 hours for up to 5 days during the
           time that PCA morphine is used. Afterwards, these data will be collected daily until
           discharge

        -  Dose and frequency of rescues analgesics (Intra muscular injection of morphine) used

        -  Side effects of analgesics (pruritus, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, psychomimetic effects
           etc.)

        -  Time to recovery of food intake (fluid, semisolid and solid diet)

        -  Time to ambulation (bed rest, sit up, sit out of bed, walk with aid, walk without aid)

        -  Surgical and anaesthetic complications, if any (wound infection, urinary retention,
           etc.)

        -  Time to discharge

        -  Patient satisfaction upon discharge

      The following data would be obtained at 3 and 6 months after surgery:

        -  The presence of chronic pain

        -  The location of pain

        -  Pain severity (Numerical Rating scale (NRS) score): at rest, during cough/movement of
           the ipsilateral arm

        -  Any analgesic consumption

        -  Nature of pain: nociceptive, neuropathic

        -  Timing of pain occurrence: continuous, related to movement, intermittent.

        -  Any abnormal sensation or loss of sensation over operated side.

        -  Health related quality of life (HRQOL) data obtained with the Chinese (Hong Kong)
           version of Short Form-12 version 2 (SF12v2) Health Survey.

        -  Patient's psychological condition will be assessed with the Hospital Anxiety and
           Depression Scale (HADS) questionnaire.

        -  Physical examination to check for any brush allodynia and pinprick hyperalgesia

      Other data:

        -  Survival status at 6 and 12 months after operation

        -  Any recurrence of disease

        -  Treatment with radiotherapy or chemotherapy

        -  If, at certain time point after operation, patient cannot be managed according to the
           protocol due to any reason such as development of complication, no further data will be
           collected.

      Blood taking for assessment of genetic, epigenetic factors and biomarkers Blood (10mls in
      tubes with Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) as preservative) will be taken immediately
      pre-surgery, immediately post-surgery, one day post-surgery, three days post-surgery, and at
      3 and 6-months after surgery.

      Data analysis Intention-to-treat will be used. Patients will remain in their initial
      designated groups for data analysis even if there is a change in surgical or
      anaesthetic/analgesic management, as long as they have had a laparoscopic incision during the
      operation.

      Statistical methods used:

        -  Incidence of chronic post mastectomy pain: Chi-Square test

        -  NRS pain scores at 3 and 6 months after surgery, estimated blood loss, duration of
           anaesthetic, analgesic and surgical procedures, time to extubation, tries and goods of
           PCA morphine used, cumulative morphine consumption, dose and frequency of rescue
           analgesic used, time to food intake and ambulation, time to discharge, patient
           satisfaction: Kruskal-Wallis test

        -  Acute NRS pain scores over 48 hours: Expressed as area under the curve (AUC) using the
           trapezoid rule and compared using Kruskal-Wallis test.

        -  Patient demographic data: One way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and chi-square test.

        -  Intraoperative vital signs, HRQOL, HADS: Repeated measures ANOVA (with Bonferroni
           correction when appropriate)

        -  Side effects and postoperative complications: Chi Square test

        -  Binary logistic regression will be used to assess the relationship between development
           (or non-development) of chronic pain and DNA methylation status of TRPV1 and TRPA1.

        -  When a significant result was obtained, t-test or Mann-Whitney test for numerical values
           and Chi-square test for categorical data will be applied for post hoc pairwise
           comparisons.
    
  