
    
      The treatment of severe addiction to alcohol and one other or more psychoactive substances
      sometimes requires hospitalization for complex withdrawal. The medical term " sevrage
      complexe " is used in this file for hospitalization of patients with multiple addictions or
      with multiple comorbidities. In the french regulation the duration of hospitalization for "
      sevrage complexe " is at least 13 days.

      The acute period of the first week is sufficient for physical weaning. A period relay for
      maintaining abstinence beyond the acute phase is a difficult stage. During this period the
      psychological craving related to the absence of the product causes dysphoria, stress,
      emotivity and increased difficulty in managing psychological aggression. The risk of relapse
      is then maximal and favored by many insults of everyday life.

      Qi gong is classified by US National Library of Medicine as a mind-body therapy (MBT). It's
      an ancient traditional Chinese health practice believed to have special healing and recovery
      power. Today millions of people practice qi gong in China and around the world to treat
      various diseases. Qi gong is an ecole of breath, relaxation, guided imagery and inward
      attention. Practice of qi gong is believed to help cleanse the body of toxins, restore energy
      balance, reduce stress and anxiety. The Baduanjin qigong is one of the most common form of
      Chinese qi gong.

      When going through withdrawal, craving is a psychological urge to administer a discontinued
      medication or recreational drug. Craving episodes may be triggered by seeing objects or
      experiencing moments that are associated with the drug or usage of it, and this phenomenon is
      termed post-acute withdrawal syndrome.

      The main goal of our study is to demonstrate a reduction of craving during alcohol and
      coaddictions withdrawal. This demonstration is of first importance: first for the well-being
      of the patient during the first weeks after withdrawal, second for drug savings, and third
      abstinence rate because many authors consider that craving intensity is correlated with
      relapses risk.

      The mind-body techniques of traditional Chinese medicine, as Qigong, are inscribed the number
      of current approaches in residential treatment. Their transmission would be an additional
      contribution to the stabilization via active management and motivated patient himself on his
      health.

      The compulsion associated with addictive behavior can be defined as a pathological change in
      brain plasticity. The pathological learning process induced by the repeated use of the
      substance is causing behavioral control loss in the vulnerable individual.

      Considering the impulsive nature of craving, this study will investigate the driving dynamics
      of impulses: Trieb "push". Return to the perception supported by the development of attention
      gestures leaning on the breath, puts us ahead of the motor action and is potentially a mean
      of influencing compulsive process.
    
  