
    
      Epidemiological studies show a very rapid increase in the epidemic of obesity in the
      Caribbean population. The latest prevalence data in Martinique show that 6 out of 10 adults
      are overweight and 1 out of 4 is obese (Body Mass Index, BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2). Obesity with a BMI
      ≥ 35 kg/m2 is said to be "morbid" because of its association with numerous cardiovascular
      comorbidities. A balanced diet and physical activity are effective behavioural modalities for
      weight loss, which, even at low intensity, can reduce cardiovascular complications and the
      risk of death. However, many patients do not adhere to these constraints over a long period
      of time and about 50% of them regain weight after the first year. These observations
      highlight the value of alternative therapies with lasting effects on weight loss and the
      cardio-metabolic comorbidities of obesity.

      Bariatric surgery with vertical calibrated vertical gastroplasty with gastric resection (or
      sleeve gastrectomy) and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass are therapeutic options that are not only
      effective in the long term for weight loss but also beneficial in terms of insulin resistance
      and cardiovascular complications. Bariatric surgery is currently indicated for the treatment
      of morbid obesity with a BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2 or a BMI ≥ 35 kg/m2 in the presence of complications.
      Some patients nevertheless remain resistant to the beneficial cardio-metabolic effects of
      bariatric surgery. The reasons for this resistance are attributed to factors such as age > 60
      years, female sex, BMI > 45 kg/m2, African-American or Hispanic origin, and history of type 2
      diabetes. Regardless of these factors, several studies have pointed out that a chronic
      low-grade inflammatory state reduces the magnitude of weight loss and thus counters the
      beneficial cardio-metabolic effects of bariatric surgery.

      Visceral adipose tissue is largely responsible for the inflammatory syndrome in obese
      patients, via the activation of nuclear transcription factors (NFkB, in particular) that
      stimulate the synthesis of numerous mediators and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Obesity can
      also induce the formation of multi-protein platforms called inflammasomes, including the
      active assembly of inflammatory caspases (caspase-1, in particular) that cleave the
      pro-interleukins IL1β and IL18 into mature pro-inflammatory cytokines IL1β and IL18. The role
      of the inflammasome NLRP3 ("NOD-like receptor family, pyrin domain containing 3") in the
      inflammatory response has been particularly studied in humans due to its association with
      multiple chronic inflammatory, infectious and cardio-metabolic pathologies. Among the
      biomolecules responsible for activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome during obesity are
      palmitate, sphingolipids and cholesterol crystals. The NLRP3 inflammasome is also activated
      by mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and by mitochondrial DNA
      released from mitochondria damaged by lipo-toxicity phenomena associated with obesity. More
      generally, the mitochondrial dysfunction of the metabolic syndrome is considered to be the
      causal intracellular event of the deregulation of the inflammatory response mediated by the
      inflammasome.
    
  