
    
      The intraoperative techniques will not differ from standard resection techniques and blood
      vessel ligation will be performed according to standard operative procedures either using
      endostaplers or direct ligation of the pulmonary vessels.

      After resection and removal of the resected specimen, the specimen will be examined ex-vivo,
      out of the operative field in a non-sterile field in the operative room. The lobar PA and its
      main segmental branches will be sharply dissected. Cannulation of a major segmental PA branch
      will be performed using our pressurization and monitoring device. The cannulation will be
      secured with a 2-0 silk suture. The vascular pressurization and recording device has been
      described in section E and is outlined in Figures 4 and 5. All pressure measurements will be
      recorded and graphed related to time from initial vascular pressurization to PA bursting
      pressure.

      All distal segmental branches of the PA will be ligated to maintain the pressure throughout
      the catheterized segmental branch. An initial pressure of 25 mmHg will be obtained by
      inflating the vessel with normal saline. The lobar PA and the main segmental branches'
      diameters will be measured from vascular adventitia to adventitia. The lobar PA and the main
      segmental arteries will be sealed using the Harmonic Scalpel Ace+. The sealing will be
      performed with an intravascular pressure of 25 mmHg in order to simulate normal human PA
      pressures.

      Following division of the PA, normal saline solution will be injected through the controlled
      pressure syringe pump in order to achieve an intralumenal vascular pressure until the
      bursting pressure is reached. Intralumenal pressure will be recorded at a frequency of 10
      times per second. The bursting pressure will be recorded. Ex-vivo experimentation will take
      approximately 20 to 30 minutes. Burst pressure of the in-vivo endo-stapled (Endopath® ETS,
      35mm, 2.5mm staples, white cartridge; Ethicon, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA) main lobar PA branches
      will be evaluated and recorded ex-vivo on the same specimens.

      Endo-stapled vessels will be utilized as the size-matched control for energy sealed vessels
      in a 1:2 ratio. Allotment into the stapled or energy sealed group will be based on vascular
      size measurement prior to sealing. Attempts will be made to use the in-vivo staple line as
      the control vessel in all possible cases (size permitting) in order to increase the sample
      size of the energy sealed vessels.

      Following vascular sealing, experimentation and recordings, the specimen will be sent for
      pathological evaluation of the resected lesion. All specimen manipulations will be strictly
      performed on the proximal main PA branches, away from the resected tumour. Care will be taken
      to not affect the pathological integrity of the resected lesion and its surrounding tissue
      and lymph nodes. Experimentation will be performed under the direct supervision of the
      attending thoracic surgeon in order to assure integrity of the specimen for pathological
      analysis.

      Analysis will consist of between group comparisons of the efficacies and bursting pressure of
      both the energy sealed vessels (experimental group) and the endostapler-sealed vessels
      (control group). Vessels will be stratified by luminal diameter by millimeter. Primary
      outcome for analysis will be the intergroup comparisons of mean PA burst pressure by size of
      vessel. Intergroup differences will be compared with the student's t-test with bursting
      pressures entered as a continuous variable. Statistical testing for normality of data will be
      performed and when data is non-normal, non-parametric methods (ex: Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test…)
      will be used. Multivariable linear regression models will be employed in order to compare
      burst pressures between groups controlling for potential confounders (disease state, size of
      vessel sealed, age of patient, sex, pulmonary lobe, laterality, immunosupression, diabetes,
      vascular disease…).
    
  