
    
      All patients scheduled for total knee arthroplasty will be evaluated before the operation.
      Eligible patients will be informed about the study and "Numeric Rating Scale" for pain
      evaluation. Then, patients will be asked for informed consent. After approval from the local
      research ethics committee, first patient will be recruited for study and patient's group will
      be determined by dice roll(1,4: GCont - 2,5: G125 - 3,6: G25). Patients who are scheduled for
      primary total knee arthroplasty under spinal anesthesia with a planned sensory block level
      between T4 and T7 dermatomes, will be recruited and assigned to a group. After successfully
      completed surgery, patients will be administered femoral nerve block or only dressing
      according to the relevant group. Before femoral nerve block is performed, patients will be
      re-informed about Numeric Rating Scale(NRS) and will be asked to rate their pain at the
      moment.

        -  Control Group(GCont) patients will only be applied sterile dressing for the purpose of
           blinding the patient and the follow-up physician.

        -  0.125% Bupivacaine Group(G125) patients will be administered femoral block with 20 ml
           0.125% Bupivacaine by an experienced anesthesiologist.

        -  0.25% Bupivacaine Group(G25) patients 10ml will be administered femoral block with 0.25%
           Bupivacaine by an experienced anesthesiologist.

      The procedures will be performed in the operating room under both US and nerve stimulator
      guidance. Patients will be followed-up in post-anesthesia care unit and in the ward for 48
      hours. Scheduled and on-demand(Tramadol) medication for analgesia will be ordered and nurses
      will be informed about the study. Patients' pain scores and ambulation times will be
      followed-up by another anesthesiologist and on-demand medication will be recorded and
      monitored from hospital's computer based hospital management program online. Patients will be
      followed-up for six months after the surgery in order to explore potential long term benefits
      and complications.
    
  