
    
      The trial was a prospective, open-label, single center investigation in patients with
      inoperable pancreatic cancer who were treated with first-line chemotherapy in an outpatient
      setting. The intensified treatment consisted of gemcitabine 1g/m² (30 min), 5-flourouracil
      750 mg/m² (24 h), folinic acid 200 mg/m² (30 min), and Cisplatin 30 mg/m² (90 min) on day 1
      and 8; q3w). Beyond initial 3 months of intensified chemotherapy all patients without cancer
      progression received further treatment with gemcitabine alone to prevent patients from
      cumulative toxicities. The concomitant use of Enoxaparin started on day 1 of chemotherapy
      with a fixed dose of 40 mg daily until cancer progression. Dose adjustment for enoxaparin was
      recommended in patients with impaired kidney function or thrombocytopenia within the study
      according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria guidelines to minimize
      bleeding risk. Prophylactic antiemetic therapy and supportive care were provided according to
      individual symptoms and demand.

      The study used a sequential design to be able to stop the feasibility investigation in case
      of severe side effects. After inclusion of three consecutive patients a hold of recruitment
      was arranged until all three patients received at least 4 weeks of concomitant enoxaparin
      treatment. In absence of serious events the recruitment should be continued until a minimum
      of 15 patients received at least 12 weeks concomitant enoxaparin treatment.

      The trial was approved by the Scientific and Research Ethics Committee of our institution.
      The investigation was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good
      Clinical Practice Guidelines. Furthermore, the national principles for the proper execution
      of the clinical examination of drugs ("Bundesanzeiger" No. 243 of 30.12.1987), the national
      regulations of the German drug law, and the German drug test guidelines were adhered.
    
  