
    
      Each year 20000 UK patients die within 30 days of surgery. It seems that in the UK a
      patient's chances of becoming seriously unwell or dying following surgery is higher than in
      comparable countries. Fewer beds in the UK are given over to Intensive Care than in these
      other countries. Closer attention to the care given after operations, which can be achieved
      on intensive care units (ICU), almost certainly reduces the chances of serious illness
      following major surgery. An increase in the number of intensive care unit beds in the UK is
      extremely unlikely. Better use of the available intensive care beds could be achieved by
      allocating them where they are believed to improve outcome (following surgery) and by
      allocating them to patients most likely to benefit.

      Tests used to assess risk of surgery to patients are largely ineffective. Cardiopulmonary
      exercise tests (CPX) seem to be effective at identifying patients at risk of death or serious
      illness post surgery. This information has been used in studies to select patients for ICU
      beds and reduce deaths. The studies so far have limitations in their design and scope which
      means we can't be certain this approach works in the UK.

      We suggest a study to answer this question more conclusively and more specifically in UK
      patients. We will randomly divide patients between two groups. In the 1st group choice of
      postoperative care environment is based on best current practice and in the other group we
      will make these decisions (critical care or ward) based on the results of the CPX.

      We hope that the benefits will include less patients becoming seriously ill or dying and
      shorter stays in hospital after surgery following major operations. We also hope the
      information will help patients understand the risks of their operation better and therefore
      make better informed decisions. This may also reduce the overall cost of surgery for
      hospitals.
    
  