
    
      CVD is a disorder that affects the heart's ability to function normally. The most common
      cause of heart disease is narrowing or blockage of the coronary arteries, which supply blood
      to the heart. There are many risk factors for CVD, including inflammation, high blood
      pressure, high cholesterol, and obesity. Small quantities of trace elements, also known as
      micronutrients, are essential in maintaining a healthy body. Research has shown that some
      trace elements may be associated with the development of CVD, but more research is needed to
      confirm this connection. This study will examine concentrations of several trace elements in
      toenail samples of young adults participating in the Coronary Artery Risk Development in
      Young Adults (CARDIA) study. The CARDIA study is measuring changes in CVD risk factors in
      individuals as they age and is identifying lifestyle habits that influence those changes. The
      purpose of this study is to determine the link between trace elements and CVD risk factors in
      young adults. The results of this study may help to identify whether dietary, lifestyle, or
      environmental factors can be modified at a young age to prevent the development of CVD.

      This study will examine laboratory and medical history data of participants who are already
      enrolled in the CARDIA study; there are no additional study visits specifically for this
      study. Toenail samples collected from participants during their Year 2 CARDIA study visit in
      the late 1980's will be examined to determine the presence of selenium, chromium, arsenic,
      and mercury. Participants' CARDIA study data will be reviewed and several CVD risk factors
      will be analyzed, including the thickness of heart arteries; calcium buildup within the
      arteries; inflammatory markers, such as high sensitivity C-reactive protein and interleukin
      6; blood pressure levels; body weight; and levels of cholesterol, fat, and sugar.
    
  