
    
      Zika virus (ZIKV) is an Aedes species mosquito-transmitted Flavivirus responsible for an
      ongoing epidemic in over twenty countries and territories in the Caribbean, and in North,
      Central and South America. A 20-fold increased risk of microcephaly has been reported in
      newborns of infected mothers in Brazil. Of nine identified pregnant travelers returning to
      the U.S. from areas with local ZIKV infection, five have experienced severe neonatal
      outcomes.

      ZIKV can be transmitted via blood transfusion and by sexual exposure to a ZIKV-infected man.
      In response, AABB (formerly the American Association of Blood Banks) made recommendations and
      the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued guidance for donor deferral based on 1) travel
      to locations with active ZIKV transmission; or for 2) sexual exposure to a man who has
      traveled to an area with active ZIKV transmission. Further, Aedes species mosquito vectors
      that transmit ZIKV also transmit dengue virus (DENV) and chikungunya virus (CHIKV). Areas
      with local ZIKV transmission also commonly have local DENV and CHIKV transmission. DENV and
      CHIKV are transmissible via blood transfusion and can result in severe outcomes in
      transfusion recipients.

      The primary aims of this study are to: 1) assess the prevalence of ZIKV, DENV and CHIKV
      infection (RNA-positives) among adults who attempted to donate blood but were deferred
      because of travel to places with local transmission of ZIKV, DENV and/or CHIKV
      (travel-deferred donors); 2) assess the prevalence of ZIKV infection (RNA-positives) among
      adults who attempted to donate blood who were deferred due to potential sexual exposure to
      ZIKV infection; 3) assess the prevalence of ZIKV, DENV and CHIKV infection (RNA-positives)
      among blood donors whose blood or platelets were collected and who called back to report any
      illness within 2 weeks of donation; and to 4) study the 24-week natural history of ZIKV, DENV
      and CHIKV infection among deferred adult donors who tested RNA-positive for any of these
      agents.
    
  