
    
      A case-control design will be utilized to assess the effectiveness of RV1 in preventing
      rotavirus-associated hospitalizations and Emergency Department (ED) visits using cases and
      controls from the 2009-2012 rotavirus seasons. Vaccine exposure among cases will be compared
      to vaccine exposure among controls. There will be one case group and one control group.

      Cases will be obtained from children who are enrolled in active surveillance for acute
      gastroenteritis being conducted at the two initial surveillance sites. These sites include:
      Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center (2009-2012) and the Medical University of South
      Carolina (2009-2012). Cases and controls will be identified retrospectively for the 2008-2011
      seasons and prospectively through active surveillance for the 2011-2012 season. The active
      surveillance programs conduct prospective surveillance for hospitalizations and ED visits due
      to AGE (acute gastroenteritis) in children < 6 years of age. Even though Rotarix was
      commercially available on January 1, 2008, the actual date that RV1 was initially used varied
      across sites. The date that Rotarix was initially used will be determined for each site
      through examination of the data. Children with laboratory-confirmed rotavirus infection (bulk
      stool sample positive for rotavirus using a rotavirus EIA) will be included as a case if they
      were born 2 months prior to the initial date of Rotarix availability at each site. The
      vaccine record for each case will be obtained to determine the vaccine status of the child.

      Controls will be children born 2 months prior to the availability of Rotarix at each site who
      were enrolled in the active surveillance program at either site and who tested negative for
      rotavirus. Children who have been previously hospitalized for diarrhea, who have a sibling
      enrolled in the study, or who have recently moved into the study area (and might not have
      been eligible for the vaccine) will be excluded.

      Laboratory Testing

      For children enrolled in the active surveillance program bulk stool specimens are obtained
      within 14 days of the visit for AGE symptoms and are tested using Rotaclone, a commercial
      enzyme immunoassay (Meridian Bioscience, Inc) at CCHMC. Children with a positive test for
      rotavirus are eligible to be cases and children with a negative test for rotavirus are
      eligible for controls. Specimens positive by EIA for rotavirus will have G and P genotyping
      done at CCHMC.

      Retrospective Enrollment of Children Tested for Rotavirus as Part of Routine Care

      With the dramatic decline in rotavirus since the introduction of rotavirus vaccines, the
      number of children enrolled in surveillance has plummeted compared to pre-licensure
      surveillance. In order to improve our sample size, we will retrospectively invite children
      who had a rotavirus test done from August 1, 2008 through June 30, 2012 to participate in
      this study. The laboratory records of rotavirus testing will be reviewed to identify children
      with a date of birth >August 1, 2008. Once identified, a letter will be sent to the
      parents/guardians with a brief explanation of the study and we will ask them to notify us
      within two weeks if they do not wish to be called. Study staff will then contact the
      parent/guardian to explain the study and to determine whether the child meets eligibility
      criteria (same as those outlined for enrollment into surveillance). If the child meets
      eligibility criteria, the parents/guardians will be asked to allow their child to
      participate, informed consent will be obtained for the child. If agreed, the same data
      collected on prospectively enrolled children will be collected and permission will be
      obtained to contact the child's health care provider for the child's immunization records.

      Eligibility

      The date that Rotarix was initially used will be determined for each site. Children born 2
      months prior to the initial date or later will be eligible to be a case or control for this
      study. If a child is enrolled more than once during the same season, the visit at which the
      child tested positive for rotavirus will be selected for inclusion; if the child tested
      negative at all visits, the child's final visit will be selected for inclusion.

      Sample Size

      Sample size calculations were done for varying degrees of vaccine efficacy and vaccine
      coverage. With a vaccine uptake of 20%, 68 cases would allow a detection of vaccine
      effectiveness of 80% assuming a two-sided test with a significance level of 0.05 and 80%
      power. If the vaccine uptake is 30% only 44 cases would be needed to detect a vaccine
      effectiveness of 80%.

      One must take into consideration that both cases and controls may have incomplete
      immunization series. If there are a sufficient number of cases, one dose vaccine efficacy
      will also be examined.

      Statistical Analysis

      Analyses will be performed using SAS® (Version 9.2 Cary, NC). Demographic and risk factor
      variables will be examined. Continuous, parametric data will be presented as mean ± standard
      deviation (SD); continuous, non-parametric data will be presented as median (inter-quartile
      range). Categorical data will be presented as frequency (percentage) by category. Continuous,
      parametric data will be analyzed with ANOVA or Student's t-test. Categorical data will be
      analyzed with chi-square or Fisher's Exact Test as appropriate.

      Logistic Regression will be used to estimate Vaccine Effectiveness (VE) and 95% confidence
      intervals (CIs) from the adjusted odds ratios (aORs) by using the formula VE = (1-aOR) X 100.
      Cases and controls will be matched on age, enrollment date, and geographic region. Cases will
      be compared to matched controls in order to evaluate the effectiveness of full (2 doses) and
      partial (1 dose) vaccination. Initially, univariate conditional logistic regression analyses
      will be performed to determine which covariates should be included in the multivariable
      analysis. The explanatory variable of interest is vaccination status. If sample size permits,
      vaccine effectiveness will be calculated by serotype. Other possible covariates to be
      included are: date of birth, age at onset, season, insurance status (public/none versus
      private) and point of care (hospital or ED). Variables with p-values ≤ 0.20 will selected as
      candidates for multivariable analysis. Multicollinearity among the covariates will be
      examined by evaluating variance inflation factors. If collinearity is present, only one of
      the correlated variables will be entered into the model at a time. Analysis will be rerun
      choosing alternative correlated variables and the models will be compared. The model with the
      lowest Akaike information criterion (AIC) will be chosen as the final model. Model selection
      will include stepwise, forward selection, and backwards elimination. The Hosmer-Lemeshow test
      will be used to determine goodness of fit.
    
  