
    
      Many patients with GERD do not experience heartburn symptoms. Barium esophagram, endoscopy
      and/or overnight esophageal pH monitoring are commonly relied upon to objectively establish
      the diagnosis of GERD. In general, overnight esophageal pH monitoring is the most sensitive
      and specific test available to confirm GERD. However, the literature exploring GERD as a
      cause of chronic cough suggests that the currently accepted criteria for defining abnormal
      overnight esophageal pH may not be adequately sensitive. It is therefore possible that
      aggressive GERD therapy may improve asthma control in patients with "normal" overnight
      esophageal pH probe results. To our knowledge, there are no published data addressing this
      question.

      Primary Objective The primary objective is to compare asthma control in asthmatic subjects
      treated with high dose PPI with asthmatic subjects taking placebo PPI. The primary outcome
      variables will be measurements of asthma symptoms and asthma quality of life.

      Secondary Objectives Secondary objectives include evaluating the effect of this aggressive
      anti-secretory therapy on lung function, asthma medication use (including both baseline and
      rescue medication), and GERD symptoms. An additional secondary objective will be to evaluate
      whether the presence or absence of GERD symptoms at baseline (prior to proton pump inhibitor
      therapy) will independently associate with improvement in any of the other outcomes measured.

      Measurements will include: Juniper Asthma Control Questionnaire (visits 2 and 5), Juniper
      Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (visits 2 - 5), GSAS gastroesophageal reflux instrument
      (visit 2, visit 5), the occurrence of adverse events, change in FVC, FEF25-75%, MIF50 /
      MEF50, peak expiratory flow rate, FEV1 reversibility, and the physical exam.

      Additional measurements will include methacholine challenge and eosinophilia in induced
      sputum specimens. Induced sputum will be offered to all patients, though it is anticipated
      that only approximately 50% will agree to this procedure.
    
  