
    
      Background and Significance: OA is a leading cause of pain and disability. African Americans
      have a greater burden of OA. In this demographic group OA is more common and associated with
      more severe pain and activity limitations, compared with Caucasians. Prior research suggests
      that a program called pain Coping Skills Training (CST) has strong potential for helping
      African Americans with OA to reduce their symptoms. However, there are still some important
      limitations to what is known in this research, which limits putting this program into
      practice. First, there is a need to incorporate the perspectives of African Americans with
      OA, as well as other key Stakeholders, into this program. This is important for ensuring the
      program is culturally relevant and can be successfully used in a variety of clinical and
      community settings. Second, there is still a need for a study that will test the
      effectiveness of pain CST specifically among African Americans with OA in "real world"
      settings. Therefore the objective of this project is to examine the effectiveness of a
      culturally enhanced pain CST program among African Americans with OA.

      Study Aims: This project has three specific aims: 1.) Engage African American patients with
      OA, their support partners, health care providers, clinic administrators, and public health
      representatives in a process of evaluating and enhancing a pain CST program for culturally
      appropriate content and dissemination potential. 2.) Examine the effectiveness of a
      12-session, culturally enhanced, telephone-based pain CST program among African Americans
      with hip or knee OA. 3.) Examine whether individual patient characteristics are associated
      with different levels of improvement in the CST program. The long-term objective of this
      research is to develop and disseminate an evidence-based pain CST intervention among African
      Americans with OA, to reduce disparities in outcomes.

      Study Description: Following the incorporation of Stakeholder perspectives into the pain CST
      program, the investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial. The investigators will
      enroll n=248 African Americans with hip or knee OA. They will be randomized into two groups.
      One group will take part in a 2-week pain CST intervention. The other group will be a "wait
      list" that receives the pain CST program after completing all follow-up study measures. All
      study participants will be able to continue any other usual medical care for their OA during
      the study period. The pain CST intervention includes 12 individual sessions with a study
      counselor, delivered via telephone to enhance access and reach. The sessions include the
      following: general information about why pain coping skills training is important, training
      in specific pain coping skills (such as progressive muscle relaxation, communication,
      imagery, and activity pacing), and guided practice with each skill. The CST program will also
      include information about other behaviors important for OA, such as physical activity and
      weight management. The main study outcome will be the pain subscale of the Western Ontario
      and McMasters Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC). Other outcomes will include the
      WOMAC function subscale, Coping Strategies Questionnaire, Arthritis Self Efficacy Scale,
      depressive symptoms, Health-Related Quality of Life, and Patient Global Impression of Change.
      These measures were selected based on Stakeholder input and prior research that showed these
      outcomes are important to patients with OA. Statistical models will be used to compare
      outcomes between the two study groups at each time point: baseline, 12 weeks (after
      completion of the initial CST intervention), and 36 weeks (about 6 months after intervention
      completion). The investigators will also assess whether there are different levels of
      improvement in outcomes of the CST intervention, based on participant characteristics.
    
  