
    
      Pneumonia remains one of the major cause of morbidity and mortality in critically ill
      patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) worldwide. In Malaysia, according to the Malaysian
      Registry of Intensive Care 2016, pneumonia was among the four (5.7%) most common diagnosis
      leading to admission to ICU. In many scenario, pneumonia associated with severe sepsis either
      as single source of sepsis or in combination with other source of infection which carry
      mortality mortality reported 53.4% 1. Timely, appropriate and adequate antibiotic therapy is
      of paramount importance in the critically ill patients with severe pneumonia. However, overly
      long antibiotic treatment is undesirable because of side effects, increasing antibiotic
      resistance2 and financial burden to patient and Malaysia Healthcare.

      Antibiotic remain the main weapon to combat pneumonia. Nevertheless, rampant use of
      antibiotic without specific indicator is vain. Hence, with the latest technology, physicians
      not only rely on clinical improvement but also specific biomarkers for resolution of sepsis
      which might assist the ICU physicians in making decisions on antibiotic therapy on an
      individual basis.

      Commonest used biomarkers for this purpose include leucocyte count and C-reactive protein
      (CRP). These biomarkers are sensitive but not specific. Procalcitonin (PCT) however has been
      advocated as a biomarker with a better specificity and sensitivity for diagnosis and
      follow-up of severe bacterial infections.

      PCT is the prohormone of calcitonin. It consists of about 116 amino-acids. The locus of
      formation in classical pathway is the C-cells of the thyroid. In case of bacterial infection,
      PCT is formed in all tissues via an alternative pathway. Linscheid et al. 2004 described, in
      case of bacterial infection two mechanisms of synthesis are at work. At first
      cytokine-stimulated adherent monocytes release PCT in low quantities. This synthesis is
      limited. But it plays an important role in the initiation of PCT synthesis in storage tissues
      of humans. This PCT burst is initiated in all storage tissues (>18h). PCT is a perfect tool
      to differentiate between viral and bacterial infections (e.g. Gendrel et al. 1999). This is
      why in septic patients extremely high concentrations of PCT were found in the plasma (about
      100,000-fold of the physiological concentration in healthy subjects).
    
  