
    
      Diagnosis: The diagnosis of Alcoholic hepatitis is made by the following criteria (12)

      I. Chronic active alcohol abuse - >80 grams in males and > 60 grams in females for > 5 years
      for developing Alcoholic Cirrhosis (13) Alcohol use will be evaluated with the AUDIT score
      (EASL guidelines (14) II. Duration of jaundice < 3 months III. Serum Bilirubin >5 mg/dl IV.
      AST/ALT > 2:1 V. AST <300 IU/L VI. Prolonged PTI/INR VII. Neutrophilicleucocytosis VIII.
      Liver biopsy (Percutaneous or Transjugular). [Optional]

      IAssessment of Severity

      Maddrey's Discriminant Function (15)

      Discriminant Function Index (DFI) was originally described by Maddrey and colleagues in a
      placebo controlled study to assess the benefit of corticosteroids in patients with AH. The
      original formula was 4.6 x prothrombin time (seconds) + serum Bilirubin (mg/dl). It was
      observed that patients with a DFI >93 and treated with placebo had a 28 day survival of 25%,
      whereas those with a DFI < 93 had a 100% survival. Subsequently this score was modified in
      1986 and called Modified Discriminant Function (MDF). MDF = 4.6 x (Patient's PT - Control PT)
      + serum bilirubin (mg/dl). Untreated patients with MDF >32 had a survival of 68%. The
      American College of Gastroenterology9 recommends that patients with MDF > 32 and / or
      Encephalopathy should be treated. The prothrombin time varies greatly depending on the
      sensitivity of the thromboplastin reagent used for the test. This is the drawback of the MDF.

      MELD score (16)

      The model for end stage liver disease (MELD) score predicts survival in patients with
      cirrhosis and is used to prioritize patients for liver transplantation.

      MELD score = (0.957 x log serum creatinine + 0.378 x log serum bilirubin + 1.120 x log INR +
      0.643) x 10. The advantage of MELD score is the use of INR in place of PT. The INR is
      comparable and uniform across laboratories worldwide. The American Association for Study of
      Liver Diseases recommends that a MELD score >20predicts SAH and should be the criterion for
      initiating treatment. Serial monitoring of MELD score with a change of 2 or more points over
      the first week on treatment has independently predicted mortality.

      GAHS score (17)

      Glasgow Alcoholic Hepatitis Score (GAHS) includes age, peripheral Total Leucocyte Count,
      serum Bilirubin (at days 1 and 6-9), blood urea nitrogen and PT. It is a better predictor of
      mortality at 28 days than MDF. GAHS score > 9 has an extremely poor prognosis unless treated
      with Corticosteroids. The drawback is lack of international validation.

      LILLE'S model (18) It is not traditionally used for predicting mortality of SAH. However, it
      helps to predict mortality at 7 days of SAH patients on Corticosteroids .If the score is more
      then 0.45 then Corticosteroids should be stopped.

      The diagnosis of Severe Alcoholic Hepatitis is made by the following criteria

        1. MDF>32, or

        2. MELD>20

      Treatment Abstinence from alcohol This is the most important factor in predicting the outcome
      after surviving the acute alcoholic hepatitis (AH) episode. The incidence of recidivism after
      recovery from the first episode of AH varies from 10 - 70 %. Abstinence will be reinforced by
      giving patient oral/enteral Baclofen (GABA B receptor agonist)

      Nutrition

      Enteral nutrition is the preferred mode for supplemental nutrition. It is cheap, maintains
      gut mucosal integrity. This in turn decreases the risk of bacterial and endotoxin
      translocation resulting in less infections and endotoxemia. Pooled data from 5 RCT's of AH
      have demonstrated improved nutritional status compared to standard dietary intake, but
      without improving survival rates.19 The patient will be given 40k cal/kg diet along with
      1.5gm/kg protiens, emphasizing breakfast and a night time snack with regular oral diet.
      Frequent interval feeding will be given to improved nitrogen balance. B complex multivitamins
      supplementation will be provided to all patients (EASL guidelines (14)

      Pharmacotherapy of Severe Alcoholic Hepatitis

      Corticosteroids

      Corticosteroids are the most extensively used treatment for Severe Alcoholic Hepatitis. 6/13
      Randomized Controlled Trials and 4/6 meta-analysis have supported the use of Corticosteroids
      in Severe Alcoholic Hepatitis. The last meta-analysis of individual patient data from 5 high
      quality Randomized Controlled Trials using Corticosteroids forSevere Alcoholic Hepatitis
      concluded that Corticosteroids confers a 50% relative survival benefit at 1 month (85% versus
      65% survival amongst those treated with Corticosteroids versus untreated patients). The
      number of patients needed to treatedis 5 to reduce one death. Oral Prednisolone 40mg daily or
      parenteral methylprednisolone (for patients unable to take orally) 32 mg intravenously daily
      for 4 weeks is the standard therapy. A Lille score of >0.45 after 7 days of treatment with
      Corticosteroids is an indication of non-response, increased susceptibility to infections and
      diminished survival (20). The Corticosteroids should be stopped if the Lilli score is >0.45.
      The most recent STOPAH trial was unable to show a significant improvement in mortality of SAH
      patients treated with Corticosteroids. There was a trend in favour of Corticosteroids.

      Pentoxifylline

      Pentoxifylline is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. It is given orally in the dose of 400mg
      thrice a day for 28 days. In a pivotal study of 101 patients of SAH21, it was associated with
      survival benefit of 50%. In another study, it was found to be superior to Corticosteroids
      (22).

      In a recent study involving 50 patients at our center (23), we found that 20% vs 40%
      mortality in patients treated with Pentoxifylline versus controls, after 4 weeks of
      treatment. Acute kidney injury was the cause of death in 20% compared to 70% patients in
      Pentoxifylline group versus controls. Pentoxifylline induces recovery of renal & hepatic
      functions with a trend towards increased survival. However, a metanalysis of 5 Randomized
      Controlled Trials failed to show any benefit with Pentoxifylline24.In a large recent trial
      Corticosteriods plus Pentoxifyllinefor 4 weeks treatment with compared with prednisolone
      alone, did not result in improved 6-month survival.25 The major adverse effects include
      vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, headache and skin rash.

      N-Acetylcyteine

      N-acetylcysteine could have value as an antioxidant in the treatment of acute alcoholic
      hepatitis,because the thiol group in N-acetylcysteine is able to reduce levels of free
      radicals. Administration of N-acetylcysteine might reconstitute the glutathione stocks of the
      hepatocytes. At present, N-acetylcysteine is used in the treatment of acetaminophen induced
      hepatitis. Intravenous acetylcysteine is most often used as an antidote for acetaminophen
      overdose due to its ability to increase levels of glutathione; however, it is also used to
      treat non-acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure (NAI-ALF) and severe alcoholic hepatitis
      and to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). Although the i.v.and oral formulations of
      acetylcysteine have been evaluated for these indications, most studies have examined the
      i.v.form. I.V. acetylcysteine is used in the treatment of NAI-ALF to improve oxygenation to
      the liver. A trial to evaluate the efficacy of glucocorticoids plus N-acetylcysteine, as
      compared with glucocorticoids alone, in patients with severe acute alcoholic hepatitis.(26)
      reported improved one month survival in the combined treatment group. However the 6 month
      survival was not different in the two groups.

      Bovine colostrum

      Human colostrum is the first milk produced after birth and is particularly rich in
      immunoglobulin, antimicrobial peptides (lactoferrin and lacto peroxidase) and other bioactive
      molecule, including growth factors which are important for nutrition, growth and development
      of newborn infants and also for passive immunity. Bovine colostrum is produced by the cows
      during the first one day post parturition. This "early" milk has nutrient profile and
      immunological composition substantially different from 'mature' milk. It contains
      macronutrient like proteins, carbohydrate, oligosaccharides, fats and micronutrients like
      vitamins and minerals, also growth factors, anti-microbial compounds and immune regulating
      constituents either not present in mature milk or present substantially in lower
      concentration.(27,28) Bovine colostrum used in the treatment of HIV-positive patients with
      chronic diarrhea,(29) and rotavirus diarrhea in children.(30) Available evidence suggests a
      beneficial effect of supplementation of bovine colostrums in improving body composition,
      aspects of athletic performance, diarrhea in persons with immune-deficiency syndromes,
      NSAID-induced gastrointestinal ulcers, and aspects of the acute phase response that occurs
      secondary to surgery. Specific hyperimmune bovine colostrums, produced to have high
      neutralizing titer activity against Cryptosporidia, H. pylori, measles, rotavirus, and
      Shigella sp., appear to have clinical utility in conditions associated with these infectious
      organisms (31) Historically colostrum has been used for various illnesses in India as well as
      abroad for thousands of years. Ayurvedic physicians of India have used bovine colostrum for
      both medicinal and spiritual purposes since cows were first domesticated. By the late 18th
      century, Western medicine started to take an interest in colostrum and study it for its
      potential health benefits. As a consequence, it was prescribed for many conditions, including
      immune system enhancement. Interestingly, until the development of penicillin and other
      artificial antibiotics in the 20th century, colostrum was commonly used for fighting
      bacterial infections. In the early 20th century it was noted that antibody levels in the
      first milk produced after birth were much higher than levels found in the milk that was
      produced 72 hours later.There are now over 2000 published scientific articles that document
      the safety and efficacy of using colostrum. This seemingly perfect food has been shown to be
      non-species specific (32). In 2005, it was reported that is safe and effective in repair of
      tissues as well as for enhancing immunity.(33) The use of bovine colostrum as dietary
      supplement has increased substantially over the past decades. Bovine colostrum is harvested
      within first few hours of calving from dairy animals. The herds of cows are kept under close
      supervision in good state of hygiene without exposure to antibodies, pesticides and
      anthelmintics. The colostrum collected within 24 hours contains maximum substances but less
      in amounts, colostrum collected later will be more in quantity but contain less
      immunoglobins.(33) Colostrum contains the growth factors that help build lean muscle,
      including insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I & IGF-II) and growth hormone (GH). IGF-I, which
      is found naturally in colostrum, is the only natural hormone capable of promoting muscle
      growth by itself. The IGFs in humans and cows are identical, but bovine colostrum actually
      contains a greater concentration of IGF-I than human colostrum. This fact makes bovine
      colostrum attractive to bodybuilders, athletes and others seeking to gain muscle mass.
      According to a study conducted in Finland, IGF-1 induces protein synthesis, which leads to an
      increase in lean muscle mass without a corresponding rise in adipose (fat) tissue. The growth
      factors in colostrum "shift fuel utilization from carbohydrate to fat. It mean that body will
      burn more fat, including fat made from the carbohydrate and protein that are consumed,
      producing fuel more efficiently.(34) Bovine has hormone factor like gastrin which plays a
      role as a trophic factor for mucosal growth with in stomach. GLP-2 has shown a general
      trophic response with in the gut.

      Peptide growth factors in colostrum can influence the maintenance of mucosal mass and
      integrity. EGF stimulates cell proliferation and also influences crypt fission.(25) Human
      colostrum has higher concentration of growth factors as compared to bovine colostrum. The
      tables and figure below indicate how HC and BC differ in their nutrient content,
      immunological factors and growth factors (9,35,36)

      While BC are considered a rich source of IgG, growth factors, and lactoferrin, currently no
      specific standards exist that define BC dietary supplements with respect to actual
      constituents or amounts of constituents. The following constituents are generally present in
      bovine colostrums: macronutrients; vitamins; minerals; Ig (IgG, IgM, and IgA - including the
      secretory form); cytokines including interleukin-1beta (IL-1β), interleukin- 6 (IL-6), tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and interferon-gamma (INF-γ); growth factors including
      insulin-like growth factor (IGF) I and II, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β), and
      epidermal growth factor; lactoperoxidase; and lactoferrin. Depending on the health of the
      cows, feeding practices followed, collection period, and the processing/concentration
      practices utilized by specific manufacturers, the actual range and quantities of specific
      macro- and micronutrients, Ig, cytokines, growth factors, and other compounds might vary
      considerably.(37,38,39)

      BC contain relatively high amounts of Ig. Typically, Ig in general, and IgG specifically,
      constitutes the largest contribution to protein content in BC, with lactalbumin and casein
      contributing lesser amounts. Mean percentages of fat, protein, and lactose in colostrum were
      6.7, 14.9, and 2.5, respectively.40 Other reports have estimated Ig concentrations from
      bovine mammary secretions with ranges for IgG1 (52-87 g/L), IgG2 (1.6-2.1 g/L), IgM(3.7-6.1
      g/L), and IgA (3.2-6.2 g/L).41,42 As a rule, the Ig contribution will decline substantially
      in any BC collected more than 24 hours post-parturition and the amount of lactalbumin and
      casein will increase proportionately.

      Detailed research plan (Materials and Methods)

      Study design and setting

      This will be Double blind Randomized Placebo controlled Trial. We are planning a study of 2
      independent groups in the ratio of 1:1. The correct dose appears to be 60 grams and the
      number of patients required to be randomized should be more than 40 patients (10,11). We plan
      to enroll 250 patients.

      We will use an uncorrected chi-squared statistic to evaluate this null hypothesis.

      The study will be conducted on patients of Severe Alcoholic Hepatitis admitted in

        -  Principal Investigator: Sandeep S Sidhu, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital,
           Ludhiana, Punjab, India

        -  Principal Investigator: Barjesh C Sharma, GB pant Hospital, New Delhi

        -  Principal Investigator: Saroj K Sinha, PGI Hospital, Chandigarh, India

        -  Principal Investigator: Sandeep Nijhawan, SMS Hospital, Jaipur, India

        -  Principal Investigator: UshaDutta , PGIMER, Chandigarh, India

      Informed consent shall be taken from the patient/nearest relative of the patient for
      enrollment in the trial.

      Assignment

      Consecutive patients diagnosed to have Severe Alcoholic Hepatitis will be randomized into two
      groups (group A and B). The randomization will be performed using a computer generated random
      sequence with permuted blocks of varying size stratified for each centre.

      Masking Each center will have serially numbered identical vials containing bovine colostrum
      or pasteurized bovine milk arranged by a personnel who are not involved in the study
      according to the random sequence. The drug and the placebo will be identical in color, taste,
      appearance to ensure masking. All study personnel will be blinded to the treatment assignment
      (Bovine colostrum and placebo) for the duration of the study. The study drug will be
      administered by an oral route. The randomization code will be revealed only after the
      completion of recruitment, data collection and data analysis has been carried out.

      Randomization implementation

      Enrolment of patients, assessing eligibility and obtaining informed consent will be carried
      out by Principal Investigator (S.S. Sidhu) and other Centers Principal Investigator.

      Study Intervention

      The patients will be randomized to either

      Experimental arm: Bovine colostrum Enteral nutrition: Protein 1.5 gm/kg/day, energy (kcal)
      30-40/day, B complex vitamins daily.

      Pasteurized Bovine colostrum as a freeze dried powder (20 gm thrice a day) for 4 weeks.

      + Antibiotics + Diuretics +Terlipressin for HRS + acid suppression for prophylaxis against
      gastrointestinal hemorrhage + EVL for variceal bleed +drugs for HE if indicated

      Placebo Comparator: Placebo Enteral nutrition: Protein 1.5 gm/kg/day, energy (kcal)
      30-40/day, B complex vitamins daily.

      Placebo (Pasteurised Milk Powder) 20 gms thrice a day for 4 weeks

      + Antibiotics + Diuretics + drugs for HE + Terlipressin for HRS + acid suppression for
      prophylaxis against gastrointestinal hemorrhage + EVL for variceal bleed + if indicated.

      Study Methods Enrolment of patients, assessing eligibility and obtaining informed consent
      will be carried out by P.I. of each center Study Intervention

      Treatment for SAH:

        1. Enteral nutrition: Protein 1.5 gm/kg/day, energy (kcal) 30-40/day, B complex vitamins
           daily.

        2. Pasteurized Bovine colostrum (20gm thrice a day) for 4 weeks in one arm or Placebo
           (Pasteurize milk) 20gms thrice a day for4 weeks .

      Laboratory tests

      Liver biopsy: Transjugular liver biopsies will be obtained before start of therapy diagnosis
      of Alcoholic hepatitis [if possible]

      Biochemical tests

      Hemogram, blood glucose, liver function tests, prothrombin time, serum electrolytes, blood
      urea and serum creatinine will be done at baseline, and at and 7th day,14 days, 21 days , 28
      days and then bimonthly for two monthsor earlier if indicated.

      Microbiologic tests:

      A diagnostic paracentesis will be done in all patients with ascites, at baseline, to diagnose
      Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis. A repeat cell count (Total and differential) shall be done
      on day 5 in patients diagnosed to have Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis. Blood culture,
      urine culture, cultures of aspirates from endotracheal tubes in ventilated patients for
      aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, and fungi shall be done on at admission. A chest radiograph
      shall also be done.

      Endotoxin level estimation, alpha TNF,IL6& IL8 will be done at baseline and at end of
      treatment.

      Tests for etiologic evaluation:

      Etiology of cirrhosis will be taken as alcohol if there is a history of significant alcohol
      intake (20 gm/day for females, and 80 gm/day for males for 10 years or more). Each patient
      will be tested for Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and Anti-hepatitis C (HCV) antibody
      using a third generation commercial ELISA. Wherever indicated, autoimmune hepatitis will be
      diagnosed using antinuclear antibody, anti-smooth muscle antibody and anti-LKM; and
      hemochromatosis using serum iron, TIBC, ferritin and transferrin saturation. Each patient
      shall have an abdominal ultrasonography. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy would be done, if
      indicated.

      Ascitic Fluid analysis:Ascitic Fluid analysis will be done on 1st day and 5th day of
      treatment.

      Outcome measures and endpoints Primary outcome measure

      Survival at 3 month

      Secondary outcome measure

        1. Survival at 1 months

        2. Change in mDF levels/ MELD will be measured at baseline and after 4 weeks of treatment

        3. Change in Endotoxin levels will be measured at baseline and after 4 weeks of treatment

        4. Change in Cytokines levels will be measured at baseline and after 4 weeks of treatment

        5. Number of episodes of sepsis (bacteremia, Pneumonia, SBP, Cellulitis, UTI)

      Study Endpoints

        1. Liver related death

        2. Liver Transplantation

        3. Death due to other causes

        4. Complication of Disease (GI Bleed, Renal failure, Sepsis)

      Monitoring for Adverse Events:

      Any adverse event will be recorded specifying the time of onset, the duration, the severity
      and the relationship to the test medication.

      Tolerability

      Tolerability of the study drug will be assessed by comparison of full blood cell count, liver
      function tests and renal function tests at baseline and at end of treatment.

      Follow-up All patients will be followed up to 3 months or until death. The status alive or
      dead will be assessed by telephoning a family member or by contacting the death registry at
      patients at birth place or place of residence.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Comparisons will be made with the Wilcoxon or t test for continuous variables according to
      the normality of distribution, and the χ2 test or Fisher exact test for qualitative
      variables. All results of continuous variables were expressed as means and 95% confidence
      intervals (CIs) for continuous variables and as the frequencies, percentages, and 95% CIs for
      categorical variables. The primary results will be presented for all analyses as unadjusted.
      The cumulative incidence of death will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method in each
      treatment group. The statistical significance of hazard ratio (HR) for treatment allocation
      will be tested using the Cox proportional hazards regression model. The potential
      heterogeneity in the treatment effect according to different study centers will tested by
      adding an interaction center × treatment in the Cox proportional hazards regression model.
      Potential risk factors will be first tested by the Cox proportional hazards regression model
      in univariate analysis. Prognostic variables with a significance at a level of less than 0.10
      in univariate analyses will be included in a multivariable Cox proportional hazards
      regression model after removing variables showing a high degree of co - linearity. Factors
      included in a composite score will not be included in multivariable analysis to avoid bias
      related to the effect of co - linearity. All statistical analyses were performed in the
      intention- to-treat population as well as per-protocol population.

      We are planning a study of 2 independent groups in the ratio of 1:1. Prior data indicates
      that when 40 patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery were randomized and given 56 g
      daily of Bovine Colostrum for 3 days preoperatively) or placebo and the course of the plasma
      endotoxin levels and the endotoxin neutralization capacity (ENC) were measured daily up to
      the 10th postoperative day10. The results showed that the LPS-levels in the LC1-group,
      expressed as AUC, were significantly lower than those in the control group (p < 0.05). The
      difference between the two groups was apparent on the day of the operation and the day after.
      The fall in endotoxin neutralizing capacity (ENC) was significantly lower in the patients
      treated with the BCC and the return to initial values was faster than in the control group (p
      < 0.006).

      In the second randomized study, 40 gms of Bovine Colostrum were given perioperatively to 60
      open heart surgery patients without any decrease in LPS levels or fall in the ENC.(11) The
      correct dose appears to be 60 grams and the number of patients required to be randomized
      should be more than 40 patients (10,11).

      Sample Size:The Survival rate of patients in standard medical treatment arm was 22% (Am J
      Gastroenterol 2014; 109:1417-1423). There is no contemporary Randomized controlled trial on
      the such type of patient (mDf >60, MELD >30). We consider a 20% increase in survival rate to
      clinically meaningful and sufficient to change practice. To detect a 20% increase in survival
      (from 22% to 42 %) in 3 month, The sample size based on survival at a fixed time point (22%
      vs 42% at 3 months), we require 79 per group + 10% drop outs. The total sample size required
      for the study is 174.
    
  