
    
      The 2019 NSECE COVID-19 Follow-up Study includes three surveys: 1) NSECE COVID-19 Follow-up
      Home-based Provider Survey; 2) NSECE COVID-19 Follow-up Center-based Provider Survey; and 3)
      NSECE COVID-19 Follow-up Center-based Workforce Survey. This study aims to collect data from
      programs and individuals that completed interviews in the 2019 NSECE, regardless of whether
      or not they are still providing ECE services at the time of the follow-up surveys, with some
      exceptions (see Eligibility subsection below). The resulting data will document the
      experiences of ECE providers during the COVID-19 pandemic.

      The study has a two-wave design, with surveys to be fielded in Fall 2020/Winter 2021 and
      Spring 2021. Wave 1 of the study includes all providers that completed interviews in 2019.
      For home-based providers and center-based workforce respondents, Wave 1 of the study will
      collect data from the same individuals interviewed in 2019. For center-based providers, Wave
      1 of the study will collect data from center directors interviewed in 2019 or, if they are
      unavailable, other individuals knowledgeable about the center's operations. Wave 1 of the
      study will collect data on whether providers were still providing ECE services in February
      2020, that is, prior to the pandemic emergency. Providers or center-based workforce members
      that had permanently ceased ECE services prior to February 2020 would not be fielded for Wave
      2. Any providers or center-based workforce members who were participating in ECE provision at
      the onset of the pandemic will be fielded for Wave 2, so that trajectories of ECE
      participation, including temporary closures as well as permanent exits, can be identified in
      the Wave 2 interview. We note that home-based provider survey respondents are both ECE
      providers as well as members of the ECE workforce.

      NSECE COVID-19 Follow-up Home-based Provider Survey. The purpose of this survey is to
      understand home-based providers' practices and statuses since March 2020, as well as personal
      impact on providers. The respondents for this survey include home-based providers who
      participated in the 2019 NSECE and reported getting paid for their work looking after
      children. The COVID-19 follow-up survey will ask home-based providers questions related to:
      1) Employment Calendar (including the current status of the respondent's home-based program,
      employment changes and gaps since February 2020, and wages received) ; 2) Experience of
      Pandemic Assistance Programs (which will gather information about applications for program
      assistance, assistance received, and sources of information the respondent used to learn
      about child care and other types of assistance available); 3) ECE Practices during Reference
      Period (such as exposure to COVID-19, special health practices, and staffing and enrollment
      changes since March 2020/date of last interview); 4) ECE Status during Focal Week (covering
      items about cost of care, comprehensive services, and characteristics of the children
      enrolled during the last week of October 2020/April 2021); and 5) Current Personal
      Information (consisting of questions related to the respondent's current financial health,
      physical and mental health, household composition, and future ECE plans).

      NSECE COVID-19 Follow-up Center-based Provider Survey. The purpose of this survey is to
      understand center practices and statuses since March 2020. The respondents for this survey
      include center-based providers who participated in the 2019 NSECE. The questionnaire will
      collect information on five topics: 1) Care Status Calendar (including the current status of
      the center-based organization, number of closures and openings since February 2020, reasons
      for closing, and reasons or conditions for reopening); 2) Experience of Pandemic Assistance
      Programs (applications for program assistance, assistance received, and sources of
      information the respondent used to learn about providing child care during the COVID-19
      pandemic); 3) ECE Practices during Reference Period (including exposure to COVID-19, special
      health practices, types of contact with children when closed); 4) ECE Status during Focal
      Week (including items about cost of care, comprehensive services, program expenditures, and
      characteristics of staff and enrolled children during the last week of October 2020/April
      2021); and 5) Current Personal Information (questions about the respondent's future ECE plans
      for themselves and for the organization as a whole).

      NSECE COVID-19 Follow-up Center-based workforce Survey. The purpose of this survey is to
      understand ECE professional experiences and personal impact on ECE workers since March 2020.
      Respondents for this survey will include center-based classroom staff who completed the 2019
      Center-based workforce questionnaire. The survey will include five sections: 1) Calendar
      (confirming employment status with center-based organization from 2019 NSECE); 2) Experience
      of Pandemic Assistance Programs (incorporating questions about questions about the sources of
      information the respondent used to learn about providing child care during and any special
      situations they may have worked under the COVID-19 pandemic) ; 3) ECE Practices during
      Reference Period (including information about any program exposure to COVID-19, special
      health practices, types of contact with children when closed, and any professional
      development activities during the pandemic); 4) ECE Status during Focal Week (information on
      the groups of children the respondent works with, child care activities planned, job stress,
      and center-based organizational support during the last week of October 2020/April 2021) ;
      and 5) Current Personal Information (asks questions about respondent's current financial
      health, physical and mental health, household composition, and future ECE plans).
    
  