
    
      This is a phase I/II study to determine the safety and tolerance of the protease inhibitor
      indinavir (MK-0639), alone and then in combination with HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitor
      therapy in children with HIV infection. Indinavir sulfate (the capsule formulation) has been
      shown to have potent antiviral activity and an acceptable safety profile in adults.
      HIV-infected children who have not received prior antiretroviral therapy, and children who
      have become refractory to prior therapy, or who have experienced toxicity to prior therapy,
      will be included. In addition, we will explore viral and CD4 cell kinetics before starting
      therapy and following exposure to antiretroviral agents.

      The study will be conducted in three parts.

        1. In order to help interpret the antiviral activity of indinavir, the virologic and
           immunologic profile of children will be studied within 2 weeks prior to starting the
           therapeutic part. For children who have never been treated, this will be before the
           initiation of any antiretroviral therapy and for children who have already received
           antiretroviral therapy, this will be done during the initial "wash-out" phase that is
           routinely interposed between two different treatment regimens.

        2. The initial 16 weeks of therapy will then evaluate the toxicities, pharmacokinetics, and
           preliminary efficacy of single drug therapy with indinavir.

        3. Subsequently, all children who are able to tolerate the combination of zidovudine and
           lamivudine (i.e., have no prior history of intolerance to one of these two agents) will
           be treated with these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors in addition to the protease
           inhibitor indinavir. Zidovudine and lamivudine will be added after 16 weeks at a fixed
           dosage. Toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary efficacy of indinavir will also be
           investigated after combination therapy. All patients who wish to remain in this study
           after 96 weeks of therapy and who do not meet off study criteria will be permitted to
           receive extended treatment with their current indinavir combination therapy for an
           additional 48 weeks. The study will determine the pharmacokinetic profile of indinavir,
           given as single drug or in combination with zidovudine and lamivudine. It will assess
           the preliminary antiviral and clinical activity by monitoring clinical status, viral
           burden in plasma, and markers of immunologic status. Based on safety and preliminary
           efficacy results from studies performed in adults, we will study three dose levels which
           are expected to result in drug levels above the IC95 of HIV-1 for all or most of the
           dosing interval.
    
  