
    
      Objective:

      The objective of the trial is to ascertain the benefits and the implications of using the
      Amparo socket technology within the context of two pre-existing prosthetic services in
      Eastern Africa.

      Design:

      The trial is a phase one, exploratory single group trial. 4 Certified Prosthetist Orthotists
      (CPOs) will be trained to use the Amparo socket technology. Over a 7-month period, 40 lower
      limb amputees will be recruited to participate in the study where they will be fitted with
      the Amparo socket technology. Follow-up after one month of using the product will help build
      understanding their experience with the new prosthetic leg.

      There will be a beginning and end surveys and interviews with each of the 4 CPOs.

      Video and written observations will be taken of both the traditional socket making method and
      the Confidence Socket method for comparison.

      Amputee participant surveys and assessments will be collected at each fitting, and follow-up
      visit.

      Intervention:

      The intervention for the study is to introduce a new fitting method and product for lower
      limb prosthetic, namely the Amparo Confidence Socket consisting of the socket and liner
      components. All other components of the prosthesis should remain the same as what is
      typically used in the respective organizations.

      Population:

      Professionals who craft prosthesis for amputees (CPOs) and Below-knee amputees who are able
      to and desire to use a prosthesis who reside in Kenya.

      Outcome Measures:

      CPO comfort level, perceived competence, and acceptance of the Confidence Socket Technology.

      Patient quality of life measure Patient mobility measures Comparative task model between
      traditional method and the Amparo socket technology

      Duration and follow-up:

      The trial will last approximately 7 months. Starting from the first introduction of the new
      technology until the final interview with each CPO has been completed.
    
  