
    
      Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) affects up to 70% of patients who undergo stem cell
      transplantation. GVHD is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, and commonly
      affects the skin, liver, and gastrointestinal (GI) system. Gastrointestinal (GI)
      manifestations of GVHD include anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. In
      patients with GI GVHD, the extent of gut involvement and its relationship to underlying
      symptoms is unclear. Furthermore, diagnosis requires histologic evaluation that entails
      cumbersome invasive endoscopic procedures for tissue procurement. Histologic findings that
      support this diagnosis are nonspecific and have poor sensitivity and specificity. Treatment
      of GI GVHD is also nonspecific, and has many systemic side effects that account for a large
      portion of associated morbidity and mortality.

      Such uncertainties regarding the diagnosis and treatment of GI GVHD stem from a lack of
      understanding of the pathophysiology of the disease. Cytokines produced by T lymphocytes,
      mononuclear phagocytes, and natural killer cells have been shown to play an integral role in
      the regulation of tissue damage. Human studies performed to date have examined peripheral
      blood cytokines, but results have been conflicting and with little clinical correlation.
      Current analysis of gut tissue has been limited mostly to animal subjects with little
      correlation to humans.

      The primary objective of this study is to identify areas of the GI tract to be biopsied that
      would achieve the highest yield for the diagnosis of GI GVHD. This will be accomplished by
      performing esophagogastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, and ileoscopy in all post transplant
      patients with GI symptoms, suspected to be due to GVHD. Endoscopic biopsies will be evaluated
      by a single designated GI pathologist to make the diagnosis of GVHD. A novel application of a
      quantitative histological apoptotic assay will be evaluated in a blinded fashion for its
      diagnostic utility. A GVHD diagnostic yield rate for each area of the GI tract will be the
      primary outcome measure.

      Other biopsies obtained at baseline, following the conditioning regimen as well as before and
      after therapy for GI GVHD will be used to achieve the secondary objective of understanding
      the immune response underlying GI GVHD. A comprehensive evaluation of the inflammatory milieu
      of gut tissues will be achieved using immunohistochemistry and flow cytometric
      immunophenotyping of mucosal mononuclear cells and microarray, qRT-PCR and ELISA of mucosal
      cytokines. Other secondary objectives include the evaluation of serum proteomic pattern
      analysis, serum citrulline, fecal calprotectin and 18F-FDG PET/CT for the noninvasive
      diagnosis of GI GVHD.

      Better understanding of the pathophysiology of GI GVHD will allow us to develop more focused
      and effective diagnostic and therapeutic options that are less invasive and have fewer
      systemic side effects leading to reduced morbidity and mortality.
    
  