
    
      There a multiple appointments throughout the study which can vary depending upon if a patient
      has the disease present or not.

      If the patient has gum disease: At the initial examination, some samples will be collected:
      the natural fluid that comes from the gums and the bacteria that are present there will be
      collected by inserting a piece of paper and a filter strip in the spaces between teeth and
      gums; blood samples may also be taken by a phlebotomist to evaluate some inflammatory signs
      of disease and possible genetic markers (about 5 teaspoons at each visit); and a cheek swab
      may be taken by gently rubbing a little brush into the inside of the cheeks. Patients also
      may be asked to spit into a container we provide. Tissues from gums that are usually
      discarded may also be collected during treatment. When patients return for re-evaluation of
      their gums, all these samples may be collected again at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the
      initial therapy. After 24 months, only clinical examinations may be performed, up to 3 more
      visits within the following 3 years.

      If the patient does not have gum disease: If gums are healthy and the patient does not need
      treatment, they will be seen every 6 months for examination and cleanings, then sample
      collections may also be taken at these visits up to 24 months. These sample collections are
      done to be studied by genetic tests, which will tell us if there are specific genetic markers
      (inherited markers) associated with this disease, and also other laboratory testing, which
      will help the researchers identify how the body responds to bacteria. These markers will also
      be evaluated in family members (parents, grandparents or siblings), when possible, to check
      for the likelihood of these members developing this disease.

      Regardless of the patient's gum condition, investigators will also evaluate current and past
      dental x-rays to determine if there were signs of this disease in the past.

      Investigators may also take photos of the teeth and gums.
    
  