
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare the relative bioavailability and
      therefore the bioequivalence of a test formulation of Lovastatin tablets to an equivalent
      dose of Mevacor® tablets after a single oral dose administered under fed conditions.

      Fifty-four healthy, light/non/or ex-smoking, non-obese, male volunteers at least 18 years of
      age will be randomly assigned in a crossover fashion to receive each of two Lovastatin dosing
      regimens in sequence with a 7 day washout period between dosing periods. On the morning of
      Day 1, after an overnight fast of at least 10 hours, subjects will receive a standardized
      high-fat, high-calorie meal 30 minutes before drug administration. Thirty minutes after the
      start of the breakfast, a single oral dose of either the test formulation, Lovastatin (1 x 40
      mg tablet), or a single oral dose of the reference formulation, Mevacor® (1 x 40 mg tablet)
      will be administered. After a 7 day washout period, on the morning of Day 8, following an
      overnight fast of at least 10 hours and 30 minutes after the start of a standardized
      high-fat, high-calorie meal, subjects will receive the alternate regimen. Blood samples will
      be drawn from all participants before dosing and for 24 hours post-dose on a confined basis
      at times sufficient to adequately define the pharmacokinetics of Lovastatin. Blood sampling
      will then continue on a non-confined basis at 36 and 48 hours post-dose. A further goal of
      this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of this regimen in healthy volunteers.
      Subjects will be monitored throughout the confinement portion of the study for adverse
      reactions to the study drug and/or procedures. Vital signs will be monitored if judged
      necessary by the physician in charge. All adverse events whether elicited by query,
      spontaneously reported, or observed by clinic staff will be evaluated by the Investigator and
      reported in the subject's case report form.
    
  