
    
      Background:

        -  In prior trials we have shown that adoptive transfer of lymphocytes, transduced with a T
           cell receptor (TCR) that recognizes the NY-ESO-1 antigen, can mediate regression of
           metastatic cancer, though responses are often transient, and complete responses are
           rare.

        -  Interleukin-12 (IL-12) is an important immunostimulatory cytokine. We have constructed a
           retroviral vector that contains an inducible single chain IL-12 driven by an NFAT
           responsive promoter which can be used to mediate transfer of this gene into anti-tumor
           lymphocytes. This construct enables the secretion of IL-12 following stimulation of the
           TCR.

        -  Transduction of the IL-12 gene into mouse anti-tumor lymphocytes results in a profound
           increase in the ability of these lymphocytes to mediate tumor regression following
           administration to tumor bearing mice. These cells have a profound advantage in inducing
           anti-tumor responses because very few cells are needed and there is no requirement for
           the concomitant administration of interleukin-2 (IL-2) as is the case for conventional
           cell transfer immunotherapies.

        -  Based on these studies we have now used a retrovirus that encodes an inducible human
           single chain IL-12 driven by an NFAT responsive promoter and a retrovirus that encodes
           an anti-NY-ESO-1 TCR to cotransduce autologous lymphocytes for the treatment of patients
           with metastatic cancer that expresses the NY-ESO-1 antigen.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the safety of the administration of IL-12 and anti-NY-ESO-1 engineered
           lymphocytes in patients receiving a non-myeloablative conditioning regimen.

        -  To determine if the administration of the transduced lymphocytes to patients following a
           nonmyeloablative but lymphoid depleting preparative regimen will result in clinical
           tumor regression in patients with metastatic cancer.

      Secondary objective:

      - To determine the in vivo survival of cotransduced gene-engineered cells.

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are 18 years of age or older must have

        -  Metastatic cancer whose tumors express the ESO antigen;

        -  ECOG performance status 0 or 1;

      Design:

        -  Autlogous lymphocytes will be cotransduced with retroviral vectors, encoding IL-12 and
           anti- NY-ESO-1 TCR.

        -  Patients will receive a nonmyeloablative but lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by intravenous infusion of
           IL-12/anti-ESO TCR gene-transduced lymphocytes.

        -  Patients will undergo complete evaluation of tumor with physical examination, CT of the
           chest, abdomen and pelvis and clinical laboratory evaluation four to six weeks after
           treatment. If the patient has SD or tumor shrinkage, repeat complete evaluations will be
           performed every 1-3 months. After the first year, patients continuing to respond will
           continue to be followed with this evaluation every 3-4 months until off study criteria
           are met.

        -  The study will be conducted using a Phase I/II optimal design. The protocol will proceed
           in a phase 1 dose escalation design. Initially, the protocol will enroll 1 patient in
           each of the first 3 dose cohorts unless that patient experiences a dose limiting
           toxicity (DLT). Following cohort 3, all subsequent cohorts will proceed in a phase 1
           dose escalation design, with 5 cohorts of n=3. Should a single patient experience a DLT
           due to the cell transfer at a particular dose level, additional patients would be
           treated at that dose to confirm that no greater than 1/6 patients have a DLT prior to
           proceeding to the next higher level. If a level with 2 or more DLTs in 3-6 patients has
           been identified, three additional patients will be accrued at the next-lowest dose, for
           a total of 6, in order to further characterize the safety of the maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) prior to starting the phase II portion. If a DLT occurs in the first cohort, that
           cohort will be expanded to 6 patients. If 2 DLTs are encountered in this cohort, the
           study will be terminated.

        -  Once the MTD has been determined, the study then will proceed to the phase II portion
           using a phase II optimal design where initially 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled
           in each of 2 cohorts. If 0 or 1 of the 21 patients experiences a clinical response, then
           no further patients will be enrolled but if 2 or more of the first 21 evaluable patients
           enrolled have a clinical response, then accrual will continue until a total of 41
           evaluable patients have been enrolled.

        -  The objective will be to determine if the combination of lymphocyte depleting
           chemotherapy, and IL-12/ESO TCR gene engineered lymphocytes is associated with a
           complete response rate that can rule out 5% (p0=0.05) in favor of a modest 20% PR + CR
           rate (p1=0.20).
    
  