
    
      Acne vulgaris is one of the most common skin conditions in teenagers that often persists into
      adulthood. It is a chronic inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous unit resulting from four
      main factors: increase of sebum production, follicular hyperproliferation and
      hyperkeratinisation leading to comedones formation, inflammation and proliferation of the
      bacteria Propionibacterium acnes.1,2 Acne affects nearly all people between the ages of 15
      and 17 years and in 15 to 20% of young people, acne is moderate to severe. The prevalence of
      acne in 12-24 years is 85%. 3 The presence of acne may have psychologic or emotional impact:
      it may negatively affect mood, quality of life and self-esteem in adolescents and adults and
      can increase the risk of anxiety, depression and suicidal ideation2,3. There is not always a
      correlation between the acne clinical severity and the quality of life.

      According to its severity, the acne vulgaris can be treated locally with topical agents used
      alone or in combination, such as benzoyl peroxide, retinoids (adapalene…), antibiotics,
      azelaic acid, etc.

      Oral treatments are usually taken for more severe acne and include antibiotics,
      contraceptives and isotretinoin. They also can be used in combination with local
      treatments.1,4

      The product RV3278A is a non-rinsed cosmetic cream intended to be used every day on
      adolescents and young adults with acne-prone skin.

      In accordance with the Pierre Fabre laboratories safety charter, a full program of tolerance
      has been performed including pre-clinical and clinical studies in healthy volunteers. The
      product presents a sufficient safety level to be used for this protocol.

      The use of cosmetics in acne is well established. The goals of cosmetics in acne are

        -  to complement drug therapy, by alleviating their side effects and thereby improving
           treatment adherence.

        -  to contribute to improving the status of the clinically non-lesional skin.

      Clinically non-lesional skin in acne patients (CNLSAP) is well known for its greasiness,
      which is due to overproduction of sebum.

      Another important character of the CNLSAP is the "invisible microcomedone" (IMC).

        1. IMC can be visualized by "stripping-it-out" with cyanoacrylate.

        2. IMC is composed as a mixture of cellular components of the follicular infundibulum, and
           sebum lipids, both of which can be analysed ex-vivo by all tools of currently available
           technology.

        3. IMC is considered to be the root of any subsequent clinical lesion, both non-
           inflammatory ones (open and close comedones microcysts) and inflammatory ones (papules
           pustules etc..)5

        4. The number/cm2 and size of the IMC are highly variable and correlate with subsequent
           acne severity.

        5. Therefore, any cosmetic product able to modify the number/cm2 and size of the IMC would
           contribute to maintain healthier skin in acne patients and reduce the use of drug
           therapy.

      A pilot study in acne patients has shown that an herbal extract used topically for several
      weeks months was able to reach such goals.

      The present study is aimed at reproducing these results in several dermatology practices in
      Europe.
    
  