
    
      This study will take place in an academic/training facility at Lehigh Valley Health Network
      simulating intubation during a bio-terrorism attack. As a part of their usual (standard of
      care) residency education, the study volunteers will be participating in a day-long airway
      training course in the Fall of 2013 where each of the tested devices will be introduced and
      the residents will be able to practice using them on a variety of training mannequins.

      As part of this training, the enrolled study subjects will be timed using each of three
      intubation devices, both with and without wearing biohazard protective gear, for a total of
      six measurements per resident. Residents will have been assigned chronological numbers as
      they arrived and signed in for the course. These numbers will be also used for study
      identification numbers. Subjects will be randomized by odd or even identification numbers as
      to whether they will make their initial attempt in street clothing or the biohazard suit.
      This will help control for individual subject's skill learning. The subject will then
      intubate the same mannequins using each of the tested devices.

      The order of devices used will be the same as in actual clinical practice: 1) Direct
      Laryngoscopy (the classic standard of care), 2) the GlideScope or C-MAC video laryngoscope
      (fiber-optic technology, which has become increasingly popular among emergency physicians),
      and 3) the Supraglottic Airway Laryngopharyngeal Tube airway device (an inexpensive,
      convenient supraglottic device that allows for a blind intubation technique through the
      device).

      Data will be collected, per device, on the time taken and tubes used for each attempt.
      Demographic information will also be collected from participants such as gender, resident
      year, prior intubation experience, prior exposure to each of the tested devices, and
      experience wearing a biohazard suit. Study participants' satisfaction with each of the
      devices will also be recorded.
    
  