
    
      Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a major metabolic disease that is characterised by a reduced or
      impaired capability of the body to regulate its blood glucose levels. The disease is now
      reaching pandemic levels. The global prevalence for DM (across all age groups) was estimated
      to be 2,8% in 2000, and it will rise to 4,4% by 2030. In real numbers this implies from 171
      million people to 366 million people will be affected globally. This rise will certainly have
      an impact of the health care system of many countries. Most of the DM patients will be
      managed at primary health care level.

      It has become clear that the difficulties in achieving a satisfactory level of health care
      delivery for DM patients are not related to the availability of knowledge of the disease, nor
      the best diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, but rather to system and organisational
      problems. Many of the complications of diabetes are potentially preventable or can be
      minimized if earlier action has been taken. The chronic nature of the disease and the need
      for the empowerment of the patient and the health workers in understanding the disease to
      ensure optimal glucose control makes DM an ideal disease to test new models of health care
      delivery which can include patient empowerment, health worker empowerment and the use of
      telemedicine and E-Health .

      It is believed that the current primary health care approach is not allowing for sufficient
      time and personnel to provide patients with optimal care and to screen for diabetic
      complications. Currently only the blood pressure and random blood glucose measures are taken
      at Primary Health Care (PHC) facilities, even though the national policy for the management
      of diabetes prescribes the monitoring of complications at least once a year.

      This study investigates the benefits of a comprehensive mobile screening effort to identify
      and to improve the early detection of diabetes-related complications. With the expected
      improvement in disease management and patient specific outcomes, this study will contribute
      to policy changes for diabetes management at primary health care level.

      This study differs from other studies that evaluated complications in isolation. It aims to
      evaluate the efficacy of a complex intervention that provides an interface for Specialist
      from Family Medicine and Internal Medicine to collaborate and includes a mobile comprehensive
      complication screening service. The study also provides opportunity for training of clinic
      staff as well exposure and training of Clinical Associates regarding diabetes care and
      complication screening and management. It is envisaged that the structured screening and
      review programme will provide evidence for ways to ensure future collaboration enhancing
      diabetes patient outcomes.

      The aim of this pragmatic study is to investigate the effectiveness of a mobile complication
      screening team and expert review and collaboration between tertiary care specialist and
      primary care generalist for improving optimal, comprehensive diabetic care at the primary
      health care level in one of the districts in South Africa, using a cluster randomized control
      design.

      STUDY DESIGN A two arm Pragmatic Cluster Randomised Controlled Trial (C-RCT) with an active
      arm consisting of a mobile screening service and a control arm which receives standard care.

      2. A cross sectional descriptive study of patients not enrolled in the trial but attending
      the screening visit (in the clinics known as the intervention clinics).

      SETTING Primary Health Care (PHC) Clinics that are situated in the Tshwane Health District,
      Gauteng Province, South Africa.

      PATIENT/RESEARCH OBJECT SELECTION All patients with type 2 DM and type 1 DM with minimum of
      five years duration will be considered for both the intervention and the comparison arm.

      Only patients over the age of 18 years will be enrolled into the study (Children with
      diabetes are not managed at Primary Care level).

      The first 50 patients meeting selection criteria will be enrolled in the study (maximum 5
      type 1 patients per clinic). The rest of the diabetics at the clinic will also be invited
      onto the mobile clinic for the purposes of screening for complications, but their data will
      be kept separate from the study population's data. It will also be analysed separately.

      The study budget only allows for laboratory testing of the 600 study participants.

      Sample Size:

      Prior to randomization all eligible clinics will be stratified according to the following
      criteria and intervention and control clinics will be matched accordingly:

        1. Type of clinic (primary care clinic or health care centre)

        2. Clinic with or without full time physician in attendance

        3. Number of patients with diabetes seen in a month ( <>200 per month)

      The investigators have no reason to believe that quality of care indicators or HbA1c will
      differ between clinics.

      A restricted randomization procedure using a random number table will be carried out by an
      independent researcher to ensure equal numbers of clinics in each group.

      The sample size is based on a cluster sampling estimate done in STATA Intercooled Version 10.

      Primary outcome 1: Lowering of HbA1c from 9.5% to 8.5% (thus 1% reduction) using ANCOVA
      adjusting for baseline HbA1c; SD=2.4 &r=0.65,ICC=0.05 for continuous variable; Alpha-value=
      0.05 and Power of 90% = 198 patients in each arm in 12 clusters are required.

      Primary outcome 2: DM Complications Detection Proportion improvement from 10% to at least 30%
      (thus 20% improvement); ICC=0.02 for binary variable; Alpha=0.05 and power=90% giving an
      estimated sample size of 275 in each arm.

      In order to ensure adequate randomization and compensate for possible loss to follow up 300
      patients will be evaluated in each arm (at baseline and at final evaluation).

      DATA ANALYSIS:

      The unit of analysis in Cluster RCT's can change, depending on the level of inference:

        1. Individual level - e.g. clinics are the unit of randomization and patients are the unit
           of analysis

        2. Cluster level - e.g. Clinics are the unit of randomization and results are analyzed by
           clinic Both levels of analysis will be used in the data analysis of this study.

      Baseline and end of study process measures and outcome measures:

      Data will be entered twice (and validated) in Epidata (V3.1). Analysis will be done in Stata
      Intercooled Version 11. The analysis would use ANCOVA, linear regression and logistic
      regression adjusting for baseline values and the effect of clustering and/or mixed effects
      modelling.

      Descriptive analysis of the study population will be done, before between cluster- and within
      cluster analysis will be performed.
    
  