
    
      BACKGROUND: Extreme low birth weight infants (ELBW, < 1000 gram birth weight) are typically
      dependent on parenteral nutrition (PN) for a prolonged period of time. This puts them at risk
      for development of liver complications of PN, namely parenteral nutrition associated
      cholestasis (PNAC).

      Intravenous lipid emulsion (ILE) based on soy bean oil are standard of care in preterm
      infants, but might be implicated in the pathogenesis of PNAC. Fish oil is rich in omega-3
      long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA) that particularly accumulate in liver and
      brain of the fetus during the last trimester of pregnancy. In pediatric patients, ILEs based
      on pure fish oil are proposed as a rescue therapy of PNAC.

      Recently a mixed lipid emulsion containing 15 % fish oil together with soy bean , olive and
      MCT oil has become available for PN in Europe. Such a balanced lipid emulsion might be more
      favourable than the standard soy bean oil emulsion (Intralipid速) concerning the development
      of PNAC. Furthermore ILEs containing fish oil might exert a positive effect on
      neurodevelopment. However there are no data so far.

      AIM: To evaluate a fish oil containing ILE (SMOFlipid速) for its prophylactic effect on PNAC
      in ELBW infants compared to a soy bean based ILE (Intralipid速).

      STUDY DESIGN: Double blind prospective randomized trial.

        -  Primary Outcome: PNAC defined as two conjugated bilirubin > 1.5 mg/dl measurements on
           two consecutive occasions.

        -  Secondary Outcome: The most important secondary outcome is neurodevelopment at 12 and 24
           months of corrected age.

        -  Exploratory Outcomes: Brain maturation measured by amplitude integrated EEG (aEEG) and
           flashed visual evoked potentials as available from clinical routine examinations

      HYPOTHESIS: The use of a mixed lipid emulsion containing fish oil (SMOFLIPID速) will reduce
      the incidence of PNAC compared to a standard soy bean oil based lipid emulsion.
    
  