
    
      At the shock trauma center, the management of patients with NSTI is conducted in the
      following fashion: All new patients with NSTI are admitted to the trauma center through the
      12-bed shock trauma admitting area. Full hemodynamic resuscitation is undertaken. The on-call
      soft-tissue and infection team is mobilized. Standard investigations, radiographic
      evaluations, and laboratory tests, including gram stain and culture specimens, are obtained.
      The University of Maryland Medical Systems/shock trauma laboratory is utilized for
      hematology, biochemical, and bacteriologic studies. Aggressive empiric broad-spectrum
      antibiotic therapy is instituted. The standard antibiotic therapy for NSTI's at shock trauma
      includes the following:

      Gram negative rods: Piperacillin/Tazobactam or quinolones or aztreonam /

      + aminoglycosides Anaerobes: Piperacillin/Tazobactam or Metronidazole or Clindamycin Gram
      positive cocci (not MRSA/VRE): Piperacillin/Tazobactam or Clindamycin Gram positive cocci
      (MRSA): Vancomycin Gram positive cocci (VRE): Linezolid For purposes of this study,
      daptomycin would replace Vancomycin, Linezolid or clindamycin for gram positive coverage.
      Prior antibiotic therapy, culture data, comorbid conditions, allergy history and other
      variables may result in institution of a different antibiotic regimen.

      The patient is taken to the shock trauma operating room for debulking of infected tissue
      (excision and debridement) and reculturing. Postoperatively, the patient is moved to a
      critical or intensive care unit for further management and monitoring. When the patient is
      stable, HBO is begun within 12 hours of arrival. Once the patient is enrolled in the study
      the following procedures will be followed:

      Antibiotic Therapy:

      Once the patient is consented, the antibiotic therapy will be started. The combination
      regimen will include the following drugs in standard approved dosing.

        -  Gram negative bacteria: Aztreonam or ciprofloxacin / + aminoglycosides*

        -  Anaerobic bacteria: Metronidzole

        -  Gram positive bacteria: Daptomycin For all patients the recommended dose of Daptomycin
           will be 6 mgm/kg/day administered over 30 minutes. A pharmacokinetic study performed in
           obese patients demonstrated that daptomycin could be dosed based on total body weight.
           No adjustment in daptomycin dose should be required based solely on obesity (12). Any
           patient who develops a decrease in renal function during the study to the point where
           his/her creatinine clearance (CrCl) falls below 30 mL/min would have their dose adjusted
           to 6 mg/kg every 48 hours, the interval recommended by the package insert. This includes
           patients who go on to require conventional hemodialysis. Since there are no data
           available on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of daptomycin in patients receiving continuous
           renal replacement therapy (CRRT), and therefore no recommendation for dosage adjustment,
           these patients would be removed from the study and initiated on a standard of care
           regimen . Treatment duration will be 7-14 days.

             -  Aminoglycosides will be added if there is suspicion or documentation of resistant
                gram negative rods.

      At various intervals, the following information will be collected or procedures will be
      followed: (See attached study schedule) Baseline

        1. Demographic data - age, gender, weight, height, nursing home residence

        2. Number and length of previous hospitalizations in last six months

        3. Nature and duration of symptoms

        4. Admission status including vital signs, GCS, APACHE, SIRS scores, CBC with diff, CPK,
           lactate, BUN, creatinine, liver function tests, blood gases if on ventilator, cultures
           of wound-aerobic and anaerobic.

        5. Prior surgery for NSTI - number and dates

        6. Comorbid conditions - diabetes, peripheral vascular disease, immunocompromised, etc.

        7. Prior antibiotics over last six months - dose/route/type

        8. Prior cultures of NSTI, presence of resistant bacteria.

        9. Wound size - length, depth in cm.

       10. Use of drugs such as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors

      At various intervals, the following procedures will be followed:.

        -  GCS, vital signs, CBC, CPK, BUN, creatinine, liver functions, blood gases if ventilated

        -  Wound size in cm

        -  Surgical intervention

        -  Cultures of wound, (both aerobic and anaerobic), blood, super infections. Preferably
           cultures of the debrided tissue or purulent material will be obtained. If there is no
           tissue or pus available, only then a deep culture of the wound will be obtained. The
           culture will be evaluated in the microbiologic lab for gram stain, culture (aerobic and
           anaerobic if already indicated) and antimicrobiological sensitivity (by standard CLSI
           (NCCLS) techniques. The organisms in the study will be identified at the genus and
           species level.

        -  LOS - hospital, ICU

        -  Wound dressing - type

        -  Use of vacuum assisted dressing

        -  Duration of antibiotic therapy

        -  Adverse events

        -  Mortality

        -  Patient will be evaluated clinically on a daily basis by several clinical services
           (surgery, infectious diseases, critical care, hyperbaric medicine)and safety labs will
           be obtained every 3-5days. If a patient is failing therapy then based on available
           microbiological determinants, patient will be changed to an appropriate antibiotic
           regimen.

      The End points of the study are as follows:

        -  clinical cure at 7-14 days

        -  clinical failure at any point after 72 hours of treatment

        -  if the patient is clinically cured and there is persistence of initial infective
           organism in the wound culture, the study would be terminated. However, if the patient is
           worse then appropriate treatment will be initiated and study drug will be discontinued.

        -  if the patient experiences a serious adverse event related to the study drug, the study
           drug will be terminated.

        -  if the patient decides to withdraw consent.

      Clinical Response at the end of treatment (7-14 days) and test of cure (3-28 days) post end
      of treatment):

        -  Cure: Resolution of clinically significant signs and symptoms* associated with the
           infected wound present at the time of study entry and no additional gram-positive
           antibiotic therapy is needed until the end of treatment visit.

        -  Improved: Partial resolution of clinical signs and symptoms* of the wound (e.g.,
           although the patient's clinical status has not completely returned to pre-infection
           baseline, the infectious process has been controlled) and no additional gram-positive
           antibiotic therapy is needed until the end of treatment visit.

        -  Failure: No response or worsening of clinical signs and symptoms of infection; or new
           signs and symptoms of infection are present; or additional gram-positive antibiotic
           therapy is needed until the end of treatment visit.

        -  Unable to Evaluate: Unable to determine response; e.g., no evaluation performed at the
           time point, or administration of non-study antibiotics effective against a study
           pathogen.

           * Clinically significant signs and symptoms are:

        -  pain out of proportion to clinical findings

        -  tenderness to palpation

        -  elevated temps.[100.4] or reduced temps.[>96]

        -  WBC counts > 12.000/cu.mm

        -  swelling

        -  erythema

        -  induration

        -  pus formation

      Microbiological Response at End of Treatment and Test of Cure Visit:

        -  Documented Eradicated: The baseline infecting pathogen was absent at end of treatment as
           determined by a negative culture result.

        -  Presumed Eradicated: The baseline infection was presumed absent at the end of treatment
           as determined that there was "nothing to culture".

        -  Documented Persistent: The baseline infecting pathogen was present at the end of
           treatment.

      Patients will also be monitored for 3 - 28 days post therapy.

      Analysis Because of the small sample size (25 patients) stated above, this study will serve
      as a preliminary study to obtain data to evaluate the presence of positive trends in terms of
      outcome in the patients treated with Daptomycin. If favorable, this would warrant a larger
      prospective controlled study in which a larger sample size would allow for a more robust
      statistical analysis. Variables in the initial analysis will include antibiotic days,
      intensive care unit and hospital length of stay and mortality.
    
  