
    
      An adaptive approach that tries minimal, low resource treatments (i.e., technology tools) for
      everyone first, and reserves the use of higher-resource components (e.g., coaching) for
      survivors who fail to increase MVPA, offers a promising alternative to traditional
      approaches. This engages women who lack the time or transportation to participate in more
      intensive interventions, yet avoids providing high-resource components to those who would
      respond well to a lower-dose intervention. Our success with integrating Fitbit MVPA data into
      the electronic health record (EHR) with the capability to provide weekly progress feedback to
      participants via the EHR's patient portal represents a relatively low resource (vs. coaching
      or supervised exercise) and potentially efficacious16-19 minimal intervention that could be
      augmented as needed. Placement of the intervention within the EHR is a major advance because
      it communicates that MVPA is central to survivors' health and is a priority of the cancer
      care team. Clinicians can be engaged to ensure the intervention is viewed as integral to
      survivorship care with minimal burden by referring patients to an EHR-based intervention,
      endorsing intervention messages delivered via the EHR and reviewing a patient's progress at
      their clinic visits using simple EHR alerts.

      While the Fitbit plus EHR integration (Fitbit+EHR) minimal intervention will be sufficient
      for some survivors to increase their MVPA, others will need more support. Little data exists
      to determine what strategies would be most effective for augmenting a minimal intervention.
      Further, it is unknown how long the minimal intervention should be continued before
      augmentations are used. Some survivors may need more support early on, while others may
      initially succeed but later fail as the weekly MVPA goal increases. Still others may falter
      initially and recover. Thus, this project uses an innovative adaptive experimental approach,
      to determine the optimal augmentation tactics to our minimal (Fitbit+EHR) MVPA intervention
      in inactive breast and endometrial cancer survivors (n=320). All women will receive the
      Fitbit+EHR intervention. Those who do not respond (meet ≤80% of MVPA goal over previous 4
      weeks) will be randomized to one of two more intensive augmentation tactics using technology,
      alone, or in combination with a more traditional component: (1) online gym with access to
      exercise videos or (2) coaching calls. Participants in the minimal intervention will be
      evaluated for non-response every 4 weeks so augmentation is delivered when they lapse.
      Responders will continue with the minimal intervention. The primary outcome is
      accelerometer-measured weekly minutes of MVPA at 6 months. The investigator will also examine
      the effects of the intervention sequences on symptom burden and functional performance,
      important indicators of morbidity in these populations.

      This is the first systematic effort to develop an adaptive MVPA intervention in any cancer
      population. Knowledge gained from this study will inform the development of effective,
      scalable clinic-based interventions to improve quality of life and reduce disease burden
      among breast and endometrial cancer survivors.
    
  