
    
      This double blind randomized-controlled trial will assess the clinical efficacy, mortality
      reduction and viral load reduction of clarithromycin and FFA in patients hospitalized for
      pneumonia secondary to influenza infection.

      The investigators plan to enroll at least 200 adult patients. Enrolled patients will be
      randomized into 2 groups. Group 1: oseltamivir 75mg + clarithromycin 500mg + FFA 200mg all
      twice daily for 2 days, followed by oseltamivir 75mg twice daily for 3 days ; Group 2:
      oseltamivir 75mg + two placebo capsules (identical in appearance to clarithromycin and FFA
      capsules respectively) twice daily for 2 days, followed by oseltamivir 75mg twice daily for 3
      days. The placebo capsules will contain inactive starch. All patients will receive a 5-day
      course of amoxicillin-clavulanate 1g bid for empirical coverage of community acquired
      pneumonia and esomeprazole 20mg daily for prevention of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      related gastropathy.

      Randomized treatment will be double blinded. Patients will be assigned to serial number by
      the study-coordinator. Each serial number will be linked to a computer-generated
      randomization list assigning the antiviral treatment regimens. The study medications will be
      dispensed by the hospital pharmacy and then to the patients by the medical ward nurses who
      will not know the treatment regimen of any subsequent patients. Enrolled patients could not
      differentiate the study or the placebo medication capsule which will be identical in
      appearance. The placebo capsules will contain inactive starch.

      There will be 50% chance of random assignment into one of the treatment or control arms.

      Clinical data, nasopharyngeal aspirate (NPA) and blood specimens will be collected daily if
      possible from admission till discharge, transfer to convalescent hospitals or death. All
      enrolled patients will be invited to the Infectious Disease outpatient clinic in Queen Mary
      Hospital for follow-up at 1 and 3 months after discharge. The investigators will retrieve
      your clinical information from the Clinical Medical System in the Queen Mary Hospital during
      follow-up.
    
  