
    
      Patient engagement (or participation) is a critical cornerstone for patient-centered care,
      including inpatient spinal cord injury (SCI) rehabilitation. Researchers have defined patient
      engagement as a deliberate effort and commitment to working toward the goals of
      rehabilitation therapy, typically demonstrated through active participation and cooperation
      with treatment providers. Our previous work has shown that patient engagement is an important
      determinant of positive rehabilitation outcomes, as higher levels of patient engagement are
      associated with increased functional improvement and shorter lengths of stay. In the field of
      SCI research, we recently investigated personalized trajectories of engagement in
      occupational therapy (OT) inpatient rehabilitation in relation to patient outcomes. We found
      that a subgroup of patients who sustained high levels of engagement during the rehabilitation
      stay were more likely to have better functional, psychosocial, and participation outcomes at
      discharge and one-year post-injury than subgroups of patients whose levels of engagement
      progressively deteriorated. Other researchers found similar results for physical therapy (PT)
      inpatient interventions, suggesting that engagement in rehabilitation is predictive of
      whether the patient is discharged to home and the patient's level of involvement in work or
      school one-year post-injury. Given the promising results of Enhanced Medical Rehabilitation
      (EMR) interventions in SNFs, an important step for expanding the use of EMR is to customize
      it to other target populations and practice settings in order to enhance its reach. We
      propose a modification of EMR adapted for inpatient SCI rehabilitation using the
      Collaborative Intervention Planning Framework. We will then pilot test the efficacy of EMR
      versus SOC rehabilitation on improving patient engagement and treatment intensity
      (processes), and enhancing function and psychosocial recovery (outcomes). Thus, the aims of
      this study are to conduct intervention adaptations to the EMR program for patients in
      inpatient SCI rehabilitation and conduct a pilot RCT to demonstrate the benefits of EMR over
      SOC treatment in inpatient SCI rehabilitation.

      Despite the demonstrated relationship between patient engagement and functional
      outcomes/psychosocial recovery, several factors may affect engagement in rehabilitation,
      including goal setting, therapeutic connection, personalization, patient-centered
      rehabilitation, autonomy, and feedback. Many of these factors are influenced by how
      therapists deliver their interventions; the patient-clinician interaction is the foundation
      for successful engagement in rehabilitation. Thus, achieving strong patient engagement
      depends on a high level of targeted interaction from therapists responsible for providing
      rehabilitation services. Unfortunately, improving the therapist's ability to engage patients
      during clinical practice is challenging given the changing and competing demands of the
      real-world rehabilitation environment. This "environmental barrier" concurs with findings
      from our recent qualitative study exploring perceived barriers of patient engagement
      implementation in SCI rehabilitation. We found that unavailability of hospital resources and
      insurance restrictions can undermine rehabilitation by restricting the patient's ability to
      reach personal treatment goals. For instance, one patient discussed treatment goals that may
      not be person-centered, but rather are centered on satisfying insurance reimbursement: "They
      [providers] create goals. They have to. It's part of the insurance thing. They have to report
      every couple of weeks to see where you are going, how you are progressing against something
      measurable, I understand that. The problem is you get folks [therapists who say] 'Oh I got to
      write some goals for this guy. Oh, well, he will be able to pick his nose.'" Similarly,
      another hospital-level barrier that undermines engagement in SCI rehabilitation is the lack
      of structured training for therapists to support patient engagement. A therapist in the focus
      group said, "I mean…[the] individual manager, the team leader will find a way to foster staff
      development to help with engagement. I can't think of any such big hospital-wide
      initiatives." To address these barriers, we developed Enhanced Medical Rehabilitation (EMR)
      to teach occupational and physical therapists a set of behavioral skills to engage patients
      and involve them in high-intensity therapy in order to optimize functional and psychosocial
      outcomes of patients in medical rehabilitation (please refer to Research Plan for details on
      EMR). It is important to note that EMR is a "how" intervention, not a "what" intervention.
      Its skill set integrates into existing OT/PT practices rather than adding new activities,
      exercises, or another specialist to the setting. The difference between EMR and standard of
      care (SOC) OT/PT is the effort necessary to engage the patient and provide high-intensity
      therapy. For this reason, EMR can integrate well into real-world OT/PT practices regardless
      of the patient's primary impairment, comorbidities, or other contextual factors. Currently,
      we have successfully tested EMR for older adults receiving post-acute rehabilitation. In
      particular, we found that: (1) EMR can be implemented in real-world skilled nursing
      facilities (SNFs). Occupational and physical therapists who were trained and supervised
      carried out EMR with high treatment fidelity. (2) Patients receiving services from EMR
      therapists demonstrated greater treatment intensity and patient engagement in rehabilitation
      compared to those receiving services from SOC therapists. (3) EMR improves rehabilitation
      outcomes. Patients randomized to EMR had better improvement in depressive symptoms and
      function than controls. (4) EMR overcomes barriers to rehabilitation. Those vulnerable to
      poor rehabilitation outcomes-patients with multiple medical comorbidities, cognitive
      impairment, and/or depression-benefitted the most from EMR. In spite of preliminary evidence
      suggesting the benefits of EMR, it remains unknown whether the EMR skills, therapist
      training, and coaching protocol, treatment fidelity methods, processes, and outcome measures
      developed for older adults in SNFs will be clinically relevant to the inpatient
      rehabilitation setting and acceptable to SCI populations. Thus, we will utilize an
      established implementation science approach to customize an existing EMR program to a new
      patient population and a new setting. We will use the Collaborative Intervention Planning
      Framework (CIPF) to customize the EMR program to patients with SCI in inpatient
      rehabilitation facilities (IRFs). This framework will help us move from intervention planning
      to pilot test through a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the feasibility of the
      adapted EMR and explore its initial effects.

      This proposed study addresses the problem of suboptimal patient engagement in SCI
      rehabilitation. Most persons following SCI go to an IRF for an average of 35 days of OT/PT.
      This is a narrow window of opportunity for persons with SCI to regain enough function to
      return home and live independently. Unfortunately, "failed rehabilitation" often results
      because SOC therapy is not sufficiently patient centered and is of low intensity. As a
      result, SOC therapy does not adequately engage and benefit patients for positive
      rehabilitation outcomes.

      Post-acute OT/PT is often low in intensity. This observation may seem counterintuitive, as
      IRF rehabilitation involves up to three hours of daily contact. However, actual time spent on
      OT/PT is typically less than that. Scheduled therapy time may greatly overestimate actual
      active time during sessions; studies using ACTi Graph accelerometry monitors and observers
      counting repetitions have found a low intensity of treatment in a variety of post-acute
      rehabilitation settings. Two major factors may account for this low intensity of post-acute
      rehabilitation. First, occupational and physical therapists often do not strive for high
      intensity. Second, the interaction with patients may be unengaging for patients because
      therapists do not explicitly use principles of engagement, including patient-directed therapy
      and frequency feedback. The low intensity of post-acute rehabilitation has caught the
      attention of rehabilitation providers and policymakers, with evidence showing that
      rehabilitation outcomes have not significantly improved despite an increase in billed therapy
      hours over recent decades.

      Research shows a positive relationship between patient engagement and rehabilitation
      outcomes. Thus, to improve the outcomes of patients in inpatient SCI rehabilitation, we must
      address the problems of low intensity and poor patient engagement in rehabilitation. EMR is
      an evidence-based intervention that therapists can use to engage patients participating in
      high-intensity therapy and that has been successfully tested in SNFs. Yet, to date, there is
      no data showing that EMR can work in inpatient SCI rehabilitation facilities. Thus, the
      overall goals of this project are to adapt the EMR intervention to a new patient population
      (i.e., from older adults to SCI) and new setting (i.e., from SNFs to IRFs), as well as to
      assess the feasibility of this adapted intervention to improve functional and psychosocial
      outcomes of inpatients with SCI. If we demonstrate the feasibility and efficacy of adapted
      EMR, our next step is to conduct a full-scale test of the effectiveness of the adapted EMR
      and its implementation in inpatient SCI rehabilitation settings. Success in this line of
      research will ultimately improve inpatient SCI rehabilitation, making it more patient
      centered, to benefit the 285,000 people currently living with SCI, people with a new injury,
      and their families.

      This application is consistent with the Foundation's mission to improve the quality of life
      for those affected by and living with SCI. Our study aims to develop an evidence-based
      intervention that teaches therapists a set of patient engagement skills with the goal of
      improving patient function and other rehabilitation outcomes. This intervention will
      establish a new standard for the delivery of SCI care, particularly in the area of
      rehabilitation. We propose that therapists who acquire EMR skills will improve patients'
      engagement and the intensity of therapy, leading to better function, treatment satisfaction,
      and life satisfaction, and reduce depressive symptoms. Additionally, this EMR project will
      support the Foundation's core value of psychosocial research to inform best practices that
      are more patient centered by optimizing quality interactions between practitioners and
      individuals with SCI.

      AIM 1: Conduct intervention adaptations to the EMR program for patients in inpatient SCI
      rehabilitation Aim 1.1: Create a stage to foster partnership and collaboration among
      implementers of the EMR program Hypothesis 1.1: An SCI Community Advisory Board (SCI-CAB),
      including clinicians, administrators, investigators, and peer specialists/patient advocates,
      will be assembled to learn and review the EMR program.

      Aim 1.2: Conduct needs assessment to understand the problems of current SCI practice
      Hypothesis 1.2: SCI-CAB members will successfully identify the engagement-related needs and
      areas for intervention adaptations for inpatients with SCI.

      Aim 1.3: Review intervention components of the original EMR program to identify targets for
      adaptation Hypothesis 1.3: SCI-CAB members will successfully identify specific adaptations to
      intervention content or delivery, including the objectives, methods, materials, and
      theoretical foundations of the EMR program.

      Aim 1.4: Incorporate adaptations into the EMR program for inpatient SCI rehabilitation
      Hypothesis 1.4: We will finalize the EMR manual and materials, and train EMR supervisor and
      therapists.

      AIM 2: Conduct a pilot RCT to demonstrate the benefits of EMR over SOC treatment in inpatient
      SCI rehabilitation Aim 2.1: Examine the preliminary efficacy of EMR for improving patient
      engagement and treatment intensity Hypothesis 2.1: EMR will improve engagement and intensity
      to a greater extent than SOC rehabilitation.

      Aim 2.2: Examine the preliminary efficacy of EMR for improving functional and psychosocial
      outcomes Hypothesis 2.2: EMR will improve functional and psychosocial outcomes to a greater
      extent than SOC rehabilitation.
    
  