
    
      Questions: Does exercise improve physical performance, activity, and quality of life in obese
      diabetic patients with chronic kidney disease? Design: Randomized controlled trial with
      concealed allocation, intention-to-treat analysis, and blinded assessment.

      Participants: Sixty people aged between 35and 60 years were admitted to a department of
      Internal medicine .Cairo University hospitals divided randomly into two Groups Intervention:
      group 1 received aerobic exercises. Patients exercise at 40 to 60% of maximum heart rate. The
      exercise period comprised the following: the warming up phase (3-5 min), which included
      aerobic movement exercise of range of motion joints: rotating the wrist (20 rpm clockwise and
      20 rpm counter clockwise), wrist up and down (up to 20 moves on the forearm), ankle twisting
      motion (40 rotations clockwise and counterclockwise around the ankles), and ankles up and
      down (20 times); the actual phase (20-30 min), which included cycle ergo meter exercise with
      12-13 rated perceived exertion; and finally the cooling down phase (3-5 min) in the form of
      the same aerobic movements as performed in the warming up phase. Exercises done three times
      per week for three months and group 2 received resistance exercises.training of the lower
      extremities was performed three times per week for three months. Starting weights for knee
      extension and hip abduction and flexion were determined from a three-repetition maximum
      repetition maximum(RM) using ankle weights that can be adjusted in 1 lb. increments. A RM is
      the maximum weight that can be lifted three times with proper technique. Training started at
      approximately 60% of 3 RM for two sets of 10 repetitions and was increased to three sets as
      tolerated. When patients could perform three sets with correct technique, the weight was
      increased. In addition to knee extension and hip flexion and abduction, ankle dorsiflexion
      and plantar flexion were performed during each exercise session Outcome measures: physical
      activity was measured via timed up and go test, sit to stand test, number of
      sit-to-stand-to-sit cycles in 60 seconds, 6 minutes walking test. Obesity was measured by
      BMI, waist circumference and waist to hip ratio. Also Blood pressure (systolic/diastolic
      blood pressures, Mean blood pressure, heart rate and blood glucose were measured before
      exercise. The perception of exercise intensity was assessed by Original Borg Scale. All
      measurements were taken at the beginning and after three months of treatment.
    
  