
    
      The pituitary gland in the brain is the master hormonal gland and is surrounded by important
      nerves and blood vessels. The pituitary gland can develop various types of tumors, some which
      do not produce any hormones and are called non-functioning pituitary adenomas. These
      non-functioning tumors can grow and can cause compression of these important structures. The
      usual treatment of large non-functioning pituitary macroadenoma is surgery. As it is
      surrounded by neuro-vascular bundles, this makes complete removal of the tumor sometimes
      impossible and even dangerous. A large number of subjects will still have some residual tumor
      post-surgery. The risks of residual tumor are further growth with compression and compromise
      of the function of surrounding vital organs especially vision.

      If there is further growth of the tumor the options at present are repeat surgery or
      radiotherapy. Repeat surgery involves all the risks associated with brain surgery and
      sometimes may not be possible if very close to vital organs, while radiotherapy will over a
      period of time lead to complete or partial deficiency of pituitary hormone function and has
      been associated with long term cognitive deficits. In addition radiotherapy has a lag time of
      12-24 months prior to onset of action.

      However, pituitary tumors that do not actively secrete hormones may still harbour receptors
      to various hormones. The blockage of these receptors by various medications may enable us to
      stop the tumor from growing or recurring after surgery. This may open up a novel means of
      treatment of these non functioning tumors. So far there is very little information in the
      literature about the type of receptors present in these tumors.

      Our study proposes to obtain a piece of the tissue removed during surgery and perform
      receptor characterization to help improve our knowledge in that area. Also correlating the
      receptor status with the clinical, hormonal and radiological profile of the patients may help
      to develop improved treatment strategies in the future and help us to predict the possibility
      of tumor regrowth.
    
  