
    
      Background:

      Diagnosis of significant stenosis of the coronary artery and managing the ischemia is
      important to prevent cardiac events. Coronary CT angiography (CTA) is one of the current gold
      standard methods to assess coronary stenosis as well as coronary angiography (CAG), but both
      coronary CTA and CAG are limited by radiation exposure or contrast media administration.

      Magnetic resonance coronary angiography (MRCA) has its advantage in its ability to assess the
      coronary artery morphology without radiation or contrast media. Unfortunately, the clinical
      application of MRCA is still challenging mainly because of technical limitation such as its
      time-consuming image acquisition, inconsistent image quality, and low spatial resolution.

      Optimization of MRCA image acquisition process is under great interest and compressed sensing
      (CS) is one of the promising methods to reduce the acquisition time. Although it's noise-like
      granular characteristics is a weakness due to its random k-space data acquisition. The
      granularity may affect the interpretation of the MRCA images considering the small diameter
      of the coronary arteries. To solve this problem, post-processing denoising approach with deep
      learning reconstruction (dDLR) is proposed, however too much image smoothing may lead to
      unfavorable image blurring or produce artefactual smoothing leading to the removal of
      clinically meaningful signal intensity drops across the artery. Hence, merely assessing the
      noise level is insufficient. Evaluation of the optimized images with coronary CTA, which is
      one of the current gold standards, is inevitable to assess its clinical feasibility.

      The lack of a consensus method to assess the coronary stenosis on MRCA is another problem.
      MRCA interpretation is generally performed visually, but its quantification is clinically
      important to detect the significant stenosis. A previous study has reported by investigating
      the signal intensity (SI) profile across the coronary artery and its drop of 35% corresponded
      to significant stenosis by coronary angiography (CAG). Although this SI drop phenomenon was
      not observed in a different study on chronic total obstruction cases. One of the hypothesized
      reasons is that the SI drop in MRCA is affected not only by the stenosis severity but also
      the plaque characteristics, which is not assessable by CAG. To confirm this hypothesis
      coronary CTA is needed, which is a robust modality to assess coronary stenosis and plaque
      characteristics. Comparison between MRCA with CTA has the potential to give better
      information for developing a robust method to assess MRCA.

      In this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the feasibility of MRCA scanned with
      optimized protocol and post-processing, and to develop robust coronary artery assessment
      method on MRCA, by comparison with clinical coronary CTA.

      Study Procedures:

      This is a prospective, non-randomized study. Overall 50 participants in total will be
      recruited within 12 months. Each participant will undergo one non-contrast MRI.

      The candidate for recruitment will be clinical patients who underwent clinical coronary CTA
      within 6 months. Candidate participant selection will be performed by investigating the
      electronic medical record (EMR). Then the candidate participants will receive a phone
      screening using a questionnaire which contents are corresponding to the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria (which will be described later). When the candidate fulfills all the
      criteria and if the person gives consent, the investigators will recruit the person into this
      study. The written consent will be obtained at the MRI preparation room from one of the study
      team members. The consent to use the previously scanned coronary CTA is obtained at the same
      time of consent for the MRI, although the investigators do not include the clinical CTA
      acquisition into this study protocol because it is a routine clinical care that performed
      previously.

      Before the MRI scanning, the participant will get blood pressure measurement to confirm the
      systolic blood pressure (SBP) ≥110 mmHg, which is an inclusion criteria for a sublingual
      nitro tablet be administered to the participant in advance to the MRI. Sublingual nitro
      tablet administration is aimed to dilate the coronary artery, which is a routine procedure in
      coronary CTA as well. When the SBP was <110 mmHg, then the participant will not receive the
      sublingual nitro. The participant will undergo non-contrast cardiac MRI, including
      non-contrast whole heart MRI with T2-prepared segmented fast low-angle shot 3D spoiled
      gradient echo sequence with ECG-gating, diaphragm navigator-gating, and fat suppression. All
      the scans will be performed with a 3 Tesla Vantage Galan scanner (Canon Medical systems).
      After the acquisition, the MRI data will be reconstructed and then undergo post-processing
      denoising. The DICOM images will be anonymized and stored in a folder for this study inside
      Hopkins network.

      The MRCA and CTA image assessment will be performed from anonymized images on workstations
      with suitable function.
    
  