
    
      This study will attempt to answer the following questions:

        1. What are the specific needs for clinical content among various clinical personnel
           (nurses, residents, and attendings) on different services at two different hospitals
           (MGH, BWH)?

        2. How can IT support sign-out that facilitates interdisciplinary communication and yet
           preserves user-specific content among different clinical personnel?

        3. Can a sign-out tool currently deployed at MGH be transferred to BWH using existing IT
           services and a minimum amount of local IS effort?

        4. What will be the future needs of this tool so that it can fully access data from
           MetaVision once it is deployed?

        5. How should the tool be further improved such that it optimizes user adoption, provider
           satisfaction and workflow, the quality of sign-out, and continuity of care?

        6. Is it feasible for a future, refined version of this tool to be adopted across Partners
           acute care hospitals?

      The study design is an observational, before-after pilot study. A multi-disciplinary steering
      committee and working group will be assembled to determine requirements and guide design in
      conjunction with HPM leadership, research staff, a Partners IS analyst, and MGH LCS
      personnel. The intervention will then be implemented on two services. Before and during
      implementation, several outcomes will be measured, including provider satisfaction and
      workflow, continuity of care, and quality of sign-out.

      Deliverables will include the following:

        1. Clinical and functional specifications for a new web-based sign-out tool

        2. A prototype of the sign-out tool tested on 2 active clinical services, one each at MGH
           and BWH

        3. A report of the impact of the tool on clinical care

        4. Lessons learned regarding design and implementation that can be applied to more
           broad-based efforts

        5. An update to the Sign-out White Paper with recommendations for action based on the
           results of this study The lessons learned will be applicable not only to Partners, but
           to other institutions (nationwide and worldwide) wishing to improve patient safety
           during handoffs in care.
    
  