
    
      Adult patients with severe chronic kidney disease (CKD) are immunocompromised and known to
      have an increased risk of pneumococcal infection. To prevent the infection, immunization with
      pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) is currently recommended in Canada; however, the
      vaccine effect in these patients is suboptimal because of their immune dysfunction. The
      second-generation pneumococcal vaccines (polysaccharide-protein conjugate) have superior
      immunogenicity in some immunocompromised adult individuals. In Canada, Prevnar 13 has
      recently been recommended by the NACI for certain categories of immunocompromised adults,
      such as HSCT recipients and HIV-positive patients. However, the NACI has concluded that there
      is currently insufficient evidence to recommend the use of Prevnar 13 in patients with
      chronic kidney disease. No published data on the use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines in
      adults with CKD are available. Moreover, it is unknown whether a previous immunization with
      PPV23 may have a negative effect on the immune response to Prevnar 13 in these patients. Such
      a possibility exists due to the memory B-cells' depletion following immunization with pure
      polysaccharide antigens. In this case, additional doses of Prevnar 13 may be required to
      achieve the optimal protection. The conjugate vaccine will then expand the B-cell pool
      available to respond to subsequent antigen challenge. To test whether previous immunization
      with PPV23 affects the immune response of severe CKD patients to Prevnar 13, we will immunize
      two groups of adult stage 4 and 5 CKD patients attending the Thunder Bay Regional Health
      Sciences Centre with one dose of Prevnar 13 and will assess their initial immunological
      response, its longevity, and vaccine safety. The first group will consist of patients who had
      been immunized with PPV23 more than one year prior to the enrollment in this study and the
      second group will include patients without history of pneumococcal vaccination. Fold increase
      in antibody levels and OPA, as well as longevity of the immune response over a one-year
      period will be assessed as the surrogate for protection against pneumococcal infection. The
      immune response will be analyzed in the context of demographic and clinical characteristics
      of the vaccinated patients. All infectious episodes in the study participants will be
      recorded throughout one year of observation. We will also record all vaccine adverse effects
      following immunization and compare their frequency and severity between the two groups. The
      anticipated results of this trial will provide essential evidence to justify the use of
      Prevnar 13 for immunization of adult CKD patients.
    
  