
    
      Insulin produces vasodilatory, anti inflammatory and anti thrombotic effects (1-4). . However
      the effects of pulsatile intravenous insulin delivery on circulating risk factors for
      vascular and metabolic disease is unknown. This study is used to evaluate circulating risk
      markers of vascular and metabolic disease compared to a matched control group.

      Protocol Patients selected have diabetes mellitus, 20 years of age and older, and are treated
      with oral agents and/or insulin. The study is for a minimum of 12 months and may continue for
      2-3 years if a significant difference is shown following the initial 12 months. Blood markers
      will be determined every 12 months for the first year, and every 12 months after that. They
      may include the following: BNP, fructosamine, PAI-1, fibrinogen, homocysteine, endothelin 1,
      aldosterone, VCAM, ICAM, IGF-1, TGF-beta, TNF-alpha, hs-CRP, and IL-6). The results are
      compared to an age and fructosamine matched control group.

      Endpoints; Changes in markers Statistics: ANOVA Blood: 2 purple, 2 red, 2 blue tops

      The respiratory quotient (RQ) is a measurement of CO2 exhaled and O2 inhaled and is
      proportionate to the fuel sources being used by the body, primarily the liver over short
      periods of time. The higher the RQ, the more glucose and less alternative fuel sources are
      being utilized. Following the RQ change helps determine the effectiveness of physiological
      insulin administration in increasing anabolic functions in diabetic individuals. By improving
      the body's glucose metabolism and thereby causing beneficial effects of anabolic factors, the
      possibility of serious complications can be decreased. In addition the use of oral
      carbohydrate at the same time along with the physiologic insulin administration stimulates
      the appropriate gut hormones which augment this effect, a response which cannot be duplicated
      with intravenous glucose. The purpose of our studies is to determine whether the physiologic
      administration of pulsatile intravenous insulin along with the augmenting effect of oral
      carbohydrates will normalize metabolism in diabetic patients and improve their quality of
      life indices.

      The RQ is determined by the use of a metabolic cart. Individuals breathe into a mask for 3-5
      minutes after a rest period of 30 or more minutes. The ratio of exhaled volume of CO2 to the
      inhaled volume of O2 is determined as the RQ. The physiologic range is 0.7 to1.3. Individuals
      using fat as a primary fuel have a ratio of 0.7, protein or mixed fuels is 0.8-0.9 and
      carbohydrate is 0.9-1.0. Those taking excessive calories will have RQ's higher than 1.05. The
      RQ can be followed serially and this is done twice, before and after each treatment, during
      the 3 successive sessions on a single treatment day. The amount of intravenous insulin and
      oral glucose given is determined by the RQ changes during the previous session.

      Pusatile intravenous insulin delivery is a process which encourages the glucose metabolism in
      diabetics to normalize in multiple organs, especially muscle, retina, liver, kidney and nerve
      endings. The process fundamentally requires the administration of high dose intravenous
      insulin pulses similar to those found in non diabetic humans by their pancreas into the
      surrounding portal circulation. Oral carbohydrates are given simultaneously to augment the
      process and prevent hypoglycemia. The process is monitored by frequent glucose level
      measurements and respiratory quotients (RQ). RQ is measured by a metabolic cart which
      determines the ratio VCO2/ VO2. This ratio is specific for the fuel used at any one time by
      the body. The glucose levels are monitored to keep glucose levels appropriate and the RQ
      determines the need to readjust the infusion protocol in each patient for subsequent insulin
      infusion sessions. Pulsatile intravenous insulin delivery is done over 1-hour periods with a
      up to a 1-hour rest period between each session for three courses each day of activation.

      References:

      Katakam PVG, Tulbert CD, Snipes JA, Erdos B, Miller AW, Busija DW, Impaired Insulin-induced
      Vasodilation in Small Coronary Arteries of Zucker Obese rats is Mediated by Reactive Oxygen
      Species, AJP-Heart 288:854-60, 2005.

      Chakraborty K Sinha AK, The Role of Insulin as an Antithrombotic Humoral Factor, BioEssays
      26:91-98, 2003.

      Elias AN, Eng S, Homocysteine Concentrations in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus-Relationship
      to Microvascular and Macrovascular Disease, Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism 7:117-21, 2005.

      Patiag D, Qu X, Gray S, Idris I, Wilkes M, Seale JP, Donnely R, Possible Interactions between
      Angiotensin II and Insulin:Effects on Glucose and Lipid Metabolism in vivi and in vitro,
      Journal of Endocrinology 167: 525-31, 2000
    
  