
    
      (Visit 1) All interested women undergoing a scheduled IUD insertion will be screened for
      inclusion/exclusion criteria by the study coordinator or investigator prior to their clinic
      visit.

      (Visit 2) After meeting eligibility criteria and being consented for the study, a subject
      will be ready to be randomized. Subject in both groups will fill out a visual analogue score
      (VAS) before and after the procedure grading their pain. Subjects will be instructed to call
      the investigator if they experience any abnormal uterine bleeding or problems with their IUD.

      Subjects will then be randomized to one of two groups:

      Group A: traditional blind IUD insertion. Group B: transabdominal ultrasound guided IUD
      insertion. Subjects will be randomized to either US guided or traditional placement of IUD
      using 1:1 allocation. The randomization scheme for this study will use variable-size, random
      permuted blocks where the variable block sizes are 2,4 and 6.

      (Visit 3) Subjects will be scheduled to return to REI clinic 4-6 weeks (Visit 2) after
      insertion of the IUD as routine follow-up. Subjects will be asked about any adverse events. A
      routine string check in the form of a speculum exam will be performed in addition to a
      transvaginal ultrasound to confirm positioning of the IUD. If malposition is determined, then
      routine care will be to remove the IUD. The ultrasound operator will be blinded to the
      subject's arm in the study

      (Visit 4) At 6 months subjects will be scheduled to return to REI clinic to have an IUD
      string check and if no strings are visualized then this will be categorized as malposition
      and the investigator will continue with routine care and work up Subjects who return to
      clinic for Visit 4 will also have a transvaginal ultrasound performed.

      If the subject does not present for a clinic follow up, then she will be contacted by the
      Study Coordinator or investigator via phone to see if they still have their IUD in place (and
      when it was removed or lost).

      All subjects will be surveyed for pain with the VAS and any adverse events (including
      abnormal uterine bleeding) will be recorded. All subjects will be asked to categorically rate
      their satisfaction with the IUD on a Likert Scale.

      The total duration of the study is 6 months.
    
  