
    
      In this study, patients with DMD due to a nonsense mutation will be treated with a new
      investigational drug called PTC124. To determine if a patient qualifies for the study
      evaluation procedures will be performed within 21 days prior to the start of treatment; these
      procedures include: history, physical examination, blood and urine tests to assess organ
      function, electrocardiogram (ECG), muscle biopsy for evaluation of dystrophin protein, and
      DMD-specific tests of muscle function (for patients who are able to perform such tests).
      Eligible patients who elect to enroll in the study will then participate in a 28-day
      treatment period and a 28-day follow-up period (56 days total). The first 6 patients to be
      enrolled will take PTC124 treatment 3 times per day with meals for 28 days at doses of 4
      mg/kg (breakfast), 4 mg/kg (lunch) and 8 mg/kg (dinner); these patients will then be observed
      during a 28-day follow-up period without treatment. Next, 18 additional patients will be
      enrolled to take PTC124 treatment 3 times per day with meals for 28 days at doses of 10 mg/kg
      (breakfast), 10 mg/kg (lunch), and 20 mg/kg (dinner); these patients will then be observed
      during a 28-day follow-up period without treatment. Subsequently, 6-12 additional patients
      will be enrolled to take PTC124 treatment 3 times per day with meals for 28 days at doses of
      20 mg/kg (breakfast), 20 mg/kg (lunch), and 40 mg/kg (dinner); these patients will then be
      observed during a 28-day follow-up period without treatment. There will be a 2-night stay at
      the clinical research center at the beginning and at the end of the 28 days of PTC124
      treatment. To assess efficacy, patients will have an end-of-treatment biopsy and will undergo
      DMD-specific tests of muscle function (for patients who are able to perform such tests). To
      assess safety and pharmacokinetics, safety assessments, blood and urine tests, and ECGs will
      be performed at prespecified timepoints during the 28-day treatment period and the 28-day
      follow-up period. At the end of the 56 days, patients will be assessed periodically regarding
      their general health status; these evaluations will be performed by telephone contact at
      approximately 6-month intervals in the first 2 years and at approximately 12-month intervals
      in subsequent years (up to 5 years total).
    
  