
    
      Adjuvant chemotherapy (CTh) is an established postoperative treatment often prescribed to
      cancer patients to reduce risk of relapse. However, a great proportion of patients report
      experiencing cognitive, psychomotor, and other functional impairments associated with CTh.
      Some symptoms may persist for years after treatment and can have dramatic consequences on
      cancer survivors' quality of life. Despite numerous studies reporting various symptoms
      during/after CTh treatment, mechanisms underlying these symptoms are not well understood.
      Recent animal and human brain imaging studies suggest that CTh may have direct neurotoxic
      effects on the brain, in particular on brain white matter (WM). However, to date, no
      longitudinal studies have been done to examine the effects of CTh on cortical/subcortical WM
      integrity in human patients. Furthermore, no effort has yet been made to correlate a given WM
      structure with its corresponding neurophysiological function (NPF) and behavior. This study
      proposes longitudinal experiments in women diagnosed with breast cancer to examine the
      effects of CTh on the corpus callosum (CC) and corticospinal tract (CST) (Aim 1), on NPF that
      directly depends on the quality of CC/CST structure, and on psychomotor behavior critically
      relying on CC/CST function (conductivity) (Aim 2). The relationship between CC/CST structural
      integrity and their corresponding NPF and psychomotor behavior will also be examined (Aim 3).
      The general underlying hypotheses of the study are that (1) CTh has a direct neurotoxic
      effect on the CC and CST, resulting in microstructural degeneration and (2) structural damage
      to the CC and CST impairs relevant neurophysiological function and behavior. This research is
      expected to yield significant information regarding neural structural and physiological
      causes of CTh-related side effects; known this information would help more effectively manage
      the symptoms. By demonstrating direct evidence of detrimental consequences of CTh on the
      central nervous system, it is hoped that the evidence would encourage pharmaceutical
      companies to develop safer cancer treatment drugs.
    
  