
    
      After participant mothers have been recruited, screened, and consented into the study, each
      woman will be contacted by a member of the Assessment Team to schedule the in-home Baseline
      Assessment. The Baseline Assessment will take approximately 90 minutes to complete.

      Follow-up Assessments will take place: within a week of delivery and 6 months after delivery.
      Interviews will be audio-recorded for quality assurance purposes. The domains of the
      Follow-up Assessments will be 1) maternal weight, height, and eating and exercise routines;
      2) feeding routines, style, and frequency; 3) substance use; and 4) adherence to health care
      prenatally and postnatally, immunizations, and illnesses for mothers and babies. Secondarily,
      investigators will assess the mother's pregnancy, general health, mental health, social
      support, the father of the child, use of alternative medicine and health care, reproductive
      health, HIV, relationships and violence, baseline knowledge of antenatal health, baseline
      knowledge of delivery health, and baseline stated future plans.

      All in-home interviews will take place in a private room or area of the participant's home.
      If an in-home interview is not practical or appropriate for any reason, the interviewer will
      conduct the interview at the Robert F. Kennedy Community Schools campus, UCLA, or another
      site.

      Assessment team in-home interviews will be audio-recorded for quality assurance & supervision
      purposes. Telephone interviews will not be audio-recorded.

      ----------------------------------------------------

      IN-HOME (OR TELEPHONE) MENTOR MOTHER INTERVENTION VISITS:

      Each participant will be assigned to a Mentor Mother (MM). Participants will receive a series
      of twice-monthly, pre- and post-natal, in-home (or telephone call) intervention visits, for
      the study period of 12 months, from her assigned MM. The MM will measure the mother's height
      & weight at each intervention home visit, then proceed to deliver one of the Intervention
      Topics (e.g. nutrition, substance use awareness, infant development etc.). After the baby is
      born, the Mentor Mother will continue to record the mother's weight and height, and will also
      measure and weigh the infant, entering that data into the study mobile phone. These
      intervention visits (or phone calls) will last for approximately 1 hour each. The MM will
      address any concerns or questions the mother has, provide referrals to community resources as
      necessary, and leave handouts for the participant mother based on the day's intervention
      topic and/or the participant mother's questions that day.

      ----------------------------------------------------

      HEALTH INFORMATION MAILINGS:

      Pregnant women will receive twice-monthly mailing that will provide information about
      pregnancy, breastfeeding, nutrition, and infant care.
    
  