
    
      Background

      Body image is one of the leading concerns for young people. This is particularly concerning,
      given that body dissatisfaction is a key risk factor for serious mental and physical health
      issues, including anxiety, depression, risk taking behaviours, eating disorders and suicidal
      ideation.

      An extensive body of research highlights the negative effects associated with viewing
      idealistic media among adolescents. More recently, research has looked at harnessing media
      and technology to develop and disseminate material that disrupts and counteracts these
      harmful effects. 'Edutainment', entertainment with educational content, is an effective
      method for delivering and modelling health promotion material in mainstream media. Further,
      it offers an alternative to traditional, intense interventions that are, at times,
      unnecessary or unsuitable for milder concerns.

      Body image micro-interventions have proven effective at providing immediate and short-term
      improvements in body image among adult women, and research is beginning to explore their
      impact among young people. A recent study found that evidence-informed body image animations
      produced immediate and short-term improvements in children's body satisfaction, media
      literacy, and self-efficacy in addressing appearance teasing. However, these effects were
      less potent for older children (i.e., adolescents); which may be attributable to the use of
      cartoons, as opposed to real-life characters. The effects of viewing real-world depictions of
      positive body image attitudes and behaviours has yet to be evaluated.

      In collaboration with Dove (Unilever) and Lena Waithe (an Emmy-Award winning American
      screenwriter, producer and actress), body image experts from the Centre for Appearance
      Research (CAR) developed a series of brief videos that depict real-life characters addressing
      key risk factors for body image concerns.

      This study aims to evaluate the acceptability and impact of viewing one 5-minute episode of
      Girls Room (Episode 1: One of One') on the body image of 13-18-year-old girls from the US.
      The research questions are as follows:

        1. Does watching Girls Room result in improved body image and acceptance of diversity of
           appearance among adolescent girls compared with watching an equivalent series that is
           popular among adolescent girls and typical of content on Instagram?

           a. Are these effects moderated by the ethnicity of the viewer (Black versus all other
           ethnicities)?

        2. What degree of exposure to Girls Room (25% v 50% v 100% of content) elicits changes in
           body image and acceptance of diversity of appearance in comparison with an equivalent
           series that is popular adolescent girls and typical of content on Instagram?

        3. Does watching Girls Room result in reduced appearance-related internalized racism among
           Black adolescent girls compared with watching an equivalent series that is popular and
           typical of content on Instagram?

      Design

      This study adopts an experimental pre-post 2 x 2 x 3 design, which includes following three
      independent variables:

        1. Ethnicity of viewer (2 Levels) i. Black ii. Non-Black (this will include all other
           ethnicities expect Black)

        2. Video condition (2 levels) i. Body image video (Girls Room) ii. Equivalent series that
           is popular among adolescent girls and typical of content on Instagram (Chicken Girls)

        3. Exposure time (3 levels) i. 25% ii. 50% iii. 100%

      There are three outcome measures (dependent variables) of interest:

        1. State Body Image (primary outcome)

        2. State Acceptance of Diversity of Appearance (secondary outcome)

        3. State Appearance-related Internalized Racism- to be measured among Black girls only
           (secondary outcome)

        4. State Mood

      There is also one moderator:

      1. Ethnicity of the viewer (Black vs. Non-Black)

      Participants & Recruitment

      The current content is aimed at improving body image risk factors and increasing knowledge
      and protective factors prevalent amongst adolescent girls. Therefore, the research will
      utilise a representative sample of North American girls aged 12-18 years old. They will be
      stratified to be 50% Black and 50% other ethnicities, who are current users of Instagram or
      YouTube.

      To achieve the agreed upon research objectives and in alignment with project timelines, the
      recruitment process will be out-sourced to an external professional recruitment agency. The
      agency's brief will outline the following inclusion criteria; female North American citizens,
      aged 12-18 years old; English speaking, not participated in academic or market research
      elated to mental health or social media in the preceding 6 months. Participants will be
      offered agency credit for their participation.

      A sample size of 1,848 (308 girls per cell; 174 Black; 174 other ethnicities) is necessary
      for 90% power to dectect a small effect (Cohen's f = 0.1), and based on the assumption that
      there will be a correlation between Time 1 (pre) and Time 2 (post) measures of 0.5.

      Intervention

      Girls Room, a body image mini-series, was developed in collaboration with Lena Waithe, Dove
      and CAR. Video content was informed by empirical evidence related to body image prevention
      and intervention. The series consists of five, 3-minute videos, with each video targeting a
      key risk factor for body image (see below). The five videos aired on Instagram TV (IGTV) in
      March 2020.

      Procedure

      Girls will not be briefed on the purpose of the study, the research questions, or their
      condition prior to or during study participation. However, they will be given sufficient
      information to provide informed consent. They will also be advised that they may be asked the
      same questions twice throughout the study. After completing the study, participants should be
      fully debriefed and provided with sources of support.

      The online study will include validated, age-appropriate, self-report measures that assess
      demographics and the immediate impact of video exposure on adolescents' body image and
      associated risk and protective factors. Outcome assessments will be conducted at two time
      points, including immediately before (time one) and after video exposure (time two).
      Assessments and video exposure will occur within one session. The survey will be conducted
      online, at home, and should take no longer than 25 minutes for participants to complete.

      Recruitment and survey dissemination will be conducted by a third-party research agency. The
      agency will contact eligible participants via their parents, with consent required by both
      parent and child. Following consent, the child will participate in a once-off survey that
      consists of four phases:

        1. Baseline assessments of demographics, body image, acceptance of appearance diversity,
           internalised racism (Black participants only), mood

        2. Randomisation into exposure condition

        3. Video exposure

        4. Post-exposure assessments of body image, acceptance of appearance diversity,
           internalised racism (Black participants only), mood and acceptability checks (Enjoyment,
           Engagement, and Identification, Re-engagement, and Sharing)

      Participants will then be provided with a debrief of study aims and a list of support
      sources.
    
  