
    
      This is a phase IIb pilot study with a randomised delayed treatment design. Half of the
      patients will be randomised to treatment with abatacept from week 0 (Active treatment arm)
      and half to start active treatment after 3 months (Delayed-onset treatment arm). The
      open-label study will not include placebo, but the efficacy outcome assessors will be blinded
      to treatment arm. The study will be conducted at three sites (Karolinska University Hospital
      Stockholm, Sweden; King's College Hospital National Health Service (NHS), London, United
      Kingdom (UK); and the Institute of Rheumatology Prague, Prague, Czech Republic).

      Patients will be eligible between ages 18 and 80 years and must have active disease after
      treatment with glucocorticoids (≥0.5 mg/kg/day for ≥1 month), in combination with at least
      one other immunosuppressive drug, methotrexate (minimum dose 15 mg/week) or azathioprine
      (minimum dose 100 mg/day) for at least 3 months. Concomitant methotrexate or azathioprine
      will be allowed, with stable doses for ≥1 month prior to inclusion in the study. Active
      disease is defined as persisting or worsening muscle weakness (Manual Muscle Test (MMT)-8
      bilaterally <150) or low endurance measured by Functional Index for myositis (FI-2) <20% of
      upper value,15 together with at least one other sign of active disease: elevated (above upper
      limit of normal) serum levels of muscle enzymes, inflammation in a recent muscle biopsy (<1
      month) or on Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings consistent with inflammation, or
      active extramuscular disease.

      The primary endpoint will be the number of responders, defined according to the International
      Myositis Assessment and Clinical Studies Group (IMACS) preliminary definition of improvement
      (DOI),16 after treatment with abatacept for 6 months. IMACS DOI is defined as relative
      improvement by ≥20% in three of any six core set measures, with no more than two core set
      measures worsening by ≥25%, which cannot be MMT.

      Secondary objectives will include the number of responders in the delayed-onset arm compared
      with active treatment arm at 3 and 6 months, and the change in individual components of the
      IMACS core set measures for disease activity and in the muscle endurance as tested by FI-2,
      in the delayed-onset arm compared with active treatment arm at 3 and 6 months.
    
  