
    
      Hemiparesis is a common motor disorder after a stroke. The majority of patients do not reuse
      their paretic upper limb.

      Hypothesis: The structured practice of repeating upper limb movements by Intensive Visual
      Simulation will increase distal motor control, and improve the objective functional abilities
      of the upper limb.

      Main Objective:Evaluate in a controlled protocol the effects, on the distal motor control of
      the upper hemiparesis limb, between 4 and 10 weeks after stroke, of 6 weeks of partial
      substitution of routine care (occupational therapy) by structured movement repetition
      programs by Intensive Visual Simulation using an IVS3 device, compared to 6 weeks of a
      program involving only conventional rehabilitation care, in a population of moderate to
      severe hemiparesis stroke patients in subacute phase.

      Device Description: The IVS3 (Intensive Visual Simulation) rehabilitation device, marketed by
      Dessintey, allows the implementation of intensive mirror therapy by making it more immersive,
      ergonomic, and accessible. The IVS3 device consists of a hollow table adjustable in height, a
      touch screen dedicated to the therapist to set up the device and a large screen adjustable in
      height and sliding laterally to overlap the upper limb and thus allow the illusion that the
      limb visible on the screen is the paretic upper limb.

      Methods: Multicentric randomised controlled Trial.

      Risk/Constraint: To our knowledge, this research does not involve any risks other than those
      of daily life. The medical device will be used under normal conditions of use as described in
      the user manual. No contraindications are specified for this device. A risk of discomfort may
      be felt by the patient during the first few minutes of use. Possibility of feeling tired.

      Research duration : 3 years Duration of patient participation : 18 weeks
    
  