
    
      All data (including blood samples and medical information gathered from participants) will be
      labelled with each participant's unique coded identifier. Participants' identities will be
      matched with their coded identifier in a single, hard-copy of a Master Coding List. The
      maintenance and security of this list is the responsibility of the Principal Investigator.

      All processing steps of the blood samples, including details of the blood draw, nucleic acid
      extraction, sequence library preparation, and sequence analysis will be documented in a
      Microsoft Excel worksheet. This worksheet will be encrypted for privacy.

      Anonymized aliquots of blood samples (as well as any derived cell cultures) will be barcoded
      before long-term storage in a surveillance-monitored, secured freezer at -80 degrees Celsius.
      Samples within the freezer will be maintained via a positional numbered grid within the
      Laboratory Information Management System. This grid will also allow the study team to link
      each barcoded sample to a participant's coded identifier.

      Mapped genomic sequences and other data collected from participants will be saved in
      password-protected folders on the UBC server. The coded sequence data will be transferred to
      the Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences at Mount Sinai School of Medicine (MSSM) for
      further analyses. Data transfer will occur by Two Factor Identification. The MSSM secure
      network is Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certified for secure handling of
      patient sequence data. The transfer of sequence data between UBC and MSSM will be performed
      under a material transfer agreement which requires that 1) all data and analysis be confined
      within the secure, password-protected database defined by UBC, 2) not distributed to any
      third party, and 3) both raw and analyzed data be destroyed from the MSSM monthly. This study
      is not required to comply with any U.S. federal regulations, as the group in MSSM will not
      have access to any identifying information about our participants.
    
  