
    
      There is a Today consensus that patients undergoing high-risk surgery should receive
      prophylaxis against postoperative venous thromboembolism (VTE). A good example of that could
      be orthopedic surgeries which place patients at unnecessary increased risk of fatal pulmonary
      embolism. For many years, pharmacotherapy options have been recommended by the American
      College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) for postoperative thromboprophylaxis were
      low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs), fondaparinux, and warfarin. However, their limitations
      have been repeatedly demonstrated in a huge number of randomized controlled trials (RCTs).

      Since its introduction, low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) are still common used in
      practice as thromboprophylactic agent. But, they require subcutaneous administration which
      making it challenging for use in settings other than the inpatient one. Despite the lower
      incidence of low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) induced heparin-induced thrombocytopenia
      (HIT) compared with unfractionated heparins (UFH) in the postoperative setting, the risk of
      LMWH induced HIT in patients treated for VTE still concerns many clinicians. In addition to
      its subcutaneous administration, fondaparinux is contraindicated in severe renal impairment
      patients (with creatinine clearance (CrCl) <30 milliliter/minute) and those who have low body
      weight (<50 kg; venous thromboembolism prophylaxis only). While available orally, Vitamin K
      antagonists (VKAs) like Warfarin have unpredictable pharmacologic effects requiring a wakeful
      monitoring. Warfarin is also a remarkable source of food and drug interactions. As a result,
      it is mandatory to search for novel drugs or at least to search for new indications of really
      existing drugs.

      In July 2011, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved an orally administered
      selective factor Xa inhibitor called Rivaroxaban for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis
      (DVT) after total hip replacement (THR) or total knee replacement (TKR) surgeries. According
      to the Regulation of Coagulation in Orthopedic Surgery to Prevent Deep Vein Thrombosis and
      Pulmonary Embolism (RECORD) trials, rivaroxaban demonstrated superiority to enoxaparin in
      reducing venous thromboembolism without significant increase of bleeding risk. Rivaroxaban is
      recommended to be used at a fixed dose of 10 mg daily, with or without food, for 35 days
      following THR or 12 days following TKR.

      Although the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory committee has recommended
      approval of rivaroxaban, many questions have been raised on the Regulation of Coagulation in
      Orthopedic Surgery to Prevent Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism (RECORD) trials of
      rivaroxaban. Some may argue that dosing was inconsistent with the recommendations. Others
      went far to say that the duration of treatment was inconsistent and did vary with enoxaparin.
      In other words, it was somewhat short.

      Results from the ORTHO-TEP registry on joint replacement arthroplasty (hip and knee) from
      Dresden, Germany and Xarelto® in the Prophylaxis of Postsurgical Venous Thromboembolism after
      Elective Major Orthopaedic Surgery of the Hip or Knee (XAMOS) study are in accordance with
      the conclusion of Regulation of Coagulation in Major Orthopedic surgery reducing the Risk of
      DVT and PE (RECORD) trials. A subset of countries that participated in XAMOS also included
      patients undergoing fracture-related orthopedic surgery.

      Moreover, very few randomized clinical trials (RCTs) are powered to study side effects when
      comparing substances, and even large RCTs may be too small to reveal rare side effects. It
      seems difficult to compare safety data from trial to trial because there is no standardized
      definition of bleeding. One prospective study collecting data from the electronic health
      record at two institutions concluded that using of enoxaparin for venous thromboembolism
      prophylaxis following total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA) was
      associated with a lower rate of the primary outcome (any postoperative bleeding) compared
      with the use of rivaroxaban in a similar cohort of patients. However, it was a retrospective
      investigation with many limitations can be argued with regard to selection and change in
      practice guideline during the study period.

      Finally, there is lack of literature data that define rivaroxaban as orthopedic postoperative
      thromboprophylactic agent rather than well-known indications (hip and knee replacements). It
      also is not plausible to accurately compare safety data with other injectable anticoagulants.
    
  