
    
      The causes of falls are multiple and the imputability of medication is often mentioned. In
      fact, physiological or pathological ageing, which often justifies an intensification of drug
      use, leads to polymedication, which is recognised as a risk factor for falls in the elderly
      and generates dosage regimens that are most often complex and which are a source of drug
      over- or under-dosage. Thus, a large number of treatments increase the risk of drug
      interactions, particularly of a pharmacokinetic nature, which may lead to drug overdoses,
      while poor compliance with prescriptions may lead to underdoses. The main classes of drugs
      currently attributed to the risk of falls are psychotropic drugs, sleeping pills and
      tranquillizers, antidepressants, cardiovascular drugs, antiepileptics, hypoglycemic drugs and
      drugs that cause orthostatic hypotension such as antihypertensives.

      Screening for risk factors for falls is an important step in management. The recommendations
      drawn up by the Société Française de Documentation et de Recherche en Médecine Générale
      (SFDRMG), in partnership with the Haute Autorité de Santé (HAS), suggest specifying the
      relevant interventions, both medicinal and non-pharmaceutical, to avoid an initial fall
      (indications, necessary means, interactions between the interveners).

      Osteoporosis is a diffuse skeletal disease characterized by low bone mass and deterioration
      of the micro-architecture of bone tissue, responsible for an increased risk of fracture. The
      prevention of osteoporotic fractures is essential and involves screening and treatment of
      osteoporosis but also the prevention of falls. New care pathways have been developed in
      recent years, in particular the Fractures Liaisons Services to improve the management of this
      pathology.

      Fracture Pathways (in English: Fractures Liaisons Services: FLS), so called because of the
      need for a link between the services concerned by this pathology (emergency, orthopaedic
      surgery, rheumatology, sometimes geriatrics), aim to identify, screen and, if necessary,
      treat patients with osteoporosis.

      Within the Paris Saint-Joseph Hospital Group (GhSPJ), the OPTIPOST study (OPTImisation de la
      Prise en Charge de l'OSTéoporose chez des sujets de plus de 45 ans) highlighted the benefits
      of "reinforced" management of patients with osteoporotic fractures of the upper end of the
      femur (ESF) or the lower end of the radius (EIR) via a specific organisation coordinated by
      an IDE between 2014 and 2015.

      This is why, following these results, and in the continuity of OPTIPOST, a Fracture Track has
      been set up at the GhPSJ. This is a new organisation dedicated to the management of fractured
      osteoporosis, independent of OPTIPOST, based on the census and follow-up of patients aged 45
      to 95 years old admitted to the emergency reception service (UAS) for any kind of
      osteoporotic fracture. The main objective of this approach is the management of fractured
      osteoporosis. Patients included in this line are counted by the nurse coordinator on D0 and
      are questioned by telephone within 2 months following the fracture to ensure that the
      osteoporosis is being managed.

      Currently, the Fracture Track does not take into account the risk factors for falls in
      osteoporotic fractured patients, in particular the risk of falls due to medication, hence the
      aim of this work.
    
  