
    
      Before surgery, patient may or may not receive the standard chemotherapy drug(s) that their
      doctor recommends. If patient's doctor suggests chemotherapy before surgery, they will be
      asked to sign a separate consent form that describes the chemotherapy and its risks.

      On the day of surgery, patient will have an ultrasound of their lymph nodes. If patient has
      received chemotherapy before their surgery, they will have a fine needle aspiration (FNA) of
      any abnormal lymph nodes either right before or during their standard breast and underarm
      surgery. The abnormal lymph nodes will be marked for the surgeon to remove using standard
      techniques with either ultrasound, a mammogram, or 125I-seed placement. To perform an FNA,
      the area is numbed with anesthetic and a needle is inserted into the affected area so that
      cells can be collected. Ultrasound imaging is used to guide the needle into the area. The
      cells will be used for research to learn if the chemotherapy killed the abnormal lymph node
      cells.

      Patient will have standard breast and underarm surgery (underarm lymph node removal and
      either a partial mastectomy or total mastectomy with or without reconstruction). Patient's
      doctor will discuss the surgery with patient in more detail and patient will be asked to sign
      a separate consent form.

      During this surgery, the 1 or 2 abnormal underarm lymph nodes found by ultrasound will be
      removed and sent as separate samples before the rest of the underarm lymph nodes are removed.

      Patient's study participation will be complete after surgery.

      This is an investigational study. The surgery in this study is standard treatment. It is
      investigational to remove the abnormal lymph nodes before the rest of the underarm lymph
      nodes are removed. In this study, the exact same number of lymph nodes would be removed as is
      standard, but the surgery is being done in a 2-step process.

      Up to 12 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  