
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, initially blinded (masked), phase 2 trial to assess
      SARS-CoV-2 vaccination reactions in two populations:

        -  One population including individuals with a history of allergic reactions or Mast Cell
           Disorder (HA/MCD),and

        -  One non-atopic population.

      Approximately 2040 HA/MCD and 1360 non-atopic participants will be enrolled across
      participating sites in the United States. Approximately two-thirds of participants enrolled
      in each of the 2 groups will be female. This is because the vast majority of cases of
      anaphylaxis to the COVID-19 vaccines have occurred in women. Enrollment of participants who
      qualify only on the basis of reactions to multiple unrelated drugs will be limited to
      approximately 300.

      Enrollment of the MCD group is anticipated to be at least 200 participants, and not more than
      300 participants. Participants in each population will be randomized 2:2:1:1 to receive the
      Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine, placebo + Pfizer-BioNTech
      COVID-19 Vaccine, or placebo + Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine.

      Participants randomized to one of the placebo groups will receive placebo as a first dose and
      will receive two doses of their assigned active vaccine at subsequent visits. During the
      first visit, all participants will be initially-blinded to whether they are receiving placebo
      or vaccine, and to which vaccine they are receiving. Due to the different dosing schedules
      for the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine and Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine, it will become
      apparent to both the site staff and the study participant which vaccine has been assigned,
      once the second injection visit is scheduled. However, the blind over placebo versus vaccine
      will remain in effect until after the second visit. During a follow-up call, scheduled 3 days
      after the second injection, participants will be unblinded as to whether they received
      placebo or active vaccine.

      Study Duration: Randomized and vaccinated participants will complete study participation in
      approximately 29 days if vaccinated with the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, 36 days if
      vaccinated with the Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine, and 50 or 64 days if administered placebo
      before receiving two doses of either the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine or the Moderna
      COVID-19 Vaccine, respectively.

      Total study duration: Approximately 17 weeks.
    
  