
    
      We will include, 10 premature infants from 32 to 36 weeks of post menstrual age, within the
      first week of life, that are clinically stable without diagnosis of Congenital Heart Disease,
      Necrotizing Enterocolitis, Sepsis or having been transfused less than three days before the
      evaluation. Infants with abdominal injuries, omphalocele, gastroschisis and abdominal skin
      irritation that does not permit the application of the probes will also be excluded.

      10 premature infants from 32 to 36 weeks of post menstrual age will be included, after their
      first week of life, clinically stable status, and without diagnosis of Congenital Heart
      Disease, Necrotizing Enterocolitis, Sepsis or blood transfused less than three days before
      the moment of the evaluation. Infants with abdominal injuries, Omphalocele, Gastroschisis,
      skin irritation also will be excluded. NIRS device will record and monitor the Regional
      Oxygen Saturation (rSO2) in the infant during one week.

      The evaluation will take place ar the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), 6th floor at the
      Mary Horrigan Connors Center for Women's Health, Brigham and Women's Hospital.
      (http://www.brighamandwomens.org/newbornmedicine)

      We will use a Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) device the INVOS 5100c (Covidien), catalogued
      under de Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) as 'non-significant risk device' (21 CFR
      812.2) in order to perform monitoring as well as record-keeping with non-risk for the
      subject. No need Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance.

      The application of the INVOS 5100c (Covidien) sensor optodes will be positioned in four
      locations (four channels), these will be in the lower abdomen, taking place bellow the
      umbilicus, with care, flush against the skin; in the submandibular region; upper left abdomen
      as well as in the thigh either left or right.

      If the clinical status change during the monitoring, this could be discontinued under the
      criteria of the attending neonatologist in charge.

      Once included, the sensors will be placed in the described areas and the team will reassure
      the quality of the lecture obtained. The rSO2 recordings will be continuously monitored for
      seven days, after this period of time, prospective observational following of patient data
      and outcomes will be implemented.

      Clinical outcome data will be correlated with tissue oxygen saturation, other outcome
      variables will include length of NICU stay, morbidity, mortality, laboratory studies, oxygen
      saturation by standard pulse oximetry and continuous outcome variables will be analyzed using
      the Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) formula; mortality will be analyzed using Student's t-test.
      For the remaining variables (vital signs, lab values, oxygen saturation, morbidity,
      mortality), data will be extracted from clinical records and entered it into the electronic
      database.

      The study staff, principal investigator, and co-investigators will identify potential
      subjects meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Potential subjects will be identified by
      talking to the attending in charge at the NICU. Cases will be identified by communicating
      with the NIRS/NICU research team at Brigham and Women's Hospital.

      Informed consent will be obtained from the parent(s) or guardian(s) under the Research
      involving no greater than minimal risk condition (46.404) where at least one of the parents
      must provide the permission.

      In all cases we will approach the attending physician of prospective subjects to describe the
      study and obtain verbal consent to approach patients for recruitment; the attending physician
      or medical staff caring for the patient will be the first to make contact with the patients
      parents or guardian to describe the study briefly and ask permission for us to explain the
      study in more detail.

      A review of the data will be conducted by a physician and a clinical review team. The
      principal investigator and study staff will be constantly monitoring and reviewing the
      rights, safety and welfare of all subjects in this trial through out the study.

      In addition, the principal investigator will review any adverse events and report in
      accordance with the Partners Human Research Committees (PHRC) regulations.
    
  