
    
      Objectives Aim 1: To elucidate mechanisms linking VD, SIBO and chronic inflammation in PLWH.
      PLWH (N=150) will undergo autonomic function tests (AFTs) for VD, hydrogen/methane breath
      testing (HBT) for SIBO, Wireless Motility Capsule (WMC, SmartPill) testing for GI transit
      times and pH measurements, blood draw for quantification of inflammatory mediators, and
      collection of stool samples and oral swabs for characterization of the GI microbiome.

      Hypothesis 1a (primary): The relationship between VD and SIBO in HIV is mediated by prolonged
      small bowel transit time (SBTT) and hypochlorhydria.

      Hypothesis 1b (exploratory): There is an additional pathway linking VD and elevated IL-6 in
      PLWH which is independent of SIBO and bacterial translocation.

      Aim 2: To determine whether the relationship between VD and SIBO is modified by the presence
      of HIV-infection. HIV-infection results in disruption of the GI mucosal barrier,5 which could
      make PLWH more vulnerable to adverse GI effects of VD. HIV-uninfected controls (N=100), age
      and gender matched to the PLWH from Aim 1, will undergo the same assessment as the PLWH. The
      study team will test for effect modification of the VD-SIBO relationship by HIV status, using
      logistic regression to examine the interaction between VD and HIV.

      Aim 3: To establish vagal pathways as a viable treatment target for individuals with
      well-controlled HIV. PLWH with VD, SIBO and/or prolonged SBTT (N=96) will be identified from
      the Aim 1 cohort. The first 86 eligible patients will be randomized to 8 weeks of
      pyridostigmine versus placebo; the remaining 10 will receive 8 weeks of open-label
      noninvasive vagal nerve stimulation (nVNS) to assess feasibility. All patients will then be
      retested (AFTs, HBT, SmartPill, blood draw, stool samples and oral swabs).

      Hypothesis 3a (primary): Eight weeks of low-dose pyridostigmine (30mg PO TID) will reduce
      SIBO as compared to placebo in PLWH. Hypothesis 3b (exploratory): Non-invasive VNS is safe,
      well tolerated and acceptable to PLWH.
    
  