
    
      This study aims to evaluate the feasibility of a new method for teaching breastfeeding
      skills, and may provide evidence that hand expression (HE) to augment milk production in the
      first days postpartum can help women breastfeed. Few studies have evaluated the use of HE for
      improving breastfeeding outcomes. This study will also evaluate the impact of a new
      video/website which can be utilized widely and adapted for other populations, both in
      clinical and non-clinical settings.

      Prenatal patients receiving care at a community health center in the Boston area will be
      invited to participate in the study at approximately 28 weeks gestation.

      Participants will complete a baseline questionnaire prior to randomization which will occur
      at the ~36 week prenatal visit. A 1:1 randomization schedule will be applied.

      Control arm: participants will be given usual care handouts and the study provider will
      provide anticipatory guidance and offer to answer any questions about breastfeeding.

      Intervention arm: participants will be shown the breastfeeding education video on a study
      tablet, and provided a QR code which will give them access to the associated website. After
      watching the video, study staff will then offer to review hand expression by answering
      questions and reviewing steps, and physically helping the patient to practice hand
      expression. Hands-on teaching of hand expression will be opt-in only and not required for
      study participation.

      Text messages will be sent to the intervention arm participants with the link to the
      intervention video and website, and a brief message reminding them to review the materials
      and to hand express frequently starting immediately after delivery.

      All participants (both arms) will be contacted to fill out a very brief, 10-item
      questionnaire (approximately 5 minutes) at 3 days postpartum, and short questionnaires (10-15
      minutes) at 14 days and 60 days postpartum. Questionnaires will ask about use of hand
      expression, breastfeeding, formula use, perceived breastfeeding problems, breastfeeding
      efficacy and satisfaction with prenatal breastfeeding education. In all questionnaires
      participants will be asked about pain and potential adverse events.

      Participant and neonatal electronic medical records will reviewed through 2 months
      postpartum.
    
  