
    
      The French public healthcare system perspective developed a unique SNIIR-AM (interregimens
      National Information Health Insurance system.) data base that contains up to 18 TeraOctet of
      medical consumption data (consultations, exams and drug prescriptions and hospitalization,
      yes/no). Its main limitation to detect disproportionate consumption after cancer care is the
      lack of data available on socio-demographic, pre-diagnostic patient and disease
      characteristics.

      The LYSA (Lymphoma Study Association) is a national cooperative group which is world pioneer
      in NHL treatment with novel agents. Patient's bio clinical and demographic characteristics
      (n=10.000) are fully monitored and stocked in a data base registered in 2006 by the French
      National Cancer Institute (INCA). The cooperative network of 100 LYSA centre allows following
      all the patients on long term (up to 20 years after diagnosis).

      Then, the mixture of these two sources of data will offer a unique material at the nation
      scale to detect signal of late onset disease, possibly linked to the initial cancer
      treatment.

      Statistical Methods Disproportionate reporting of drugs consumption in fields of
      neuro-psychiatric troubles, cardio-vascular diseases, anti-cancer agents, antibiotics and
      antiviral agents will be extract from the French public healthcare database (external
      analysis). An economical study is embedded.

      As the LYSA data contained all fully monitored patients' bio clinical and demographic
      characteristics, special attention will be paid to the addition of new agents, in particular
      anti-CD20 antibody, to the cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens in conjunction with other
      well-known risk factors (e.g. tobacco, obesity, comorbidities; internal analysis).

      Data will be reported according to the initial NHL treatment strategy and cross-validated by
      long-term medical consultations. Multivariate analysis will be computed to account for
      competing risks.

      Results No studies have yet been published in France on the use of care issues in long
      remission or cure of cancer. There are very few international publications on this subject
      and they lacked of statistical power or follow up.

      The present project follows the recommendation from the French Medicine Academy which in its
      March 15, 2011 decision call for more rigorous follow up of new agents in Oncology. In
      addition, this project is in concordance with the so named "plan cancer 2" from the INCA
      which aimed to focus on sequels in cancer survivors. If the results of this study are
      relevant, the investigators should have to run through the consumption of care, a good
      objective (unbiased) indicator of healing and Health-related quality of life (HRQL) in cancer
      survivors.

      Such an indicator could help to learn about survivors recovery after their cancer, with or
      without differences according to the patient characteristics, initial location of the cancer,
      its treatment and possible iatrogenic complications.
    
  