
    
      Study design: This study contains of two parts. The first part of this study is a prospective
      observational cohort study with consecutive observations on the characterization of incidence
      of and factors related to dysphagia after ACSS (within 14 days of surgery and 2-3 weeks
      later), and investigation the long-term effect of dysphagia on nutritional status 12 ± 3
      months later.

      The second part of this study is a prospective randomized open-label trial with blinded
      evaluators (PROBE-design) that compare conventional care to neuromuscular training in the
      treatment of dysphagia.

      Subjects and procedure: Part 1: All patients enrolled at the University Hospital of Umeå who
      have undergone ACSS between C2 and Th1 level due to trauma are eligible participants in the
      first part of the study (the observational cohort study). All participants will have their
      swallowing function assessed with a flexible video endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (i.e.
      FESS) within 14 days after surgery and have their nutritional status examined with the
      clinical test Nutrition Risk Screening-2002 (NRS-2002) and blood sample for biomarkers of
      malnutrition (i.e., levels of Albumin, levels of Leptin, Ghrelin and Adiponektin and also
      metabolites as ketone bodies (3 hydoxibutyrat and acetoacetate). The swallowing assessment
      and nutritional screening with NRS-2002 will be performed by a speech- language pathologist
      or physician in otolaryngology. Blood sample will be collected by a nurse at the unit where
      the participant is staying, who have extended knowledge in the procedure. If a swallowing
      dysfunction is present the patient will be followed-up within 2-3 weeks later (i.e., 4±1-
      week post-operation) to assess the spontaneous recovery. During the period from the first
      assessment to the follow-up all patients will be given conventional care (e.g., postural
      adjustments, swallowing maneuvers, modified consistency of solid and/or liquid food). If the
      patient has a remaining swallowing dysfunction at the reassessment 4±1-week post-operation
      the patient will be asked to participate in part 2 of the study (the interventional study).
      All patients participating in part 1, will have another examination of nutritional status at
      12 ± 3 months after ACSS. In order to study the long-term effect of dysphagia on nutrition.

      Part 2: Participants with presenting swallowing dysfunction at the reassessment 4±1 week
      post- operation will after given their oral or written consent be randomly assigned to 8
      weeks of either conventional care (control group) or oral neuromuscular training with an oral
      device (intervention group). Randomization will be performed web-based using the program
      MINIM with minimization/ stratification for aspiration (yes/no) on FEES leading to an equal
      balance of prognostic important variable at baseline. In each group, swallowing function,
      swallowing-related quality of life measured by the Swallowing Quality of life Questionnaire
      (SWAL-QOL) and an examination of nutritional status with the clinical screening NRS-2002 and
      blood samples will be assessed at baseline (i.e. 4±1 week post-surgery assessment), eight
      weeks after baseline (end-of treatment), and 12 ± 3 months post-treatment. A swallowing
      assessment will also be performed four weeks into the treatment period. If oral neuromuscular
      training with an oral device is found to be effective in the intervention group, it will be
      also offered to the control group after the study is finished. All assessments will be
      carried out at the University Hospital of Umeå. All the assessments of the participants'
      swallowing function will be recorded, and the evaluators will be blinded to treatment at the
      assessment of the FEES.

      Clinical data will be obtained from the participants' journal part 1 and 2 regarding sex,
      age, weight, height, body mass index (BMI), presence of a tracheostomy and if presence what
      type of tube used, length of intubation, presence of pneumonia, length stay at the hospital
      or ICU, medical diagnoses, the severity of the spinal cord injury according to the American
      Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) impairment scale, level of spinal cord injury and whether
      left or right approach was used during the ACSS will be recorded. Prior to the first
      assessment of the participant's swallowing function, written or oral (if tetraplegia) consent
      will be collected from each patient.
    
  