
    
      Anesthesia and Vascular Access After final review of protocol eligibility and of MRI safety,
      vascular access is obtained and sheaths are secured and covered with a sterile drape for
      transfer to the MRI. The catheterization is performed with continuous recording of
      electrocardiogram signals, transcutaneous hemoglobin ("pulse") oximetry, and under direct
      observation of an anesthesia licensed independent provider.

      Diagnostic Cardiac MRI Before MRI catheterization begins, a focused cardiac MRI is performed
      to understand cardiac function and localize the proposed catheter trajectory from the access
      site into the targeted cardiovascular chambers.

      MRI-guided catheterization Next during real-time MRI, a passive catheter is advanced from the
      access site into the targeted cardiovascular chambers under imaging guidance. Hemodynamic
      measurements (using fluid-filled transducers connected to the catheters) and blood hemoglobin
      saturation specimens are obtained from targeted cardiovascular chambers. Additional
      clinically-indicated and, if time allows, up to 30 minutes of research MRI is then performed
      before the subject is returned to the X-ray system.

      Research MR Imaging Additional research cardiac MRI imaging to determine T1 and T2 values is
      undertaken next, with 6 short axis slices and one long axis slice positions identified for T1
      map and T2 map acquisitions. The ICMR laboratory has a robust experience with acquisition of
      parametric mapping sequences. T1 and T2 maps will provide a roadmap for the cardiac biopsy
      that the patient requires in the xray suite.

      Image Fusion to Guide Endomyocardial Biopsy At the conclusion of the MR imaging and MR-guided
      right heart catheterization procedure, the subject is returned to the X-ray suite for cardiac
      biopsy. Some cardiac biopsies are obtained in the usual fashion, and some biopsy specimens
      are obtained using image overlay software to display the regions of abnormal T1 and T2 onto
      the fluoroscopy system.

      Conclusion of the procedure Following standard of care EMB, standard of care coronary
      angiography is obtained when if clinically indicated, all catheters and sheaths are removed
      and the subject is observed for complications in the cardiac procedure recovery unit or
      intensive care unit for at least 6 hours.

      Diagnostic Echocardiogram Standard clinical data with strain analysis will be collected from
      the echocardiogram that is performed as a standard of care. Patients undergo a clinically
      indicated echocardiogram exam following the catheterization procedure in the Cardiac Post
      Recovery Unit (CPRU).

      Blood Tests Serum for creatinine blood test will be collected at the time the clinically
      indicated IV is placed. Creatinine Is the standard test used at Children's National to assess
      kidney function. A total of 1cc of blood will be drawn to complete the test.

      For subjects who consent to the optional study, an additional 5cc of blood work will be drawn
      at the time that the intravascular catheter is inserted for the clinically indicated cardiac
      catheterization procedure. The blood samples will be identified with the study ID number
      only, and will be stored in a secure freezer owned and maintained by the department of
      cardiology located at the Sheikh Zayed campus. This blood will be used to identify serum
      biomarkers, and to validate the potential use for diagnostic purposes.

      Follow-up procedures At the conclusion of the procedure, the subject is returned to the X-ray
      table and all catheters are removed. The subject is observed for complications in an advanced
      nursing recovery unit or intensive care unit for at least 6 hours. The subject will be
      assessed for early and late complications at the time of discharge, and again approximately
      2-6 weeks ± 7 days post procedure.

      MRI Image Analysis In all cardiomyopathy and heart transplant patients, T1 measurements will
      be performed using offline analysis software according to our laboratory's measurement SOP
      for parametric maps. In heart transplant patients only, T2 measurements will be performed
      according to our laboratory's measurement SOP for parametric maps. Following measurements,
      images will be created for Image Overlay onto the fluoroscopy for patients undergoing
      clinically-indicated cardiac biopsy following the catheterization.

      Biopsy Sample Analysis All biopsy samples will be evaluated clinically for evidence of
      cellular rejection, and a clinical report will be generated per clinical standard of care. In
      addition, each of the samples will undergo a separate staining procedure to identify regions
      of fibrosis. Digital images will be taken of the stained samples. Image processing software
      will be used to quantify percent fibrosis.

      Historical Controls (for radiation exposure comparison, and biopsy yield comparison) Age and
      diagnosis-matched historical controls will be identified from the last 10 years at Children's
      National as a control population for specific purposes of comparing (1) EMB yield without
      image overlay and (2) Radiation exposure during X-ray guided right heart catheterization.
      Identical information will be obtained and stored in the same 45CFR compliant database.
      Historical controls will be identified from the cardiac catheterization database by searching
      for age and diagnosis. A waiver of consent will be applicable here, as it would be
      inconvenient, insensitive and not feasible to consent families who have already undergone
      treatment.

      Subjects will not be provided additional information as a result of this research study.

      Data will be reviewed in aggregate generating generalizable knowledge not applicable to an
      individual subject
    
  