
    
      Patients

        -  Symptomatic patients with a significant stenosis (diameter stenosis >75% or significant
           FFR) in a native coronary vessel or a saphenous vein aortocoronary bypass graft.

        -  All patients are on aspirin (100 mg/day) and received 10,000 I.U. heparin intravenously.

        -  Coronary angiography is performed via the femoral approach.

        -  Full informed consent are obtained from all patients before participating in the study.

      Stenosis severity/Plaque composition

        -  Quantification of stenosis severity was performed with the use of off-line caliper
           measurements (QCA-MEDIS, Leiden, NL).

        -  Intravascular imaging analyses before and after stent implantation to characterize
           plaque morphology:

             1. IVUS(Eagle-EyeTM 20 MHz catheter and R-100 pullback device, Volcano Corporation,
                Rancho Cordova, CA, USA)

             2. OCT (St. Jude Medical Lightlab C7 Dragonfly Imaging Catheter)

             3. NIRS (InfraReDx TVC Insight catheter)

      Interventional procedure

      Distal balloon occlusion devices:

        -  TriAktiv SVG/3.5-FX-catheter; Kensey Nash, Exton, USA or

        -  GuardWire Temporary Occlusion & Aspiration System; Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis, MN USA
           Implantation of balloon-expandable stents using balloon pressures between 14 and 18 atm
           and a balloon-to-vessel diameter ratio of 1:1.

      Coronary arterial blood and coronary aspirate

        -  Coronary arterial blood is taken distal to the lesion before stent implantation and
           coronary aspirate blood is obtained during stent implantation (each in Heparin- or EDTA-
           Monovettes, SARSTEDT AG & Co, Nümbrecht, Germany).

        -  Ex vivo coronary aspirate blood is filtered through a mesh filter with pores of 40 μm
           diameter.

        -  Immediately centrifugation of the filtered coronary arterial and aspirate blood (800g,
           10 min, 4°C).

        -  Particulate debris and coronary arterial and aspirate plasma are quickly frozen in
           liquid nitrogen and stored at -80°C until further use.

      Analysis / Aim :

        -  Using different methods for determining severity of stenosis and plaque composition.

        -  Using different biochemical methods to characterize particular and soluble substances
           released during stenting into coronary aspirate.

        -  Using different bioassays to study vasoconstrictor potential of human coronary aspirate
           plasma and the impact. of coronary aspirate on the coronary microcirculation and on
           cardiac contraction.

        -  Correlation of ex vivo measurements with patients disease and clinical symptoms.
    
  