
    
      This study will be a parallel-group randomized control trial with a 1:1 allocation ratio.
      Consecutive, eligible patients admitted to 4 ICUs in Calgary, Alberta, Canada with at least
      one family member present will be identified by discussion with the most responsible
      attending physician and bedside nurse. All eligible and consenting family members will
      receive standard care, which is an informational pamphlet on ICU delirium presented to all
      patients and families upon admission. Participants in both the intervention and control
      groups will also complete a demographics questionnaire, the Critical Care Family Needs
      Inventory (CCFNI), the Barriers to Care Questionnaire in the ICU (BCQ-ICU), the Caregiver
      Coping Strategies (CSS) questionnaire, and the Caregiver ICU Delirium Knowledge Questionnaire
      (CIDKQ) upon enrollment. Additionally, all family members will complete the Delirium Burden
      (DEL-B) questionnaire, Kessler Psychological Distress Scale (KPDS-10), Patient Health
      Questionnaire 9 (PHQ-9), Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7 (GAD-7) daily for a maximum of five
      days.

      Family members randomized to the intervention group will receive additional ICU delirium
      education, whereas the control group will not. The intervention includes components of
      delirium education, prevention/management and detection. Family members will receive
      education by watching a 6-minute education video or reading an education booklet with a
      trained research assistant on the signs of delirium, who is at risk, and what they can do to
      prevent and manage it. They will practice identifying delirium with the Sour Seven
      questionnaire using previously validated case vignettes of hypothetical ICU patients.
      Delirium prevention and management will include a daily checklist of non-pharmacological
      interventions to be completed by the family member. This will include an orientation protocol
      (e.g., provide visual and hearing aids, orientation of day/time/location, familiar objects
      from home, television during the day with daily news, non-verbal music), mobility protocol
      (cognitive activities depending on the patient's ability), and an environmental protocol
      (lights off at night and on during the day, ear plugs, noise reduction during the night). In
      addition to non-pharmacological delirium prevention and management, this list will have a
      checkbox indicating if the family caregiver notified any member of the bedside care team
      about symptoms of delirium.

      Family members in both intervention and control groups will also complete follow-up
      questionnaires at 1-month and 3-months through an online link to a REDCap survey. These
      questionnaires will include the Family Satisfaction for the Intensive Care Unit (FSICU),
      KPDS-10, GAD-7, PHQ-9, and CIDKQ .
    
  