
    
      One hundred and twenty (120) subjects who are Fitzpatrick Skin Type V-VI, and have a suitable
      treatment area for hair removal will be evaluated in this study.

      Each subject will receive six treatments at four to six week intervals upon re-growth of hair
      and return for follow-up visits at one, three and six months after the last treatment.

      Measurement Equipment Standard High Resolution Digital Camera

      Labels for hair count Customized hair count sticker templates will be placed directly on the
      skin and the hairs in this window will be counted at specific visits during the study as
      detailed in section.

      Study Procedures Each subject will participate in the study for a period of at least 11
      months. The study is anticipated to be completed within twelve months.

      Test spots Up to 3 test spots will be performed in the selected treatment area to determine
      the optimal parameters / setting.

      Treatment

      The treatment areas are divided into 3 groups. Each Subjects will be allocated to one of the
      following groups::

        -  Two small anatomical areas (right and left axillae and double sided bikini line) or;

        -  One double sided large area (right and left thighs) or;

        -  One large area (whole back / abdomen)

      Based on the mild nature of treatment, anesthesia is not required. Before starting treatment
      apply a layer of conductive gel to the treatment area.

      After applying the conductive gel, locate the applicator in close contact, perpendicular to
      the skin with no pressure applied. Pressing the applicator will fire the IPL pulse. In order
      to ensure full coverage of the treatment area applicator placement should overlap
      approximately 1/3 of the previously treated skin.

      Post-treatment Instructions Cold packs may be placed on the treated area for post treatment
      cooling. Subjects should be aware that post treatment erythema, edema and some discomfort of
      the treated areas are possible and should not be a cause for concern. They may also
      experience some purpura in the treated areas which would be expected to resolve within
      several days.
    
  