
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) represents the most common cause of blindness in
      patients over the age of 60. Most vision loss in this disease results from sequelae of
      choroidal neovascular membrane (CNVM) formation. CNVM is usually composed of well-formed
      neovascularization and occult (less well-formed) neovascularization. While clinical trials
      have shown that some patients, mostly those with well-formed CNVM, may benefit from laser
      photocoagulation or photodynamic therapy, at present there is no treatment for patients who
      have combined CNVM lesions (both well-formed and occult) whose area of occult
      neovascularization is greater than 50% or who have other presentation of CNVM such as
      pigment-epithelial detachment or neovascular fibrosis.

      Retinal histopathology of patients with choroidal neovascularization has revealed that areas
      of CNVM are usually fed by a few smaller choroidal feeder vessels originating from the
      choroid or choriocapillaris. Therefore, it has been hypothesized that closure of these feeder
      vessels would infarct the large CNVM complex. Until recently, identification of these feeder
      vessels has been difficult but new high speed indocyanine imaging of the choroid (Phi-motion)
      indocyanine green angiography (ICG) has allowed for more precise detection of these vessels.
      We will test this hypothesis by utilizing Phi-motion ICG to identify choroidal feeder vessels
      in patients with CNVM not amenable to approved treatments. If feeder vessels are identified,
      then pulse-diode laser photocoagulation will be used to attempt closure of these vessels. The
      study is designed to provide information on the feasibility of standardizing this procedure
      and estimating its potential efficacy. The primary outcome will be a greater than 50%
      reduction in the area of leakage from the neovascular component as determined by fluorescein
      angiogram. Secondary outcomes will include a complete resolution of leakage measured by
      fluorescein angiography, the number of repetitive laser treatments undergone, the number of
      patients eligible by fluorescein angiogram but without identifiable feeder vessels, and the
      number of patients with vision loss, from baseline, of 15 letters or more, 30 letters or
      more, or are reduced to less than 5 letters read. All adverse events regardless of severity
      or relatedness to the therapy will be collected and summarized. Assessment of all outcomes
      will be made at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months post laser treatment, and 24 months
      after enrollment. This study will give investigators some insight into this technology and
      the feasibility of this treatment in patients with various forms of neovascular AMD. In
      addition, the results of the study will provide the foundation for larger studies of this
      therapy.
    
  