
    
      1. Overview Previous data in CMT patients on strengthening programs have had mixed results.
           No studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of a home exercise resistance band
           training program on ankle dorsiflexion strength in CMT patients. Additionally, it has
           been shown that that MUNIX is associated with disability scores and could be used as an
           outcome measure in CMT. Here the investigators will perform a randomized clinical trial
           to assess the ability of MUNIX to detect longitudinal changes in patients with CMT
           undergoing an ankle strengthening program.

        2. AIM 1: To determine if adult patients with CMT1A whom undergo a twelve-week ankle
           strengthening program will have a significant increase in ankle dorsi- and plantar-
           flexion, as measured by muscle strength dynamometry compared to patients whom do not
           undergo the program. Patients enrolled in this study will be randomized to receive
           either a 12-week home resistance band ankle strengthening program or to continue their
           current treatment plan. Clinical evaluations and 6-minute walk test will be performed in
           all enrolled patients, regardless of their arm, at the time of enrollment, 6 and 12
           weeks after enrollment. A parallel study of healthy unaffected family members will also
           be performed in this basis.

        3. Resistance Band Strengthening Exercises Patients assigned to the strength training group
           will be a given a twelve-week progressive resistance band program. Study materials in
           the treatment arm will include a written exercise plan accompanied by a USB and DVD
           containing demonstration of safe execution of each exercise. Patients in the treatment
           arm will perform each exercise three times per week. A All exercises are meant to be
           performed in a seated or lying position for safety.

        4. Clinical evaluations The investigators will perform all clinical assessments at the
           Vanderbilt Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation clinic and will be performed by the PI.
           To maintain blinding by the PI, a pre-determined set of questions will be asked of each
           patient in order to prevent inadvertent unblinding. Examples of the questionnaires for
           the 6 and 12 weeks follow up visits are found in the study materials section.

           . History taking and Neurological examination

             -  Medical history: The patient will be interviewed by the PI to collect medical
                history, particularly for symptoms relating the peripheral nerves and family
                history.

             -  Neurological examination: Each patient will be examined by the PI. Findings on
                neurological examination will be recorded, particularly for the sensory and motor
                functions.

                  -  The Motor portion of the exam will be performed by hand held digital
                     dynamometry as has been previously described

                  -  For the Sensory portion of the exam the investigators will test pinprick,
                     vibratory and light sensations bilaterally

             -  CMT neuropathy score (CMTNS): This is a simple, extensively validated(16), score
                system that assesses the disabilities in a patient with CMT. It consists of a brief
                questionnaire, physical findings and several parameters from nerve conduction
                studies. For the purposes of this study only the symptom score and examination
                score. An example of the modified CMTNS is provided in the study materials section.

        5. 6-minute walk test The six-minute walk test (6MWT) will be performed at the enrollment
           visit, 6 and 12 weeks after enrollment. This will be performed in the Physical Medicine
           and Rehabilitation clinic at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. Testing will be
           conducted as outlined by the American Thoracic Society with some modifications.

           For the purposes of this study a 10m hallway will be marked with cones. The patient will
           walk for 6 minutes and forth along the marked hallway. The patient may rest during the 6
           minutes. The total distance walked, and number of rest breaks will be recorded. Patients
           whom use assistive devices such as walkers, canes or ankle braces may will not be asked
           to undergo the walk if a participant does not feel comfortable ambulating without a
           device. The PI will accompany each patient with a wheelchair during the entire 6 minutes
           in case an immediate break is needed. If participants are unable to participate in the
           6MWT at the initial visit, participants will be excluded from this portion of the study
           due to risk of unblinding, but will continue in the study.

           The 6MWT is contraindicated in patients with unstable angina and those whom have had a
           myocardial infarction within the last month. Any patient with a positive history will
           not undergo testing. Each patient will have their seated pulse and blood pressure
           checked prior to the test. Patients with a pulse rate of 120 beats per minute or greater
           or a systolic blood pressure greater than 180mmHg (mmHg = millimeter of Mercury) or
           diastolic blood pressure of 100mmHg or greater will not undergo testing. If elevated
           blood pressure or pulse is found at the initial clinical encounter, the patient's
           primary physician will be contacted, and the patient will be brought back at least 2
           weeks but no more than 3 weeks later for a blood pressure and pulse check. If the blood
           pressure or pulse is within the limits defined above, participants will be allowed to
           undergo testing at this later date. If participants continue to have elevated blood
           pressure or pulse, participants will not undergo this portion of the study.

        6. AIM2: MUNIX Studies Procedural and interpretative guidelines for MUNIX have recently
           been published and will followed in this study. Here the investigators will study the
           tibialis anterior and abductor hallucis. The tibialis anterior is innervated by deep
           peroneal branch of the peroneal nerve. Whereas the abductor hallucis is innervated by
           the tibial nerve. Each muscle will be studied in the extremity with best strength in
           both ankle dorsiflexion and plantar flexion. If there is a difference between the two
           muscles the limb with best ankle dorsiflexion strength will be used. All studies will be
           performed in the VUMC Electrodiagnostic laboratory by the PI.

      Prior to the start of the study, lower extremity surface temperature will be measured in the
      on the lateral aspect of the lower leg that is being tested. If patients surface temperature
      is below 32oC (or if temperature falls below during the study), a warming pad or heating lamp
      will be applied. Then at each recording site a supramaximal compound motor unit action
      potential (CMAP) will be recorded by providing an electrical stimulus over the nerve proximal
      to the recording sites. There will be at least 3 small adjustments of the recording
      electrodes to achieve maximal recording of the CMAP. Patients with no response in the CMAP
      will continue in the study but will be censored from initial analysis such to not askew the
      data.

      Next surface electromyography will be performed by recording the surface interference pattern
      from the recording site of maximal CMAP. Patients will then perform isometric muscle
      contractions at 20, 40, 60, 80 and 100% of maximal effort. Following maximal effort patients
      will be given a 10 second rest period. This will be repeated a total of three times for each
      nerve tested. The MUNIX will be calculated by a propriety software from Natus (Middleton,
      WI). As part of the MUNIX output the motor unit size index (MUSIX) will also be obtained.
    
  