
    
      Each year approximately 5 million children in the United States are exposed to some form of
      traumatic event, and nearly 40% of these children will go on to develop post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD). There are a number of traumatic events that have been shown to cause PTSD in
      children, including natural disaster, physical or sexual abuse, loss of a loved one, and
      witnessing an act of violence. Children with PTSD may experience persistent generalized fear
      and anxiety, recurrent nightmares, mood swings, withdrawal, and depression. If left
      untreated, PTSD can cause serious distress for those affected, resulting in emotional,
      academic, and social problems. Trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy (TF-CBT), a form
      of psychotherapy that focuses on trauma, may be the most effective means of improving PTSD
      screening and treatment in community-based mental health services. Although TF-CBT has shown
      success in treating children with PTSD in the research setting, its use in community clinics
      remains limited. This study will compare the effectiveness of TF-CBT versus treatment as
      usual (TAU) in treating children with PTSD in community clinics. The study will also develop
      a community collaboration between a community mental health agency and an academic
      institution, both in New York City, to address childhood trauma and PTSD and to enhance
      research in community clinics.

      Participation in this study will last about 3 months. Potential parent and child participants
      will first undergo initial assessments, which will include interviews and questionnaires
      concerning symptoms of PTSD. Eligible participants will then be assigned randomly to receive
      TF-CBT or TAU. Participants in both groups will attend 12 sessions over 3 months. TF-CBT
      sessions will include trauma-focused treatment and will teach participants behavioral
      management and coping skills to overcome their PTSD. TAU sessions will include routine
      community clinic care and will not involve a trauma-focused treatment component. Upon
      completion of treatment, participants will complete repeat interviews and questionnaires.
    
  