
    
      Detailed Description:

      All subjects will be injected with LUM015. The injection of the study drug will occur 2-6
      hours prior to surgery at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg. Surgeons will perform main specimen resection
      per standard of care. Prior to removing any shaves as part of the standard of care, the
      surgeon will use the Lum System to scan and image all orientations within the cavity. The LUM
      Imaging System will guide shave removal. Then, comprehensive shaved margins are removed.

      In this study, the initial cohort is a "training set" with 10 patients receiving neoadjuvant
      therapy to refine the tumor detection algorithm, if needed. After completion of enrollment of
      the initial 10 subjects for algorithm training, the Investigators will then enroll a cohort
      of patients who received neoadjuvant therapy to further evaluate the performance of the LUM
      Imaging System in this important subset of breast cancer patients. Patients will be
      randomized 3:1 to a LUM-assisted lumpectomy versus a standard lumpectomy. In both arms,
      shaved margins will be taken from the entire lumpectomy cavity to compare the extent of
      residual tumor after standard and LUM-assisted lumpectomies to evaluate the negative
      predictive value of the LUM Imaging System following neoadjuvant therapy. The LUM Imaging
      System will be used in both arms to capture images of each tissue removed, whether LUM-guided
      or part of the final comprehensive shave removal. Data from both arms of the study will be
      used to determine the diagnostic performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the LUM Imaging
      System in patients who have received neoadjuvant therapy. Only the group of patients
      randomized to the device (intervention) arm will have the LUM Imaging System guide the
      removal of tissue prior to the removal of final comprehensive shaves of the entire cavity.

      Study treatment ends when the surgery is completed. Patients are followed for adverse events
      until their standard of care follow-up visit or after any secondary surgery, whichever is
      longer.
    
  