
    
      Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) is a heterogeneous disease. The patients with
      NMIBC may be categorized in three risk groups according to the risk of recurrence and
      progression characterized by the disease. The treatment of high risk NMIBC includes a
      transurethral resection of the tumour(s), which is followed by an adjuvant instillation
      therapy, aiming to reduce the risk of recurrence and progression. Intravesical bacillus
      Calmette-Guérin (BCG) treatment is been the most effective single agent against NMIBC, and it
      is referred to as the gold standard in the treatment of high risk disease.

      BCG is a solution of live, attenuated mycobacterium bovis bacteria, which is administered
      intravesically in an outpatient clinic. BCG activates an immunological reaction in the
      bladder wall, which leads to antitumour effect by activation of macrophages, T-cells, and
      natural killer (NK) cells. BCG treatment comprises an induction period, which includes six
      weekly instillations. This is followed by maintenance period including monthly or repeated
      series of three weekly instillations up to 1-3 years.

      Other instillation therapies include intravesically administered chemotherapy. Mitomycin C
      (MMC) is the most used chemotherapeutic agent. MMC provides a better tolerated side effect
      profile, but is less effective against high risk NMIBC than BCG, when MMC is used as a single
      agent. Combinations of BCG- and MMC treatment has also been described with various results.
      The rationale for combining BCG and MMC is to enhance the absorption of BCG as MMC might
      cause disruption of bladder mucosa, which makes the mucosa more permeable thus enhancing the
      absorption of BCG. However, it is also hypothesized, that BCG may also work synergistic in
      favor of MMC.

      The absorption and effect of MMC may be enhanced with electromotive drug administration
      (EMDA) device. After instillation of MMC, an electric field is conducted in the bladder with
      EMDA device via catheter and electrodes, which are placed in the bladder and lower abdomen
      skin. Electric field creates movement of sodium ions and water into the bladder wall, which
      creates electro-osmotic drag of MMC molecules. In a laboratory setting, EMDA-MMC instillation
      results in 4-7 times greater concentration of MMC in the deeper layers of the bladder wall
      than passively administered MMC instillation. EMDA-MMC treatment may also be combined with
      BCG treatment administering BCG and EMDA-MMC instillations sequentially. Results from a
      prospective randomized trial suggested, that sequential EMDA-MMC and BCG treatment might be
      even more effective against NMIBC than BCG therapy alone in terms of recurrence, progression
      and overall survival.

      The current study is a prospective, open label, phase III randomized study allocating
      patients with high risk NMIBC to receive adjuvant instillation therapy either as traditional
      BCG treatment, or sequential BCG- and EMDA-MMC treatment. The aim of the study is to compare
      effectiveness and tolerability of the two treatment regimens in preventing recurrence and
      progression of high risk NMIBC.
    
  