
    
      Approximately 100 adults scheduled to undergo cardiac surgery involving the use of
      cardiopulmonary bypass will be eligible for enrollment in this study. Blood and urine samples
      will be obtained from all patients in the study for future measurement of both MIOX and
      creatinine concentrations in the same sample at each of the following time points:

        -  Baseline (within 24 hours prior to the start of surgery)

        -  Immediately following cardiopulmonary bypass (time 0), 3 (± 1), 6 (± 2), 12 (+/-2) 18 (±
           2), and 24 (± 2) hours following cardiopulmonary bypass.

      Urine and lithium heparin anti-coagulated blood will be collected at each time point. Blood
      and urine samples will be immediately centrifuged, aliquoted, and frozen at -80oC prior to
      analysis. Samples will be stored and analyzed at Washington University School of Medicine.

      The results of these assessments will be blinded to the medical team during the study and
      will not impact the medical management of the patient.

      Serum creatinine measurements obtained by the medical team as part of routine care both
      pre-operatively and post-operatively as well as any additional post-operative renal insults,
      the development of oliguria, need for a nephrology consultation, length of intensive care
      unit (ICU) stay, initiation of dialysis and mortality will be recorded through Day 10.
      Patients will be followed throughout their hospital stay, which on average is expected to be
      about 10 days.

      The statistical analysis will evaluate the correlation of plasma and urine MIOX (absolute and
      change from baseline) with parameters indicative of renal injury (e.g., increases in plasma
      creatinine through Day 5 and development of oliguria, need for a nephrology consult or
      initiation of dialysis through Day 10). These results will assist in establishing the
      sensitivity and specificity of plasma and urine MIOX for the detection of meaningful kidney
      injury following cardiopulmonary bypass surgery.
    
  