
    
      In the currently proposed phase I/II study, the investigators aim to treat patients with
      relapsed and/or relapsed refractory multiple myeloma (MM) who have progressed on
      carfilzomib-based therapy with an FDA approved c-MET inhibitor, cabozantinib. Our hypothesis
      is that the additional rescue blockade with cabozantinib added to the carfilzomib will (1) be
      safe and tolerable and (2) will show activity by demonstrating objective response to
      combination carfilzomib/cabozantinib therapy. In correlative studies, the investigators aim
      to show that (1) the serum and marrow MUC20 levels which will be judged by genomic and flow
      cytometric studies will directly correlate with primary plasma cell MUC20/c-Met pathway
      activation and inversely correlate with protease inhibitor (PI) resistance; and (2) a
      correlation of the gene and MUC20 expression profiles of patients with clinical outcomes may
      confirm the biomarker MUC20 as a predictor of disease sensitivity to PI, and allow future
      personalization of c-Met-targeted therapies, as well as combination approaches based on c-Met
      inhibitors.

      To be eligible for this study, patients must have been previously diagnosed with
      histologically or cytologically confirmed symptomatic MM, must have measurable disease and
      have had at least two, but not more than four prior lines of therapy for their disease, with
      lines of therapy being separated by the presence of documented disease progression.
      Additionally, patients eligible will be those who have failed carfilzomib either as a single
      agent as the last form of therapy, or carfilzomib in combination with dexamethasone, or
      carfilzomib in combination with revlimid and dexamethasone.

      In Phase I of this study the investigators will determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      among three doses. Dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) will be based solely on adverse events
      that occur during cycle 1. The initial dose of cabozantinib for all patients treated on this
      study will be 20 mg P.O. daily, which is designated dose level -1.

      Response assessment will be performed at start and after cycle 2 using the serum and/or urine
      protein electrophoresis with immunofixation and serum free light chains to assess disease
      burden. Disease response quality will also be assessed after completion of three cycles of
      therapy, and then every cycle after that. Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will be performed
      after the baseline sampling only to confirm the achievement of a complete remission (CR).

      All patients will be closely followed for toxicity from the time of informed consent until 30
      days after last administration of study medication. Adverse event and serious adverse events
      will be followed until baseline or less than or equal to grade 1 levels. Every subject who
      fulfills all aspects of patient eligibility who receives a partial or complete course of
      chemotherapy will be evaluable for dose limiting toxicity (DLT).
    
  