
    
      Introduction The prevalence of primary dysmenorrhoea is high and has an impact on quality of
      life, pain and disability. The cause is due to the increase of postaglandins that can be
      influenced by the lowering of progesterone. In short, there is a complex relationship between
      hormones and the immune system.

      Manual therapy increases the mobility of the sacrum and tissues of the pelvis, increasing the
      blood supply and the uterus that has parasympathetic innervation through the sacrum improves
      mobility, motility and irrigation.

      The ligaments, fasciae and tissue of the pelvis improve their irrigation through fascial,
      mobility and visceral techniques, which would improve uterine mobility by anatomical
      connections with these structures. With better mobility the uterus, and therefore the smooth
      muscle, would have more irrigation and less pain and hypercontractivility.

      The adjacent tissues, perineum, triangular ligament, innervated by the vagus nerve, improve

      The main objective is the improvement of quality of life, personal body satisfaction and
      overall self-perception and pain reduction in women with dysmenorrhea after treatment with
      manual therapy and provide information and advice on self-care and menstrual awareness.

      Methods

      Sample. The sample is formed by women with dysmenorrhoea aged between 18 and 45 years, with
      no other abdominopelvic problems.

      Design. The sample will be divided into 2 groups: Group 1. Manual therapy protocol and
      self-care advice and body awareness. Three sessions of manual therapy will be applied, one
      every 15 days; Group 2 control. Advice on self-care and body awareness.

      Evaluations:

        -  Clinical interview with anthropometric data and characteristics of the pathology (age,
           weight, height, pain characteristics) There will be 3 evaluations: Evaluation at the
           beginning, at the end of the treatment and a follow-up of one month.

        -  SF-36 quality of life scale.

        -  Visual Analog Scale (EVA).

        -  Feeling of change after treatment with the Patient Global Impression of Change Scale.

        -  Personal Body Satisfaction and Global Self-Perception.

        -  McGill pain perception questionnaire.
    
  