
    
      Approximately 1:1000 pregnancies are complicated by cancer. Breast cancer is the most common
      type diagnosed during pregnancy. Termination of pregnancy has not demonstrated an improvement
      in survival. Results of an international collaborative study reported similar overall
      survival for patients diagnosed with breast cancer in pregnancy compared to nonpregnant
      patients. The consensus medical opinion supports the option to start treatment with
      continuation of the pregnancy. The purpose of this Cancer and Pregnancy Registry study is to
      prospectively follow the women diagnosed with cancer during pregnancy-collecting information
      about the method of diagnosis, treatment options and maternal and neonatal outcomes at
      delivery and yearly at follow up.

      The majority of fetal organogenesis is completed by 12 weeks of pregnancy, consistent with
      the literature showing no increased malformation rate for chemotherapy use after the first
      trimester of pregnancy. The central nervous system continues to develop throughout gestation
      and after birth. Whether chemotherapy given after the first trimester affects central nervous
      system maturity and results in developmental delays requires further study. The first authors
      to provide detailed follow up on children exposed to chemotherapy in utero were Aviles and
      Niz in 1988. At that time 17 children ranging in age from 4-22 years born to mothers with
      acute leukemia who received chemotherapy during pregnancy were examined for physical health,
      growth and development. Each child demonstrated normal growth and development, school
      performance, intelligence testing, neurological examination, and hematologic evaluation
      including bone marrow biopsies. This study was expanded twice. First in 1991, to 43 children
      ranging in age from 3 to 19 years, also after exposure in utero to chemotherapy for maternal
      hematologic malignancies. All children were normal physically and neurologically. School
      performances and standardized intelligence testing were not significantly different from
      controls (unrelated matched children and unexposed siblings). The same authors expanded their
      study again to a final report of 84 children in 2001, confirming their previous reports that
      chemotherapy at full doses for an aggressive hematological malignancy can be safely
      administered. Standardized testing on children exposed to chemotherapy was not repeated for
      11 years. Drs. Amant, et al reported developmental outcomes of 70 children in Europe exposed
      to cancer treatment in utero. The children with developmental delays were concentrated in the
      group delivered preterm. In this study there was not a control group of unexposed children.

      Cardonick also performed developmental testing on 57 children of women diagnosed with cancer
      during pregnancy. Ninety-five percent of children scored within normal limits on cognitive
      assessments; 71% and 79% of children demonstrated at or above age equivalency in mathematics
      and reading scores respectively.

      Tooth formation of the primary teeth begins at 11 to 14 weeks of fetal life and is completed
      postnatally. The enamel of the primary teeth begins to develop at 10 weeks and gradually
      continues to develop throughout pregnancy; enamel development on the permanent teeth starts
      in week 28 and begins to mineralize at the time of birth. It is known that both tetracycline
      and antiepileptic medications use during pregnancy can affect tooth development. For example,
      prenatal exposure tetracycline induces discoloration of deciduous teeth, while exposure to
      antiepileptic drugs increases the risk of enamel opacities and hypoplasia. Enamel hypoplasia
      increases susceptibility for primary dental caries due to an increased risk for bacterial
      colonization. Peretz et al in 2003 reported the dental examination of 2 children exposed to
      Doxorubicin+/-Cyclophosphamide during the third trimester for breast cancer. Both children at
      18 and 30 months of age had normal primary teeth. Three women in the Cancer and Pregnancy
      Registry have reported dental issues in their young children including under developed
      primary teeth and early childhood caries. The effect of in utero exposure to chemotherapy on
      amelogenesis requires further study.

      Women diagnosed with cancer of any type during pregnancy can enroll voluntarily in the Cancer
      and Pregnancy Registry. Signed medical release forms allow the investigator to review cancer
      diagnostic studies and treatment course. Records are requested yearly from the treating
      pediatrician and dentist to follow the growth and development of the child. All information
      is kept confidential. Oncologic follow up on the women is also requested yearly.
    
  