
    
      Low dose rate (LDR) brachytherapy is an excellent treatment strategy for patients with
      prostate confined cancers, achieving high curative rates. However, LDR brachytherapy has been
      linked with long-term erectile dysfunction (ED), with a broad range of reported incidence in
      the literature.

      The pathophysiology associated with ED is complex and variable among different prostate
      cancer treatment strategies. In the post radical prostatectomy (RP) setting, ED is usually an
      immediate phenomenon and associated with neuropraxia caused by trauma and inflammation
      (Nandipati 2006). On the contrary, external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) related ED frequently
      occurs between 6-24 months and is believed to be vasculogenic in nature and caused by
      veno-vascular luminal occlusion (Mulhall et al. 2005) that culminates into fibrosis of the
      corporal tissue. In the post brachytherapy setting, seems plausible that a combination of
      both nerve and vascular damage are involved in the ED pathogenesis as erectile scores seem to
      reduce in the first months post implant (likely due to trauma) followed by a subsequent
      recovery and then, a gradual decline (Mabjeesh 2005).

      Despite a more complex pathophysiology, rates of ED post LDR brachytherapy seem to be lower
      than post EBRT or RP treatment (Crook 2010, Putora 2015). This may be associated with a
      significantly lower degree of trauma to the surrounding healthy tissue compared with trauma
      caused by RP and a more conformal dose around the prostate when contrasted with EBRT. In this
      regard, brachytherapy delivers a lesser dose to important structures previously correlated
      with an erectile function such as the internal pudendal artery (IPA), penile bulb, corpus
      cavernosum and possibly the neurovascular bundle.

      Currently, some strategies have been developed in an attempt to minimize ED post
      radiotherapy. In the POTEN-C clinical trial (NCT03525262), 120 patients are being randomized
      to stereotactic ablative radiotherapy with or without neurovascular sparing (neurovascular
      bundle, IPA and penile bulb/corpus carvenosum) with ED as the primary endpoint. Although the
      concept is intriguing, LDR brachytherapy has superior dose conformality and hence, a better
      chance to reduce radiation dose to the surrounding structures involved in the erectile
      function while still effectively treating the prostate cancer.
    
  