
    
      Aging often leads to substantial declines in walking function, especially for walking tasks
      that are more complex such as obstacle crossing. This is due in part to a lack of continued
      practice of complex walking (sedentary lifestyle) combined with age-related deficits of brain
      structure and the integrity of brain networks. Neurorehabilitation can contribute to recovery
      of lost walking function in older adults, but major and persistent improvements are elusive.
      A cornerstone of neurorehabilitation is motor learning, defined as an enduring change in the
      ability to perform a motor task due to practice or experience. Unfortunately, in most
      clinical settings, the time and cost demands of delivering a sufficiently intensive motor
      learning intervention is not feasible. There is a need for research to develop strategies for
      enhancing motor learning of walking ("locomotor learning") in order to improve the
      effectiveness of neurorehabilitation.

      The objective of this study is to use non-invasive brain stimulation to augment locomotor
      learning and to investigate brain networks that are responsible for locomotor learning in
      mobility-compromised older adults. The investigators have shown that frontal brain regions,
      particularly prefrontal cortex, are crucial to control of complex walking tasks. The
      investigators' neuroimaging and neuromodulation studies also show that prefrontal cortex
      structure and network connectivity are important for acquisition and consolidation of new
      motor skills. However, a major gap exists regarding learning of walking tasks. The proposed
      study is designed to address this gap. The investigators' pilot data from older adults shows
      that prefrontal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) administered during learning
      of a complex obstacle walking task contributes to multi-day retention of task performance. In
      the proposed study the investigators will build upon this pilot work by conducting a full
      scale trial that also investigates mechanisms related to brain structure, functional
      activity, and network connectivity. The investigators will address the following specific
      aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Determine the extent to which prefrontal tDCS augments the effect of task
      practice for retention of performance on a complex obstacle walking task.

      Specific Aim 2: Determine the extent to which retention of performance is associated with
      individual differences in baseline and practice-induced changes in brain measures (including
      gray matter volume and brain network segregation).

      Specific Aim 3: Investigate the extent to which tDCS modifies resting state network
      segregation.

      The investigators anticipate that prefrontal tDCS will augment retention of locomotor
      learning, and that the data will provide the first evidence of specific brain mechanisms
      responsible for locomotor learning/retention in older adults with mobility deficits. This new
      knowledge will provide a clinically feasible intervention approach as well as reveal
      mechanistic targets for future interventions to enhance locomotor learning and retention.
    
  