
    
      This clinical research study explores the activity of the new experimental antibody ch806 in
      humans for the first time.

      Cancers arising from an organ can be cured in some cases with various combinations of
      surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. However, once some cancers spread to other organs,
      treatment with commonly used methods is unlikely to cure the cancer and so treatment is then
      designed to control the growth of the cancer and the problems it is causing. One newer
      treatment approach involves targeting a marker (antigen) called the epidermal growth factor
      receptor (EGFR), which is found on the tumour cell's surface, with a specially constructed
      monoclonal antibody called "ch806".

      Antibodies are proteins that are found in the blood. Antibodies normally protect us from
      foreign invaders, such as bacteria or viruses. They help destroy these foreign substances by
      binding to them and activating white blood cells or blood proteins, resulting in their
      destruction. Tumour cells also have antigens which can be targeted by antibodies. A receptor
      expressed in high amounts (over-expressed) on various cancer cells, called the epidermal
      growth factor (EGFR) has been identified, studied and targeted with a variety of antibodies.

      One of these antibodies, mAb806, was originally made from mouse protein. Because mAb806 is a
      mouse antibody, if it were given to humans the body would see it as a foreign protein and
      would be likely to react to it with an unwanted immune response. To overcome this, the
      structure of the original mouse antibody called mAb 806 was changed to appear more
      "human-like". And the chimeric antibody (part mouse part human) called ch806 was produced.

      The study is open to patients whose tumour is shown to express the 806 antigen by a special
      test. Further tests are required to determine eligibility for the study. These tests
      determine general health and include: physical examination; blood samples for routine tests;
      routine tests to determine the extent of tumour prior to starting treatment with 111 In-ch806
      (eg. X-ray, CT scan, etc.)

      On study, 111In-ch806 is given by infusion into a vein over one hour. Blood samples to
      determine the amount of drug in the blood (pharmacokinetics), are taken a number of times on
      the day of the 111 In-ch806 infusion; about every 2nd day for the first week; then 1 week, 2
      weeks and 3 weeks after the infusion. Blood tests are also used to monitor general health and
      to see if the immune system recognises the infused antibody by making another antibody
      against it. Such a response is called "anti-ch806 antibody" or "HACA". Gamma camera scans to
      see where 111 In-ch806 goes in the body are done right after the first infusion, and 3 more
      times over the next seven days. The scan takes about one hour each time. Visits for weekly
      follow up examinations and blood tests until 30 days after the infusion are combined with
      further gamma camera scans. Tumour is reassessed 30 days after the infusion using the same
      type of scans as at study entry.

      Further treatment with a course of 111In-ch806 is not be available at this time, as this
      study is to test the safety of a single infusion only.
    
  