
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Prospectively validate a prior germline predictor of paclitaxel-induced peripheral
      neuropathy (TIPN) using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).
      Specifically, this study will demonstrate that patients with a high-risk TIPN genotype have
      significantly more grade 2-4 TIPN than patients with a low risk genotype.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Validate a prior germline predictor of TIPN using the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy (FACT)/Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG)-Neurotoxicity (NTX) neurotoxicity subscale in
      Arm A.

      II. Compare grade 2-4 TIPN based on CTCAE between weekly paclitaxel (Arm A) versus (vs.)
      every three-week docetaxel (Arm B).

      III. Prospectively confirm dose reductions due to TIPN are lower for every three-week
      docetaxel compared with weekly paclitaxel in a prospective cohort of patients of African
      ancestry.

      IV. Prospectively confirm dose reductions due to any cause are lower for every three-week
      docetaxel compared with weekly paclitaxel in a prospective cohort of patients of African
      ancestry.

      V. Assess the ability of the high-risk genotype to predict TIPN risk for docetaxel.

      CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Identify novel markers of TIPN and elucidate the mechanism. II. Whole genome sequencing of
      germline blood to evaluate for additional predictors of TIPN.

      III. Create induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) derived neurons from patient samples.

      IIIa. Evaluate whether clinical findings can be mimicked in vitro. IIIb. Evaluate gene
      expression (ribonucleic acid [RNA] sequencing [seq]) and the epigenome at baseline versus
      after exposure in those prone to TIPN versus those not.

      IV. Create a biorepository of patient derived samples for future translational research.

      PATIENT REPORTED OUTCOME OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare Grade 2-4 TIPN (moderate to life threatening) based on Patient Reported Outcomes
      (PRO)-CTCAE items between weekly paclitaxel (Arm A) vs. every three-week docetaxel (Arm B).

      II. Prospectively compare FACT/GOG-NTX Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) subscale,
      Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Physical Function version
      (v.)2 Short Form (SF) 10a, scores between every three-week docetaxel and weekly paclitaxel
      and between high risk and low risk genotypes (Arm A) in a cohort of African ancestry.

      III. Compare the impact on financial toxicity (Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity
      [COST] scores) for every three-week docetaxel compared with weekly paclitaxel.

      IV. Examine associations between social determinants of health (zip code, marital status,
      education, income & insurance status) and dose reductions and treatment discontinuation.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours once weekly. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients may also receive trastuzumab and/or pertuzumab per institution routine
      care per treating physician?s discretion.

      ARM B: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour once every 3 weeks. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for 4-6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients may also receive cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, trastuzumab, and/or pertuzumab per
      institution routine care per treating physician?s discretion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  