
    
      Optic neuritis is an inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the optic nerve. It is most often
      characterized by visual loss or blurred vision along with dyschromatopsiaaccompanied by pain
      (especially with eye movement) and no demonstrable evidence of an alternate diagnosis such as
      ischemia or retinal disease. It can also be associated with a swollen optic disc (Optic
      Neuritis Study Group 1991, Hutchinson, W.M. 1976) and optic nerve enhancement on MRI
      (Kupersmith 2002).

      Functional high-throughput screening for compounds that promote remyelination presents a
      major unmet need in the therapeutic arsenal for multiple sclerosis and other demyelinating
      conditions such as optic neuritis. Screening for myelin repair is problematic, as functional
      remyelination requires the presence of intact neuronal axons. Standard methods are not suited
      for high-throughput formats. We performed a detailed screen of over 1500 FDA approved small
      molecule drugs to identify agents that could be promising for remyelination. Engineered with
      conical dimensions, our micropillar technology permitted resolution of the extent and length
      of membrane wrapping from a single 2-dimensional image. Confocal imaging acquired from the
      base to the tip of the pillars allows for the fluorescence detection of concentric wrapping
      observed as "rings" of myelin membrane. The platform was formatted in 96-well plates,
      amenable to semi-automated random acquisition and automated detection and quantification.
      Upon initiating a screen of 1500 bioactive molecules, we identified Clemastine as a compound
      that potentially enhances oligodendrocyte differentiation and remyelination. We then
      validated this and other drugs in preclinical assays as well as in animal models of primary
      myelination and remyelination after inflammatory and chemical demyelination. Together, our
      findings illustrate the proof of concept for a novel high-throughput screening platform for
      potential regenerative therapeutics in MS (Chan JR et al. 2014).

      This study is intended to assess for clinical evidence of remyelination using Clemastine
      Fumarate in patients with acute inflammatory injury causing demyelination of the anterior
      visual pathway as a consequence of acute demyelinating optic neuritis. The study is designed
      to assess tolerability and clinical efficacy of Clemastine using outcomes intended to assess
      for (a) adverse events and (b) recovery of myelin. This study is complementary to an earlier
      study evaluating clemastine in chronic demyelinated optic neuropathy and serves as part of a
      proof of concept program intended to evaluate methods for conducting remyelination trials in
      MS.
    
  