
    
      Video assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) has recently been evaluated as the standard surgical
      procedure for lung surgery. The advantages of VATS procedures compared with open thoracotomy
      are rapid recovery, short hospital stay and low complication risk. Although VATS is less
      painful than thoracotomy, patients may feel severe pain during the first hours at
      postoperative period. Analgesia management is very important for these patients in
      postoperative period since insufficient analgesia can cause pulmonary complications such as
      atelectasis, pneumonia and increased oxygen consumption.

      The ultrasound (US) guided erector spina plane (ESP) block is a novel interfacial plan block
      defined by Forero et al. at 2016. ESP block provides thoracic analgesia at T5 level and
      abdominal analgesia at T7-9 level. The ESP block contains a local anesthetic injection into
      the deep fascia of erector spinae. This area is away from the pleural and neurological
      structures and thus minimizes the risk of complications due to injury. Visualization of
      sonoanatomy with US is easy, and the spread of local anesthesic agents can be easily seen
      under the erector spinae muscle. Thus, analgesia occurs in several dermatomes with
      cephalad-caudad way. Cadaveric studies have shown that the injection spreads to the ventral
      and dorsal roots of the spinal nerves and creates sensory blockade in both posterior and
      anterolateral thorax. In the literature, it has been reported that ESP block provides
      effective analgesia after open heart surgery, breast surgery and ventral hernia repair in
      randomized controlled studies about ESP block efficiency for postoperative analgesia
      management. In some case series and case reports it has been reported that ESP block provides
      effective analgesia after thoracotomy and VATS. Furthermore, it has been reported that it
      provides effective analgesia in chronic and persistant pain syndromes of thorax.

      US-guided serratus anterior plane (SAP) block is an interfascial plane block and was
      described by Blanco in 2013. A local anesthetic solution is performed into the fascial plane
      of serratus anterior muscle. It is easy to perform and has low complication rate because it
      is far away from the important neurological and vascular structures. The serratus anterior
      muscle may be seen easily with US guidance in the mid-axillary line. It provides effective
      analgesia in anterior, posterior and lateral dermatomes of thorax. It has been reported that
      SAP block provides effective postoperative pain management following thoracotomy, breast
      surgery and VATS. There is no clinical randomized study evaluating the efficacy of ESP block
      and SAP block following VATS in the literature.

      The aim of this study is to compare US-guided ESP block and SAP block for postoperative
      analgesia management after VATS. The primary aim is to compare perioperative and
      postoperative opioid consumption and the secondary aim is to evaluate postoperative pain
      scores (VAS), adverse effects related with opioids (allergic reaction, nausea, vomiting) and
      complications due to blocks (pneumothorax, hematoma).
    
  