
    
      Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is hemorrhage in the brain parenchyma caused by
      non-traumatic spontaneous rupture of cerebral artery, arteriole, vein and capillary in
      adults. ICH is a common problem, with subarachnoid hemorrhage. About 90% ICH patients have
      increased blood pressure (BP) that usually occurs immediately after disease onset. BP
      elevation in the acute phase of ICH is associated with poor prognosis, and its mechanism of
      action includes the local increase of initial hemorrhage, early hematoma expansion at
      hemorrhagic sites, the increased risk of early recurrent hemorrhage, serious cerebral edema,
      and recurrent stroke, this affects the most within the few hours following the onset of the
      disease. The current American Heart Association guidelines recommended early antihypertensive
      treatment and suggested that rapid decrease of BP to 140 mmHg is safe in ICH patients with no
      obvious antihypertensive contraindications. However, the significant differences between
      large studies conducted in recent years have led to great controversy on the effect of early
      antihypertensive treatment in acute ICH and disease prognosis. A meta-analysis of early
      antihypertensive treatment for ICH showed that differences in early BP control rate and BP
      increase variability are also the major causes of inconsistency between these studies. There
      is currently no consensus on the best antihypertensive regimen as it is difficult to reach
      the optimal BP level timely. Some studies have shown that stress response, pain, ICP increase
      and pre-onset BP elevation are factors that cause acute BP increase in ICH patients. In
      particular, restlessness, sleep deprivation, and stress due to intolerable pain can lead to
      dramatic BP and intracranial pressure (ICP) increases, further lead to secondary
      intracerebral hematoma expansion and subsequently cause neurologic degeneration and cerebral
      tissue damage. Therefore, the primary principles of ICH acute BP increase treatment are to
      keep quiet, restore BP to normal level, stably reduce BP, decrease BP variability, lower the
      chance of recurrent hemorrhage, and thereby improve long-term prognosis. Traditional
      antihypertensive treatment can only resolve the issue of BP elevation but not the root cause
      of disease. Analgesia and sedation is a critical component of and a global consensus in the
      clinical management of ICH patients. Remifentanil is a fentanyl μ-type opioid receptor
      agonist with strong and fast-acting analgesic effects, does not induce ICP elevation and can
      alleviate pain induced by sputum aspiration, body turning and back clapping in severe
      patients. A randomized trial on patients with craniocerebral injury has indicated that a
      remifentanil-based sedation strategy can significantly reduce the amount of sedative used and
      shorten the time of mechanical ventilation without affecting the functional assessment of the
      nervous system. Dexmedetomidine is an α2-adrenergic agonist that inhibits sympathetic
      activity by activating the pre-synaptic α2-receptor in the locus coeruleus, which in turn
      reduces norepinephrine release, that only slightly affects consciousness and breathing and
      helps patients with craniocerebral injury stay conscious while under sedation, allowing
      real-time functional assessment of the nervous system. Therefore, the research group
      developed a treatment strategy in which sufficient analgesia is applied in combination with a
      minimal sedation program as an effective and safe early an- tihypertensive treatment.We
      hypothesize that applying sufficient analgesia in combination with a minimal sedation program
      will involve the use of remifentanil for pain relief and dexmedetomidine for antisympathetic
      activity to restore elevated BP to normal levels in patients with spontaneous ICH, and we
      further hypothesize that this strategy will be more effective than conventional symptomatic
      antihypertensive treatment for controlling BP.
    
  