
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational
      intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational
      intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is
      being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved B-701 as a treatment for any
      disease.

      The FDA has not approved Pembrolizumab for Bladder Cancer but it has been approved for other
      uses.

      This is the first time that B-701 in combination with Pembrolizumab will be given to humans.

      In this research study, Investigators are...

        -  Testing the effectiveness and safety of the combination of two experimental drugs (B-701
           and Pembrolizumab);

        -  Learning about the good and/or bad effects the drugs have on participants and their
           cancer;

        -  Administering B-701 and Pembrolizumab, which are antibodies (proteins that bind to other
           molecules), because...

             -  B-701 binds to a protein receptor called FGFR3 (fibroblast growth factor receptor
                3). FGFR3 has been found to be present (expressed) or changed (mutated) on the
                surface of in many types of cancer cells. Targeting FGFR3 may inhibit cancer
                growth.

             -  Pembrolizumab binds to a protein cell surface receptor called PD-1, which is found
                on certain types of lymphocytes and which are also involved in many types of
                cancer;

        -  Treating participants with Pembrolizumab, which is approved by the FDA for the treatment
           of Metastatic Melanoma, a Cancer of the skin;

        -  Collecting blood and tissue samples and other related medical information to learn more
           about the development of cancer and predictors of response;

        -  And hoping to learn how the combination of study drugs work in the treatment of cancer
           to help develop new treatments.
    
  