
    
      Status - CLOSED TO PATIENT ENROLLMENT (CNPE)

      The patient will give blood to make TAA-Specific cytotoxic T cells in a lab. These cells well
      be grown and frozen. If the TAA-Specific cytotoxic T cells can be made, the time from
      collection of the blood to manufacture of T cells for administration to the patient is about
      1 to 2 months.

      The cells will be infused by intravenous infusion (IV) into the patient over 1-10 minutes.
      The patient may be pre-treated with acetaminophen (Tylenol) and diphenhydramine (Benadryl).
      Acetaminophen (Tylenol) and diphenhydramine (Benadryl) are given to prevent a possible
      allergic reaction to the TAA-CTL administration.

      Patients will be given up to six doses of TAA-CTLs at monthly intervals. The treatments will
      be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Houston Methodist Hospital (HMH).

      MEDICAL TESTS BEFORE TREATMENT:

        -  Physical exam.

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

        -  Measurements of the patient's tumor by routine imaging studies and/or blood tests. The
           study will use the imaging study that was used before to follow the patient's tumor: CT,
           MRI, or PET.

        -  Blood test to check for pregnancy for female patients who can have children

      MEDICAL TESTS DURING TREATMENT:

      Standard medical tests will be conducted on the day of the second and subsequent infusions:

        -  Physical exams prior to each T cell infusion

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

      MEDICAL TESTS AFTER TREATMENT:

      - Measurements the patient's tumor by routine imaging studies and/or blood tests done as per
      standard of care.

      To learn more about the way the TAA-CTLs are working in patient's body, an extra 20-40 mL
      (4-8 teaspoons) of blood will be taken before the infusion, at Weeks 1 and 2 after each
      infusion and at weeks 4, 6 and 8 and months 3, 6, 9 and 12 after the last infusion. The blood
      may be drawn from a central line at the time of the patient's regular blood tests.
      Investigators will use this blood to see how long the TAA-CTLs last, and to look at the
      immune system response to the patient's cancer.

      Study Duration: Patients will be active participants in this study for approximately one year
      after their last dose. Investigators will contact patients once a year for up to 4 additional
      years (total of 5 years follow-up) in order to evaluate disease response long-term.

      *Arm A and Arm B are closed to new patient enrollment.*
    
  