
    
      This is an open, exploratory, 6-months dose-tolerance and dose-response study of a single
      thermal ablation (Ablaflex) procedure in subjects suffering from chronic symptomatic
      bursitis.

      Possible study participants will be screened for eligibility based on defined inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.

      Eligible patients will be administered with a single 3-minute perfusion of a physiological
      saline solution at a specific temperature between 50° Celsius and 55° Celsius. If the volume
      of the bursa estimated by ultrasound examination is ≤ 10 cc, the perfusion will be performed
      at a rate of 3mL/second. If the volume of the bursa is > 10 cc and ≤ 25 cc, the perfusion
      will be performed at a rate of 4mL/second. If the volume of the bursa is > 25 cc, the subject
      is considered as screen failure (exclusion criterion # 10). Immediately prior to and
      immediately after the thermal ablation phase of 3 minutes, perfusion with a physiological
      saline solution at room temperature (22°C) will be performed during 2 minutes. In total the
      bursa will be rinsed during 7 minutes. An elastic bandage (Elastoplast) will be applied
      immediately after the procedure to compress the bursa cavity. It should be worn for 6 weeks.

      The first patient with bursitis of olecranon will be administered physiological saline
      solution at a temperature of 50° Celsius, and subsequent patients will receive perfusions
      with increments of 0.5 to 1° Celsius as long as no AR (of any intensity) is reported.

      As long as no AR is reported, but when a first CR or PR is reported for a specific
      temperature, the patient in whom CR or PR was reported will be considered as the first in a
      cohort of 3 patients treated at the same temperature during the course of the clinical trial.

      As soon as a first AR is reported, the patient in whom the AR was reported will be considered
      as the first in a cohort of 3 patients treated at the same temperature and the remainder of
      the study will be conducted with cohorts of 3 patients treated in the same conditions.

      Patients will be assessed at 6 different study visits: at baseline (Day 1), 1 day (24/72h)
      after treatment, 1 week after treatment (+/- 1 day), 3 weeks after treatment (+/- 2 days), 6
      weeks (+/- 1 week) after treatment, and 6 months (+/- 2 weeks) after treatment. At any time
      during the 6-months study period an unscheduled visit may be performed. Patients will be
      requested to score weekly patient reported outcome assessments (PRO) until Week 6 and at
      Month 6, and to record any possible ARs and bursitis related treatments. At Week 2, Week 4
      and Week 5 the patient will complete the PRO at home.

      Assessments to be performed at every study visit include: physical examination (with focus on
      the bursitis), vital signs (including HR and temperature), PRO, adverse events (AE),
      concomitant medication(s) and treatment(s). An ultrasound exam of the bursa (according to
      standard ultrasound protocol) is to be performed at baseline and at week 6 (week 1 assessment
      is optional).
    
  