
    
      Peripheral T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (PTCLs) are a heterogeneous group of
      lymphoproliferative disorder arising from mature T cells of post-thymic origin at different
      stages of differentiation with different morphological patterns, phenotypes, and clinical
      presentation. All subtypes are found more commonly in male patients, and the median age at
      diagnosis is 62 years. This disease is generally associated with high relapse rates and a
      poor prognosis, with inferior treatment outcomes compared with B-cell lymphomas and have a
      5-year-survival < 32%.

      T-cell lymphomas are widely recognized as a complex and heterogeneous group of
      lymphoproliferative disorders, generally associated with high relapse rates and a poor
      prognosis. Because of their rarity, they are still very poorly understood.

      The introduction of new and more effective therapies and better technologies led the
      International T-cell non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Study Group to launch the T-cell Project 2.0 in
      order to have a contemporary, real-time understanding of the T-cell lymphoma biology and
      treatment, together with the application of contemporary technologies to further
      identification of new therapeutic targets.

      Per protocol, patients are evaluated according to the treating physician's standard practice.
      There are no specific evaluations or visits required for the Registry. Data captured in the
      Registry reflects what is routinely collected for patients with PTCL.

      The study plans to collect the tissue sample for central review. The ordinary fixation,
      cryopreservation and routine tumor cytogenetics are planned for biopsy samples. Chairmen of
      the Histopathology Review Panel will locate Regional sites where expert hematopathologists
      will review the material and perform a panel of immunostains (T-cell panel + CD20) and
      markers not assessed at local site.

      Adding of blood sample collection will allow estimating prospectively the frequency of pEBVd
      detection in our cohort of PTCL patients at baseline and at the end of initial therapy, to
      characterize agreement between pEBVd and EBER in tumor tissue, and to explore the prognostic
      or predictive implications of detectable pEBVd in PTCL. Finally, to investigate the genetics
      and pathogenic mechanisms of aggressive PTCLs on an international scale.
    
  