
    
      Constipation is a subjective symptom that defines as inadequate defecation including several
      symptoms as follows: the sensation of incomplete bowel evacuation, hard stool, straining, and
      difficulty in defecation. The general prevalence of constipation in adults is 16%. The
      pre-defined risk factors are women gender, advanced age, non-white ethnicity, low
      socio-economic level, decreased physical activity underlying diseases, and medications.
      Chronic constipation affects quality of life and causes problems such as anxiety, depression,
      somatization, sleep disorders, sexual dysfunctions, school/work absenteeism. In the following
      periods, it causes serious comorbidities including dyspnea, gastro-esophageal reflux,
      hypertension, thyroid diseases, vaginitis, dyspareunia, diabetes, and fibromyalgia.

      In the treatment of chronic constipation, conservative approaches (lifestyle change and
      physiotherapy applications) are used at the first phase. If conservative approaches are not
      helpful for patients pharmacological and surgical treatment can be performed based on the
      characteristics of patients, respectively. Pharmacological treatments aim to increase the
      frequency of spontaneous bowel movements, to reduce abdominal pain and swelling, and to
      improve stool consistency. However, side effects such as abdominal bloating, abdominal
      cramping, abdominal pain, stomach gas, nausea, diarrhea, headache and dyspnea are reported by
      patients in the following period. Furthermore, medications for constipation management are
      not cost-effective. Therefore, the level of evidence on conservative approaches with low
      cost, non-invasive and no-side effects in constipation treatment should be increased.

      Physiotherapy approaches to alleviate chronic constipation symptoms include such as
      defecation training, abdominal massage, connective tissue massage, electrical stimulation,
      Kinesio-taping, anorectal biofeedback, and exercise training. Abdominal massage application
      in constipation is used in constipation management since the early 1870s and it is popular in
      recent years. The benefits of abdominal massage are known as follows: reduction in the
      abdominal muscle tension, improvement of local circulation, and stimulation of peristaltic
      movements. The technique of abdominal massage consists of 5 stages as follows: abdominal
      muscle stroking, colon stroking, colon kneading, colon stroking, and abdominal muscle
      stroking.
    
  