
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) diagnosed on
      core needle biopsy judged to be breast conservation candidates based upon standard imaging
      (mammography +/- sonography) and physical examination (a) who convert to mastectomy in step 1
      based on MRI findings, and (b) who have a mastectomy as the final surgical procedure in step
      2.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the relation between baseline clinical covariates (e.g., tumor grade, necrosis,
      histologic type, mammographic lesion size), MRI morphologic and kinetic features, and the
      DCIS score.

      II. To assess the diagnostic accuracy of MRI in extent of disease evaluation in patients with
      DCIS.

      III. To estimate the proportion of patients who require re-operation because of inadequate
      excision after MRI.

      IV. To estimate the proportion of patients who proceed to mastectomy after an initial attempt
      at wide local excision because of either inadequate tumor-free margins (< 2 mm), or other
      reasons.

      V. To estimate the 5-year and 10-year ipsilateral breast event (in situ and invasive) rate
      (IBE) among women with DCIS assessed with MRI preoperatively and treated with wide local
      excision without radiation therapy (if there is a low DCIS score) or with radiation therapy
      (if there is an intermediate-high DCIS score).

      VI. To estimate the proportion of women with DCIS who receive treatment that is concordant
      with their treatment goals and concerns.

      VII. To estimate the proportion of women with DCIS whose decision autonomy preference was
      concordant with perceived level of decision involvement.

      VIII. To assess decision quality using knowledge score and decision process. IX. To assess
      concordance between decision autonomy preference and perceived level of decision involvement,
      knowledge and decision process scores as independent predictors of decision satisfaction at
      the first post-operative visit.

      X. To assess the relationship of patient-reported outcomes and disease-specific covariates,
      and quality of life after treatment.

      XI. To assess the role of disease status, diagnostic test results and surgeon recommendation
      as predictors of treatment received.

      XII. To compare the patient-reported diagnostic testing burden of bilateral mammography and
      MRI as measured by Testing Morbidities Index (TMI).

      OUTLINE:

      STEP 1:

      ARM A: Patients undergo MRI prior to surgery. Patients undergo additional imaging and/or
      biopsies if indicated based on MRI.

      STEP 2: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms based on the results of the MRI.

      ARM B: Patients undergo a mastectomy. Patients do not register for Step 3.

      ARM C: Patients undergo wide local excision +/- re-excision. Patients may cross-over to Arm B
      if mastectomy is indicated. Tissue samples collected during surgery are used to calculate the
      DCIS score using genetic analysis testing. Patients may then proceed to Step 3.

      STEP 3: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms based on the results of the DCIS score
      test.

      ARM D (DCIS score < 39): Patients undergo endocrine therapy as directed.

      ARM E (DCIS score >= 39): Patients undergo radiation therapy and endocrine therapy as
      directed.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years and
      then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  