
    
      We will recruit patients with 1) intermediate AMD in one eye and advanced AMD in the
      non-study eye or 2) patients with bilateral intermediate AMD (where both eyes will be
      included). As some participants are symptomless at the stage of intermediate AMD, we will
      recruit from hospital databases including imaging databases and ophthalmology and optometry
      practices and engagement with Patient Societies e.g. the Macular Society and patient public
      involvement meetings.

      There will be four clinical sites performing detailed assessments on 50 patients each and, to
      increase sample size, an additional eight referral sites in the UK who will each enrol and
      follow 25 study patients by SD-OCT every 4 months. The acquired images from these referral
      sites will be sent to the Vienna Reading Centre for morphological identification of focal
      events. If a focal event is detected, participants will then be referred for a detailed,
      targeted assessment at either the University of Southampton or Moorfields Eye Hospital as
      detailed below.

      After consent, patients will undergo visual function tests (ETDRS visual acuity,
      microperimetry) and multimodal imaging including fundus photographs, OCT scans, OCT
      angiography, autofluorescence and adaptive optics imaging. The visual function tests will be
      repeated annually and the multimodal imaging will be done at 4 monthly intervals for 3 years.
      Blood will be taken at the first visit for DNA analysis.

      200 patients (main cohort) will undergo dense retinal phenotyping at 10 visits. Medical and
      smoking history, genotype and body mass index will also be included in the analysis as has
      been done previously. As well as structural tests, functional tests will be performed at
      baseline and end of the study using both microperimetry (a type of visual field test to
      create a "retinal sensitivity map" of the quantity of light perceived in specific parts of
      the retina) to identify focal changes and low luminance visual acuity to assess global
      changes. To increase sample size but make the study feasible an additional 200 patients at UK
      referral sites will undergo 4 monthly OCT and be referred to Southampton / Moorfields for
      dense phenotyping only if a focal event is detected by OCT.
    
  