
    
      This sham-controlled, double-blind study will be completed at Blythedale Children's Hospital.

      Detailed procedures

      Robotic Device and Patient Position

      The investigators will use existing robots at Blythedale, which are FDA approved robotic
      devices that move the shoulder-and-elbow, or wrist-and-forearm, or the Typo Amadeo digit
      training robot.

      All robots: The subject will sit in a foam-padded chair facing the robot and a video screen.

      Planar (shoulder-elbow) and wrist robots: The arm will be abducted, forearm supported, and
      hand lightly grasping the robot handle, and velcro straps will lightly hold the forearm and
      fingers secure. A cursor on the video screen will display the targets and track the movement
      of the patient's arm.

      Amadeo: The arm will be abducted, forearm supported, and digits attached to the robot with
      magnets. Velcro straps will lightly hold the forearm and fingers secure. A cursor on the
      video screen will display the targets and track the movement of the patient's fingers.

      Robotic Training

      Participants will receive a total of 12 sessions comprising 1 hour of interactive robotic
      training. Participants will have two to four study visits per week. During one visit, the
      child will receive tDCS + 1 hr training on the shoulder-elbow MIT Manus robot, and on the
      second visit of the week, the child will receive tDCS + 1 hr training on the wrist MIT Manus
      robot.

      The interactive robot features involve visuomotor tasks, moving the robotic manipulandum
      according to targets on a computer screen mounted at eye level. A key feature of MIT robots
      is the low near isotropic inertia and reduced friction in the robot arm so that, when
      appropriate, it can "get out of the way." The force required to move the robotic arm is
      minimal, comparable to moving unrestricted, and if a patient cannot move the robot arm, it
      will guide the limb to provide an adaptive sensorimotor experience.

      Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation

      A current up to 1.5mA current will be delivered using surface rubber-carbon electrodes
      (35cm2) with surrounding saline soaked sponges (0.9% NaCl) by a battery driven, constant
      current stimulator (maximum output 2mA). Participants will receive stimulation for 20 minutes
      while seated (before robotic motor training), with the anode over the optimal site for first
      dorsal interosseous (FDI) as identified using TMS, and the cathode on the contralateral
      supraorbital area. Sham tDCS: comparable set-up to real tDCS, 30 sec real current ramping to
      current up to 1.5mA at commencement, then after 5 sec a slow decrease but to no current
      sustained for 20mins.
    
  