
    
      HH.3. Scope:

      Which is about 12.29% of the population consists of disabled people in Turkey and the highest
      rate of disability It is known that physical disability (1). Having at least one wheelchair
      of approximately 75 million worldwide according to 2019 data plays a critical role in
      improving mobility (2). In fact, the wheelchair is one of the most widely used assistive
      technology tools to increase personal mobility and is a precondition for those with limited
      mobility to enjoy their human rights, live in dignity and become more productive members in
      their community. For many people, a well-designed and well-equipped wheelchair can be the
      right step for social inclusion (3). More than half of wheelchair users need assistance with
      using their wheelchairs and daily living activities (4). The literature investigating the
      factors affecting wheelchair use mainly consists of variables related to the environment and
      physical characteristics of wheelchair users (4). Correct selection and configuration of
      wheelchairs can increase mobility, effectiveness and participation (5).

      While sitting comfort is associated with softness and support, lack of support, unbalanced
      pressure distribution, biomechanics and fatigue factors are associated with sitting
      discomfort. Anatomical factors can cause characteristic tissue loads that appear to be
      associated with tissue damage, discomfort, or axillary posture or movement modifications.
      Following excessive or prolonged tissue loading, cell death may lead to the development of
      superficial or deep compression wounds (6). A superficial pressure sore first affects the
      skin layers near the epidermal tissue and is typically associated with damaging friction and
      shear forces with the presence of moisture and heat (7). Deep compression sores typically
      begin with the deformation of deep muscle and fat tissues beneath the ischial tuberocytes in
      the sitting position (8). Although the etiology of pressure sores is multifactorial (9),
      continuous pressure at the user seat interface is considered the most important factor
      (10,11). Therefore, wheelchair features are very important for posture and pressure sores. In
      our study, wheelchair features will be examined and these features will be compared with
      patient satisfaction. In addition, wheelchair characteristics and patient satisfaction in
      different patient groups (such as spinal cord injury, Multiple Sclerosis, Cerebrovascular
      Incident (stroke)) will also be discussed.

      Hypotheses Ho: There is no difference between initial sitting pressure and posture in
      wheelchair users and sitting pressure and posture after 2 and 3 hours.

      H1: There is a difference between the initial sitting pressure and posture in wheelchair
      users and the sitting pressure and posture after 2 and 3 hours.

      H2: There is a difference between the initial sitting pressure and posture and the sitting
      pressure and posture after 2 and 3 hours in different patient groups.

      H.4. Method: Individuals Patients who are being followed up in FTR or neurology Neurology
      clinics at Necmettin Erbakan University Meram Faculty of Medicine will be included in the
      study. In the G-Power analysis we conducted, Cascioli's study was based on comfort (12).
      However, we think that the number of people to be included in the study is low in terms of
      objectivity of the data. For this reason, a preliminary study will be conducted during the
      study and the sample number will be confirmed.

        1. Physical characteristics and history taking: Patients will be asked in detail about age,
           height, weight, disease diagnosis and duration, and wheelchair characteristics.

           Inclusion criteria were:

             1. Patients with multiple sclerosis, myopathies, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, polio
                and medulla spinalis incision,

             2. Being 18 years of age or older,

             3. have used a wheelchair for at least three months,

             4. being dependent on a wheelchair (all day) or at certain times of the day as the
                primary means of movement, Individuals will be excluded if they have suffered
                pressure sores within the last year.

        2. Evaluations After taking the patient's history, the person was taken to MAT bed for 20
           minutes. will be provided to rest. 20 minutes At the end, the patient who passes to the
           wheelchair will be asked to evaluate the comfort and discomfort they perceived after the
           first contact in the chair as 0 (none) -10 (very bad). Grading will be asked to evaluate
           the discomfort in the head, neck, back, waist, hips and legs, not the general sense of
           comfort. Meanwhile, pressure and posture will be evaluated.

             -  Route-Reach test: This test is used to evaluate hamstring and trunk flexion
                flexibility. The subject will be asked to sit on the test table with both knees in
                extension on a firm surface and reach out with his hands and feet without bending
                the knees. The distance between the fingers and the tip of the test table is
                measured with a ruler
    
  