
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved cabozantinib for your
      specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

      Few treatments exist for brain metastases from breast cancer. Radiation and surgery are
      generally included as a possible standard of care treatments for this diagnosis.

      In this research study, the investigator are looking at how well cabozantinib works in
      treating breast cancer that has spread to the brain. Cabozantinib has been used in some phase
      I studies and information from those other research studies suggests that cabozantinib may
      help to shrink or stabilize the participant's breast cancer. In addition, information from
      these studies has shown that cabozantinib may pass through the blood brain barrier (a
      protective layer that prevents most large molecules and cells found in the blood from
      entering the brain tissue) and may be an effective treatment for brain metastases.

      If the participant has HER2-positive breast cancer, they will receive trastuzumab in addition
      to cabozantinib. Trastuzumab is an FDA approved drug for the treatment of HER2-positive
      metastatic breast cancer. However, the combination of cabozantinib and trastuzumab has not
      yet been tested. Trastuzumab may help to shrink or stabilize breast cancer in combination
      with cabozantinib. If the participant's breast cancer is HER2-negative, they will not receive
      trastuzumab as part of this clinical trial.

      The names of the study interventions involved in this study are:

        -  Cabozantinib (XL184)

        -  Trastuzumab (herceptin) (participants with HER2-positive disease only)
    
  