
    
      NewT study staff will work with inpatient diabetes nurses and clinical diabetes educators at
      St. Louis Children's Hospital to identify patients that are admitted for new onset T1DM. Once
      the patients are clinically stable, the diabetes educator will visit the patient in the
      inpatient room and invite the family to participate in the study. If study participants would
      like to be enrolled, consent and assent will be obtained at that time. If potential
      participants are unsure at that time, the diabetes educator will provide the family with a
      blank copy of the consent form to be reviewed. Study information as well as contact
      information for study staff so that the family may contact the study should the family have
      additional questions or choose to enroll in the study. Following is a description of the
      testing days.

      Mixed Meal Tolerance Tests (MMTTs) Once the patient has been consented to participate in the
      study, in the T1DM group, a Mixed-Meal Tolerance Tests (MMTT) will be administered at both
      study visits (3 mo & 21 mo post diagnosis). If participants are in the control group, the
      MMTT will only be administered at the 21 mo visit (18 months after the initial visit). For
      the MMTT, the T1DM group will be instructed to consume at least 150 g of carbohydrates per
      day for 3 days prior to the MMTT and to consume only water after midnight on the night prior
      to testing. If the patient is on insulin injection therapy the study nurse will ask the
      patient to administer the usual basal insulin dose(s) on the night before or on the morning
      of the study but to hold the morning dose of short- and intermediate-acting insulin. If the
      patient is on a continuous subcutaneous insulin pump infusions will remain on the usual basal
      rates for the duration of the study. For the MMTT a small needle, will be placed to collect
      blood samples. While there are multiple collection times, there is only one stick. The study
      nurse will then ask participants to drink a Boost High Protein Nutritional Energy Drink.
      Blood samples will then be obtained at the following time points: -10, 0, 15, 30, 60, 90,
      120, 150, 180, 210, and 240 min. This amounts to approximately 4.5 tablespoons of blood. To
      clarify, only the T1DM group will have the MMTT at the first study visit (3 mo after T1DM
      dx), both the T1DM and the Control groups will have MMTT at the 21 month visit.

      Cognitive Testing The cognitive testing or thinking tests, consist of memory tests, computer
      games and vocabulary tests. These tests will be administered by a trained staff member and
      will take approximately 60 minutes to complete. Some of the tests are: a Picture Vocabulary
      Test, a Picture Sequence Memory Test; an Inhibitory Control and Attention Test; a Dimensional
      Change Card Sort Test, and a List Sorting Working Memory Test.

      Before and after the cognitive testing, blood glucose levels will be determined (using a
      finger prick) for participants in both groups. Participants with blood glucose values below
      70 mg/dl or above 300 mg/dl will be treated and re-tested before testing resumes.

      At some point during the study, one parent from each family will be requested to perform a
      brief reading test that provides an estimated intelligence quotient (IQ). This test takes
      approximately 10 minutes.

      Interviews Study staff will obtain the parent/guardian's permission to access the patient's
      medical records in order to obtain information related to the patient's HbA1c, DKA admissions
      and severe hypoglycemic episodes from clinic or hospital visits. In addition, study staff
      will interview the proxy regarding these experiences to get additional detail that may not be
      captured in the records.

      Questionnaires

      The proxy will be asked to fill out a study questionnaire either prior to the study visit via
      an on-line survey or in person at the study visit. The questionnaire consists of information
      related to:

        -  For parents:

             -  demographics, education and occupation,

             -  behavior checklists as it pertains to the participant as well as

             -  questionnaires asking about the participants' every day activity related to memory
                and daily functioning.

        -  For participants:

             -  self-report behavioral information as well as

             -  questionnaires asking about every day activity related to the participants' memory
                and daily functioning.

      If at any time study participants are uncomfortable completing the questionnaire, are free to
      skip any questions that

      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Participants in both the T1DM and the Control groups will
      have an image of the brain at the 3 mo. and the 21 mo visits. An MRI is a non-invasive test
      to evaluate the anatomy of the different areas of the brain. A more detailed MRI than the MRI
      commonly used in patient care in regular hospitals is planned because we want to make
      specialized measurements. This test will take 45-60 minutes. No use of sedation or IV
      (through the vein) contrast is planned. The scan involves asking the patient to lie very
      still on a small table for 45-60 minutes. After the participant is comfortable on the table
      it will then slowly move the participant into the scanner. If the participant would like, a
      movie will be available to watch while in the scanner except for a short period of time when
      the participant will be asked to stare at a crosshair on the screen.
    
  