
    
      Hemodialysis (HD) vascular access dysfunction is a huge clinical problem which results in
      significant morbidity amongst patients with End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD), causing a severe
      economic burden on any health care system. Native arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is the
      preferred form of permanent dialysis access since it is associated with the best long term
      outcome as compared to other forms of dialysis access. Despite the clinical benefits, many
      patients on HD do not have AVF as there dialysis access. One of the reasons for low AVF rates
      is early fistula failure (EFF). EFF is defined as an AVF that never develops adequately for
      dialysis (failure to mature) or which fails within 3 months of starting dialysis. An adequate
      AVF for dialysis according to Dialysis Outcome Quality Initiative (DOQI) guidelines is the
      one which a) Has a flow of greater than 600ml/min, b) Has a diameter of 0.6cm or greater and
      c) Is approximately not deeper than 0.6cm from the skin surface. Between 23%-46% of newly
      constructed AVF have problems with early failure resulting in a dismal one year patency of
      60-65%.

      In order to devise a strategy to prevent EFF, one needs to understand the physiology of
      fistula maturation. Creation of an AVF leads to an immediate increase in flow through the
      vein due to the pressure gradient created. This increase in flow leads to increase wall shear
      stress which is defined mathematically by the formula 4ηQ/πr3, where η is blood viscosity, Q
      is blood flow and r is vessel radius. Shear stress thus is directly proportional to blood
      flow while inversely proportional to vessel diameter. After the creation of the AVF, the flow
      mediated increase in shear stress is mitigated by vessel dilatation through biological
      mediators. Consequently the shear stress is brought back to pre-anastomosis levels leading to
      vessel dilation. It seems that this positive remodeling of the vein leading to AVF maturation
      is dependent on increase in blood flow rather than the increase in pressure. Any pathology
      affecting the blood flow through the newly constructed AVF can thus lead to failure to
      mature.

      The two most important causes for EFF amenable to intervention are stenosis anywhere in the
      circuit and/or presence of accessory veins. While stenosis development is pathological and
      accessory vein (av) presence is natural, both lead to decreased blood flow through the main
      AVF circuit, which may be responsible for failure to mature. Addressing these two entities in
      a timely fashion can lead to salvage of many AVF, which otherwise would have been abandoned.
      Although management of stenosis is well established with relatively clear guidelines, the
      management of av lacks clear scientific approach. It has been anecdotally recommended that
      any av with a diameter greater than 25% of the AVF diameter should be considered for
      ligation. It is also suggested that the significance of an av can be ascertained by assessing
      the flow of contrast through the av during an angiogram or by assessing the augmentation of
      AVF after manually occluding the av during the procedure. These current recommendations are
      very subjective and none have been adequately studied to date leading to considerable debate
      on the issue of when to obliterate an av. A scientific approach to obliteration of av is
      essential to avoid an unnecessary procedure, which may even be harmful. Also, obliterating a
      non-significant av and waiting for AVF to mature may cause a delay in making a definite
      decision for the patient. These patients may have other factors and not av as the cause of
      EFF. Conversely, not obliterating a significant av may also delay the use of AVF for dialysis
      by causing EFF. In a recent study researchers recommended a hemodialysis arteriovenous flow
      quantification-diameter (HAQ) criteria for accessory vein obliteration written below:

        1. 60% or greater diameter of the main AVF

        2. 50% diameter of AVF with at least one more av>40% in diameter.

        3. 50% in diameter and divides into branches of same size.

        4. av likely to interfere with cannulation on physical examination.

        5. >30% in diameter and associated with stenosis at site of origin.

      The HAQ criteria for av obliteration is based on computational flow dynamic (CFD) models of
      AVF created using 2 dimensional CFD software. This criteria has not been tested in clinical
      trials and its clinical utility has not been established to date. The purpose of this
      controlled, blinded, prospective trial is to assess the clinical utility of the HAQ criteria
      as compared to current recommendations for av obliteration.

      Specific Aim:

      The purpose of this controlled, blinded, prospective trial is to assess the clinical utility
      of the HAQ criteria as compared to current recommendations for av obliteration.

      Method and Materials:

      Trial Design: The study will be a single center blinded, controlled and prospective trial.
      The study will be conducted according to the ethical standards of King Faisal Specialist
      Hospital & Research Center (KFSHRC) for human experimentation and in compliance with the
      declaration of Helsinki.

      Participants: The study will be conducted at the Interventional Nephrology section at KFSHRC,
      Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. All adult patients (Age>18 years) with End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)
      or chronic kidney disease (CKD) with estimated glomerular filtration rate less than 10
      approaching ESRD who have had an AVF created and has not matured enough to be used for
      dialysis 6 weeks after surgery will be eligible for consideration.

      Design: All participants with EFF are currently evaluated for cause of EFF as the standard of
      practice at KFSHRC. Patients who agree to participate by providing informed consent will
      undergo the same routine evaluation for EFF. As mentioned before, stenosis anywhere in the
      AVF circuit and presence of av are the 2 most common causes for EFF. Patients in whom
      stenosis is the sole cause of EFF will be excluded from the study. Amongst eligible patients
      in whom av is the only cause of EFF will be directly undergo av obliteration. Before and
      after any av obliteration assessment of av will be done to ascertain whether it satisfies
      current recommendation or the HAQ criteria and to assess the effect of obliteration on access
      flows as shown in data collection sheet. Data on av will be interpreted by another expert,
      blinded to study details (other than the operator) after the procedure to assure accuracy.
      Those patients in which both av and stenosis are present will first undergo angioplasty of
      the stenotic region. These patients will be brought back at 4 weeks post intervention for
      re-assessment of AVF maturation by staff blinded to intervention details. av will be managed
      if indicated at that time. Patients who undergo av obliteration will be reassessed in 4 weeks
      for AVF maturation by staff blinded to intervention details. Patients who are thought to have
      mature AVF on clinical exam will be scheduled for cannulation. Final maturity will be defined
      as an AVF which undergoes 3 consecutive successful HD treatments using the AVF. Access flows
      will also be measured. The access flow studies using ultrasound dilution technique can be
      done on either of the first three treatment sessions. Ultrasound dilution technique is an
      accepted method for assessing access blood flows. Patients with mature AVF following
      interventions will be followed for 6 months with monthly evaluation with access flows and
      physical examination to assess primary and secondary patency. The follow up can be extended
      to another 18 months to assess long term patency but during that time access management and
      surveillance will be as per local center practice.

      Procedural Details:

      Angiograms under fluoroscopy will be performed as standard practice in such procedures. To
      assess arteriovenous anastamosis stenosis, arteriograms will be done rather than reflux
      angiogram which is more accurate in assessing av. As part of current guidelines for practice
      a puff of contrast is injected in the AVF and if there is av present it is assessed
      subjectively without any measurement and if it is thought to be significant it is ligated.
      But in this study the investigators will take measurements of the av as well as of the AVF
      which is the only additional step from the standard of care .In case of av presence,
      downstream sheath placement from the origin of av will be avoided as this may cause
      functional downstream stenosis leading to slightly high pressure in AVF causing alteration in
      the size and flow through the av. Data on the size of av and AVF diameter will be collected
      after adequate calibration of the system. This will be collected and sealed before any
      intervention and later interpreted by another expert in the field blinded to intervention to
      assure accuracy. This interpreter will assign whether the av satisfies the Standard or HAQ
      criteria.The investigators currently use a Phillips veradius fluoroscopy equipment. If the av
      qualifies for obliteration than obliteration will be performed. For obliteration of av either
      the surgical ligation or coil embolization will be used. Both are established current
      standards of practice. Successful obliteration will be defined as complete disappearance of
      av on repeat angiogram following the procedure. For details of data collected please see the
      data collection sheet at the end.

      Statistical Design:

      Sample Size:

      For the purposes of designing this study in terms of sample size, the outcome variable of
      interest is whether the fistula matures or not, i.e. a binary outcome. The associated
      parameter is the so-called binomial parameter and is denoted here as π. The predictor
      variable is whether the patient meets the HAQ criteria or not, i.e. also a binary variable.
      The notation for this variable will be X, and that will take on the value one if the patient
      meets the HAQ criteria and the value zero if the patient does not meet the HAQ criteria.
      Given this notation, then π will be further defined as π0 for those patients that do not meet
      the criteria, and π1 for those who do.

      In statistical terms, the research hypothesis is H0: π1 - π0 = 0 vs H1: π1 - π0>= δ> 0. Of
      clinical interest is to conclude H1 if δ is at least equal to 0.20, i.e. that the probability
      that the fistula will mature is at least 20% greater for those meeting the HAQ criteria than
      for those not meeting it.

      With the research hypothesis framed as such, then the sample size calculation becomes one of
      estimating a binomial parameter, i.e.

      n = 4(1-πi)πi/M squared, where here M equals 0.05. For varying values of πi, n is maximized
      for πi equal to 0.5. At such a maximum, then n equals 25, i.e. 25 patients would be required
      of each type (those meeting and those not meeting the HAQ criteria).

      Statistical Analysis According to the above description of the statistical design of the
      project, the analyses will involve a test between two binomial proportions. Fisher's Exact
      test would be carried out and with a size α = 0.05. Additional analyses will also be carried
      out to investigate the exact relationship between the size of the accessory vein and the
      probability of the fistula maturing. This would be a logistic regression analysis with
      repeated covariates and will be analyzed with generalized estimating equations (GEE).
    
  