
    
      Omalizumab (OMA) is a monoclonal anti IgE antibody, developed for severe uncontrolled
      allergic asthma. Efficacy of OMA in this indication is well documented in randomized trials
      as well as in real life studies, reducing the number of severe exacerbations by about 50% and
      improving asthma control score .

      However, despite commercialized since 2006 in France, the optimal duration of the treatment
      remains unclear when asthma is well controlled. In particular, there is no guideline to apply
      the "step down theory" to biologics in well controlled patients.

      It seems clear that a treatment given for less than one year is associated with an early
      relapse of the disease. However, in a randomized controlled study including 176 patients,
      stopping the treatment after 5 years induced a small, but acceptable loss of control (average
      decrease of asthma control test (ACT) by 2.88 and 1.16 point, p= 0.18), but some patients had
      uncontrolled asthma when the treatment was stopped. In a smaller cohort of 49 patients in
      Spain who voluntarily accepted to discontinue OMA treatment after 6 years of therapy, asthma
      deterioration (defined by one or more exacerbation and any Asthma Control Test change during
      the 1st year) was observed in 24% of patients during the first year following discontinuation
      , with a maximal rate of 2 exacerbations/yr. After 4 years of discontinuation, 60% of
      patients still take advantage of the 6 yrs of treatment with OMA. A retrospective study in
      France found that 14/26 patients treated for at least 3 years kept the same level of control
      after discontinuation. All these data suggest that a large part of patients with well
      controlled asthma can discontinue OMA therapy without any asthma control deterioration or
      with an acceptable decrease in asthma control.

      Inducing long term asthma remissions, rather than complete cure, is one potential goal of
      biologics. OMA is supposed to have disease modifying effects , explaining why there is a hope
      for a good asthma control being maintained after discontinuation. For this reason, French
      experts propose that omalizumab can be given for "3 to 5 yrs if asthma remains well
      controlled" . After an asthma relapse, OMA can be prescribed again theoretically, but no data
      regarding clinical response after a "second line" of treatment with the same biologic are
      available. The question of optimal treatment duration is also questioned with other
      biologics.

      The costs related to OMA are high (estimated to 12 k€/year/patient). Frequent injections (1
      subcutaneous injection every 4 weeks for the lowest dose to 4 injections every 2 weeks for
      the highest dose) represent severe constraints for patients, especially for the youngest
      ones. For all these reasons, evaluating whether shortening duration of OMA therapy is
      feasible while maintaining acceptable asthma control is a critical point. The main objective
      is to demonstrate the non-inferiority (i.e. no more exacerbations at 12 months) of OMA
      withdrawal attempt compared to OMA continuation in asthma-controlled patients treated for 3
      to 5 years with OMA. Secondary objectives are to compare OMA withdrawal attempt versus OMA
      continuation in asthma-controlled patients treated for 3 to 5 years with OMA on other asthma
      control features at 6 and 12 months.
    
  