
    
      Many yet uncharacterized medical conditions including inborn and acquired errors of
      metabolism or skewed microbiome could be responsible for unpredictable and uncontrollable
      episodes of body odor and halitosis. These conditions have dramatic impact on the quality of
      life and socioeconomic outcomes of sufferers. Yet clinics and specialized malodor centers do
      not provide tests for diagnosing malodor other than trimethylaminuria (TMAU). Self-reported
      odor problems are often dismissed if are not organoleptically evaluated by trained odor
      judges that are not readily available during malodor flare-ups.

      The aim of this study is to analyze effectiveness of existing gastrointestinal and
      nutritional tests for the assessment and investigation of self-reported malodors.

      Diagnostic tests included:

        -  Gut Permeability Profile. PEG 400 is used as a probe and measured in urine passed for
           the following 6 hours at 11 different molecular weights to establish the quantity of
           each absorbed through the gut wall. Extraction and separation of PEG from urine is done
           by ion exchange chromatography and capillary GLC.

        -  Gut Fermentation Profile. Blood alcohols - ethanol, methanol, butanol, propanol and
           short chain fatty acids - are measured by gas-liquid chromatography.

        -  D-lactate test. D-lactate is measured by centrifugal analysis using the specific enzyme
           D-lactate dehydrogenase, which does not react with L-lactate

        -  The urine indicans (Obermeyer) test. Detection of indican in the urine depends upon its
           decomposition and subsequent oxidation of indoxyl to indigo blue and its absorption into
           a chloroform layer

        -  Breath test for small intestinal dysbiosis. Breath hydrogen and methane are measured by
           gas-liquid chromatography. The patient is given 10 gm of lactulose in 200 ml of water
           and alveolar air samples are collected every 20 minutes for 3 hours

        -  Functional B vitamins profile, by measuring the activation of a red cell enzyme that is
           dependent upon an adequate concentration of a particular vitamin for full activity. The
           assay relies on normal metabolism of the vitamin to its native form and the presence of
           other non-vitamin cofactors.
    
  