
    
      The MediventRTX portable lightweight respirator (MRTX) provides noninvasive respiratory
      support using biphasic extrathoracic ventilation via a cuirass fitted around the patient's
      chest. The aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of the MRTX during dental treatment
      under deep sedation in comparison with the conventional treatment where children are only
      under monitor and only intervention is done when required. Twenty healthy children (ASA1)
      will wear the cuirass. PO2 saturation and ETCO2 will be recorded as a baseline. Half of the
      children will be ventilated (with similar values to those of physiologic respiration) and the
      other half will not. The reason of the ventilation is to prevent apnea and high values of
      PCO2 due to superficial and not efficient breathing. An anesthesiologist is routinely present
      during treatment under deep sedation. After the child would be deep sedated, he/she will be
      connected to the cuirass that should be tightly fitted around the patient's chest. The
      cuirass consists of a clear, flexible plastic enclosure surrounding the chest and abdomen.
      Its borders are covered by a soft foam rubber, which creates an airtight seal around the
      patient. By choosing the appropriate cuirass size, the apparatus is capable of ventilating a
      wide range of different-sized subjects, from infants to the obese adult. The cuirass is
      connected to a computerized power unit by a wide-bore tube and the respiratory parameters are
      controlled by a feedback mechanism between the two. The power unit works by creating cyclic
      pressure changes inside the cuirass. The negative pressure (vacuum) creates chest
      expansion-inhalation. The positive pressure creates chest compression-exhalation. Thus, both
      inspiratory and expiratory phases are actively controlled, and the chest is oscillated around
      a variable negative baseline pressure. The system was found to be effective in a variety of
      clinical settings, with pressures of -25 to +15 cm H2O, inspiratory/expiratory (I/E) ratios
      of 1/1 to 1/3, and frequencies of 60 to 150 cpm

      The study is blind, since the anesthesiologist and the dentist would not know if the cuirass
      of the child is connected to the MRTX or not:

      Group 1- 10 children with the cuirass will be connected to the MRTX and artificially
      ventilated at pressures of (-12/+5) at a rate of 20 per minute, and PO2 and ETCO2 will be
      recorded every 5 minutes.

      Group 2- 10 children with the cuirass will not be connected to the MRTX, but the machine will
      work at the same condition. Same records of PO2 and ETCO2 will be registered.
    
  