
    
      Background: A sizable proportion of soldiers involved in military missions are experiencing
      mental health and adjustment problems on their return, including PTSD. PTSD is both a
      psychological and a physical condition, which occurs as a post-reaction to one or more
      traumatic experiences. The symptoms include aggressive behaviour, difficulty sleeping,
      tiredness, anxiety, and social isolation, and many sufferers develop depression, and the war
      veterans are at a higher risk of suicide. Physiologically, people with PTSD experience an
      activation of their sympathetic nervous system, whereby the stress hormones adrenalin and
      cortisol are released, the heart rate increases, the blood pressure rises, and the body is
      geared toward a 'fight or flight' response. A major challenge for veterans with PTSD is
      emotional control and problems with reading their own and others' emotional state.

      This study will provide a certain type of body therapy, called ManuVision, to war veterans
      with PTSD. ManuVision is a Danish developed body therapy working with direct physical
      treatment of the body and through this approach with the client's psychosocial resources.
      There are conversations during and before treatment, as appropriate, and trust is
      intentionally built from the first meeting through eye contact and open breathing on behalf
      of the ManuVision therapist. The treatment is based on the understanding that chock, trauma
      and stress are stored in the body blocking the muscles and breathing and affecting the nerve
      system.

      The intervention in this project entails individual courses of body therapy including 24
      treatment sessions over 6 months for veterans with PTSD, plus recommended daily meditation at
      home.

      The study goals are to:

        1. Investigate how the body therapy treatment is implemented, and how the participants
           experience the treatment, respond to the treatment and which transformations
           participants experience in the everyday life (a process evaluation by qualitative
           methods).

        2. Compare the body therapy treatment with treatment as usual (TAU). Symptoms of PTSD,
           depression, function level, quality of life, and body awareness will be examined at
           pre-treatment, midway during the treatment period, post-treatment and, if possible, at
           follow-up to determine if symptoms change over time (an effect evaluation by
           quantitative methods).

      The research questions are as follows:

      A. How is the treatment implemented, how do the participants experience and respond to the
      treatment, and what characterizes the interaction between veteran and practitioner? B. In
      which ways do the veterans experience transformations, e.g. in terms of their body, feelings,
      social relations, everyday lives, quality of life, and handling their PTSD symptoms? C. What
      is the effect of the intervention on PTSD symptoms, quality of life, function level,
      depression and body awareness? D. Are there better outcomes for participants who received
      more treatment (i.e., number of treatment sessions)?

      In order to answer the research questions A and B we will use participant observation,
      qualitative interviews, and focus group interviews with veterans, family members and
      practitioners.

      In order to answer the research question C concerning the intervention's effect, appropriate
      statistical methods (e.g., Repeated measures ANOVA) will be used to analyse the differences
      between the intervention and the control group based on validated questionnaires.

      Finally, a dose-response analysis is carried out (D) based on the practitioners' registered
      number of treatment sessions. This will support and refine the effect estimations.
    
  