
    
      This study has been approved by Siriraj IRB. Inclusion criteria were the patient who
      underwent ERCP procedure. Exclusion criteria were none. The project was terminated when 19
      August 2016 A total of 222 cases was included without the need of informed consent.

      At the Endoscopic unit A nurse anesthetist performed venous cannulation on the right forearm
      and transfused with 5% dextrose in half-strength normal saline. Then the patient was
      transferred to the ERCP theatre.

      The patient was monitored with non-invasive blood pressure (NIBP), percutaneous arterial
      oxygen saturation (SpO2), and electrocardiogram (EKG) and administered with oxygen 3LPM via
      nasal cannula.

      A co-researcher reset and prepared 4 pocket dosimeters (PDS) and labelled as PDSa1, PDSa2,
      PDSb1 and PDSb2.

      The PDSa1 and PDSa2 were placed on the outside and inside of a lead shirt respectively. The
      shirt-covered box was close to an anesthetic machine. This box would represent anesthetic
      personnel on duty and marked as position A.

      The PDSb1 and PDSb2 were placed on the outside and inside of the glass shield of control room
      respectively. This glass shield would represent all personnel working in the operating
      theatre and marked as position B.

      Both position A and B were 160 cm. above the floor. After an anesthesiologist administered a
      narcotic and an induction agent to a patient (total intravenous anaesthesia, TIVA), an
      endoscopist commenced the procedure. A co-researcher turned on all PDS devices as soon as the
      surgeon started a fluoroscopy, and turned it off whenever the use of radiative source was
      over. When the study was completed, the PDA devices was kept in a solid and dry place. The
      lead apron was hanged in the specific area and covered by a bag.

      The devices

      A lead apron was 0.5 mm. and 0.25 mm. in thickness on the front and back (BT medical)
      respectively. A thyroid shield was 0.5 mm. in thickness. A paper box was 30x1510 cm. in
      dimension. A radiative dosimeter (Ludlum model 25-IS &25-IS-1 Personal Radiation Monitor, 501
      Oak street, Sweetwater, Texas, USA) had characteristic details as follow:

      Ludlum model 25-IS & Model 25-IS-1 Radiation detected Gamma (X ray) typically < 18 count per
      minute per milliroentgen/hr.

      Beta response typically < 0.10 milliroentgen/hr Display range For 25-IS: 0.01
      milliroentgen/hr to 10 sievert/hr For 25-IS-1: 0.01 millisievert/hr to 10 sievert/hr Size.
      7.6 x5.4x1.7 cm (H x W x thickness) Weight. 158.6 g. Including batteries Linearity. Reading
      within 10% of true value within calibration range

      Analysis of data Data were expressed as mean and standard deviation and analysed by using
      SPSS version 18.0. Categorical data were compared by using Chi-square test; while, the
      recorded data using dependent t-test. A p < 0.05 was considered statistically significant
      difference at 95% confidence interval.
    
  