
    
      Student athletes face many challenges to their ability to maintain healthy mental and
      physical well-being. The college experience is associated with a number of physiologic,
      social, and environmental stressors that can exert long-term effects on an individual's
      future health and quality of life. In addition, unique demands of student-athletes, including
      academic, physical performance, scheduling, and travel demands, all represent additional
      stressors that interact to produce in poorer outcomes.

      Insufficient sleep duration and poor sleep quality have been increasingly identified as
      important risk factors for physical and mental well-being, especially among young adults. For
      example, insufficient and/or poor quality sleep is strongly associated with the development
      of cardiometabolic disease risk factors, obesity, depression, anxiety disorders, alcohol use,
      other substance use, poorer academic performance, and reduced mental well-being, in addition
      to poorer athletic performance.

      Data from a recent PAC12 conference report shows that 2/3 of students indicated that lack of
      flexible time is the hardest thing about being an athlete, more than academic work. Further,
      students identified sleep as the first thing that their athletic time commitments kept them
      from doing, 77% felt that they got less sleep than non-athletes, and >50% indicated that they
      would use an extra hour to catch up on sleep. In 2015 data from the American College Health
      Association, (1) 29% of student athletes report significant sleep difficulties, (2) 40%
      reported getting enough sleep on only ≤3 nights, (3) 10% reported no problems with daytime
      sleepiness, (4) >15% reported sleepiness to be at least "a big problem," (5) >25% reported
      extreme difficulty falling asleep ≥3 nights/week (consistent with a diagnosis of insomnia),
      and (6) >50% reported that sleep problems impacted academic performance. Thus,
      student-athletes frequently experience sleep problems, they recognize the impact of sleep
      loss, and they are likely motivated to improve sleep. These data are consistent with data
      from professional athletes, whose overall sleep quality is poorer than non-athletes.

      Taken together, sleep is an aspect of health that is implicated in many of the most salient
      mental and physical outcomes among college athletes. Despite this, obtaining sufficient sleep
      represents one of the greatest challenges facing student athletes. No programmatic approaches
      have been able to address this problem.

      Accordingly, the proposed study aims to develop and assess the benefits of a novel sleep
      health intervention targeted at student-athletes. This intervention will be assessed with and
      without the assistance of tools to aid in tracking sleep and adjusting to difficult schedules
      in order to evaluate the utility of those approaches.

      The purpose of this research study is to develop and assess the benefits of a novel sleep
      health intervention targeted at student-athletes.

      Overall objectives AIM 1: Assess cross-sectional relationships among sleep, circadian
      preference, and outcomes including overall mental health, stress, mood, anxiety, social
      functioning, and physical well-being.

      AIM 2: Determine whether a simple sleep health intervention, with and without the aid of
      technology, is associated with improvements in mental and physical well-being.

      Primary outcome variable(s) AIM 1: depression score, stress score, mental well-being score,
      anxiety score, and physical well-being score AIM 2: changes in AIM 1 outcomes Secondary
      outcome variable(s) Academic stress, physical performance, substance use, health behaviors,
      soft tissue injuries, missed practices, academic performance
    
  