
    
      An infection of toenail fungus, or onychomycosis, typically occurs when fungi (most commonly
      dermatophytes) infect the nail, but may also be caused by yeasts and molds. The nail fungal
      infection usually begins as a white or yellow spot under the tip of the toenail and then
      spreads deeper into the nail causing discoloration, thickening and the development of
      crumbling edges to the nail which can be unsightly and painful and may produce serious
      physical and occupational limitations. Onychomycosis can also have a detrimental effect on an
      individual's quality of life, affecting their psychosocial and emotional wellbeing.

      Onychomycosis can be difficult to treat, and infections recur easily. Toenail fungus affects
      approximately 23 million adults (about 10%) in the United States. It is more common among
      older adults and tends to affect men more than women. Potential complications of
      onychomycosis include pain, permanent damage to the nails and serious infections that can
      spread beyond the feet.

      Currently available treatments for onychomycosis include oral antifungal medications
      (Lamisil, Sporanox); antifungal nail polish (Penlac); topical over-the-counter antifungal
      creams; photodynamic therapy and in more severe cases, surgery to remove the nail. However,
      there is no perfect cure for toenail fungus. Even the most effective oral medications are
      only successful about half of the time, and topical medications are successful less than 10%
      of the time. In addition, clearance of the infection and growth of new clear nail can be
      slow, and the rate of recurrence of infection is high. Antifungal drugs may also cause side
      effects ranging from skin rashes to liver damage.

      Therefore, the need for a more effective and lasting cure is evident. Recently, research has
      found laser therapy to show promise as a novel alternative treatment for toenail
      onychomycosis. Unlike medication-driven treatments, laser therapy presents minimal risk of
      side effects. Laser therapy is applied to toenail onychomycosis by shining a laser light
      through the toenail. The laser light vaporizes the fungus while leaving the skin and
      surrounding tissue unharmed.

      Low level laser light therapy operates under the principle of photochemistry with a
      photoacceptor molecule absorbing the emitted photons and inducing a biological cascade. Like
      our eukaryotic cell, fungi contain the highly complex organelle the mitochondria, which is
      responsible for the manufacturing of the energy molecule Adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Within
      the inner mitochondrial membrane is cytochrome c oxidase, an identified photoacceptor
      molecule. It is believed that laser therapy could perhaps provide a means to photo-destroy
      the fungi responsible for onychomycosis by inducing the release of highly reactive
      superoxides. Moreover, laser therapy has been shown to promote superoxide dismutase (SOD), a
      process responsible for the destruction of foreign invaders. Extracellular release of low
      levels of mediators associated with SOD can increase the expression of chemokines, cytokines,
      and endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecules, amplifying the cascade that elicits the
      inflammatory response. The physiologic function of hydrogen peroxide, superoxide anion, and
      hydroxyl free radical is to destroy phagocytosed microbes. By enhancing the natural processes
      of the immune system and impacting the structural integrity of the fungi strain, it is
      believed that laser therapy may provide a means for clinicians to effectively treat
      onychomycosis without the onset of any adverse events.
    
  