
    
      An NCI goal is to identify every human gene that predisposes people to cancer. Recent studies
      of HIV -1 indicate that genetic polymorphisms can affect susceptibility to viral infections
      and that such alleles may be detected in studies of small numbers of highly
      exposed-uninfected subjects. Because such alleles may be racially restricted, a range of
      racial and ethnic groups should be included in such studies. We propose to examine genetic
      determinants of infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) in an
      ethnically diverse population of injection drug users (lDUs). HBV and HCV are important
      causes of hepatocellular carcinoma, but little is known about genetic factors that alter
      susceptibility to these infections. Subjects will be recruited in diverse inner-city
      neighborhoods as part of the University of California, San Francisco's Urban Health Study.
      Since 1986, this study has successfully recruited and evaluated IDUs from street-based
      settings. About half of the participants are African-American, one-third are white, 10% are
      Latino, and the remainder are Asian or Native American. The mean duration of drug use exceeds
      20 years. About 80% of subjects have evidence of HBV infection and a similar prevalence of
      HCV infection is anticipated. We will enroll about 1500 subjects over a 13 month period.
      Archived, unlinked serum specimens may obtained from previous enrollees to increase the
      sample size, as needed. Highly exposed-uninfected subjects will be ascertained on the basis
      of the serologic testing for each virus, as well as the duration and frequency of injection
      drug use. These highly exposed-uninfected subjects will be compared to infected subjects with
      regard to their frequency of genetic polymorphisms (chemokines, chemokine receptors, human
      leukocyte antigens, and others), in collaboration with scientists from NCI's Laboratory of
      Genomic Diversity.
    
  