
    
      Background

      Puncture of the ventricular system is one of the most frequently performed neurosurgical
      interventions. This procedure is performed in order to treat and/or measure pathologically
      elevated intracranial pressure. Therefore a safe and fast surgical procedure is needed.
      Currently the "landmark-based" placement of intraventricular catheters is the gold standard.
      Nonetheless it is known that more than 60% of the catheters are not placed accurately
      performing "landmark-based" procedures. When the catheter is not placed accurately multiple
      punctures may has to be done.

      Puncture of the ventricular system is one of the most frequently performed neurosurgical
      interventions. This procedure is commonly performed in order to treat and/or measure
      pathologically elevated intracranial pressure. Therefore a safe and fast surgical procedure
      is needed.Currently the "landmark-based" placement of intraventricular catheters is the gold
      standard. Nonetheless it is known that more than 60% of the catheters are not placed
      accurately performing "landmark-based" procedures. When the catheter is not placed accurately
      multiple punctures may be required. Incorrectly placed intraventricular catheters may lead to
      undesirable side effects like catheter dysfunction,in which case a correction of the catheter
      position or a even a new puncture will be required. These corrections increase the risk of
      intracerebral hemorrhages, infections or secondary brain injuries. In this study, the
      investigators will prospectively investigate whether ultrasound guidance increases the number
      of well-placed ventricular catheters and reduces the number of undesirable side effects. In
      this study the correct catheter position is defined when the catheter tip is located in the
      lateral ventricle (ipsilateral to the burrhole) anterior of the foramen of Monro. Catheter
      tip position will be assessed by cranial computer tomography after the operation. The CT
      scans will be evaluated by an independent expert rater, blinded for the procedure type. These
      incorrectly placed intraventricular catheters may lead to undesirable side effects, like
      catheter dysfunction wherefore a correction of the catheter position or a even a new puncture
      has to be done. These corrections increase the risk of intracerebral hemorrhages, infections
      or secondary brain damages.

      In this study, the investigators will prospectively investigate if ultrasound guidance may
      raise the number of well placed ventricular catheters and may reduce the number of
      undesirable side effects. In this study the correct catheter position is defined when the
      catheter tip is located in the ipsilateral lateral ventricle (to the burrhole) anterior of
      the foramen of monroi and will be assessed by cranial computer tomography after operation.
      The CT Scans will be evaluated by an independent expert rater, blinded for the procedure
      type.

      Objective

      Aim of the study is to investigate whether ultrasound guidance of ventricular catheter
      placement leads to a lower number of incorrectly placed catheters and lower number of
      punctures compared to the landmark-based procedure.

      Methods

      This study is a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial. A total of 90 patients will
      be included in the study and randomized in two groups with 45 patients each
      (ultrasound-guided group and landmark-based group). The position of the ventricular catheter
      will be assessed using cranial computer tomography (CCT). The CT Scans will be evaluated by
      two independent expert raters, blinded for the procedure type.
    
  