
    
      The primary objective of this study is to determine the impact of long term AVONEX® treatment
      on physical status, measured by expanded disability scale score (EDSS), of patients with
      Multiple Sclerosis (MS) after their first clinical event (clinically isolated syndrome) and
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) consistent with MS.

      Secondary objectives are to determine the impact of long term therapy with AVONEX® on the
      following:

      a) MRI parameters- new or enlarging T2 lesions, T2 lesion volume, T1 lesion volume, brain
      parenchymal fraction (BPF) b) Quality of Life (QoL): Heath Status Questionnaire (SF-36) c)
      Symbol Digit Modality Test (SDMT)

      2. To determine the long term impact of therapy on the following in patients treated at the
      onset of clinically isolated event (CIS)

        1. EDSS

        2. MRI parameters

        3. SF-36

        4. SDMT

           3. To determine early clinical and MRI predictors of disease progression.

           Approximately 383 patients participated in CHAMPS, the original AVONEX® placebo trial,
           will be approached for study participation. The patient population will be divided into
           two cohorts.

           Cohort 1: Patients that participated in CHAMPS and CHAMPIONS 10 will be approached for
           study participation at approximately twenty-four CHAMPIONS Continuation investigative
           sites.

           Cohort 2: Patients that participated in CHAMPS will be located and approached for study
           participation. Patient that participated in CHAMPIONS 10 will not be excluded from
           Cohort 2. Efforts will be made to potentially locate patients through either the
           original CHAMPS investigative sites, through the Biogen Idec patient services database,
           and/or a third party (i.e., patient location service vendor) or some combination of the
           three. .

           For both cohorts, public databases may be utilized for patient reported death.
    
  