
    
      Lysosomal Acid Lipase (LAL) Deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage
      disorder (LSD) that is caused by a marked decrease of lysosomal acid lipase (LAL), the enzyme
      that breaks down cholesteryl esters and triglycerides in the lysosomes.

      Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency presenting in infants (historically called Wolman Disease)
      is a medical emergency with rapid disease progression over a period of weeks that is
      typically fatal within the first 6 months of life. More commonly, LAL Deficiency presents in
      children and adults and this presentation has been historically called Cholesteryl Ester
      Storage Disease (CESD). In general, data on the prevalence of LAL Deficiency are limited, and
      the overall prevalence of the disease in the population is unclear.

      For all presentations, LAL Deficiency is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
      Deficient LAL enzyme activity results in the lysosomal accumulation of cholesteryl esters and
      triglycerides. In the liver, this accumulation leads to hepatomegaly, increased hepatic fat
      content, transaminase elevation signaling chronic liver injury, and progression to fibrosis,
      cirrhosis, and complications of end stage liver disease. In the spleen, LAL Deficiency
      results in splenomegaly, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Lipid accumulation in the intestinal
      wall leads to malabsorption and growth failure. Dyslipidemia is common with elevated low
      density lipoprotein (LDL) and triglycerides and low high density lipoprotein (HDL),
      associated with increased liver fat content and transaminase elevations. In addition to liver
      disease, patients with LAL Deficiency experience increased risk for cardiovascular disease
      and accelerated atherosclerosis.

      The LAL Deficiency Registry is a global registry, established to help improve care for
      patients through improved understanding of the disease and long-term effectiveness of
      therapeutic interventions including sebelipase alfa.

      As with other registries, which are becoming increasingly valuable for collecting information
      in large, heterogeneous, 'real world' populations, the LAL Deficiency Registry aims to
      provide evidence to help support patient care and inform clinical practice. This Registry is
      also being conducted, in part, to fulfill post-marketing commitments and requirements agreed
      to by the Sponsor as a condition for sebelipase alfa approval in the EU and the USA.
    
  