
    
      HIV infection rates are on a rapid rise within Asian Pacific Americans (APA) communities, 17%
      annually, with men comprising 80% of new infections in the United States. Optimal
      self-management is a key to HIV treatment success, because it may alleviate physical and
      mental symptoms, promote health behaviors, and therefore enhance quality of life and suppress
      virus replication. Studies suggested that securing assistance from family members in
      self-management may be effective in addressing these challenges in APA communities. The
      purpose of this study is to adapt and evaluate the feasibility of a 4-session, 4-week
      family-informed self-management intervention protocol to promote health among APA men with
      HIV (APAMHIV). The scientific premise is, regardless of Asian ethnicity, APA communities
      often share a more collectivist orientation, such that APA prioritizing their
      responsibilities to their families over their own individual needs. To preserve the harmony
      in family, HIV disclosure is often indirect. In previous projects, investigators interviewed
      an ethnically diverse sample of 40 APAMHIV and 20 family members to explore self- and family-
      management strategies. The hypothesis is that APAMHIV will receive greater levels of family
      support and health following the family-informed self-management intervention. This study
      addresses the critical need to optimize self-management skills among APAMHIV that
      simultaneously address the needs of APAMHIV with support from their families. The long-term
      goal is to implement a comprehensive, family-informed self-management intervention for
      APAMHIV. In this project, researchers will conduct a mixed-methods study with two study
      phases. In Phase 1, researchers will analyze the available qualitative data from the prior
      projects to revise the conceptualization of family-informed self-management. Based on the
      revised conceptualization, researchers will adapt an evidence-based self-management
      intervention using a modified ADAPT-ITT model. In Phase 2, researchers will conduct a pilot
      waitlist-controlled clinical trial to test the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary
      efficacy of the adapted family-informed self-management intervention among 30 APAMHIV without
      explicitly involving their family members. This small RCT will contain two arms, with
      participants randomly assigned to either the immediate treatment group (IT Group) or the
      delayed treatment group (DT Group). Researchers will evaluate feasibility, acceptability, and
      preliminary effect sizes, and use the data to revise this family-informed self-management
      intervention protocol. This will provide the basis for future applications for a fully
      powered Randomized Controlled Trial of the protocol in the future. Aims are to: 1. Follow the
      ADAPT-ITT model to culturally adapt an evidence-based family-informed self-management
      intervention 2. Evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy with a
      randomized waitlist-controlled trial. And, 3. Finalize the study protocols for future project
      operations by documenting emerging difficulties and solutions throughout this project
      implementation.
    
  