
    
      Spina Bifida (a congenital defect of the spinal cord), causes nerve damage and a loss of
      sensation and muscle function below the waist resulting in bowel and bladder dysfunction.
      Patients cannot urinate or are constantly wet, and this continues throughout life causing
      major quality of life and health problems. Clean intermittent catheterization (draining urine
      from the bladder with a tube) is usually needed to empty the bladder properly. Medications
      are routinely required to alleviate high urinary tract pressures that can cause irreversible
      kidney damage, where dialysis or kidney transplant is the only way to sustain life.

      A Chinese urologist developed a novel procedure to connect a functioning, healthy lumbar
      spinal nerve to the sacral nerve that controls the bladder. Hundreds of these procedures have
      been done in China. The end result is the creation of a new reflex where the bladder can be
      emptied by scratching or stimulating the skin (over the hip or thigh) supplied by that spinal
      nerve root. The Chinese physician had reported that of 92 SCI patients, 88% regained bladder
      control within one year after the nerve rerouting surgery and in 110 children with spina
      bifida, the reported success was 87% at one year. However, in China rigorous follow up is
      challenging, therefore much is still unknown about how the nerves regenerate post surgery,
      complications and results occurring in the first year in particular, and the potential role
      that central nervous system remodeling may play in achieving successful outcomes. Beaumont
      urologists were the first in the US to perform this surgery on children with spina bifida.
      Our preliminary data are very promising, and in 9 subjects at 12 months post procedure, 7/9
      subjects could void either voluntarily or by stimulating the new reflex mechanism.

      This current project aims to expand upon our pilot experience to conduct a larger and more
      rigorous study to establish the safety and effectiveness of the proposed somatic-autonomic
      reflex pathway procedure in gaining bladder and bowel control in patients with spina bifida.
      We will also collaborate with and train investigators at another site(s) to determine the
      training needed to achieve similar safety and effectiveness outcomes, and evaluate possible
      methods to stimulate the new reflex to improve bladder emptying. Achieving the aims outlined
      in this multicenter proposal will help firmly establish the procedure as safe and effective,
      and revolutionize the treatment of bladder and bowel dysfunction in patients with spina
      bifida in the US.
    
  