
    
      -  Participants in this study are randomized to one of two treatments conditions prior to a
           target quit date.

             -  One-half of participants will be randomly assigned to receive standard smoking
                cessation treatment comprising a 6-week supply of 21-mg nicotine patches and 4
                individual smoking cessation counseling sessions.

             -  The other one-half of participants will be randomly assigned to receive standard
                treatment (patch and counseling, as above) plus to practice quitting 7 times over
                the 2.5 weeks leading up to a quit attempt. Practice quitting will involve not
                smoking for a period of time tailored to each individual's smoking pattern.

        -  All participants are asked to attend a 2-hour orientation session, complete 8 brief
           (5-minute) telephone calls and 9 longer(20-minute) telephone surveys over 3.5 weeks,
           attend a 30-minute office visit, and complete two 15-minute follow-up calls.

        -  All participants are also asked to report on their emotions, thoughts, and behaviors 3
           times per day for 24 days using cellular telephones.

        -  Participants receive compensation for office visits, study telephone calls, cellular
           telephone reports, and follow-up interviews.

        -  All participants will receive nicotine patches and one-on-one counseling (delivered over
           the phone and in person).

        -  Some participants will be eligible for a second phase of treatment after a 4-week
           follow-up interview.

             -  One-half of people eligible for this phase of the study will be randomly assigned
                to receive a supply of non-nicotine cigarettes to smoke for up to 6 weeks. The
                non-nicotine cigarettes are designed to help break the habit of smoking and to help
                smokers return to being smoke-free after smoking regular cigarettes.

             -  The other one-half of eligible smokers will be randomly assigned to not receive
                these non-nicotine cigarettes.

             -  All smokers eligible for this phase of the study will be asked to complete cellular
                telephone reports about their mood, thoughts, and behaviors for 14 days beginning
                4.5 weeks after a target stop-smoking date. Compensation will be provided for
                completing these cellular telephone phone reports.
    
  