
    
      The ongoing pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the newly discovered
      severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SAR-CoV-2) has become a global health
      crisis, resulting in 3,435,894 confirmed infections and 239,604 deaths worldwide by 4 May
      2020 1. Although acute respiratory syndrome is the main manifestation of the disease2, the
      understanding of the impact of the virus on other organs is of importance in terms of
      multiple organ dysfunction/failure that contributed to the increased mortality in patients
      with COVID-19.

      With the increase of confirmed cases and the accumulation of clinical data, the
      cardiovascular manifestations caused by COVID-19 has raised concern3. Some studies have
      reported that a certain percentage of patients presented cardiac injury as indicated by
      elevated cardiac biomarkers such as high-sensitivity cardiac troponin-I (hs-cTnI) and brain
      natriuretic peptide (BNP) 2,4,5. Cardiac complications, including acute heart failure,
      cardiac rupture and even sudden cardiac arrest, has also been described in several case
      reports 6-8. However, autopsy studies failed to find the evidence of direct assaults by the
      virus in myocyte or apparent myocyte necrosis/apoptosis in the heart 9. Typical pathological
      finding reported was mononuclear inflammatory infiltration in the myocardial interstitium but
      no substantial damage in cardiomyocytes in the heart 10,11. Thus, a significant gap exists in
      our knowledge between the clinical investigation and postmortem findings. At present, the in
      vivo morphological and functional features of cardiac injury remain unknown.

      We therefore performed a prospective and dynamic echocardiography study to investigate the
      cardiac structural and functional changes in patients with COVID-19 who were admitted to
      intensive care unit (ICU), and to compare the cardiac characteristics between deceased and
      survived patients.
    
  