
    
      Background:

      Vascular access site complications (VASC) during cardiac catheterizations are significantly
      higher in femoral access compared to radial access. Main disadvantage in radial access is the
      restriction in size of catheters as well as incidence of radial artery spasm. Radial spasm is
      identified by pain in the forearm aggravated by movement of the catheter/sheath; difficulty
      in manipulating the catheter; loss of radial pulse or damping of radial arterial pressure.
      Tortuosity and loops in upper extremity arterial tree could mimic some findings of radial
      artery spasm. Incidence of radial spasm has been reported to range between 4% and 20%. Risk
      factors include smaller radial artery diameter, atherosclerotic lesions, entrance of
      guidewires into side branches, vessel tortuosity, larger arterial sheath diameters, procedure
      duration, female sex, younger age, lower BMI, Diabetes, number of catheters used, volume of
      contrast, unsuccessful access at first attempt, fear and anxiety. Mean size of radial artery
      is reported at 2.44 mm. Women and persons of south Asian descent tend to have smaller radial
      arteries with means of 1.91mm and 2.00 mm respectively. Outer diameters of commonly used 5
      French (5F) and 6 French (6F) sheaths are 2.16 mm and 2.62 mm respectively. Ratio of radial
      artery to sheath size affects post-procedural radial artery flow.

      Transdermal vasodilators prior to vascular access would increase chance for successful
      arterial access in first attempt and increase radial artery to sheath size ratio both of
      which should have additive benefit to intraarterial (IA) vasodilators in reducing spasm.
      Transdermal lidocaine would reduce pain during subcutaneous lidocaine, which can further
      ameliorate the risk of radial artery spasm. Use of transdermal nitroglycerine has been shown
      to safely increase radial artery size without significant hypotension.

      Aim:

      To study the role of transdermal vasodilators as an adjunct to parenteral vasodilators, in
      reducing radial artery spasm and improving patient comfort and post procedure radial artery
      patency during radial coronary angiograms and interventions.

      Hypothesis:

      Transdermal vasodilators will increase radial artery size and reduce radial artery spasm as
      well as improve patient comfort and post procedure radial artery patency.

      Study Design:

      Single center, double blinded, randomized placebo-controlled study comparing effect of
      transdermal preparations of lidocaine + Nitroglycerine and lidocaine + placebo on radial
      artery spasm and procedural success in patients undergoing radial coronary angiograms and
      interventions. All patients will receive standard parenteral cocktail including intraarterial
      or intravenous (IV) heparin and IA nitroglycerine and / or verapamil. Exact doses and
      combinations would be at the discretion of individual provider based on patient's hemodynamic
      status and comorbid conditions.

      End Points:

      Primary:

      1. Radial artery spasm: Incidence of radial artery spasm indicated by a Radial artery spasm
      score of 1 or more. Radial artery spasm score is sum of:

      a. Verbal or nonverbal expression of discomfort in the forearm during catheter/sheath
      manipulation - Absent :0; Present:1 b. Difficulty in manipulating the catheter- Absence :0;
      Present:1 c. Difficulty with sheath removal: Absent: 0; Present:1 d. Additional use of IA
      nitroglycerine or verapamil after the initial vasodilator cocktail for suspected radial
      artery spasm- No:0; Yes:1.

      Secondary:

        1. Change in ipsilateral radial artery dimension (mm) before application of topical
           nitroglycerine / placebo (pre-dilation) vs. prior to arterial puncture after application
           of topical nitroglycerine / placebo (Post-dilation).

        2. Procedural failure: Need to abort procedure or convert to femoral approach.

        3. Patient forearm discomfort or pain during procedure measured using Visual analog scale
           0-10.

        4. Ipsilateral radial pulse at end of procedure 0-4+.

      Safety endpoints:

        1. Asymptomatic Hypotension: Systolic blood pressure (SBP) < 90 mm Hg

        2. Symptomatic Hypotension: Dizziness or lightheadedness and SBP < 100 mm Hg

        3. Intractable headache unrelieved by 1gm of acetaminophen

      Adverse Effects of investigational product:

        1. Hypotension: SBP < 90 mm Hg requiring intervention any time after application of
           investigational product (IP) in Ambulatory Cardiac Unit (Same Day) until removal of IP
           in cathlab

        2. Dizziness or lightheadedness requiring intervention any time after application of IP in
           Ambulatory Cardiac Unit (Same Day) until removal of IP in cathlab

        3. Headache requiring intervention anytime after application of IP in Ambulatory Cardiac
           Unit (Same Day) until removal of IP in cathlab

      Complications of Radial artery catheterization:

      1. Forearm hematoma > 5cm 2. Absent ipsilateral radial pulse (0) after procedure

      Methods:

        1. Patient enrollment:

           a. Outpatient: i. Whenever feasible, information about the study would be provided to
           the patient prior to arrival in Ambulatory Cardiac Unit (Same Day) (preferably at the
           time of scheduling). When not feasible, patients will be contacted via phone prior to
           the day of procedure or approached in the Ambulatory Cardiac Unit (Same Day) unit on the
           day of the procedure by one of the investigators to assess interest in participation.

           ii. Patients who are interested and meet all inclusion criteria and none of the
           exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the trial in the Ambulatory Cardiac Unit (Same
           Day) on the day of their scheduled procedure. One of the participating investigators
           will obtain informed consent after the patient has had time to review the consent and
           all questions have been answered.

           b. Inpatient: i. Hospitalized patients who are interested and meet all inclusion
           criteria and none of the exclusion criteria may be enrolled in the trial on or before
           the day of their scheduled procedure, but always prior to transfer to the
           Catheterization Lab. One of the participating investigators will obtain informed consent
           after the patient has had time to review the consent and all questions have been
           answered.

        2. After reviewing the most current vital signs, patients without any exclusion criteria
           will be randomized 1:1 to control arm (40 mg Lidocaine + placebo) or study arm (40 mg
           lidocaine + 30 mg nitroglycerine)

        3. Study drug assignment will be randomized and distributed by a delegated member of the
           study staff, with oversight by the PI or Sub-Is, for patients consented and enrolled in
           the trial at least 60 minutes prior to the procedure start time.

        4. Pre-medication cross sectional image of ipsilateral radial artery (approximately 1 inch
           proximal to radial styloid process) will be recorded using bedside sonogram with no more
           than gentle pressure and site marked with a skin marker.

        5. Ipsilateral wrist circumference (1 inch proximal to radial styloid process) will be
           documented.

        6. Pre-procedure ipsilateral radial pulse strength (0-4+) will be documented. (4+ Bounding,
           3+ Increased, 2+ Normal, 1+ Weak, 0+ Absent or nonpalpable)

        7. Transdermal preparation will be applied to ipsilateral wrist overlying radial pulse
           (centered approximately 1 inch proximal to radial styloid process) at least 60 minutes
           before procedure start time at a dose of 40mg (6 ribbons of 2 inches each) of 5%
           Lidocaine and 30mg (8 ribbons of 2 inches each) of 2% Nitroglycerine/Placebo.

        8. Patients will complete the Amsterdam Preoperative Anxiety and Information Scale (APAIS).

        9. Vitals signs to be checked every 30 minutes (±10 minutes) after application of the
           topical preparation for 60 minutes (±10 minutes) then every 60 minutes (±10 minutes)
           until procedure.

       10. If SBP < 100 mm Hg and patient complains of dizziness or light-headedness or if SBP < 90
           mm Hg, the topical preparation will be removed promptly, 250 ml of 0.9% Normal Saline
           (NS) IV bolus will be given over 15 minutes, and provider will be notified immediately.

       11. If patient complains of headache, one or two tablets of 500 mg acetaminophen will be
           given by mouth every 4 hours as needed. One tablet will be given if the patient reports
           a value of 0-3 on the pain scale, and two tablets will be given if the patient reports a
           value of 4 or greater on the pain scale. The maximum dose of acetaminophen is 4g in 24
           hours.

       12. If 30 minutes after acetaminophen administration, headache intensity ≥ 5/10 or patient
           unable to tolerate intensity of headache, the topical preparation will be removed
           promptly and provider will be notified immediately.

       13. If any of the safety endpoints occur, an investigator will be notified immediately and
           further decision to proceed with cardiac catheterization or additional workup or
           treatment would be at the discretion of the investigator.

       14. Immediately prior to sterile preparation of access site, transdermal preparation will be
           removed in Cath Lab and post-dilation cross sectional image of ipsilateral radial artery
           (approximately 1 inch proximal to radial styloid process) will be captured using bedside
           sonogram applying no more than gentle pressure.

       15. Conscious sedation with IV fentanyl and midazolam given with exact dosing at operator's
           discretion (based on patient's hemodynamic status and comorbid conditions).

       16. After sterile preparation 0.5 - 1.0 ml of subcutaneous lidocaine is administered and
           radial artery cannulated using modified seldinger technique with 5F or 6F hydrophilic
           sheath.

       17. Parenteral radial cocktail (IV/IA heparin +/- IA nitroglycerine +/- IA verapamil) is
           given with exact combination and dose at discretion of operator based on patient's
           hemodynamic status.

       18. Coronary angiogram and or intervention performed adopting best practices with care to
           minimize procedure time, contrast volume and catheter exchanges and avoiding side
           branches.

       19. Following parameters are documented:

             1. Patient demographics (Age, Sex, BMI, Race)

             2. Conscious sedation drugs and doses used

             3. Sheath size

             4. Number of arterial sticks before arterial access: One or more (Blood in arteriotomy
                needle equates arterial stick)

             5. Wire passage in one or more attempts

             6. Sheath insertion in one or more attempts

             7. Radial parenteral cocktail used

             8. Radial artery spasm score:

             9. Verbal or nonverbal expression of discomfort in the forearm during catheter/sheath
                manipulation - Absent:0; Present:1 ii. Difficulty in manipulating the catheter -
                Absent:0; Present:1 iii. Difficulty in sheath removal - Absent:0; Present:1 iv.
                Additional use of IA nitroglycerine or verapamil after the initial vasodilator
                cocktail for suspected radial artery spasm - No:0; Yes:1

           i. Use of long sheath j. Use of hydrophilic wires or catheters k. Tortuosity of upper
           extremity vessels / anatomic variants l. Catheters used m. Contrast volume n. Difficulty
           in removing catheters and sheath o. Use of IA/IV nitroglycerine and/or verapamil at end
           of procedure for sheath removal: provisional use when radial artery spasm present or
           suspected vs. routine pre-emptive use to avoid radial artery spasm per operator standard
           practice.

           p. Length of procedure q. Change to femoral arterial access and reason r. Procedures
           performed

       20. Patient's perceived peri-procedure forearm discomfort documented using VAS (1-10) at the
           completion of the procedure

       21. Post procedure strength of ipsilateral radial pulse (0-4+) after radial band removal
           documented and presence and size of hematoma at access site at time of radial band
           removal documented

       22. For patients who have the sheath left in place for percutaneous coronary intervention
           (PCI) as a separate procedure at a later time, data will be collected for the initial
           diagnostic catheterization only. The procedure will be considered completed with removal
           of last diagnostic catheter. Post procedure pulse will be the radial pulse after the
           PCI.

       23. Patients are monitored for adverse events for the following duration:

           a. For patients discharged home from the ambulatory cardiac unit (same day unit) after
           procedure completion: i. Until discharged home b. For hospitalized patients: i. Until
           120 minutes after Radial band, or comparable product, removal
    
  