
    
      Increasing research evidence suggests that children, adolescents and adults with cerebral
      palsy belong to a population with a significantly high prevalence of chronic and recurrent
      pain that has a negative impact on their participation level and their quality of life.

      Etiology of pain in CP covers a broad spectrum of reasons. First of all, individuals with CP
      might, like any other person, have problems with headache, periodic pain and other commonly
      encountered causes of pain. Pain emerging from muscles, joints and the skeleton are common.
      For some individuals increased muscle tone, spasticity or dystonia can be an important
      contributing factor for pain. This type of pain often referred to as musculoskeletal pain can
      be localized in the back, neck, foot/ankle, shoulder, knee, hip and arm. Gastro-intestinal
      pain often caused by gastro-oesophageal reflux secondary to changed muscular function in the
      oesophagus or lower oesophageal sphincter and spinal deformity (scoliosis) is another source
      to chronic pain. Furthermore many activities of daily living such as getting dressed, being
      lifted and daily assisted stretching can be painful. Finally dental pain caused by
      difficulties in maintaining good oral hygiene or gastro-oesophageal reflux (causing erosions
      to the dental enamel and secondary caries) needs special consideration (AACPDM Fact Sheet).
      Children with CP who are faced with chronic pain use fewer coping strategies and tend to rely
      on social support. In the case of individuals with cerebral palsy who do not have the ability
      to communicate because of disabilities caused by central or peripheral nervous system
      impairment, chronic and incidental acute pain can remain undetected and undertreated.
      Assessing pain in individuals with cerebral palsy encompasses particular methodological
      challenges. Pain assessment in individuals with cerebral palsy must take into account their
      verbal or non-verbal communication level. In that case by proxy (observational-behavioural)
      tools are necessary. In addition using observational tools to truly recognize pain expression
      one should also considered that a number of factors such as learned reaction to chronic pain
      are reported to influence more than others the display of the behavioural pain indicators
      included in certain tools of behavioural pain assessment.

      The aim of our study is the screening and assessment of chronic pain in a population of
      children, adolescents and adults with various forms of cerebral palsy in a specific special
      needs educational and rehabilitation setting in Athens, Greece (Cerebral Palsy Greece- Open
      Door). Furthermore, the investigators will explore the possible connection of pain in
      cerebral palsy with factors such as severity of CP, age, gender, comorbidities developmental
      status and current health status. A significant percentage of the study population has
      limited communication abilities. Consequently, this cross-sectional observational study has
      to take into account the verbal and non-verbal communication level of the population's
      subjects when determining the most appropriate pain assessment procedure, differentiating
      between patients whose pain status will be assessed through self-report and patients whose
      pain status will be assessed through observational tools (check lists). In terms of their
      reliability both self-report and by proxy (observational) tools of pain assessment, share
      some evidence of strong agreement between them. The following procedures will be followed:

        1. Assessment of the level of verbal and non verbal communication skills The ability of the
           subjects to give valid and reliable information concerning their pain status through
           meaningful verbal and non verbal communication will be evaluated according to their
           Communication Function Classification System -CFCS classification levels by trained
           speech therapists. Classification is based on the effectiveness of communication between
           a sender and receiver of information. CFCS considers the familiarity of individual
           communication partners. All ways of communicating are considered including speech,
           gesture, facial expression and augmentative and alternative communication. A person
           classified at Level I is a more able communicator than a person classified at Level V.
           According to CFCS classification 4 categories could be defined. These are A. Children
           with adequate communication B. Children with inadequate communication C. Adults with
           adequate communication and D. Adults with inadequate communication.

        2. Classifications of the type cerebral palsy and functional level Type of cerebral palsy
           will be taken into account according to ICD codes (ICD-10 version 2016) and functional
           motor ability will be recorded using Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS)
           and the Manual Ability Classification System (MACS). The GMFCS was used to assess the
           severity of a child's neuromotor impairment. Based on this instrument, children were
           grouped according to the following levels of severity: levels I and II refer to those
           children with lower functional impairment and that are able to walk without
           restrictions; level III refer to those children that need help; level IV/V includes the
           children that use assistive technology to ambulate. The GMFCS was assesses for its
           validity and reliability with satisfactory results. MACS describes how children with
           cerebral palsy (CP) use their hands to handle objects in daily activities. MACS includes
           five levels. The levels are based on the children's self-initiated ability to handle
           objects and their need for assistance or adaptation to perform manual activities in
           everyday life. Level I includes children with minor limitations, while children with
           severe functional limitations will usually be found at levels IV and V.

        3. Selection of the appropriate tools for the assessment of pain for each category
           Subjective reports of pain location and intensity through non verbal communication
           (pointing) from study participants will be collected using the Wong Baker FACES Pain
           Rating Scale (permission needed) and the Body Diagram screening tool. The Body Diagram
           was tested for content and concurrent validity and alternate forms reliability. This
           tool is rated as approaching well-established according to the evidence based
           psychometric properties assessment criteria. In terms of clinical utility this tool was
           classified as strong.

           Self-reports will be administered to subjects who have an adequate communication level
           (CFCS level I, II, III), following the directives set by relevant research. In the case
           of subjects with an adequate communication level (CFCS level I ,II, III) but an
           inadequate manual ability functional level (MACS level IV and V) the administration of
           Wong Baker FACES Pain Rating Scale and of the Human Form diagrams will be facilitated by
           the use of assistive technology.

           Pain observational reports by proxy (teacher, therapist in the rehabilitation setting)
           will be collected using translated versions of the Non Communicating Children's Pain
           Check List and the Non Communicating Adults' Pain Check List. These observational
           reports will be administered in the case of subjects with a CFCS level IV and V and a
           developmental age lower than 3 years old. The NCCPC-R (revised) version requires a
           2-hour observational period followed by the completion of the 30-item questionnaire. The
           NCCPC-R hosts strong external validity as psychometric testing within natural and
           clinical settings. Researchers have affirmed the NCCPC-R accurately captures pain
           behaviours across various levels of a child's development.78 The working group
           recommended the NCCPC-R for children with GMFCS levels I to V because of its
           well-established psychometric properties and strong clinical utility.

           Pain for the adults CP Patients with intellectual and communicating disabilities will be
           assessed with the the Non-Communicating Adults Pain Checklist (NCAPC).

        4. Parental interview.

      In order to better define the subjects' pain status a parental interview will also be
      obtained. Parents are invited to report the presence, localization, etiology and duration of
      the subject's pain and to give information concerning the use of pain management measures. In
      children and adults without adequate communication parental experience will be recorded by a
      structured interview based on Paediatric Pain Profile (PPP) where the parent is invited a) to
      give a pain history and b) to answer questions in terms of non verbal learned reactions and
      behaviours to chronic pain on behalf of the subject (baseline assessments). The Paediatric
      Pain Profile is a tool that has been developed specially to help in assessing and monitoring
      pain in children with severe neurological impairments, especially those with impairments
      which lead them to be unable to communicate pain through speech. Such impairments mean that
      the children are dependant on their caregivers for interpretation of their signs of pain. It
      and has been used with adults up to 76 years of age. In order to better define the subjects'
      pain status we will take advantage of additional information from the young participants'
      medical record. In addition each case will be judged separately in terms of pain expression
      and severity, by a interdisciplinary panel of experts consisting of a general practitioner, a
      neurologist, a paediatrician, an orthopaedic, a psychologist, a dentist, a physical
      therapist, a speech therapist, an occupational therapist an expertise nurse, a social worker
      and the caregiver of the subject, who are daily involved in patient health needs and
      activities of living during their half day stay in the setting (Cerebral Palsy Greece) for at
      least 6 months. This group is going to consider for each patient the following questions:

        1. What is the extent of the patient's disease or injury (physical impairment)?

        2. What is the magnitude of the illness? That is, to what extent is the patient suffering,
           disabled, and unable to enjoy usual activities?

        3. Does the individual's behaviour seem appropriate to the disease or injury, or is there
           any evidence of symptom amplification for any of a variety of psychological or social
           reasons (e.g. benefits such as positive attention, mood-altering medications, financial
           compensation)?

      Aims of statistical analysis:

      Agreement rates between different evaluation levels of chronic pain assessment will be
      examined permitting to determine the reliability level of various sources of information
      concerning the diagnosis of chronic pain in cerebral palsy. Further statistical analysis of
      check-list scores will attempt to identify items in these observational schedules that could
      be conceptualized as behavioural indicators of chronic pain in non-communicative subjects
      with cerebral palsy
    
  