
    
      Participants will arrive at the laboratory after an overnight fast (at least from 10:00 pm)
      with the use of the least strenuously transportation possible (no bicycling or long distance
      walk). In addition, the preceding two days (48h) before each of the study days; no intensive
      physical activity or consumption of alcohol is allowed in order to obtain standardization of
      the participants.

      Once settled into an individual feeding cubicle, visual analogue scales (VAS) will be
      completed for the measurement of fasting appetite levels. A standardized fixed breakfast meal
      (providing approximately 20% of total estimated energy need) consisting of 80 g. cheese with
      bread, orange juice and a cup (125 mL) of coffee/the/water (milk is not allowed). The amounts
      of bread (70.5 g.) and juice (132 g.) are calculated with Babybel original as reference, and
      these amounts for bread and juice are kept constant regardless of the cheese provided. The
      cheese will be served blinded together with the bread, and the brand of cheese will not be
      mentioned for the participants. Participants will be asked to consume this breakfast within
      15 minutes and the exact meal duration (in minutes) will be noted after completing the meal
      in order to examine the eating rate. VAS will be used to measure subjective appetite
      sensations during the post-meal period as well as the pleasantness of the meal and the study
      products after completing the meal. VAS will be used to measure subjective appetite
      sensations for the following hours. Three hours following serving of the breakfast meal,
      participants will be provided with a homogeneous single item ad libitum lunch meal. The meal
      is a homogeneous dish of spaghetti bolognese providing a total of 8 MJ and the participants
      are instructed to eat until they are comfortably full. The energy composition of the meal is
      15 E% protein, 30 E% fat and 55 E% carbohydrate. VAS will be used to measure subjective
      appetite sensations during the post-meal period as well as the pleasantness of the meal after
      completing the meal. The meal duration (in minutes) will be noted after completing the meal.
      The ad libitum meal ends the study day, and the participant will be free to leave afterwards.
    
  