
    
      Main objective / secondary The objectives of our study were to assess the prevalence of AF in
      patients hospitalized for an IC and to detect and describe all heart rhythmic abnormalities
      reported immediately to the waning of an IC cryptogenic (ie without cause or without obvious
      cause ) for non-invasive cardiac monitoring.

        1. The primary endpoint: number of patients in whom it was found AF

        2. Secondary Endpoints: typical patient subgroups in which it was discovered AF and other
           rhythm abnormalities; Description of the population under prescribed anticoagulation
           following SpiderFlash® recordings, cardiac ultrasound parameters (including the surface
           of the left atrium and the index of the function of the mitral annulus) and rhythmic
           anomalies in groups with atheromatous and cryptogenic stroke.

      Inclusion / non inclusion Inclusion criteria

        -  Patients over 65 years, hospitalized for cerebral infarction ICU Neurovascular

        -  No history of atrial fibrillation or flutter

        -  No hypercoagulable

        -  Patient unopposed and capable of carrying 21-day monitoring Exclusion criteria

        -  Patients with severe cognitive impairment that can not keep SpiderFlash® for 21 days

        -  Previous history of AF or flutter

        -  Significant artery stenosis requiring specific treatment (endarterectomy or stenting)

        -  FA on arrival at the ICU Neurovascular

        -  Trucks of a pacemaker or cardiac defibrillator

        -  Deadline for the IC more than 10 days

        -  Other sources of cardiac embolism

        -  Pejorative prognosis (mRS≥5)

      The IC is defined as a central focal neurological deficit of sudden onset and is confirmed by
      a CT scan or MRI.

      The minimum workup includes ECG monitoring by continuous cardiac monitoring, transthoracic
      echocardiography (transesophageal +/-) and a Doppler ultrasound of the supra-aortic trunks
      and transcranial.

      Methodology :

      This is an interventional study in routine care, prospective, single-center, blinded for
      heart rhythm specialist.

      Investigators will use the SpiderFlash®, Holter monitor (technology "Secure Data") to have a
      storage capacity enabling a registration up to 30 days with sufficient autonomy. The
      SpiderFlash® is currently registered in the GHPSJ for use in various directions including
      through cryptogenic cerebral infarction.

      The data collected will (see Annex 2 CRF):

        -  Demographic data: age, sex, vascular risk factors, antithrombotic therapy at the
           entrance, history of Transient Ischemic Accident (TIA) or CI

        -  Data on the IC: arterial territory, side (right / left) or insular cortex reached
           severity (NIHSS score) made further examinations, echocardiography result, become during
           hospitalization (mRS)

        -  Monitoring Results scope ICU Neurovascular.

        -  Presence palpitations

        -  Treatment influencing the rate (beta-blockers or antiarrhythmic)

        -  Data on cardiac monitoring: time, duration, number of detected events

      A questionnaire evaluating the safety of SpiderFlash® will be given to the patient (Appendix
      3) and the results of Holter will be communicated at the end of the recording (as will be
      shown them in the Circular).

      During a screening period of one month, 33 eligible patients over 65 admitted to CI 17
      patients (51%) were identified including 9 with cryptogenic CI 8 and having either a
      non-significant atheroma is a rhythm disorder ( ESSV or atrial hyperexcitability). Among 16
      ineligible patients, 4 had severe dementia, 11 had previous FA to 1 significant extracranial
      stenosis.

      The patient recruitment period will be one year for one further year or two-year inclusion
      period to recruit 200 patients originally planned to study (the first year of inclusion has
      allowed us to include 73 patients) The data will be entered manually on paper CRF and Excel
      anonymized so not including the patient identifiers (name or IPP).

      The originality of our study:

        -  Prospective study

        -  Inclusion of CI cryptogenic and non cryptogenic

        -  Laying SpiderFlash® early after CI

        -  Correlation with cardiac ultrasound parameters

        -  Analysis by the blind rhythm specialist (will not be aware of patient characteristics)

        -  Changing all events while recording (not just the passages FA)

        -  Questionnaire "comfort" given to the patient

      Investigators specify that the data on the comfort of the patient questionnaire will not be
      transferred to the company Sorin; this questionnaire meets strict medical interest (including
      estimate the patient's ability to carry equipment during the full period).

      Ethics / Regulatory:

      The data processing will be carried out locally on the GHPSJ of anonymized way. The inclusion
      of patients will occur after patient information collection and its non-opposition traced in
      his medical records (Appendix 1). The data will be entered by the vascular neurologist
      anonymously. All patient information will remain confidential.

      partnerships:

      The Sorin company, manufacturer of SpiderFlash® provide (loan) material in sufficient
      quantity for the duration of the study.

      The GHPSJ: neurologist time and CRA The SELARL rythmo: time heart rhythm specialists
    
  