
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of standard-dose vs high-dose cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,
           vincristine, etoposide, and prednisone followed by radiotherapy, in terms of time to
           treatment failure, in patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Compare the acute and long-term toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the complete response rate, survival and tumor control, and disease-free
           survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Analyze the time to relapse after radiotherapy in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to LDH levels (no greater than upper limit of normal [ULN] vs greater than ULN),
      initial bulky disease (yes vs no), stage (I or II vs II or IV), ECOG performance status (0 or
      1 vs 2 or 3), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms as
      follows:

        -  Arm I (Standard dose): Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV, and
           vincristine IV on day 1; etoposide IV on days 1-3; and oral prednisone on days 1-5
           (CHOEP) in standard doses.

        -  Arm II (Escalated dose): Patients receive high-dose CHOEP as in arm I. Patients also
           receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously on days 6-12.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of CHOEP chemotherapy, patients with initial bulky disease or extranodal
      involvement undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 4 weeks.

      Patients who undergo radiotherapy are followed at 2 months after radiotherapy. All patients
      (including those who undergo radiotherapy) are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then
      every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 552 patients were accrued for this study within 4.75 years.
    
  