
    
      The world population has reached an unprecedented seven billion, with global population
      ageing increasing at a greater rate than total population growth. Between 1998 and 2030, the
      proportion of persons aged 65 years and over in Singapore will grow by about 3% annually
      compared to 1.0-1.3% in some developed nations. Specific cognitive deficits like inattention,
      dysexecutive functioning, and processing speed decline may affect a number of quality of life
      domains. Concurrent with these statistics, the maintenance of the highest possible level of
      cognitive functioning for as long as possible has become an important goal of aging
      successfully.

      To contribute to the realization of this goal we propose to conduct a wait-list control pilot
      trial to examine the efficacy and safety of BrainpalTM for cognitive enhancement in the
      normal elderly. BrainpalTM uses a technology which analyzes brain waves captured through an
      electroencephalogram to determine the participants' state of attention. The training program
      developed using this patented technology may be useful for individuals who experience
      difficulty with memory and sustaining their attention.

      BrainpalTM may represent one alternative means to enhance cognitive abilities and to slow
      down cognitive decline in the normal elderly. If demonstrated to be efficacious, this therapy
      may even help to delay the onset of dementia.

      In addition, the rate of cognitive decline during the course of AD is possibly influenced by
      not only environmental but also genetic factors. To date, several genes, such as
      apolipoprotein E (APOE) and TOMM40 (translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 40
      homologue), have been identified to be probable genetic risk markers for AD. These genes have
      been shown to play a role in disease onset as well as rates of cognitive decline. For
      instance, studies have shown APOEε4 allele carriers to be associated with earlier and faster
      cognitive decline.

      Therefore, we propose to analyse if there is any relationship between the genetic profiles of
      our participants and their performance in the BrainpalTM training program.
    
  