
    
      Exploratory Objectives

      To analyze the hypothetical advantages of epidural cortical stimulation compare to less
      invasive method of transcranial magnetic stimulation:

        -  Surgical implantation of stimulating electrodes can lead to a more powerful, consistent
           and accurate form of stimulation to the cortex, one of the main concerns associated with
           the variability observed in studies of transcranial magnetic stimulation.

        -  A definitive system for the implantation could also overcome another disadvantage of
           transcranial magnetic stimulation therapy, the need of repetitive treatment period of
           several weeks, and the need for maintenance sessions.

        -  To achieve remission of depressive symptoms by promoting improved quality of life and
           reducing the risk of suicide.

        -  To improve patient adherence to the treatment by the establishment of a permanent
           system.

      Sample:

      Patients will be selected from outpatient clinics and psychiatric wards of specialized
      services in Distrito Federal, Brasília, Brazil. These patients will be included in a specific
      outpatient affective disorders at the University Hospital of Brasília. Those patients with
      major depressive disorder considered untreatable by conventional methods:

        1. The inclusion in this study requires that patients meet the criteria for recurrent Major
           Depressive Disorder according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual - V (recurrent
           Major Depressive Disorder without psychotic features), being in a current depressive
           episode lasting at least two years or have produced at least four episodes of major
           depression, along with the current episode lasting at least one year. All individuals
           must be adults, women can not be pregnant and must be submitted to contraceptive
           therapy.

        2. Subjects must have failed to respond to at least four different trials with
           antidepressant at therapeutic doses for a period of at least six weeks, associated with
           specific psychotherapy during this period and/or use of electrochemotherapy or vagal
           nerve stimulation . The medication treatment for depression used at the moment of
           selection should remain unchanged for at least eight weeks after implantation and will
           not change during the study period. Possible needs therapeutic adjustments during the
           study will be managed with changes in parameter magnetic stimulation.

        3. Patients should score at least 20 points on the Hamilton Rating Scale (Hamilton
           Depression Rating Scale-28 (HDRS)

        4. Exclusion criteria:

             1. Pregnancy;

             2. Preexisting neurological disease including epilepsy;

             3. Other psychiatric disorders except for anxiety disorders

             4. Less than 24 Mini-Mental or any other cognitive disorder;

             5. Being with serious suicidal ideation.

             6. Medical conditions that preclude surgery as judgment of the research team.

      Rating Scales:

        1. Rating Scale Hamilton Depression (HAM-D), the 28 items: assessment of severity of
           symptoms in depressed patients with primary depressive illness and monitoring changes
           due to treatment.

        2. Depression Scale Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), specific evaluation
           of clinical changes in depressed patients during treatment.

        3. Scale of the SF-36, evaluates subjectively the individual's perception regarding their
           own health.

        4. Side Effects Scale (UKU- Ugvalg is Kliniske Undersgelser): detailed scale for assessment
           of drug side effects comprising the following four groups of side effects: psychic,
           neurological, autonomic and others.

      Procedures:

      Selected patients will undergo surgical implant procedure performed at the Surgical Center of
      the University Hospital of Brasília (HUB). The implant will be done by a specialist
      neurosurgeon in the treatment of functional disorders and in implantation of epidural
      electrodes for other pathologies. The procedure will be done using neuronavigation and the
      implant material is already acquired by the neurosurgery unit of HUB by direct import.

      Risks associated with surgery:

        -  Risk of system infection: 3%

        -  Risk of surgical hematoma: 0.2%

        -  Risk of death: 0.1%

        -  Risk of neurological sequelae: 0.1%

      Timeline:

        -  Patients will be selected in outpatient Psychiatry, University Hospital of Brasilia.
           This clinic will be conducted by psychiatrists and psychiatry residents and it will be
           specific to patients with major depression and clinical management difficult.

        -  After obtaining informed consent and informed consent and resolved all questions from
           participants about the research, patients who agree to participate in the study will
           undergo a general physical examination, neurological evaluation, EEG assessment and
           neuropsychological assessment. Depression severity will be assessed by the Hamilton
           scale (HAM-17). Secondary measures of depression severity will be assessed with the
           Depression Scale Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) and the Scale of the
           SF-36.

        -  Imaging exam (Positrons Emission Tomography - PET) pre-procedure will be performed.

        -  Psychiatric diagnoses are excluded by structured interview, including history of
           previous treatment with the respective drugs used, length of treatment and therapeutic
           response.

        -  To the patients who meet inclusion criteria of this research will be offered the
           possibility of the definitive implant with epidural electrode.

        -  Realization of imaging examination for surgical planning and anatomical and functional
           brain assessment.

        -  In case of agreement, participants who meet inclusion criteria will be forwarded to the
           implantation of an epidural electrode at the HUB by a trained neurosurgeon in
           psychosurgery.

        -  One week after implantation of the device, participants will be randomized in order to
           receive continuous magnetic stimulation of high frequency (50Hz) stimulation or sham
           stimulation (placebo) in the first eight weeks of the study. After eight weeks, patients
           randomized to receive sham stimulation will receive stimulation 50Hz also for eight
           weeks. At no time participants will be informed of which are part of the research group.

        -  Completed eight weeks of continuous stimulation at 50 Hz (in the eighth week of the
           subjects with stimulation at 50Hz and sixteenth week for those who made the first eight
           weeks of sham stimulation), patients enter into adaptive protocol based on individual
           response.

        -  New imaging test (PET) will be held at or after 28 weeks of treatment response criteria
           achieved, whichever comes first.

        -  Patients will be reassessed every two weeks for a period of 16 weeks with reapplication
           of HAM-17 and MADRS. During these reassessments will also be investigated possible
           adverse effects and patients will have their devices checked stimulation.

        -  The results will then be subjected to statistical analysis in order to verify the
           effectiveness of the method.
    
  