
    
      Endovascular treatment is rapidly taking over surgery for aorto-iliac occlusive disease
      (AOID) also for complex lesions. This is related to the minimally invasiveness of the
      procedure decreasing the morbidity rate. Patency results of endovascular treatment were often
      inferior compared to open repair when the aortic bifurcation was involved in the lesion. In
      2013 Covered Endovascular Reconstruction of the Aortic Bifurcation (CERAB) technique was
      introduced in an attempt to improve endovascular treatment results by a more anatomical and
      physiological reconstruction, with a subsequent better clinical outcome. The early results of
      the CERAB configuration are promising with primary, primary-assisted and secondary patency
      of, respectively 86.2%/91.1%/97.0% at 1-year, 83.9%/88.7%/97.0% at 2-year and
      82.1%/86.8%/97.0% at 3-year FU in a group of 130 patients, including the first in man
      results. The vast majority (89.2%) were TASC-II D lesions and the 30-day major complication
      rate was 7.7%.

      This trial is designed to prospectively collect all data on implanted CERAB configurations,
      using the balloon expandable stents from Bentley InnoMed, in a defined group of aorto-iliac
      pathology in multiple international sites in order to gain more insight in the outcome of the
      technique. Technical success will be the primary endpoint. Other evaluations will include
      patency rates, quality of life, the reintervention-rate, 30-day morbidity and target vessel
      revascularization up to 5 years after treatment.

      A total of 145 patients will be included and followed until 5 years of follow-up. A core lab
      will independently analyze the images (CT scan or duplex) which will be made at the following
      time points: pre-op, 1 month, 6 months, 1 year and yearly up to 5 years of follow-up.

      Additionally, at these time points three questionnaires will be completed by the patients.
      These questionnaires are about walking ability (WIQ), and quality of life (EQ-5D and
      WHOQoL-BREF).
    
  