
    
      This is a prospective, double-blinded, pilot study to evaluate the ability of PET/CT with FDG
      to detect synovitis of the temporomandibular joint. Patients presenting to the Department of
      Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania with
      symptomatic internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint requiring arthroscopy will be
      compared to control subjects. Key inclusion criteria include any individual found to have a
      primary diagnosis of internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint requiring
      arthroscopy as determined by the treating physician. All patients will have failed a trial
      period of "conservative treatment therapy" including occlusal splint therapy, NSAIDs, or
      muscle relaxants for a period no less than eight weeks. Exclusion criteria will include
      patients not medically stable to undergo arthroscopy under general anesthesia, patients with
      overlying infection of the skin, patients with conditions other than internal derangement
      causing temporomandibular pain or dysfunction.

      Once a patient has been identified as eligible for the study, the treating physician will
      contact a member of the study team. Each participating patient will undergo a standardized
      exam, the research diagnostic criteria for TMD (RDC/TMD). A member of the research team, from
      the department of oral medicine, will administer this exam. This standardized exam has been
      previously validated in the literature, and each member of the research team will undergo
      training and calibration prior to administering the RDC/TMD. This exam will be performed on
      the day of the arthroscopy. In addition, each patient will be given a Wilkes score, based on
      the Wilkes classification of internal derangement.36 The patient will then undergo
      arthroscopy of the temporomandibular joint as per the treating physician. TMJ arthroscopy
      includes: a small incision in front of the ear, introduction of an arthroscope and irrigation
      needle into the joint space, irrigation of fluid, and at the discretion of the treating
      physician may include the lysis of adhesion and the introduction of medication into the
      joint. At the time of the procedure, the synovitis score will be determined based on an
      eleven point synovitis scale as described by Murakami, with zero being absence of synovial
      inflammation. This scoring is bone by observation, and is typically include in the
      arthroscopy procedure for diagnosis. The patient will also be given a binomial score of
      presence or absence of synovitis. A representative photograph will be obtained of the
      patient's joint during arthroscopy, as is routinely done during this procedures.

      Prior to the procedure, the patients will have undergone a PET/CT scan to evaluate the TMJ.
      This radiographic exam will be limited to the head and neck region in order to minimize
      radiation exposure. The radiologists reading the study will be blinded to the results of the
      clinical exam and condition. The results of the PET/CT study will be given as a binomial
      score of positive or negative and given a continuous score based on uptake relative to the
      unaffected joint.

      Control subjects will undergo the RDC/TMD standardized exam prior to the radiographic study,
      and only have the PET/CT performed, with no subsequent intervention. These patients will be
      aged matched to the treatment subjects. This information will then be utilized to determine
      the utility of PET/CT in the detection of synovitis of the temporomandibular joint.
    
  