
    
      This randomized study, the ENHANCE Study (Enhancing Adherence to Diabetes Self-Management)
      will test a behavioral intervention, based on social cognitive theory (SCT), to improve
      regimen adherence in three different groups of people with type 2 diabetes; (1) HbA1c < 8%
      and no concurrent chronic renal insufficiency, (2) HbA1c>8% and no chronic renal
      insufficiency, and (3) those with evidence of chronic renal insufficiency regardless of
      glucose control.

      The primary aims of this study are to:

        1. . Determine whether the intervention improves behavioral adherence to the diabetes
           self-management regimen including: 1.a. dietary adherence, as measured by self-report
           using dietary recalls and the Nutrient Data System, 1.b. physical activity as measured
           by the CHAMPS Physical Activity Questionnaire as well as pedometer readings, and 1.c.
           adherence to capillary glucose self-monitoring as assessed by the FreeStyle monitor.

        2. . Determine whether the intervention improves clinical outcome measures including: 2.a.
           glycosylated hemoglobin levels (HbA1c), 2.b. weight loss, 2.c. anthropometrics.

        3. . Explore the extent to which self-efficacy is a mediator of adherence.

        4. . Explore the extent to which the effectiveness of the intervention varies with respect
           to glycemic control and nephrovascular complications at baseline.

        5. . Explore the impact of a variety of covariates (medications, depression, social
           support, severity of disease, and general health and sociodemographic characteristics,
           clinic from which they were recruited, health literacy, and trust in research) on the
           effectiveness of the intervention.

      Hypothesis #1 is that intervention group participants will perform better than attention
      control group participants on various measures of adherence to the diabetes management
      regimen. Primary behavioral adherence variables will be dietary intake, and physical
      activity. Hypothesis #2 is that intervention group participants will have lower HbA1c levels
      than attention control group participants.

      The 6-month intervention includes group classes, held weekly during months 1&2, biweekly
      during months 3&4, and monthly during month 5&6. Classes focus on building a sense of mastery
      over the diabetes regimen and features the use of PDA-base dietary self-monitoring.
      Intervention group participants are compared to an attention care group, that receives
      monthly contacts. Measurements are made at baseline, 3, and 6 months.
    
  