
    
      The objective of the study is to document and systematically investigate the use of smoking
      reduction and cessation strategies targeting Chinese American smokers at various level of
      readiness to quit smoking.

      Using a randomized controlled study design, the experimental intervention will be compared to
      a control group that will receive the expert system intervention only at 3-, 6- and 12-month
      follow-up. The primary aim is to test the following hypotheses:

        1. Participants receiving the experimental intervention will be more likely to achieve at
           least a 50% reduction from baseline at 3-month (end of treatment), 6- and 12-month
           follow-up than participants in the control condition.

        2. Participants receiving the experimental intervention will be more likely to report a 24-
           hour quit attempt at 3-, 6- and 12-month follow-up.

        3. Participants receiving the experimental intervention will be report a longer length of
           abstinence in their quit attempts at 3-, 6- and 12-month follow-up.

        4. The experimental condition will yield a higher rate of smoking abstinence at 3-, 6- and
           12-month follow-up.

      The secondary aim is to examine the feasibility of the proposed intervention which will be
      assessed by recruitment efficiency, refusal rates, adherence, usage, safety data, and
      perceived helpfulness of the intervention components. In addition, analyses will be pursued
      to explore both short- and long-term maintenance of smoking reduction achieved, the
      association between smoking reduction and changes in self-efficacy of resisting from smoking,
      stage movements (changes in readiness for quitting), and the use of coping strategies for
      smoking at follow-ups. The study will provide important empirical data for developing
      effective smoking cessation strategies that are culturally and linguistically appropriate for
      the Chinese American population.
    
  