
    
      Transitioning from busulfan, hydroxyurea, IFN-α to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) has
      dramatically altered the natural history of CML. Patients with CML appropriately managed with
      TKIs are able to benefit from near normal life expectancy. Given the age-adjusted incidence
      of 1.6 per 100,000 people combined with a reduced annual mortality of less than 2% to 3% per
      year, it is expected the prevalence in the US to increase from approximately 70,000 in 2010
      to a projected 144,000 in 2030. Thus, advancing our knowledge regarding clinical management
      is critical in order to care for this expanding population.

      However the morbidity associated with prolonged TKI exposure remains a substantial burden on
      this patient population. In addition to a relatively benign side effect profile (edema,
      muscle cramps, diarrhea, nausea, musculoskeletal pain, rash and other skin problems,
      abdominal pain, fatigue, joint pain, and headaches), patients continued to experience grade 3
      and 4 adverse events (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, elevated liver enzymes,
      congestive heart failure, and other drug-related adverse events) more than 2 years after
      initiating therapy. For patients with high-risk CML that may benefit from faster and/or
      deeper molecular responses, or who develop intolerance or resistance to imatinib, second
      generation TKIs (dasatinib, nilotinib, and bosutinib) are available. Indeed, there is a
      structural and dose-dependent relationship between TKIs and ischemic heart disease, ischemic
      cerebrovascular events and/or peripheral artery disease accompanied with a linear increase in
      the cumulative frequency of these cardiovascular events over time. Additionally, experts
      believe the cost of CML medicines "are too high, are unsustainable, may compromise access of
      needy patients to highly effective therapy, and are harmful to the sustainability of our
      national health care systems." Given the implications on quality of life, adverse events and
      financial burden on patients, TKI therapy should be discontinued when medically appropriate.

      Thankfully, discontinuation of TKIs in CML-CP patients with RT-PCR negative for BCR-ABL1
      transcripts (Undetectable Minimal Residual Disease, UMRD) or MR has established that 38% to
      45% of patients are able to achieve TFR with persistence of UMRD and MR at 5 and 8 years,
      respectively. Subsequent studies (EURO-SKI, ENESTfreedom, ENESTop, and DADI) have
      independently validated these results, and patients who experience MR will mostly do so
      within three to six months after discontinuation.

      Furthermore, in patients with complete cytogenetic response, those who have a deeper
      molecular response (>3 log reduction in transcripts) compared to those without have an
      improved estimated 7-year event-free survival. ddPCR is a powerful tool that allows for the
      absolute quantitation of nucleic acids and provides a more precise and sensitive assay than
      real-time PCR (RT-PCR) in detecting BCR-ABL1 transcripts. There is neither a precise
      molecular mechanism to characterize MR, nor a clinically actionable assay to determine which
      patients will benefit from TKI cessation and achieve TFR. Thus, leveraging ddPCR can impact
      patient outcomes in CML-CP patients undergoing TKI treatment by potentially determining who
      is expected to achieve of TFR.

      Cancer causing mutations can affect oncogenes that normally stimulate growth, suppressor
      genes that normally inhibit growth, and repair genes that normally limit mutations. Of the
      20,000 protein coding genes in the human genome, approximately ~140 genes can promote
      tumorigenesis while the remaining passenger mutations confer no selective growth advantage.
      In CML, genomic analysis has identified variants in patients with poor outcomes. Therefore,
      mutational analysis of clinically relevant genes and genes of emerging clinical relevance
      could provide insight into which patients are at risk for relapse.

      Prior to these findings, a truly curable clinical status after CML diagnosis was previously
      attainable only with allogeneic stem cell transplantation. It is known that successful
      remission in relapsing CML patients who have undergone stem cell transplantation was
      primarily driven by an alloreactive T-cell dependent graft-versus-leukemia effect. The
      cytotoxic role of a WT-1 peptide specific TCR Vβ21 T-cell clone against K562 cells has been
      demonstrated in vitro. Taken together, these data suggest a role of immune cells and the
      subsequent maturation, generation, and homing of CML-antigen-specific T-lymphocytes - the
      hallmark of elimination during cancer immune surveillance. Massively paralleled sequencing of
      the complementarity determining region 3 by TCR-sequencing (TCR-seq) allows for a detailed
      understanding of the T-cell repertoire and is representative of clonal distribution,
      antigenic response diversity, and the degree of T-cell immunomodulation. A diverse T-cell
      repertoire capable of recognizing CML-specific antigens with concomitant clonal expansion may
      be associated with successful TFR and potentially provide additional biomarkers towards
      identifying patients with CML-CP who should be optimal candidates for TKI cessation.
    
  