
    
      Invasive aspergillosis is a serious and often fatal infection in patients who are neutropenic
      or have undergone solid organ or stem cell transplantation. However, early diagnosis of
      invasive aspergillosis is a challenge. Reiss and Lehmann first described the value of serum
      Galactomanna (GM) for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in 1979. Galactomannan is
      a water-soluble, polysaccharide cell wall component which is released by Aspergillus during
      fungal growth after inhalation of Aspergillus conidia to the lung. The availability of the
      Platelia Aspergillus, a sandwich ELISA that has been approved by FDA in 2003 for managing
      patients at risk of invasive aspergillosis because of the early detection of the GM antigen.
      In several studies so far the specificity of the serum galactomannan assay was greater than
      85%; however, variable sensitivity from 29~100% was noted over years. In addition, low values
      and false-negative results are seen more often in nonneutropenic and solid organ
      transplantation patients as opposed to severely granulocytopenic patients .There are several
      factors that might explain the reported difference in the performance of antigen detection,
      including the biological factors (non-neutropenic patients, prior exposure to antifungal
      agents, encapsulation abscess preventing GM leakage to the circulation, renal
      clearance,…etc.) and epidemiological factors (patient population, cut-off value, prevalence
      of infection…etc) .

      In recent years, specimens of other body fluids are increasingly used for detection of
      Aspergillus galactomannan antigen, including urine, bronchoalveolar lavage(BAL) fluid,
      cerebrospinal fluid and even the tissue specimen. However, the sensitivity and specificity of
      the GM detection in various specimens still have considerably variation. Ultrasound-guided
      transthoracic aspirate is a safe and useful method for collecting specimens for accurate
      bacteriologic diagnosis of lung abscess and obstructive pneumonitis10. We also reported a
      study of diagnosis of pulmonary Cryptococosis by ultrasound guided percutaneous aspiration.
      We plan to perform a prospective single-center study to investigate the role of GM in the
      target organ (lung tissue/fluid) by using ultrasound-guided fine needle aspirate for early
      diagnosis invasive aspergillosis compared with the serum galactomannan.
    
  