
    
      The purpose of this research is to investigate whether consuming two different kinds of olive
      oil will change risk factors related to cardiovascular disease, including levels of good and
      bad cholesterol, levels of inflammation, and levels of gene expression. Healthy individuals
      aged 20-45 with a BMI over 20 kg/m2 are eligible to participate. The study involves 5 visits
      (1 initial screening and 4 study visits) and will last about 8 weeks. There is a 2-week
      run-in period before starting the study, followed by two diet intervention periods each
      lasting two weeks, separated by a two-week washout period.

      Participation in this study will involve an initial two-week run in period to become
      accustomed to the study diet. After this two week period, participants will be randomly
      selected to start either a high-polyphenol olive oil (extra virgin olive oil) or a
      low-polyphenol olive oil (refined olive oil); participants will consume the other oil during
      the second dietary intervention period lasting 2 weeks. During each phase of the study,
      participants will be asked to come to the University of California, Davis campus after a
      10-12 hour overnight fast. At each visit, body measurements will be taken, a serving of olive
      oil and bread will be eaten, and three urine and blood samples will be collected over the
      course of 4 hours. Each study visit will involve three blood draws by a trained nurse or
      phlebotomist.

      During the 8 weeks of the study, all olive products such as olives, olive oil, and olive
      containing products will need to be avoided. The study will provide olive oil to be eaten at
      home for each intervention phase. Additionally, the investigators will ask that nuts and
      high-polyphenol foods (mostly fruits and vegetables) be avoided in the diet. Detailed food
      diaries will be filled out and brought to study visits.
    
  