
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether combining different intensities of exercise
      (specifically low and high-intensity) with the drug metformin has the potential to outperform
      either exercise intensity alone and improve blood flow in individuals with metabolic
      syndrome. Metformin is a commonly used drug to help manage blood sugar. This study is being
      done because of the high prevalence of both type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome in the
      United States. Metabolic syndrome refers to a group of risk factors that raises an
      individual's risk for heart disease, strokes, type 2 diabetes, and other health problems.
      These risk factors include a large waistline, high levels of fat in the blood, high blood
      pressure and high fasting blood sugars. By adding manageable amounts of physical activity and
      taking the drug metformin, it is conceivable that individuals could greatly reduce their risk
      of developing type 2 diabetes and/or cardiovascular disease. Therefore, the objective of the
      investigator's research is to understand how metformin effects both vascular (related to
      blood flow) and metabolic (related to the body's normal biochemical processes)insulin
      sensitivity in adults with metabolic syndrome and the role of training intensity on these
      factors. The term insulin sensitivity refers to how the body's cells react to glucose, also
      known as blood sugar. In individuals that are insulin sensitive, their cells are better able
      to process the glucose to use for energy and other metabolic processes. In individuals that
      are insulin resistant, or who have a lower sensitivity, their cells are not able to
      efficiently use the available blood glucose, which results in higher blood glucose levels
      that can lead to negative health outcomes, including the development of type 2 diabetes. The
      overarching hypothesis is that metformin may blunt the adaptation following high intensity
      exercise by lowering the amount of oxidative stress. Oxidative stress refers to an imbalance
      of the body's reactive oxygen species and the body's ability to detoxify these chemical
      molecules to reduce inflammation and damage. Thus, compared with high intensity exercise plus
      metformin, low intensity exercise plus metformin will produce greater vascular and metabolic
      insulin sensitivity changes following 16 weeks of treatment.

      In addition, the investigators anticipate that high intensity exercise based training alone
      will produce greater effects than low intensity exercise. Lastly, the investigators
      hypothesize that these changes in metabolic and insulin sensitivity will correlate with
      glycemic control (the ability to control blood sugar) and blood pressure changes.
    
  