
    
      Background Oxygen is essential to life and supplementary oxygen therapy is routinely
      administrated during surgery to avoid life-threatening hypoxemia. Supplementary oxygen
      therapy is often given as a high and fixed fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) ranging from
      0.60 to 1.00. As a consequence, the partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) often exceeds
      normal levels. There is increasing evidence of potential harm with liberal administrated
      oxygen therapy. Therefore, the standard regimes for oxygen therapy during surgery have to be
      further investigated.

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate whether a regime for oxygen therapy targeting normal
      levels of PaO2 during elective cardiac surgery with use of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and
      in the first postoperative day in the intensive care unit (ICU) is feasible. Additionally,
      metabolic changes in exhaled breath condensate and in arterial blood collected prior to
      surgery, before and after CPB, the first postoperative day in the ICU and the third
      postoperative day at the surgical ward will be evaluated.

      Study Design The study design is a before-and-after study in patients scheduled for elective
      cardiac surgery being coronary artery bypass grafting or valve replacement or a combination
      of both. The first 25 patients will follow our institutional the standard regime for
      supplementary oxygen therapy; i.e. a minimum FiO2 of 0.60 during mechanical ventilation and
      at least 3 liters oxygen per minute after weaning from the ventilator in the ICU. Thereafter,
      another 25 patients will receive supplementary oxygen therapy to achieve a normal PaO2
      defined as 10-12 kPa (75-120 mmHg) during surgery and in the ICU.

      Exhaled breath condensates will be collected via a mouthpiece during spontaneous breathing
      prior to surgery, first and third postoperative day while the condensates will be collected
      via the tracheal tube during mechanical ventilation. Arterial blood samples will be collected
      simultaneously. Exhaled breath condensates and serum samples will be divided into aliquots
      and stored in a -80 degree Celsius freezer until final analyses after all patients have been
      included.

      Metabolic changes in exhaled breath condensates and in serum samples will be analyzed using
      nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS). The spectra's will
      give a snapshot of all metabolites in a given sample and elucidate changes in the metabolic
      profiles in response to oxygen exposures.

      Hypothesis The hypothesis is that oxygenation targeting is feasible and that changing the
      supplementary oxygen therapy to a oxygenation targeting within the normal range will reduce
      the FiO2 and thus the PaO2/FiO2 ratio.

      Outcomes Primary outcome is the PaO2/FiO2 ratio on the third postoperative day. Secondary
      outcomes will be changes in metabolic profiles in exhaled breath condensates and serum
      samples, changes in oxygenation parameters, PaO2 and oxygen saturation, changes in time to
      weaning from the ventilator in the ICU, changes in FiO2 and in supplementary oxygen therapy
      after weaning from the ventilator, and changes in postoperative complications defined as
      pneumonia, arrhythmias, re-operation, and re-admission to the ICU.

      Statistical analyses This is a pilot study being a feasibility before-and-after study. Based
      on institutional data a power calculation is performed estimating an increase in the
      PaO2/FiO2 ratio from 30 ± 7 kPa with the standard regime for oxygen therapy to 36 ± 7 kPa
      with a oxygenation targeting approach and with an alpha of 0,05 and a power of 80% (1-beta),
      23 patients are needed in each group. To cover to dropouts at total of 50 patients, 25
      patients in each group, will be recruited.

      Data will be assessed for normality. Continuous normally distributed variables will be
      compared using Student t tests and reported as mean and standard deviation, while
      non-normally distributed data will be compared using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests and reported as
      median and interquartile range. All analyses will be performed by using Stata (Metrika
      Consulting AB, Stockholm, Sweden), Matlab.

      The composition of metabolomics will be compared by multivariable analysis. For multivariate
      analysis, various unsupervised and supervised analyses will be carried out in Matlab (The
      MathWorks Inc., Natick, United States) and Python (Python Software Foundation, Delaware,
      United States) software with in-house scripts. Principal component analysis will be used to
      obtain a preliminary outlook of the data, to screen for outliers and detect clusters.
      Eventually, partial least squares discriminant (PLS-DA) analyses coupled to different vv rs
      selections algorithms will be employed to perform data reduction and classification of
      treatments. For validation purposes, the Venetian-Blinds cross-validation approach will be
      applied.

      Ethics Patients will be included after an informed signed content is obtained. FiO2 of 0.60
      is given routinely to patients undergoing cardiac surgery with CPB at Aalborg University
      Hospital. Targeting a physiological PaO2 level between 10 and 12 kPa is considered to be
      safe. Patients undergoing cardiac surgery is routinely maximal monitored during surgery and
      in the ICU. The cardiac anaesthetist in charge can charge the PaO2 target at any time.

      The collection of exhaled breath condensate is painless and without any discomfort for the
      patient. The arterial blood sample on the third postoperative day will be performed by a
      cardiac anaesthetist experienced in this procedure, who will apply a subcutaneous analgesia
      with Lidocain 1% prior to the puncture and thus avoiding pain during the procedure.
      Thereafter, a manual compression will be performed for 2 minutes to minimise the risk of a
      haematoma. In total, four extra blood samples are collected for the metabonomics and one
      extra blood gas analyses. The total amount of blood extracted in the study is 12.5 mL.

      All other procedures and treatments follow the standard regimes.
    
  