
    
      BACKGROUND:

      According to the Polish governmental statistics during the year 2020 have come to Poland
      about 240 thousand of ukarinian migrants, and it is estimated that nowadays in Poland live
      and work about 1.2 million of people from Ukraine. In recent years substantial increases in
      diagnosis of HIV infected people have been reported in some countries, including Poland. At
      the same time 42% of those diagnosed in the EU/EEA in 2018 were migrants, defined as
      originating from outside of the country in which they were diagnosed. More than one-third
      (40%) of newly diagnosed cases due to heterosexual transmission were among migrants
      originating from countries with generalized HIV epidemics, such as Ukraine. Overall in the
      EU/ EEA, and even in some settings with decrease in newly diagnosed HIV infections in men
      having sex with others men (MSM), new HIV diagnoses in migrant MSM have not declined at the
      same rate as those who are not foreign-born. Antiretroviral treatment should be started
      immediately in all HIV-positive patients, regardless of origin, race, gender or sexual
      preferences. The choose of first-line antiretroviral regimen is based, among others, on
      epidemiological data and evidence of presence of drug resistance mutations in a the
      population.

      AIM OF THE STUDY:

      Due to changes in epidemiological pattern in newly diagnosed patients with HIV infection in
      Poland and increase in number of HIV positive patients from Ukraine we aimed to asses whether
      the presence of drug resistance mutations in the population of Ukrainian patients differs
      from the pattern of resistance of not foreign born patients with newly diagnosed HIV
      infection in Poland. The potential differences may have further implications on
      antiretroviral regimens in drug naive HIV positive patients.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS:

      We have designed observational, prospective study which will be performed in several clinical
      centers in Poland. As a part of the study we will collect epidemiological (age, gender,
      origin, migration data, sexual preferences) and clinical data (HIV viral load, CD4+ cells
      count, presence of AIDS-defining diseases, proposed combined antiretrovirat therapy (cART)
      regimen and the response to the treatment, Hepatitis B (HBV) and C (HCV) co-infections).

      In all patients, before starting antiretroviral treatment, presence of drug resistance
      mutations of HIV will be assessed. The molecular diagnostics will cover mutations to the
      nucleotide and non-nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI and NNRTI), protease
      inhibitors (PI) and as well integrase inhibitors (InSTI).

      Statistical evaluation will be performed in subgroups of migrants and in patients born in
      Poland. The distribution of continuous variables will be analysed by the Shapiro-Wilk test.
      The data will be expressed as the median and interquartile range (IQR). Quantitative data
      will be analysed using the Mann-Whitney U test or Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA when appropriate.
      Qualitative data will be compared using the χ² test or the Fisher exact test. A P value of
      <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  