
    
      The use of cryotherapy delivered with the trūFreeze® System via noncontact spray ablates the
      cancer cells while allowing adjacent normal tissue to regenerate. When the liquid nitrogen is
      delivered to the malignant lesion the cancer cells undergo ablation induced by intracellular
      water being frozen in place such that ice crystals are formed. These ice crystals aggregate
      quickly causing immediate intracellular energy producing organelles to be destroyed leading
      to a non-viable cell. Subsequent tumor sloughing and absorption of apoptotic cells occurs
      with a subsequent debulking of the tumor mass. Normal tissue will regenerate as
      re-epithelialization occurs. The extreme cold of -196 degrees Celsius or a "hard freeze"
      leads to more extensive primary cell death over a shorter freeze time as compared to
      cryoprobes. A reduction of overall tumor obstruction in the esophageal lumen can reduce
      symptoms of dysphagia, delay the time until stent is needed, provide palliative care for
      patients for whom additional tri-modal therapies are not an option, and may increase quality
      of life in esophageal cancer patients. The studies conducted to date have provided
      documentation of the safety and effectiveness of spray cryotherapy (SCT) when used for
      malignancies in the esophagus. Measures of dysphagia relief have been described in peer
      reviewed literature. This study aims to provide much needed HRQOL information as well as
      additional tumor characteristics before and after SCT. A cohort of patients with locally
      persistent esophageal cancer will be studied in up to twelve (12) centers in the United
      States to provide important HRQOL data and more a comprehensive understanding of clinical
      tumor response post SCT. In the proposed study, the trūFreeze® System spray cryotherapy
      procedure will be performed during endoscopy. Each SCT procedure will be performed
      endoscopically at clinically indicated intervals of 6 weeks +/- 3 weeks. Total procedure
      dosimetry will be delivered at the discretion of the Investigator based on tumor location and
      patient tolerability. After each procedure at defined intervals, patients will be contacted
      and QOL symptom related information will be collected. If at any point an Investigator
      determines that a subject is not a candidate for further spray cryotherapy or is unable to
      tolerate additional procedures, they will be contacted via telephone to ascertain HRQOL
      information. Subject participation will last up to two years or until death
    
  