
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      This study will explore sensory phenomena associated with Tourette syndrome (TS). The first
      part will evaluate threshold levels versus perceived intensity of tactile and olfactory
      stimuli in areas reported to be hypersensitive in TS patients. The second part will use
      electromyography (EMG) to seek correlation between muscle activity and the perceived
      intensity of "urge" in focal areas of premonitory sensations.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Twenty-six patients and 22 control subjects will be studied. Subjects can be of any race,
      gender, handedness, or age from 18 to 65 years.

      DESIGN:

      To determine olfactory and tactile threshold, n-butanol and Von Frey hairs will be presented
      in forced-choice modified method of limits paradigms. Perceived intensity will be examined
      using a generalized labeled magnitude scale (gLMS), whose word values are placed on a ruler
      for numerical reporting. Randomly arranged series of 7 stimuli for olfaction and touch will
      be presented in 4 sets, and subjects will report a number on the gLMS that corresponds to the
      intensity of each sensation. Both threshold and intensity will be measured in the peroneal
      nerve territory in all subjects, and at one other variable place, which will be matched 1:1
      between patients and controls. The variable spot will consist of a patient's sensory tic
      site. Next, EMG activity will be measured from up to 8 muscles in the area of a sensory tic.
      Patients will report when a sensory tic is occurring, and will be asked to resist the motor
      tic for at least 12 seconds from that point. Total EMG activity will be measured in muscles
      surrounding the sensation at 1, 4, and 7 seconds before and after the tic.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      Outcome measures include the sensory threshold values for olfaction and touch and the
      reported intensity values. The outcome measures of the EMG study include the power of total
      EMG activity at time points before and after a tic.
    
  