
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluate the efficacy of the haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplantation (haploHCT)
      total marrow and lymphoid organ irradiation (TMLI), with high dose post-transplant
      cyclophosphamide (PTCy) as graft-versus host disease (GvHD) prophylaxis, as assessed by
      1-year graft versus (vs) host disease-free relapse-free survival (GRFS) rate in each arm (Arm
      A: patients with acute myeloid leukemia [AML] or myelodysplastic syndrome [MDS] and Arm B:
      Patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia [ALL]).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate overall survival (OS), cumulative incidences of relapse/disease progression, and
      non-relapse mortality (NRM) in each arm at 100 days, and 1 year post-transplant.

      II. Estimate rate of relapse and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 1 year post-transplant.

      III. Estimate rates of acute and chronic GvHD, infections, complete remission and neutrophil
      recovery.

      IV. Describe and characterize cytokine release syndrome (CRS) post-haploidentical HCT with
      TMLI as conditioning regimen and PTCy as GvHD prophylaxis as assessed by incidence, frequency
      and severity.

      V. Further evaluate the safety of this regimen by assessing:

      Va. Adverse events: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course, duration.

      Vb. Complications: including acute/chronic GVHD, infection and delayed engraftment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize minimal residual disease from bone marrow aspirates and investigate the
      possible association between TMLI-based regimen and patient's disease status.

      II. Describe the kinetics of immune cell recovery. III. Describe the kinetics of serum
      pro-inflammatory cytokines and GvHD biomarkers.

      IV. Longitudinal and spatial assessment of TMLI effect on bone marrow environment.

      V. Cellular and molecular assessment of TMLI effect on bone marrow environment and TMLI
      effect on the engraftment and disease relapse.

      OUTLINE:

      CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) once daily (QD) on days -7 to
      -5, and undergo TMLI twice daily (BID) on days -4 to 0 in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo hematopoietic cell transplantation on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV QD on days 3-4 in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on day 5, patients also receive
      granulocyte colony stimulating factor and tacrolimus/mycophenolate mofetil per institutional
      standard.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up twice weekly for the first 100
      days post-transplant, twice monthly until 6 months post-transplant, monthly until patient
      discontinues immunosuppressive therapy, and then yearly for 2 years.
    
  