
    
      Existing literature indicates that there is potential effectiveness of care management
      delivered by mental health professionals in improving treatment engagement and reducing
      inpatient readmissions and that certified peer specialists may be able to deliver an array of
      mental health services of similar or better quality as mental health professionals. However,
      there have been no studies comparing certified peer specialists to professionals in
      interventions to increase treatment engagement and reduce readmissions. This study will be
      the first to examine the potential benefits and tradeoffs between these two groups of
      providers.

      There is an urgent need to improve care transitions for patients with mental disorders seen
      in emergency departments (ED). Care management can improve treatment engagement after ED
      discharge for patients with mental disorders, and certified peer specialists hold promise in
      providing these services. However, there are no data comparing care management delivered by
      peers and professionals in these settings. With funding from a Patient-Centered Outcomes
      Research Institute (PCORI) grant the study team will be able to implement a manualized care
      management program to improve follow-up and treatment engagement for patients in South
      Carolina, supported by preliminary data and experience from work previously conducted by the
      study team.

      The overall goal of the project is to compare the effectiveness of professional and peer care
      managers in improving linkage to and engagement in outpatient care after an ED discharge, as
      well as the mechanisms by which engagement occurs. The study will use a multi-site randomized
      trial study design across 8 EDs in South Carolina with telepsychiatry programs; each site
      will have one professional care manager (social worker or nurse) and one peer specialist care
      manager. Eligible subjects at each site will be randomized to a one-year treatment engagement
      intervention, namely the Coordination, Access, Referral and Evaluation (CARE) Program with
      either a peer or professional care manager, resulting in a total of 290 participants. The
      CARE program will focus on shared decision-making between care managers and patients, and
      combines the traditional medical model of care management with a recovery-based approach.
    
  