
    
      GENERAL AIMS:

        1. Develop methods for early and accurate diagnosis of different dementia disorders. This
           is important not only for the clinical diagnostic work-up, but also for selection of
           patients to clinical trials. Because dementia is very common among the elderly, but
           often misdiagnosed, we need to develop minimally invasive, reliable and affordable
           biomarkers for use in a primary care setting. This could include blood-based biomarkers
           which could be used to identify patients at high risk for a neurodegenerative disease.
           We also aim to develop new diagnostic algorithms using advanced imaging techniques and
           cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers to diagnose patients prior to overt symptoms (when
           brain dysfunction is still limited and potentially reversible) in order to identify
           individuals more likely to respond to new disease-modifying therapies.

        2. Develop biomarkers and imaging techniques to monitor early effects of new
           disease-modifying therapies. Methods are needed that can reliably detect relevant
           changes in the turnover of Aβ, tau and α-synuclein. In the present study one focus will
           be to study the annual change in the retention of Tau PET ligands during both the
           prodromal and dementia stages of AD. Further, we need biomarkers that detect the
           intensity of ongoing synaptic/neuronal degeneration. Imaging methods revealing the
           functional and structural integrity of different brain networks might also be relevant.

        3. Investigate the heterogeneity of dementia and parkinsonian disorders to assist in the
           development of a new pathology-based disease classification. Current diagnostic work-up
           is based on symptomatology. However, the diseases (e.g. Alzheimer's and Parkinson's
           diseases) are heterogeneous with respect to clinical features and underlying
           pathologies. Moreover, there is also significant overlap between the diseases. Hence,
           today's symptom-based clinical diagnostic criteria are likely too crude to provide an
           etiologically meaningful classification of patients. We will therefore work towards a
           pathology-based disease classification, using in vivo biomarkers that reflect the
           underlying brain pathologies, e.g. Aβ or tau. This will be especially useful for the
           development of new disease-modifying therapies, which are aimed at specific brain
           pathologies.

        4. Define the temporal evolution of pathologies in the predementia phases of Alzheimer's
           disease. One of the last decade's paradigm shifts in neuroscience has been the
           realization that AD, and likely also other neurodegenerative diseases, starts with a
           prolonged predementia phase. AD even starts with an asymptomatic phase, when brain
           pathology is present in the absence of clinical symptoms. It has become clear that we
           need to better understand the temporal sequence of pathologic events in these disorders
           to be able to select the optimal disease stages for interventions in clinical trials
           with different disease-modifying therapies directed at specific pathologies.

        5. Investigate the underlying disease mechanisms of dementia disorders in humans aiming at
           finding new relevant drug targets. Drug discovery using the currently available cell and
           animal models, has not translated to human research as indicated by failed phase II and
           III trials. There are several possible reasons for these failures. First, it is possible
           that previous trials may have focused on the wrong drug targets, since findings from
           cell and animal models of dementias may not have accurately captured essential aspects
           of the disease mechanisms in humans. BioFINDER2 will be a translational study where we
           will attempt to bridge the knowledge gap between cell/animal studies and studies in
           humans, by using biomarkers that reflect biological mechanisms that may be studied
           across model systems. Second, another reason of the failed trials may be that they
           included patients in too advanced disease stages for the treatments to be effective, or
           that they partly included patients with unspecific diseases, since they did not use
           biomarker-based methods for inclusion of participants. BioFINDER2 will inform on the
           design of future clinical trials by providing detailed data about cognitive and
           functional changes over time in people with well-defined biomarker-characterized brain
           pathologies.

      STUDY PLAN To reach the objectives above, we include well-characterized and clinically
      relevant populations of patients with dementia and/or parkinsonian symptoms and healthy
      individuals. We apply several state of the art methodologies in order to develop new brain
      imaging techniques, new biomarkers in blood and CSF as well as novel methods of assessing
      important clinical symptoms.

      COGNITIVE TESTING Attention and executive function will be assessed with the Trail Making
      Test A and B (TMT), Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT), and A Quick Test of cognitive speed
      (AQT). Visuospatial ability will be measured by two subtests from the Visual Objects and
      Space Perception (VOSP) battery, incomplete letters and cube analysis. Memory will be
      assessed with the Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test (FCSRT) in cohorts A and B. It will
      be complemented with the 10-word delayed recall test from ADAS-cog, including a recognition
      part. Verbal ability will be evaluated with the animal and letter S fluency tests and the
      15-item short version of the Boston Naming Test. Global cognition will be assessed with the
      Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). In cohort A and B, a computerized cognitive battery
      focusing on memory and attention will also be performed.

      ASSESSMENTS OF SYMPTOMS, FUNCTIONAL ABILITIES AND GLOBAL FUNCTION Cognitive symptoms. All
      subjects will rate his or her memory and attention/executive function in relation to others
      of the same age according the Brief Anosognosia Scale (BAS). We have also added similar
      questions to cover the other cognitive domains. These questions have been validated against
      neuropsychological testing but there are data indicating that self-reported cognitive
      complaints are only valid in a lesser degree of cognitive impairment. To assess a broader
      range of cognitive complaints, the Subjective Cognitive Decline questionnaire (SCD-q) will be
      administered to the research subjects. Subjects from cohorts C, D and E will be assessed with
      cognitive impairment questionnaire (CIMP-QUEST; filled out by an informant).

      Functional ability. This will be evaluated with the informant-based Functional Activities
      Questionnaire (FAQ) or the Amsterdam IADL scale, both focus on instrumental activities of
      daily living (IADL) known to be affected early in cognitive decline.

      Global function. The global cognitive status will be evaluated using the sum of boxes score
      from the Clinical Dementia Rating scale (CDR) and the global deterioration scale (GDS).

      Behavioral and psychological symptoms in dementia (BPSD). BPSD will be assessed by clinicians
      using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory - Clinician rating scale (NPI-C) developed by Jeffrey
      Cummings. Mood and anxiety will be further assessed with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      scale (HADS). Frontal Behavioral Inventory (FBI) will be done in FTD-related conditions.

      Quality of Life (QoL). The overall health status will be rated by the subjects using the
      EQ-5D from Euro-QoL. In demented patients this will also be rated by an informant, spouse or
      close relative.

      Sleep. The presence of REM sleep behavior disorder will be evaluated with a single validated
      composite question derived from the Mayo Sleep Questionnaire. Sleep quality is assessed with
      the Sleep Scale from the Medical Outcome Study (MOS).

      Cognitive reserve. Premorbid cognition and cognitive reserve is approximated from the
      Cognitive Reserve Index questionnaire (CRI-q; subitems "Education" and "Working activity",
      not "Leisure time").

      CEREBROSPINAL FLUID (CSF) AND BLOOD SAMPLING AND ANALYZES Lumbar CSF samples will be
      collected according to a standardized protocol and will follow the principles of the
      Alzheimer's Association Flow Chart for CSF biomarkers. In short, lumbar puncture will be done
      between 9-12 am. 20-30 ml of CSF will be collected in Low Binding polypropylene tubes, which
      are stored on ice for 5-20 min until the CSF samples will be centrifuged (2000g, +4°C, 10
      min). Thereafter, the CSF will be aliquoted in ca 1 ml portions into Low Binding
      polypropylene tubes followed by storage at -80°C until batch analyses.

      Plasma collection will be done at the same visit as the lumbar puncture. Blood will be drawn
      into tubes containing either EDTA (5 x 6 ml tubes) or Lithium heparin (3 x 3 ml tubes) as
      anticoagulant. After centrifugation (2000g, +4°C, 10 min), plasma samples will be aliquoted
      into polypropylene tubes and stored at -80°C pending biochemical analyses. Further,
      EDTA-blood (2 x 6 ml) will also be obtained for genetic DNA analyses.

      MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING 3 Tesla MRI (Siemens Prisma) will be done in all study cohorts. A
      wide variety of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques will be used to study regional
      brain volume (three-dimensional magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition with gradient echo
      (3D MPRAGE)), metabolism (MR spectroscopy (MRS)), structural and functional connectivity of
      different brain regions (diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional MRI (fMRI)), regional
      blood flow (arterial spin labeling (ASL)), iron deposition (susceptibility-weighted imaging
      (SWI)) and the presence of small vessel disease (MPRAGE, SWI and fluid-attenuated inversion
      recovery (FLAIR)). The protocol will take approximately 60 min to perform. No
      contrast-enhancing agent will be used.

      PET IMAGING

      Tau PET. PET imaging of tau aggregates will be done in all the included cohorts at baseline.
      In the present study, Tau PET imaging will be performed using 18F-RO6958948 developed by
      Hoffmann-La Roche that will provide the precursor for this PET ligand. This tau PET imaging
      agent has been shown to accurately detect tau pathology in cases with AD when compared to
      controls. We will perform a 20-30 min PET scan approximately 60 min post intravenous
      injection of 18F-RO6958948. The impact of the investigation on clinical diagnostic accuarcy
      and patient care will be investigated. 18F-RO6958948 has not yet been approved for use in
      clinical routine practice in Sweden, and can only be used in research studies, such as the
      present study.

      Amyloid PET. PET imaging of Aβ aggregates (including 18F-flutemetamol PET) has been approved
      for use in clinical routine practice in Sweden. In the present study, 18F-flutemetamol PET
      will be done in non-demented cases only. In the cases with dementia CSF Aβ will be enough to
      determine the presence or absence of brain amyloid pathology. However, in the cognitively
      healthy cases and in the patients with SCD or MCI we are interested in following the spread
      of amyloid pathology throughout the brain during the preclinical stages of AD and the spatial
      relationship to tau pathology. Therefore, Amyloid PET will be done according to clinical
      routine procedures in addition to CSF Aβ measurements in these groups. In the present study
      Amyloid PET will be performed using 18F-flutemetamol. GE Healthcare will provide the
      precursor for 18F-flutemetamol. A 20 min scan will be performed between 90-110 min post
      injection of 18F-flutemetamol.

      FDOPA PET FDOPA PET is often used as part of clinical routine examinations of patients with
      parkinsonism to confirm the diagnosis. Here DaTSCAN will be done according to clinical
      routine procedures in cases with PD, PDD, DLB, MSA, PSP and CBD to confirm the clinical
      diagnosis if it has not been done in clinical routine praxis within one year from the
      baseline visit.
    
  