
    
      Study Core Period:

      The first 16 weeks after the initial dose of dasatinib is called the Study Core Period.
      Patients who are eligible and chose to participate in this study should expect to take 100 mg
      of dasatinib daily for 8 weeks. If the study doctor believes that they have not achieved a
      partial response after 8 weeks of treatment, the dose may be increased to 150 mg per day. The
      study doctor may lower the dosage of dasatinib if the 100 mg treatment is too strong. If the
      lower dose of dasatinib is still too strong, the study doctor may decide to take the patient
      off of the study. The patient will continue to receive supportive care as needed during the
      duration of the trial as well as after completion of the trial.

      During the Study Core Period, participants will have a study visit every 4 weeks. Complete
      Blood Counts (CBCs) will be obtained every 2 weeks for study purposes and disease monitoring.
      Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will be obtained at screening, and at 8 weeks and 16 weeks
      of treatment for response assessment. Additional bone marrow aspirations and biopsies may be
      obtained at any other time, to evaluate the disease process, at the doctor's judgment. A bone
      marrow aspirate and biopsy must be done at the time of study discontinuation.

      Study Extension Period:

      The time after the first 16 weeks of treatment is called the study extension period. If the
      patient is responding to the treatment, does not experience disease progression or any severe
      adverse events, the patient may continue dasatinib treatment for up to 48 weeks. If patients
      continue after 48 weeks, they will be asked to enroll in a separate extension study for
      future follow up.

      During the Study Extension Period, participants will have a study visit every 4 weeks.
      Complete Blood Counts (CBCs) will be obtained every 2 or 4 weeks for study purposes and
      disease monitoring. Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will be obtained every 16 weeks. A bone
      marrow aspirate and biopsy must be done at the time of study discontinuation.
    
  