
    
      Background and Methods:

      Supported by the The Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (CNBI) Working Environment Fund a
      follow-up study of 184 bakery workers in 5 bakeries was done in 2012, appr. 10 years after a
      similar study in 1999-2002. In addition a cross-sectional study in 2 other bakeries (one
      'bread-factory', and a traditional bakery with three small bake shops) was added.

      Altogether 253 participants, among them 61 former bakery workers, were investigated with use
      of questionnaires, allergy-testing (skin prick testing, and blood samples for specific IgE
      and total IgE), spirometry with reversibility testing, exhaled NO-measurement, and nasal
      measurements.

      As in 1999-2002 an extensive exposure assessment was performed including personal samples of
      total dust (Gelman), inhalable dust (PAS6), as well as direct reading measurements of dust
      (Dust Track). A Job Exposure Matrix (JEM) was created enabling each participant to be
      assigned an exposure value of probable mean daily flour-dust exposure based on work-tasks and
      bakery.

      Aim of study:

        -  Follow-up of the participants in the 1999-2002 study, both still active bakery workers
           and former workers, on health-status focusing on respiratory disease, sensitization to
           common and occupational allergens, level of sick-leave and reasons for quitting as a
           baker.

        -  Inclusion of 'new' bakery workers into the cohort as a cross-sectional study, and to
           compare health-status in two cross-sectional cohorts.

        -  To assess personal exposure to flour-dust among workers in 7 bakeries, as part of the
           cross-sectional study described above.

        -  To identify implemented flour-dust exposure reduction measures in bakeries participating
           in 1999-2002, and to assess the potential impact of these measures on the exposure to
           flour dust.
    
  