
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Perform a phase I clinical trial consisting of dose-escalation/de-escalation of
      intraperitoneal (IP) infusions of anti-CD3 x anti-HER2/neu (HER2Bi) armed anti-CD3 activated
      T cells (aATC) in women with high risk or recurrent ovarian cancer to determine the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) for IP injections in combination with a fixed intravenous (IV) dose of
      10 x 10^9 (± 20%) aATC once a week.

      II. To clearly define the toxicity profile of IP and IV HER2Bi aATC at the MTD or technically
      feasible dose in patients with ovarian cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate clinical responses, time to progression, and overall survival. II. Evaluate
      phenotype, cytokine profiles and interferon (IFN)-gamma enzyme-linked immunosorbent spots
      (ELISPOTS), cytotoxicity and antibodies directed at laboratory ovarian cancer cell lines.

      III. Monitor cancer antigen (CA)125 or tumor markers, and antibody responses to mouse
      proteins (human anti-mouse antibodies [HAMA]).

      IV. The migration of armed ATC out of the peritoneal and serum cytokine levels induced by IP
      or IV armed ATC infusion will be assessed by studying the appearance of armed ATC at various
      time points (0, 4, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours after IP infusion) in the blood after IP
      infusions by performing flow cytometry to detect anti-CD3 (OKT3) x anti-Her2 (Herceptin®)
      bi-specific antibody (BiAb) on the surface of aATC.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of IP infused HER2Bi-armed activated T cells.

      Patients receive HER2Bi-aATC IV over 5-15 minutes and IP within 3-4 days of IV dose weekly
      for 4 weeks. Patients also receive low-dose aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) daily and
      sargramostim SC twice weekly beginning 3 days before the first HER2Bi-aATC infusions infusion
      and ending 7 days after the last HER2Bi-aATC infusion. Treatment continues in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months, and then
      every 6 months.
    
  