
    
      The Ethical Committee of the Split Clinical Hospital Center previously already gave consent
      for the conduction of this research. Any personal data obtained in this research was and will
      be kept and handled strictly confidential and according to the Medical Code of Ethics. All
      reports generated on the basis of this study will utilize the data of a sample of patients
      with the diagnosis of vitreomacular traction fulfilling the eligibility criteria prior to
      intervention. The purpose of the examinations, procedures, possible advantages, disadvantages
      and possible side effects of the intervention will be explained to all participants, possible
      questions are going to be answered and a signed informed consent obtained.

      Patients are going to be selected by the study chair from his pool of patients according to
      the criteria of inclusion and exclusion, as stated below. After obtaining informed consent
      all patients will be assigned into the intervention group and receive treatment according to
      our predefined procedural protocol. Neither participants nor researchers will be blinded
      during the whole course of the study.

      One of the investigators carries out regular control examinations at one week after the
      procedure, and then every 2 to 4 weeks thereafter. During each control examination visual
      acuity and intraocular pressure will be measured, moreover biomicroscopy, indirect
      ophthalmoscopy, and macular OCT (Cirrus OCT 5000 HD, Zeiss) of the treated eye are going to
      be performed. The following data are also going to be recorded by the same investigator:
      patient demographics (age, gender, right eye in relation to left eye), period of intravitreal
      injection of gas to the separation of the posterior vitreous body (PVD) and monitoring time.
      Any adverse events that have occurred after gas injection, including eye complications (eg.
      retinal tear or ablation, infections, increase in intraocular pressure, uveitis, bleeding and
      damage to the optic nerve), and systemic complications, are going to be recorded.

      Statistical Analysis will be performed using IBM SPSS©. Descriptive Statistics will include
      patient demographic data and baseline characteristics. The mean, standard deviations, median,
      minimum, and maximum will be reported for continuous variables, whereas frequencies and
      proportions are going to be described for categorical variables. The investigators will
      furthermore utilize the collected data to perform a power analysis and determine an
      appropriate sample size for future studies evaluating the utility of a single intravitreal
      injection of SF6 in the management of symptomatic vitreomacular traction.
    
  