
    
      Joint haemorrhage represents the most common type of bleeding episode in persons with
      hemophilia (PwH) and recurrent hemarthrosis triggers chronic arthropathy, which is the most
      frequent chronic complication in hemophilia patients. In the absence of an adequate
      prophylaxis (age at start, regimen, duration, adherence) with Factor VIII (for hemophilia A)
      or FIX (for hemophilia B) concentrates, up to 85% of patients with severe hemophilia develop
      a clinically overt joint disease.

      On the other hand, some recent data suggest that, despite adequate prophylaxis a not
      negligible percentage of PwH develop arthropathy.

      Thus, an adequate screening of early signs of arthropathy is needed. On this hand, synovitis
      is widely considered as one of the parameters to be taken into account for the diagnosis and
      the surveillance of joint impairment in PwH. Synovitis represents a key feature, potentially
      related to under-treatment due to insufficient therapy regimens or to a limited compliance to
      treatment, to pharmacokinetics variability or to demanding daily/sport activities.
      Accordingly, there is a general agreement on the indication to consider the presence of
      synovitis as a marker of disease activity in PwH.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:

      Among patients referred to enrolling Haemophilia Centres (to be defined), consecutive
      patients with severe (FVIII < 1%) or severe-moderate (FVIII < 2%) haemophilia A without
      inhibitors will be enrolled according to the above reported inclusion and exclusion criteria.
      For each subject, a trained staff will record demographic data including age, race,
      ethnicity, body mass index (BMI, kg/m2). Information from medical records will also include
      the number of bleeding episodes and the amount of factor concentrate used during the previous
      12 months for regular prophylaxis and for breakthrough bleeding episodes treatment. The
      present study will be organized in 2 phases.

      Phase 1 (US screening): All patients will undergo an ultrasound examination of elbows, ankles
      and knees to define joint status and to define presence/absence of synovitis according to the
      HEAD-US system. Synovitis screening protocol will include examination of the olecranon recess
      (elbow), suprapatellar recess (knee) and anterior recess of the tibiotalar joint (ankle). For
      a detailed scanning protocol see Figure 1. Synovitis will be scored as absent/minimal (score
      0); mild/moderate (score 1) and severe (score 2).

      Phase 2 (Intervention): Patients with US evidence of synovitis will be randomly assigned at
      undergoing a PK assessment with my-PK-fit to start a prophylaxis with Adynovi targeting a 12%
      FVIII through level (PROPEL-like arm) or to continue ongoing standard treatment (control
      arm). US examination of the six joints will be repeated monthly for six months and in case of
      onset of symptoms that might suggest an acute bleeding episode. For both treatment arms
      changes in synovitis status, the number of bleeding episodes, number of infusions and FVIII
      consumption will be recorded. In case of confirmed hemarthrosis an intensive treatment will
      be started with the ongoing treatment according to current guidelines . During the intensive
      treatment period, the US assessment of the affected joint will be repeated every 7 days. The
      intensive replacement treatment will be stopped when US will demonstrate complete resolution
      of intra-articular bleeding. The time to pain disappearance, the time to US evidence of
      bleeding resolution and the number and doses infused will be recorded for each treatment arm.
      Any change in prophylaxis schedule will be recorded in both treatment arms during the overall
      study period, and will not represent an exclusion criterion from the study.
    
  