
    
      Stratified randomization will be performed using a computerized randomization table where the
      strata will be type of surgery (open vs closed) and the treatment will be forced air blanket
      or underbody mattress warming device. This will allow equal groups of both warming devices in
      both types of surgery.

      Group 1: Patients will receive active warming via a heating mattress (VitaHEAT Medical)
      placed on the OR table with two thin sheets between the patient and the device; one covering
      the mattress and the other used as the draw sheet as usual practice. The device will be
      turned on 10 minutes prior to the patients' arrival to the operating room table. Patients'
      upper body will be covered with blankets. To increase skin surface contact with the mattress
      any blankets remaining under the patients' chest or head will be removed after intubation and
      replaced with a donut.

      Group 2: Patients will receive standard forced air warming applied to the upper body and
      turned on after the patient is prepped and draped. These warmers will be placed directly in
      contact with the skin without any intervening insulation.

      Both groups will have IV fluid warmer initiated on arrival to the operating room. The
      operating room temperatures will be adjusted to 21°C.

      Participation in the study is voluntary. The patients may choose not to enroll in the
      research. Patients who choose not to enroll will use the standard forced air warmer.

      Preoperative and postoperative temperatures will be measured orally. Intraoperative core and
      skin temperatures will be monitored continuously at 1 minute intervals using an esophageal
      probe and skin temperature probe using a skin temp probe placed on the great toe and covered
      to prevent any contact with the warming devices.

      Intraoperative period: The participants temperature will be monitored and documented at
      prescribed times.

      Postoperative period: The participants will have temperature monitored in the post anesthesia
      care area.

      Participation in this study will last for 30 days following surgery at which point study
      member will call patient for a 2-4 minute phone call.
    
  