
    
      In 2011 a Maternity Services Development Programme (MSDP) was implemented in one South of
      England city. The programme aimed to promote effective collaborative working between
      maternity services (midwives) and other service providers (health visitors, social workers,
      Children Centre staff, specialist and volunteer services) to improve outcomes for service
      users (women and families). The MSDP utilised local Children's Centres, which provide
      community focused family support, to co-locate maternity services and other service
      providers. The rationale to improve collaborative working is supported by evidence suggesting
      poor collaborative working contributes to poorer outcomes (Laming Report 2003; Marmot Review
      2010). Therefore programmes such as the MSDP could potentially improve short and long-term
      outcomes for those accessing maternity services.

      The proposed research uses a case study approach to collect and analyse predominantly
      qualitative data, and some quantitative data. This method will allow for analysis of the MSDP
      and understanding of its influence on maternity services and collaboration, and will aim to
      illuminate perceived strengths and challenges of the MSDP evident to services providers. Data
      will be collected using observation episodes (e.g. participant meetings) to observe
      collaboration, and interviews to explore experiences. Additionally documents will be analysed
      to observe documented evidence of collaborative practice. Pre-existing statistical data will
      also be used to highlight changes in indicators of service user well-being since the
      implementation of the MSDP.

      The research will recruit a cross-section of service providers (no service users) that work
      in or with maternity services from four of the nine city Children Centres. Invitation letters
      will be circulated to potential participants through participating Children Centre
      management, where they will be invited to participate in the observation and interview data
      collection activities. They will then be able to select the extent of their participation.
    
  