
    
      Study aims. Given the documented need for valuable information about system-level features
      that can be used to effectively and efficiently support adults in living well with MCC, this
      study is designed to achieve the following aims:

      Aim 1: Compare the effectiveness of High-Touch, High-Tech, and Usual Care on primary outcomes
      including hospital readmission, health status, and patient activation, and on several
      secondary outcomes including functional status, quality of life, care satisfaction, emergent
      care use, engagement in primary, specialty, and mental health care, and gaps in care.

      Aim 2: Examine the differential effects of the interventions for patient subgroups, based on
      age, race, illness complexity, and comorbid behavioral health conditions to evaluate
      heterogeneity of treatment effects (HTE) and determine for whom and in what circumstances the
      interventions are most effective.

      Aim 3: Examine perceived barriers and facilitators to efficient and effective implementation
      of High-Touch and High-Tech interventions for delivering evidence-based integrated care.

      An individual-level randomized design along with a pragmatic, mixed-methods approach to
      compare system-level features for delivering evidence-based components of integrated care for
      Medicaid or dual-eligible adult members with MCC who reside in in Western, Central, or
      Eastern PA and are at high risk for rehospitalization has been selected for this study. This
      design, based on significant input from patient stakeholders and Drs. Kevin Kraemer
      (Scientific Co-I; health services researcher) and Doug Landsittel (Co-I; biostatistician/CER
      expert), accords fully with the PCORI Methodology Standards. Intervention effectiveness will
      be determined by examining the differential impact on outcomes that are most meaningful to
      patients in our target population and those delivering their care. The scope and duration of
      the study interventions and evaluation are sufficient to measure change in patient-centered
      outcomes.

      High-Touch, High-Tech, and Usual Care will serve as the comparators for this study. Usual
      Care follows standardized procedures for patient engagement including when a patient is
      either hospitalized or transitioning from the hospital setting into ambulatory care for
      follow-up and condition management. Due to resources and other limitations, not all patients
      who are eligible for High-Touch/High-Tech enroll in these programs. Thus, the addition of the
      Usual Care arm will allow for a less intensive model to be examined and targeted to
      appropriate patient populations.

      For Aims 1 and 2, an individual, stratified randomized trial design was selected to randomly
      assign each enrollee to one of the three interventions arms, minimizing and balancing for
      confounding variables. Individual-level randomization was selected as opposed to cluster
      randomization at a system level (e.g. practice-, hospital-level) because the interventions
      are delivered by a single payer and are not subject to within-practice contamination. Based
      on valuable system-level stakeholder feedback, an unequal randomization ratio of 2:2:1 for
      High-Touch, High-Tech, and Usual Care, respectively, was utilized. While the less resource
      intensive Usual Care may, in fact, improve meaningful outcomes for certain patient subgroups,
      the health care system has invested heavily in High-Touch and High-Tech as evidence-based
      solutions for chronic disease care. Additionally, stakeholders have indicated that they would
      like as many participants as possible to have a fully integrated care experience offered by
      High-Touch/High-Tech and would like to limit enrollment into Usual Care. The investigators
      will use a mixed-methods approach that incorporates both qualitative and quantitative data.
      The addition of qualitative data collection and analyses in Aim 3 will permit more
      comprehensive understanding of patient and staff experiences with the interventions and
      results will aide in dissemination of study findings in a manner that is most consistent with
      patient and other stakeholder perceptions and experiences. The overall, four-year study
      timeline includes three phases: Pre-Intervention (months 1-6), Intervention and Data
      Collection (months 7-40), and Data Analysis and Reporting (months 41-48).

      The study population includes Medicaid or dual-eligible (Medicare-Medicaid) adults age 21
      years and older with MCC, including at least one physical health condition (e.g.,
      cardiovascular disease, hypertension, COPD, diabetes) and at least one additional physical or
      behavioral health condition (e.g., depression, serious mental illness, substance abuse
      disorder) and at least one hospital discharge in the previous 30 days. These individuals will
      reside in PA and will be insured through physical and/or behavioral health payers within the
      UPMC Insurance Services Division (ISD). In addition, these individuals will have several
      comorbidities, will have been prescribed several medications, and/or will be predicted future
      high health care utilizers. Assuming a 75% enrollment rate, 1,662 individuals will be
      randomized to either High-Tech (n=667), High-Touch (n=667) or Usual Care (n=328).

      The study will use web-based randomization to one of the three interventions for those
      individuals who consent to participate in the study. Once a member of the Community Team
      (CT), multidisciplinary community-based team of nurses, licensed social workers, and licensed
      professional counselors, determines eligibility, CT personnel will enter key identification
      information, and the system will then generate a Study ID (numeric identification number)
      along with assignment to an intervention arm. Randomization will be stratified by gender,
      type of insurance (Medicaid or Medicare-Medicaid), and technology/digital literacy, which
      will be assessed at time of enrollment and before randomization, to ensure that intervention
      arms are balanced with respect to these important variables. Within each stratum, random
      block sizes of 5 and 10 will be used to maximize balance between intervention groups while
      minimizing the ability to unmask investigators to the next treatment assignment, triggering
      an automated alert to CT staff regarding which intervention to implement for each participant
      and documented accordingly in HealthPlaNET, UPMC ISD's integrated health management software
      program. If a participant is unwilling to be randomized, they will be excluded from the
      study.

      Each patient is assigned a care manager (CM) who provides comprehensive services for the
      duration of intervention implementation. Bilingual CMs will be available to support native
      Spanish speaking participants. CMs are currently employed to develop and implement care plans
      with patients, coordinate healthcare services, work with the pharmacist to manage patient's
      medications, make home visits, and deliver telehealth care and remote monitoring.

      Patients in both High-Touch and High-Tech will experience similar procedures at the start of
      their participation. A CM engages patients in a face-to-face assessment in-home or
      telephonically to dialogue about the social determinants affecting continued hospital
      readmissions and emergency department use. At the completion of the assessment, the study is
      presented to the member and if agreeable informed consent occurs. Individuals randomized to
      Usual Care will be provided with the transitional care services. High-Touch and High-Tech
      interventions are provided for approximately four months following hospitalization, and Usual
      Care participants are transitioned to Health Plan telephonic care management with in 14 days.
    
  