
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Safety and tolerability of therapy with nivolumab or nivolumab + bevacizumab or nivolumab
      + ipilimumab in metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) in the context of presurgical or
      prebiopsy therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To study immunological changes in tumor tissues and peripheral blood in response to
      nivolumab versus (vs.) nivolumab + bevacizumab vs nivolumab + ipilimumab in renal cell
      carcinoma (RCC) therapy.

      II. To assess the efficacy of presurgical nivolumab or nivolumab + bevacizumab or nivolumab +
      ipilimumab therapy in RCC by evaluating objective response rate, duration of response, and
      progression free survival, and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 every 2 weeks
      for 6 weeks. Approximately 4 weeks later, patients undergo nephrectomy, metastasectomy or
      biopsy.

      ARM B: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on
      day 1 every 2 weeks for 6 weeks. Patients also undergo nephrectomy, metastasectomy or biopsy
      as in Arm A.

      ARM C: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day
      1 every 3 weeks for 6 weeks. Patients also undergo nephrectomy, metastasectomy or biopsy as
      in Arm A.

      Beginning 4-6 weeks after surgery, patients in all arms who have clinical response, stable
      disease, or even slight progression of disease to therapy preoperatively, receive maintenance
      nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks for 2 years in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and 86 days, every 3
      months for 2 years, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.
    
  