
    
      The subjects (patients) will be brought to the Main Operating Room after their time in the
      Day of Surgery Admissions (DOSA) at the discretion of the attending physicians and surgical
      team. The patients will not be required to do anything different from standard anesthesia and
      surgical practice at the hospital. Subjects will come to the operating room suite and the
      usual monitors (electrocardiogram, non-invasive blood pressure, and oxygen saturation) will
      be placed.

      Prior to the routine induction of anesthesia, peripheral vascular access is usually obtained.
      In regards to the subject population, peripheral vascular access is predicted to be more
      difficult due to lack of visualization of the peripheral vessels. The skin will be prepped
      with chlorhexidine, draped, and all subsequent procedures will be performed in sterile
      fashion. The attending physician and/or resident will use the L25x Sonosite transducer with
      the Sonosite Edge® (Washington, US) to identify a peripheral vessel in the upper extremity
      for cannulation. After identification of the vessel, the operator will line the L25x Sonosite
      transducer to place the vessel horizontally midline on the Sonosite Edge® screen to give the
      most available viewing area. A BD Insyte® Autoguard® 16G shielded IV catheter (Becton
      Dickinson Infusion Therapy Systems Inc., Utah, US) will be advanced toward the vessel at an
      approximately 10˚ angle. Once the needle tip is identified on the Sonosite Edge® monitor in
      short axis view, the following steps will ensue:

        1. Advance the needle toward the vessel slowly, adjusting the ultrasound transducer
           position and angle to continue to keep the needle tip and vessel identified on the
           Sonosite Edge® monitor.

        2. Puncture the anterior wall of the vessel with the needle tip

        3. Confirm needle tip placement in vessel

        4. Advance the needle within the vessel 5mm under continuous visualization

        5. View and record confirmation of "Target Sign" on ultrasound monitor

             1. Positive Target Sign=needle tip is identified on ultrasound monitor within vessel
                and is able to move freely within the vessel, similar to a circle with a target in
                the middle which is able to move. This confirms the needle is unrestricted in the
                vessel.

             2. Negative Target Sign=needle is identified on ultrasound monitor within vessel, but
                is unable to move freely within the vessel without dragging the vessel wall with
                needle movement. This confirms the needle is transfixed on the posterior wall of
                the vessel

        6. Thread the catheter over the needle.

        7. At this point, the catheter could be advanced either with or without a guidewire at the
           operator's discretion Members of the research team will be available for verbal
           assistance throughout this procedure.

      Number of attempts and time to successful vessel cannulation will be measured, starting from
      when either the operator's fingers or the ultrasound probe made contact with the patient's
      skin. Successful vessel cannulation will be defined as a flowing IV bag of saline after
      connection and confirmation of flow via fluid agitation in vessel identified via ultrasound.

      This procedure will be incorporated in the subjects standard of care and will not extend the
      time of operation.

      At this point, patient participation in the study will be over and surgical operation under
      the discretion of the surgical team. The video recording of the Target Sign will be saved and
      given to a member of the research team unknowing of the success of the cannulation. The
      member of the research team will decide, based on the ultrasound video recording of a
      positive or negative Target Sign, if the cannulation was successful or unsuccessful. The
      viewer will record his/her answers and compare with the actual result of the cannulation.

      Analysis of unsuccessful and successful cannulations will be compared with a Positive or
      Negative Target Sign. No additional long-term followup will occur.
    
  