
    
      Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by inattention,
      impulsiveness, and hyperactivity. ADHD is not commonly diagnosed until a child has entered
      formal schooling and shown academic and behavioral adjustment difficulties, but developmental
      research suggests that risk factors for developing ADHD are evident earlier. A significant
      number of children start school with high levels of disorganized and inattentive behaviors,
      which are symptoms of emerging ADHD. This study will test an intervention aimed at preventing
      the development of ADHD by identifying those at risk for developing ADHD in kindergarten and
      pre-kindergarten and teaching them self-regulation skills through socialization. These skills
      have been associated with school success, and they may reduce the likelihood of children
      developing ADHD.

      Participation in this study will last for 4 months, with a follow-up assessment after 1 year.
      To enroll, child participants will undergo a screening process that will include assessments
      by their teachers and parents. Eligible child participants will also be assessed by
      researchers in a classroom setting. They will then be randomly assigned to receive either a
      play-based intervention, called the Friendship Group, or an individual pre-academic tutoring
      intervention. Both groups will meet at school. The Friendship Group, which will focus on
      strengthening attention and self-regulation through social skills, will involve 30 sessions
      twice a week for 15 weeks. The tutoring intervention, which will focus on strengthening
      academic skills, will involve one or two sessions a week for 4 months. Participants will be
      assessed at three time points: pre-intervention, post-intervention, and after 1 year.
      Assessments will include teacher ratings and direct testing of child attention, language, and
      pre-academic skills.
    
  