
    
      Patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) often refer exercise intolerance, marked fatigue
      and dyspnea at low exercise intensities. This characteristic feature might be generated by
      respiratory and skeletal muscle dysfunction, and it´s has been described as a comorbid
      status, reflecting the systemic impact of heart failure. Despite the availability of
      effective pharmacologic treatments, patients with CHF continue to experience progressively
      worsening symptoms, frequent hospital admission and premature death. Reduced physical
      functioning, role limitation, and lack of energy may interfere with daily activities as the
      condition worsens and thereby severely reduce the quality of life in CHF patients. The
      ACCF/AHA Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of heart failure recommend exercise
      training as an adjunctive approach to improve clinical status in stable adult patients with
      current or prior symptoms of heart failure and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. A
      wide variety of studies have focussed on respiratory muscles abnormalities in CHF patients.
      Reduced strength and endurance of respiratory muscles are currently recognized as additional
      factors implicated in the limited exercise response and quality of life, as well as in a poor
      prognosis. Additionally, inspiratory muscle training (IMT) has shown to result in
      improvements on inspiratory strength, functional capacity, ventilatory response to exercise,
      recovery oxygen uptake kinetics, and quality of life of CHF patients with respiratory muscle
      weakness. The optimal training scheme remains still to be defined. Most of clinical trials
      have demonstrated the effectiveness of a low-intensity IMT (maximum 38 cmH2O), but there is
      little information of the training effects when using higher training loads. Our research
      group has demonstrated that a short-time high-intensity respiratory training in patients with
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease afford to reach good functional results in a shorter
      time, which affords to make more efficient in terms of time the rehabilitation program and to
      reach to more patients.
    
  