
    
      In patients with substance use disorders, exercise could help in the treatment of substance
      addictions. Interventions focused on promoting physical activity and healthy lifestyle for
      patients in residential treatment centres and ambulatory settings have been developed in the
      last years. However, there is a lack of programs promoting a healthy and physically active
      lifestyle for patients requiring inpatient detoxification treatment. Thus, the plan is to
      develop an intervention program with such characteristics, namely "Stop&Go".

      Stop&Go includes two different phases. Phase I is aimed at understanding the variables
      related with adherence to healthy lifestyle interventions. Patients with substance use
      disorders will be invited to participate in focus groups (Study 1) and to respond to
      questionnaires (Study 2) assessing variables related to exercise and healthy habits (e.g.,
      intention to be physically active). Phase II will use the knowledge obtained in Phase I to
      develop and evaluate an intervention to promote healthy and physically active lifestyle for
      patients admitted to an inpatient detoxification centre. The intervention will be based on
      Self-determination theory postulates and will have two axes: to educate and to motivate.
      Patients will participate in four practically-oriented training sessions, focused on (1)
      nutrition and oral hygiene, (2) sleep habits and self-care, (3) physical activity and
      exercise, and (4) smoking cessation. In addition, the entire inpatient detoxification centre
      will be adapted to encourage autonomous physical activity and to reinforce the ideas
      presented in the training sessions.

      The main strength of Stop&Go is expected to be the combination of perspectives included in
      its development (i.e., intervention led by an interdisciplinary team and based on patients'
      needs). The Stop&Go intervention is hypothesized to help patients move towards a healthy
      lifestyle and thus, may bring about changes in patients' (1) knowledge acquired, (2)
      variables related to healthy habits (e.g., exercise motivation) and (3) psychological
      well-being and ill-being.
    
  