
    
      The goal of this study is to advance a first-in-class, new small molecule treatment for early
      Alzheimer's disease (AD). Varoglutamstat (PQ912) is an oral, twice daily medication that
      addresses a novel and significantly differentiated amyloid target: N-terminal
      post-translationally modified Ab (pGlu-Ab), a particularly toxic subspecies of amyloid beta
      (Ab). This study will further evaluate whether varoglutamstat's mechanism of action can
      result in a measurable therapeutic effect on cognition, function and relevant pharmacodynamic
      and biological markers in early AD.

      The study is a phase 2A multi-center, randomized, double-blind, parallel group trial, with a
      stage gate to phase 2B. Phase 2A will determine the highest dose that is both safe and well
      tolerated. During this phase, there is an adaptive dosing evaluation, using a well-defined
      safety stopping boundary, of three dose levels with exposure to varoglutamstat or placebo for
      a minimum of 24 weeks to help determine which dose will be carried forward in phase 2B. A
      sequential dose design will be employed in phase 2A where each of three dose cohorts are
      randomized equally to placebo or varoglutamstat and treated for at least 8 weeks at the
      originally assigned full dose. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to varoglutamstat or
      placebo, and stratified between mild AD and MCI, as well as by site.

      Phase 2A also includes preliminary evaluation of both cognitive function and pharmacodynamics
      changes on electroencephalogram (EEG) spectral analysis.

      In the event that the stage gate for phase 2B is reached from data in this phase 2A study,
      then phase 2B will assess the longer-term efficacy and safety of varoglutamstat in a larger
      study group, using the highest dose selected in phase 2A. In phase 2B, a composite cognitive
      and functional measure as well as PD biomarkers will be used to evaluate efficacy during the
      extended treatment period.
    
  