
    
      This study is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of low elasticity polyvinylidene
      fluoride (DynaMesh速-SIS soft) retropubic tension-free midurethral slings in the treatment of
      stress urinary incontinence (SUI) in women.

      Stress urinary incontinence is a common problem, affecting large numbers of women. If
      conservative measures are ineffective then surgery is offered. Surgery involves a permanent
      mesh sling being placed, tension free beneath the midurethra. The standard retropubic
      tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) has been used since 1996 using a polypropylene mesh.(1) The
      use of permanent mesh in gynaecology has come under scrutiny due to significant complications
      for women.(2) This year the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), UK
      concluded that there is not enough evidence to withdraw mesh from clinical usage.(3)

      The sling being studied is DynaMesh速SIS soft, made of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) which
      has improved biocompatibility with tissues, meaning reduced scar formation and less mesh
      shrinkage.(4) Each sling is individually woven and and has low elasticity meaning dimensions
      are maintained under tension, such as with coughing or straining. The technique of retropubic
      placement of the DynaMesh速SIS soft does not differ from current retropubic TVT placement.

      The hypothesis is that the low elasticity polyvinylidene fluoride midurethral sling is
      non-inferior in both safety and efficacy compared with the safety and efficacy of traditional
      polypropylene slings, as reported in current literature.

      There are eleven research centres in two countries, The United Kingdom and Ireland. The
      DynaMesh速SIS soft sling is currently in use in four of eleven of the research hospitals,
      Norwich (main research centre), Antrim and Belfast in the UK and in Munich in Germany. It
      will be introduced in London, Cambridge, Wirral, Solihull, Huntingdon and Kilmarnock in the
      UK and Wurzbug in Germany.

      Women with urodynamic stress incontinence who are already assigned to have this retropubic
      midurethral tape placed for treatment will be recruited prior to their procedure for ongoing
      follow up. Participants will complete standardised urinary incontinence and quality of life
      questionnaires prior to their procedure and at 3,6,12, 18 and 24 months by post. Clinical
      follow up will occur at 3 and 12 months post operatively and as required if any concerns.
    
  