
    
      Background

      The increasing incidence of muscular wasting, bone disease, falls and related fractures are
      the price for excellent survival rates in transplanted patients. Kidney recipients loose
      significant amounts of muscle mass and skeleton minerals in the early post-transplantation
      period and suffer from increasing abnormalities of neuromuscular functions.

      Recently, stochastic whole-body vibration (WBV) has received much attention as a potential
      muscle-anabolic and anti-osteoporotic intervention. It is suggested that the randomized
      low-frequency signals produced during such training can activate otherwise high threshold
      afferent and efferent motor-neurons and thus may result in a considerable neuromuscular
      activation. Additionally, there data supporting peripherally-induced central biochemical
      activation, that meaning the production of CNS modulators due to application of mechanical
      exercise such as stochastic WBV. The result is a rapid (within minutes), transient force
      increase. Due to the high number of stimuli-repetitions, it is possible to increase muscle
      strength using shorter training times (<5 min) than with conventional physiotherapeutic
      methods (> 30 min). Several experimental and clinical studies have shown that in addition to
      muscle function, WBV also improved body balance and bone mineral density.

      Moreover, a population of renal transplant recipients has not yet been studied elsewhere.

      WBV is a very appealing approach, foremost in subjects with limited physical activity; it
      represents a potentially simple and efficient training method for skeletal muscle and better
      functional performance, thus preventing falls and consequently fractures.

      Objective

      Primary:

      - To determine the effect of post-transplantation stochastic WBV therapy on preservation of
      functional muscle strength.

      Secondary:

      To assess a) the efficacy of post-transplantation stochastic WBV on body balance b) the
      efficacy of post-transplantation stochastic WBV on preservation of lean muscle mass
      determined by Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) c) the changes in bone turnover markers
      in renal transplant recipients under stochastic WBV therapy d) the short-term safety of
      stochastic WBV therapy in renal transplant recipients.

      Methods

      Prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled setting.

      Recruited individuals will be randomized in Group 1 (intervention) and in Group 2 (placebo).
      All participants will be evaluated monthly for occurrence of falls and fractures, and
      treatment-associated side effects. Testing will be performed upon study entry and at 3 and 6
      months according to the following schedule:

      Visit 1 (Baseline):

        -  Muscle strength measurement

        -  Neuromuscular tests (SPPBT)

        -  Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS)

        -  Turnover Markers (blood) Visits 2 and 3 (after 3 and 6 months respectively): Identical
           to visit 1
    
  