
    
      Background

      Introduction:

      The incidence of congestive heart failure (CHF) has been increasing significantly. Between
      1971 and 1994, the crude hospitalization rate for heart failure increased from 8.2 to 33.8
      per 1000 suggesting a marked rise in the prevalence of this condition.1,2 Furthermore, data
      from the Framingham study suggest that the incidence of CHF doubles with each advancing
      decade of age after 45.2 About 43% of individuals with CHF have normal systolic function, or
      diastolic heart failure.3 The occurrence of diastolic heart failure is more frequent in women
      and individuals with hypertension, coronary artery disease, obesity, and diabetes mellitus
      and is associated with a significant increase in mortality.

      Diastolic heart failure and diastolic dysfunction are common disorders, characterized by
      delayed ventricular relaxation and increased diastolic stiffness in the absence of systolic
      dysfunction. Nitric oxide (NO•) may contribute to the pathophysiology of these disorders as
      well as many other processes. In peripheral tissue, NO is a potent vasodilator produced by
      endothelial cells and is thought to mediate vascular relaxation in response to acetylcholine,
      bradykinin, and substance P. In multiple animal model studies, endothelial production of NO•
      has disproportionately enhances diastolic left ventricular function without a substantial
      effect on early systolic pressure development. This was shown in ferret papillary muscles in
      response to Substance P and recapitulated in mouse models using a cGMP analogue as a
      surrogate for NO•.

      Both diastolic dysfunction and diastolic heart failure are intimately related to
      hypertension. Recently, we have observed increased oxidative stress and decreased NO•
      availability in a mouse model that develop diastolic dysfunction. Specifically, in a
      deoxycorticosterone-induced hypertensive mouse, in which diastolic dysfunction develops,
      there is evidence of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) dysfunction that can be
      prevented by addition of a reduced cofactor, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4). It is well known that
      hypertension is associated with increased oxidative stress and BH4 oxidation. When BH4 is
      oxidized, eNOS ceases to make NO•. We believe that when this happens in the myocardium, the
      lack of cardiac NO• results in diastolic dysfunction that will be treatable with BH4
      supplementation. A corollary of this hypothesis is that humans with diastolic dysfunction
      will be more oxidized than those case matched controls without diastolic dysfunction (figure
      1).

      There are several ways to measure oxidative stress in humans. Among the most convenient and
      least invasive are to measure lipid peroxides (derivatives of reactive oxygen metabolites,
      dROMs), isoprostanes, and oxidized and reduced glutathione ratios. Glutathione is an
      important water-phase antioxidant and essential cofactor for antioxidant enzymes. It provides
      protection endogenous oxygen radicals. Since glutathione can exist in oxidized and reduced
      forms, it can serve as a buffer for increased oxidative stress. Moreover, the relative
      amounts of these two forms are a reflection of the oxidative state of humans. Recently, we
      have submitted a manuscript showing that we can effectively measure oxidative stress out of
      the blood of patients and that this measure differentiates between people with an without
      atrial fibrillation, an abnormal heart beat for which there is growing evidence that
      oxidative stress plays a role.

      Objectives:

      Based on the discussion above, we hypothesize that patients with diastolic dysfunction will
      show higher levels of blood oxidative stress than a case matched control group. This will be
      tested by comparing oxidative stress markers from the blood of patients with and without
      diastolic dysfunction. The study design will be a case-control format with controls matched
      for age (by decade), smoking, and diabetes. If the hypothesis is true, it could lead to new,
      more effective treatments for cardiac diastolic dysfunction.
    
  