
    
      Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a serious and often chronic eating disorder characterized by low
      body weight and an obsessive fear of weight gain. People with AN usually try to control body
      weight by purging, excessive exercise, and/or restrictive eating to near starvation. These
      dangerous habits and the resultant weight loss in people with AN can lead to serious health
      complications, including anemia, osteoporosis, and kidney and heart problems. While there is
      no one known cause for AN, it is believed that a number of psychological, sociological, and
      neurobiological factors may contribute. Currently, there are no psychological or
      medication-based treatments known to be highly effective in treating adults with AN. This
      lack of treatment success may be due to the low retention rates present in AN treatment
      programs. Cognitive remediation therapy (CRT), a type of psychotherapy that concentrates on
      improving memory and cognitive flexibility, may be helpful in improving AN treatment
      adherence. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of adding CRT to cognitive behavioral
      therapy (CBT) for improving treatment retention rates and for treating people with AN.

      Participation in this study will last 1 year and will consist of 6 months of treatment and
      one follow-up session at 6 months post-treatment. All participants will first undergo
      baseline assessments, which include interviews and questionnaires about psychological history
      and AN symptoms, an Eating Disorder Examination (EDE) interview, and a variety of cognitive
      tests. The questionnaires and cognitive tests will be repeated various times throughout
      treatment. After baseline assessments, participants will be randomly assigned to receive CBT
      specifically tailored for AN with or without CRT. Participants assigned to the CBT-only group
      will receive 28 weekly sessions of CBT with a therapist. Participants assigned to the CBT
      plus CRT group will receive 8 sessions of CRT and 20 sessions of CBT with a therapist. At
      each therapy session, participants will have their vital signs checked. In addition,
      participants will have blood drawn to measure electrolyte levels at baseline and every month
      during treatment. An electrocardiogram (EKG) will also be taken at baseline and Months 3 and
      6. All baseline assessments will be repeated 6 months after the completion of treatment.
    
  