
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the biochemical modulation dose l of O6-benzylguanine (BG), defined
      as the dose at which baseline O6-alkylguanine DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) activity in
      circulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) decreases by greater than 90% in
      patients with advanced solid tumors at 2 hours after BG infusion. II. Determine the
      biochemical modulation dose t/18 (BMDt/18) of BG, defined as the dose at which AGT activity
      in human metastatic tumor tissue decreases to undetectable levels at 18 hours after BG
      infusion. III. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of carmustine (BCNU) when administered
      with BG at the BMDt/18 in these patients. IV. Determine the toxicities of BG and BCNU in
      these patients. V. Determine the pharmacokinetic parameters of BG administered at the
      BMDt/18, and determine any effects of BCNU on BG pharmacokinetics. VI. Assess any antitumor
      response in patients with metastatic solid tumors treated with this regimen. VII. Determine
      the effect of lower, more frequent bolus doses or a continuous infusion of BG on the
      depletion of AGT activity in PBMC and tumor tissue in these patients. VIII. Determine the
      pharmacokinetics of BG in lower, more frequent bolus doses or continuous infusion.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of 06-benzylguanine (BG) and carmustine (BCNU).
      Patients receive BG IV over 1 hour during week 1, and then BG IV over 1 hour followed 1 hour
      later by BCNU IV over 1 hour during week 3. Courses repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 1-3 patients receive escalating
      doses of BG until the biochemical modulation dose l (BMDl) is determined. The BMDl is defined
      as the dose at which baseline O6-alkylguanine DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) activity in
      circulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells decreases by greater than 90% at 2 hours after
      BG infusion. Cohorts of 3 patients receive escalating doses of BG beginning at the BMDl until
      the biochemical modulation dose t/2 (BMDt/2) is determined. The BMDt/2 is defined as the dose
      at which AGT activity in human metastatic tumor tissue decreases by greater than 90% at 2
      hours after BG infusion. Cohorts of 3 patients receive escalating doses of BG beginning at
      the BMDt/2 until the biochemical modulation dose t/18 (BMDt/18) is determined. The BMDt/18 is
      defined as the dose at which AGT activity in human metastatic tumor tissue decreases to
      undetectable levels at 18 hours after BG infusion. Patients then receive BG IV over 1 hour
      followed 1 hour later by BCNU IV over 1 hour during week 1. Courses repeat every 6 weeks in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive
      escalating doses of BCNU combined with BG at the BMDt/18 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) of BCNU is determined. The MTD of BCNU is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      or more of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity. A cohort of 3 patients receives BG
      IV over 2 minutes and another cohort of 3 patients receives BG IV over 24 hours. An
      additional cohort of 6 patients receives BG IV over 24 hours and BCNU IV over 1 hour
      beginning 2 hours into BG infusion during week 3.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 51 patients will be accrued for this study over 36 months.
    
  