
    
      The FB-14 is an open label, phase II study using pembrolizumab in combination with AE37
      peptide vaccine (AE37) in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC).

      This study will have a Simon two-stage design. In Stage I (safety cohort), 13 patients will
      receive combination therapy of AE37 vaccine (without granulocyte macrophage-colony
      stimulating factor [GM-CSF] adjuvant) 1000 micrograms in two split intradermal injections on
      Day 1 of cycles 1 through 5 and pembrolizumab 200 mg intravenous infusion (IV) given Day 1 of
      each cycle for 2 years (1 cycle equals 21 days).

      All patients (safety and expansion cohorts) will receive two delayed type hypersensitivity
      inoculations (DTH): the first within one week prior to beginning study therapy, which must
      meet the parameters of negative inoculation site assessment for eligibility as described in
      the protocol; and the second approximately 42 days after the last AE37 vaccine dose.

      During a safety run-in, the first 3 patients will be closely followed for 6 weeks following
      the first dose of study therapy (2 cycles) without further accrual of patients. If one or
      less of the first 3 patients experience greater than or equal to Grade 3 systemic dose
      limiting toxicity (DLT) attributable to study therapy during the observation period, the
      safety run-in portion of the study will proceed with enrollment at the proposed study therapy
      dose (AE37 1000 micrograms and pembrolizumab 200 mg IV infusion). If there are two or more
      patients in the safety run-in with DLT during Cycle 1, the dose of AE37 will be decreased to
      dose level -1 (500 micrograms) to complete stage I accrual. The definition of a DLT is found
      in the protocol.

      If DLT is observed during the safety run-in or in greater than 25% (4 or more) of patients in
      stage I, the AE37 dose will be de-escalated to 500 micrograms (dose level -1) for all
      patients to complete stage I accrual. If systemic toxicity occurs in greater than or equal to
      3 patients at dose level -1, accrual will be halted and the toxicity reviewed by the study
      team.
    
  