
    
      The aim of the proposed project is to investigate a non invasive biomarker, PIF
      (PreImplantation Factor), a 15amino acid peptide (MVRIKPGSANKPSDD) secreted only by viable
      embryos and placenta (Stamakin et al. RBE 2011).

      PIF positive embryos will be able to grow to blastocyst stage and PIF levels could be a
      marker of progressive pregnancy. We will measure PIF levels in IVF culture media before
      embryo transfer to correlate IVF pregnancy with PIF levels. Our objective will be to define
      PIF as a biomarker for viable embryos in order to increase IVF success rates following SET.
      PIF levels will be retrospectively evaluated after 500 SET.

      Our four reproductive centres perform about 200 SET per year and more than 500 in vitro
      fertilizations.

      For women selected for a SET, PIF levels will be evaluated in all embryo culture media, and
      later at one and two weeks after each transfer of fresh or thawed frozen embryos in maternal
      serum. Embryo transfers will be done blinded to PIF results. SET or MET will be based on
      clinical evaluation and conventional embryo criteria. For these women, PIF will be also
      evaluated and compared with βhCG level on maternal serum.

      PIF assessment will be performed using specific antibody marked with a fluorescent dye, in
      Luminex reader.

      Specific Aim One will allow us to evaluate:

        -  PIF predictive value on implantation rate

        -  PIF predictive value on pregnancy Methodology All women will be fully informed and a
           written consent to participate in the study will be duly obtained.

      In vitro procedure Oocytes were retrieved after natural cycle or after ovarian
      hyperstimulation which will be performed using the modified long protocol. Collected oocytes
      will be fertilized by classic IVF or ICSI. Fertilization will be confirmed by the observation
      of 2 pronuclei and two polar bodies, after 16-18 hours. Fertilized oocytes will be cultured
      in 60μl of culture media under oil. Embryo transfer will be performed 72 hours after IVF or
      ICSI procedure (at day D3) without PIF result. Before transfer, embryo quality will be scored
      according to number of cells, kinetic of cleavage and fragmentation rate. For women who will
      have a SET, according to clinical criteria (Age, FSH level, etc…) remaining good quality
      embryos will be frozen and thawed after uterine preparation in further attempts. All
      remaining culture supernatants (50-60μl) will be collected, transferred to 8-strip 0.2ml
      tubes and stored to -80C until they will test for PIF (M) Maternal serum retrieval

      Maternal serum will be collected:

        -  before oocytes retrieval in course of a serum control of ovarian hyperstimulation (S0)

        -  one week after transfer (S1)

        -  two week after transfer during serial human β-chorionic gonadotrophin measurements (S2)
           PIF level evaluation PIF levels in culture supernatants and in maternal serum will be
           measured retrospectively, using a bead-based competitive assay for use in the Luminex
           200 IS system. Results presented as median fluorescence intensity (MFI). PIF levels were
           derived from standard curve using a 5-parameter logistics curve. The threshold of
           detection was established by measuring the background from culture media or maternal
           serum alone, using mean+2SD as a cut off (18.7ng/ml).

      Analysis Correlate PIF detection in embryo serum with embryo viability. Results of PIF
      detection in embryo supernatants will be correlated with pregnancy outcome.

      Comparison with embryo selection by PIF+ vs PIF- embryos, using morphology alone, and by
      morphology combined with PIF presence.

      Comparisons between groups will be performed using chi-square analysis and p<0.05 will be
      considered as statistically significant.

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria

      Inclusion criteria:

      All women included in our centers for classical IVF or ICSI, who will sign the written
      consent to participate in the study. PIF level evaluation in culture media (M) and pregnancy
      prognosis (S1 and S2) will be done only for women with SET.

      Exclusion criteria Women who will refuse to participate in the program. Planned assessments
      (time and events table) The overall project is planned to be carried out through five steps
      work plan in which we will investigate the use of PIF as a biomarker for better embryo
      selection (only women with SET will be included) and as a early pregnancy marker in maternal
      serum.
    
  