
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Once considered to be a rare disorder, hemochromatosis is now recognized to be one of the
      most common autosomal recessive disorders in white populations. Substantial morbidity and
      mortality may result from untreated hemochromatosis; thus, early detection and treatment are
      essential. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the College of American
      Pathologists now recommend regular screening for hereditary hemochromatosis. Transferrin
      saturation is regarded as the best single screening test for the detection of individuals at
      risk for the disorder.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Statistical mixture modeling was used to develop guidelines for hemochromatosis screening
      regimes and to determine the frequency of the gene for hemochromatosis. The research was
      designed to provide a statistical foundation for the analysis of population transferrin
      saturations to assist in development of optimal screening regimens for hemochromatosis. To
      determine potential screening thresholds, probability methods were applied to data from the
      third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III), a cross-sectional
      probability sample weighted to represent the U.S. population. Statistical mixture modeling
      was used to determine potential transferrin saturation screening thresholds to identify
      individuals for repeat testing and possible further evaluation. The actual sensitivity and
      specificity of these screening thresholds was then assessed using data from a separate
      demonstration project, "Cost effective Hemochromatosis Survey in Primary Care", designed to
      identify individuals with hemochromatosis. In addition, the gene frequency for
      hemochromatosis for whites and ethnic subgroups was also determined by analysis of
      transferrin saturation data from NHANES III.

      The study has two specific aims, as follow: (1) to develop guidelines for the use of
      transferrin saturation and related tests in detection of individuals at risk for
      hemochromatosis, and (2) to determine the frequency of the gene for hemochromatosis in the
      United States by statistical mixture modeling of population transferrin saturation data from
      NHANES III. Providing the statistical foundation for the analysis of transferrin saturations
      should facilitate development of optimal, cost-effective screening regimens for
      identification of individuals requiring further evaluation for hemochromatosis.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  