
    
      This is a randomized, single-blinded study on vaccines for prevention of influenza.

      Three study visits will be scheduled for each study subject, at Day 0, Day 9-11 and Day
      30-35. Prior to the performance of any protocol procedures, the investigator is will obtain
      an informed consent from each participant.

      At the first study visit (Day 0), demographic data, medical history, pre-existing conditions
      and concomitant medication will be recorded. Physical examination with recording of vital
      signs will be performed and in case of females of childbearing age, a pregnancy test will be
      performed. After the subject has qualified eligible, before vaccination, 60 ml venous blood
      will be taken for base-line immunity tests. Each subject will be randomly allocated to
      receive one of the three study vaccines, administered as a deep intramuscular (i.m.)
      injection into the deltoid muscle. The subjects will be blinded for the vaccine regimen. The
      principal investigator will administer the vaccines filled in ampoule or packed in pre-filled
      ready-to-use syringes and can thus not be blinded, but the staff and sub-investigators
      responsible for the routine follow-up and assessments and laboratory personnel will be
      blinded. A diary card will be given to each subject for recording pre-defined solicited
      adverse events for the vaccination day and 6 subsequent days and all other adverse events and
      concomitant medications.

      At the second study visit (Day 9-11) the diary card will be collected. All adverse events and
      concomitant medication will be assessed and recorded. A physical examination will be
      performed and 60 ml venous blood shall be taken for immunity tests. A new diary card will be
      given to each subject for recording adverse events and concomitant medications.

      At the third study visit (Day 30-35), the diary card will be collected. All adverse events
      and concomitant medication will be assessed and recorded. A physical examination will be
      performed and 60 ml venous blood shall be taken for immunity tests.
    
  