
    
      Regional anesthesia-and pediatric regional anesthesia in particular-is a rapidly evolving
      subfield of anesthesia practice driven with considerable urgency by the growing recognition
      that even appropriate perioperative narcotic administration can have significant derogatory
      long-term effects.

      Regional anesthetics can provide targeted, continuous analgesia to select dermatomes with
      minimal additional patient risk and have become routine components of opioid-sparing
      intraoperative and postoperative pain management plans for surgical patients at BCH. In
      addition to the postulated benefit of reducing overall opioid exposure and potentially
      reducing the risk for long term physiologic and behavioral dependence upon opioids, regional
      anesthetics may allow for earlier extubation after selected surgeries, shorter ICU, PACU and
      inpatient admissions, earlier mobilization, fewer gastrointestinal complications, and
      improved patient satisfaction scores.

      Given the rapid evolution of the field of regional anesthesia and the fact that there are
      often multiple approaches for achieving analgesia in a select set of dermatomes, there are
      often a variety of regional anesthetic options for any given surgery. Some approaches are
      longstanding and well-studied, but with increasing frequency since the advent of ultrasound
      guidance, newer, novel nerve block options exist. As it is often expensive and work-intensive
      to thoroughly evaluate a given regional technique with a controlled pediatric trial, many of
      these blocks become standards of practice based on anecdote, retrospective analysis, or
      simply belief in the putative benefits of regional anesthetics.

      The investigators are fortunate at BCH to have one of the largest concentrated pediatric
      surgical populations in the US. They also have an active, and well organized regional
      anesthesia service. Because of this, the investigators are in a unique position to more
      thoroughly evaluate the effectiveness and safety of regional anesthesia in children.
      Furthermore, the investigators feel it is critical that institutions such as BCH take a
      leading role in documenting the effects of regional anesthesia on the most important outcome
      measures when considering perioperative medicine. These include overall pain management,
      surgical healing, functional recovery, long-term pain symptoms, and emotional/behavioral
      outcomes after surgery.

      Recently the ESB has become popular for providing analgesia after a number of anterior chest
      and abdominal procedures. This is a simple interfascial plane block that can reliably provide
      unilateral chest and/or abdominal wall analgesia. It has been described in numerous case
      reports and one case series as an effective block for management of unilateral thoracotomies,
      unilateral rib fractures, unilateral abdominal incisions and (when used bilaterally) for
      management of post-sternotomy pain.

      As an interfascial plane block in a compressible anatomical space, the ESB is thought to be
      safe in anticoagulated (or recently anticoagulated) patients. It is fast becoming a preferred
      anesthetic option for these patients as opposed to neuraxial (e.g. epidural) and
      paraneuraxial (i.e. paravertebral) nerve blocks.

      Given the ESB's potentially favorable risk profile versus the other blocks (it is technically
      less challenging, more distant from critical structures, and thought to be safe in
      anticoagulated patients) it could provide both a safer and easier to perform regional
      anesthesia option for many patients. It also offers a new option for a subset of
      anticoagulated patients for whom other regional techniques (epidural, paravertebral) are
      contraindicated.

      Indeed, given the current information available related to the ESB, the regional anesthesia
      service at BCH has begun employing it when possible in circumstances where a PVB would
      commonly be used but is relatively or absolutely contraindicated. Patients undergoing
      thoracotomies while anticoagulated for cardiopulmonary bypass, aortic clamping, etc. have
      been successfully managed with continuous ESBs. In addition, thoracotomies in patients with
      acquired (e.g. dilutional) and other pathologic coagulopathies have been managed with ESBs.
      As such, the ESB has been adopted for routine use in specific patient populations at BCH and
      has even occasionally been utilized in lieu of the more longstanding routine PVBs or epidural
      blocks for patients without contraindication for such.

      Retrospective review of BCH outcomes data for 47 ESBs done for a variety of surgeries and
      populations has not revealed any significant differences between PVBs and ESBs in terms of
      adverse events, postoperative opiate use, median pain scores, or other standard outcomes
      measures. As this data is observational in nature, it is difficult to draw firm conclusions
      as to the comparative efficacy of the two blocks. However, since there are differences in
      technical difficulty, relative contraindications, and there exist populations that might
      benefit from these blocks, it would be prudent to comparatively evaluate these blocks in a
      controlled, randomized, trial.

      The investigators propose to evaluate the comparative efficacy of ESBs and PVBs for patients
      undergoing unilateral non-cardiac thoracotomy by means of a randomized, controlled
      non-inferiority study (based on a threshold of clinical significance being defined as a 15%
      difference) comparing rescue analgesic requirements, rendered as opiate equivalents, at 24
      postoperatively. Rescue opiates will be available as needed by means of standard PCA/NCA
      demand protocols. Secondary measures will include rescue opiate requirements at 48 and 72
      hours, pain scores, adverse events, time to discharge from the ICU, time to extubation,
      patient disposition after surgery, and time to perform the block in the operating room.
    
  