
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take pacritinib at about
      the same time each day by mouth, 2 times each day. Your doctor will tell you when to start
      and stop taking pacritinib. You may be able to take the drug for about 2-6 months depending
      on how you tolerate the drug and when your transplant date is. If you do not receive your
      transplant, you may be able to continue taking the study drug as long as the doctor thinks it
      is in your best interest.

      You must swallow the capsules whole with a glass (about 8 ounces) of water. Do not open,
      break, or chew the capsules.

      If you vomit or miss a dose of pacritinib, take your next dose of pacritinib at your regular
      time. Do not "make up" a missed or vomited dose.

      You will be given a study drug diary to write down what time you take each dose of
      pacritinib. You need to bring the study drug diary, any leftover study drug, and any empty
      study drug containers with you to each study visit.

      The dose of pacritinib you receive may be lowered or stopped, if the doctor thinks it is
      needed.

      About 21 days after your last dose of pacritinib, you will given standard of care drugs and
      you will have an allogeneic stem cell transplant. Your doctor will explain this treatment and
      the stem cell transplant to you in more detail. You will be required to sign a separate
      consent form.

      Study Visits:

      One (1) time each month:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney and
           liver function.

        -  You will have an electrocardiogram (EKG -- a test that measures the electrical activity
           of the heart).

      On Day 14 (+/- 2 days) of of Cycle 1, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine
      tests and to check your kidney and liver function. You can have this blood drawn at a local
      lab or clinic that is closer to your home. The results will be sent to the study doctor at MD
      Anderson.

      During Week 2 of Cycle 1, a member of the study staff will call to ask you about any symptoms
      you may be having. This call should last about 5-10 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for up to 1 year after the transplant. You may be taken off study early
      if the disease gets worse, if you have any intolerable side effects, of if you are unable to
      follow study directions.

      Your participation on this study will be over after about 1 year of follow-up tests.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within about 7 days after your last dose of pacritinib, but before your stem cell transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam and an ultrasound, MRI, or CT scan of your abdomen to
           measure your liver and spleen.

        -  You will have an EKG.

      Before your transplant, you will have a bone marrow biopsy/aspiration to check the status of
      the disease.

      Follow-Up Tests:

      You will have follow-up visits at about 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the transplant:

        -  You will complete 3 questionnaires about your symptoms and quality of life. It should
           take about 20-30 minutes to complete the questionnaires.

        -  At Month 3, you will have a physical exam and an ultrasound, MRI, or CT scan of your
           abdomen to measure your liver and spleen. This will be repeated at Month 12, if your
           doctor thinks it is needed.

        -  At Months 3 and 12, you will have a bone marrow biopsy/aspiration to check the status of
           the disease.

      This is an investigational study. Pacritinib is not FDA approved or commercially available.
      It is currently being used for research purposes only. The study doctor can explain how the
      study drug is designed to work.

      Up to 40 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  