
    
      Objectives:

        1. To study the role of inflammation in focal epilepsy

        2. To characterize the BBB state in patients with focal epilepsy using MRI, and compare the
           results with PET imaging of inflammation

        3. To study test-retest replicability of [11C]PBR28 PET scanning.

      Study population:

      50 participants with drug-resistant focal epilepsy, 25 participants with drug-responsive
      focal epilepsy and 25 healthy volunteers.

      Design:

      Screening of enrolled participants will include a medical history, physical exam, and blood
      and urine laboratory testing. Blood samples will also be used for genetic polymorphism study.
      Healthy volunteers will receive one or two brain positron emission tomography (PET) scans
      with [11C]PBR28. Epilepsy participants will receive one or two PET scans with [11C]PBR28).
      Everyone will receive a brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Some participants will also
      have a second MRI with gadolinium infusion to measure blood-brain barrier permeability.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary outcome measure will be the amount of differential [11C]PBR28 uptake between the
      epileptic focus and the homologous contralateral region. [11C]PBR28 distribution volume (VT)
      will be measured using an arterial input function. We want to quantify the tracer VT in
      regions of the brain distant from the epileptic focus, which may be affected by the disease.

      We hypothesize that focal epilepsy will be associated with brain inflammation and, therefore,
      that [11C]PBR28 uptake in the affected side of the brain will be higher than in the
      contralateral side.

      We will study the polymorphism of the translocator protein (TSPO), because TSPO polymorphism
      has an influence on [11C]PBR28 binding. This polymorphism is due to the non-conservative
      amino-acid substitution at position 147 from alanine to threonine (Ala147Thr) in the fifth
      transmembrane domain of the TSPO protein.
    
  