
    
      Approximately 40 eyes will be randomized (1:1 ratio) into either Group 1 or Group 2. Slit
      lamp exam and Indirect ophthalmoscopy will be performed at every study visit, where
      retinopathy level will be assessed. SD-OCT will be performed at each visit. Fluorescein
      angiogram will be performed at screen, week 26 and week 52. All other imaging studies will be
      standard of care at the discretion of the investigator.

      This trial will compare the results of 2 groups, with different treatment intervals, to
      assess the safety of intravitreal Aflibercept injections (IAI) for the treatment of radiation
      retinopathy. Patients in each group will be followed for a total of 52 weeks.

      Group 1: 15 Patients will receive a loading dose of 3 IAI. They will receive 2 mg IAI at
      screening/baseline, week 4, week 8, and week 12. A follow-up visit will occur at week 12. If
      the extension criteria are met, the patient will be extended by 2 weeks. The patient will
      continue to be followed per the treat and extend protocol described below.

      Group 2: Patients will not receive a loading dose. They will receive 2 mg IAI at
      screening/baseline followed by a visit at week 4. At week 4, if the extension criteria are
      met, the patient will be extended by 2 weeks. The patient will continue to be followed per
      the treat and extend protocol described below.

      Treat & Extend Protocol Patients can be extended as long as they meet the following criteria
      -

        -  Absence of retinal fluid (resolution of intraretinal and subretinal fluid on SD-OCT;
           Small intraretinal cysts that do not distort foveal contour on SD-OCT are acceptable and
           can be considered "dry".) AND

        -  Less than 5 ETDRS letter loss from previous visit due to new or persistent retinal
           edema.

      IAI will be rendered at every visit (treatment at the week 26 mandatory visit will be
      administered based on the treat and extend status), no earlier than 4 days before the target
      date and no later than 4 days after the target date. Each extension will be 2 weeks in
      duration beyond the initial 4-week interval. If the extension criteria are not met on a
      follow-up visit, the treatment interval will be reduced by 2 weeks. Follow up interval will
      continue to be reduced by 2 weeks until the extension criteria are met or a 4-week interval
      is reached.

      All patients will have a mandatory study visit at Week 52 (final study visit). No study
      treatment will be administered after week 50 or at a study termination visit. If a patient
      receives treatment after week 48, they will return 4 weeks after the last clinic visit for
      the final study visit (instead of at week 52).
    
  