
    
      The NIH's 2003 National Sleep Disorders Research Plan defines insomnia as "difficulty falling
      asleep, difficulty staying asleep or short sleep duration, despite adequate opportunity for
      sleep," and estimates that it affects 30% to 40% of adults. The prevalence of chronic
      insomnia, defined as sleep disturbances for 4 weeks or more, sleep disruption with daytime
      impairment, or regular, nightly sleep difficulty, is about 10% of the general population,
      with higher rates among women, older adults and clinical populations. Total direct and
      indirect costs of insomnia are estimated to be roughly $113 billion annually. While only
      about 3 million of the 70 million Americans with insomnia take prescription medications,
      annual prescription drug costs for insomnia exceed $2.1 billion dollars.

      Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR), a standardized group program of training in
      mindfulness meditation and yoga, is a promising intervention for lifelong self-management of
      chronic insomnia. Mindfulness meditation training has been found to improve sleep outcomes in
      patients with chronic illnesses. Meditation may be defined as self-regulation of attention,
      and mindfulness has been described as paying attention in a particular, intentional way,
      moment-by-moment, without judging. MBSR originated with the Stress Reduction Clinic at the
      University of Massachusetts Medical Center and is currently used in over 250 clinics,
      hospitals, and health maintenance organizations in the US and abroad
      (www.umassmed.edu/cfm/srp/).

      MVP#1 is a pilot study to establish feasibility, refine procedures and determine the optimal
      design for a planned full-scale trial. An active control drug, eszopiclone which is a widely
      used and FDA approved prescription sleep medication, is included in the pilot to provide a
      benchmark for efficacy. Outcomes will evaluated to determine if clinically important impacts
      are likely to be obtainable in the future full-scale trial.
    
  