
    
      Study procedures:

        -  Consented at the time of enrollment in the study, which will be at hospital admission
           for delivery.

        -  Demographic data, medical history, obstetrical history, prenatal history and delivery
           information will be obtained from medical records and the subject

        -  Proteinuria, Placental weight, BMI, Birth weight and gender, mother smoker or not,
           clinical parameter of preeclampsia, and severity of preeclampsia, uterine artery Doppler
           results will be collected from medical records .

        -  SDF and NIRS application will be done once.

      Measurements:

      Sidestream dark field (SDF)

      The side-stream darkfield camera ( CytoCam) will be put under the subjects tongue for 5-10
      minutes. Multiple pictures of the small blood vessels will be taken.

      Two fields will be selected that included at least 2 arterioles and 2 venules. Arterioles
      will be identified as high-flow vessels in which the direction of flow is from larger
      diameter vessels to smaller diameter vessels, while the reverse will be true for venules.
      Furthermore, arterioles will be distinguished from venules by the difference in erythrocyte
      flow velocity, which is substantially higher in arterioles than in venules. At least 2
      arterioles and 2 venules will be taken from each captured image sequence to measure the blood
      vessel diameter.

      The diameter of blood vessels will be determined using image processing software specifically
      designed for analysis of the microcirculation. The diameter of microvessels will be
      determined by drawing a perpendicular line from one side of the luminal vessel wall to the
      other at 3 separate locations. The functional capillary index (FCD) and the microvascular
      flow index (MFI) will be calculated as well. The FCD is defined as the total length of
      perfused capillaries per mm2. The MFI is used to describe the different flow velocities in
      venules in each observation field. This is a reproducible and validated index based on a
      semi-quantitative scoring (0=no flow, 1=intermittent flow, 2=sludging flow, 3=continuous flow
      and 4=high flow) of flow patterns in large (>50 μm), medium (25-50 μm) and small (10-25 μm,
      including capillaries) venules. Intermittent flow is characterized by a discontinuous flow
      pattern of erythrocytes during systolic heart contraction, which halts (or even reverses)
      during the diastolic phase. In sludging flow, individual erythrocytes have different low
      continuous velocities and they can be easily distinguished from each other. Continuous flow
      is characterized by an uninterrupted, uniform laminar flow pattern of erythrocytes that still
      just can be distinguished from each other. With high flow, the velocity of erythrocytes has
      exceeded the capture rate of the camera and therefore individual erythrocytes cannot be
      traced anymore and appear as a black column of cells.

      CytoCam product is registered by the FDA with number D186803 Class1 exempt. This product is
      intended to be used for visualization of micro-circulation in tissue in orifices of the human
      body which may be non-invasively accessed and cutaneous surfaces.

      Near-infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS) Artinis PortaLite with OxySoft softwear Artinis systems
      has developed a customizable NIRS device that measures tissue oxygenation saturation (StO2)
      of both muscle and brain tissue. This device can be customized in terms of emitter wavelength
      (5 are available, all in the NIR range) and configuration (2 emitters each @ 30, 35, and 40
      mm from the detector). Critically, unlike most other commercially available NIRS devices for
      clinical care, the Artinis device allows exportation of the actual absorbance waveforms @ 15
      Hz sampling rate. Thus, the Artinis PortaLite with OxySoft softwear will be used for research
      only, not for clinical care. The NIRS probe will be applied to one of the patient's thenar
      muscle and over the patient forehead and tissue oxygenation (TOI) will be recorded for 5
      minutes.
    
  