
    
      With the goal of improving physical function and quality of life, the demand for total hip
      arthroplasty (THA) continues to grow. However, postoperative pain associated with THA remains
      a serious concern for patients. In the middle of a growing opioid epidemic, multimodal
      approaches utilizing both non-opioid analgesics and regional anesthetic techniques are being
      increasingly sought.

      Regional anesthetic techniques are associated with both decreased opioid consumption and pain
      scores compared with systemic analgesia alone. However, regional techniques for THA are
      seldom compared. Lumbar plexus blocks are commonly performed for postoperative analgesia for
      THA. However, more recent case reports have described utilizing quadratus lumborum blocks for
      analgesia following hip fracture and THA.

      This prospective study would randomize subjects to receive a lumbar plexus block or quadratus
      lumborum block prior to THA. The primary end point would be opioid consumption at 12 hours
      postoperative. Our hypothesis is that opioid consumption will not differ between groups.

      The quadratus lumborum block is a fascial plane block. Originally described for abdominal
      surgery, numerous case reports and editorial publications have highlighted the effectiveness
      of quadratus lumborum (QL) blocks as an analgesic technique for hip fracture and hip
      arthroplasty. However, prospective randomized studies comparing QL blocks to other regional
      techniques for THA analgesia are lacking.

      The lateral approach to the QL block is performed by injecting local anesthetic deep to the
      transversus abdominus abdominus apnoneurosis and superficial to the fascia transversalis with
      direct ultrasound guidance. After completing consent, placing monitors and providing mild
      sedation, the subject is positioned laterally and the muscular anatomy (external oblique,
      internal oblique, transverse abdominis, quadratus lumborum and latissimus dorsi muscles)
      identified. After placing a subcutaneous skin wheal with lidiocaine, a blunt regional
      anesthesia needle is inserted using in-plane ultrasound guidance. Local anesthetic is
      deposited incrementally with frequent aspiration in the anterolateral border of the quadratus
      lumborum muscle at the junction of the transversalis fascia, outside the anterior layer of
      the thoracolumbar fascia and superficial to the fascia transversalis.

      Risks of anterior approach to the quadratus lumborum block are similar to most truncal blocks
      and include infection, bleeding, bowel perforation or local anesthetic toxicity (LAST).
      Infection risk is minimized by utilizing appropriate antiseptic and sterile technique as is
      standard for any regional procedure. Risk of a retroperitoneal hematoma is increased with the
      posterior approach to the quadratus lumborum block because of its transmuscular approach and
      likelihood of abdominal branches of lumbar arteries in the path of the needle. For this
      reason, the posterior approach to the quadratus lumborum block will not be used for this
      study. The risk of LAST is a risk with any regional procedure and is minimized by frequent
      aspiration, incremental local anesthetic injection and vital signs monitoring throughout.

      The quadratus lumborum block is already a block utilized for a variety of surgical procedures
      to decrease postoperative pain. Potential benefits to the QL block over the common lumbar
      plexus block include more superficial block placement and ultrasound visualization. The
      investigator hypothesize that preoperative QL blocks will reduce opioid consumption similar
      to lumbar plexus blocks following elective hip arthroplasty.

      Information regarding the study will be presented to subjects in the surgical clinic or
      preoperative anesthesia clinic in the preoperative period. Subjects will be educated on the
      role of regional anesthesia in postoperative analgesia. Subjects will be able to consider the
      study until the day of surgery. On the day of surgery, subjects may then choose to provide
      written consent or decline to participate.

      Subjects will be enrolled on the day of surgery in the preoperative holding area.

      After discussion in the preoperative holding area regarding risks and benefits of both the
      lumbar plexus and QL block, subjects will be consented if they choose to participate. Consent
      will be obtained from subject by an IRB approved CITI certified study team member that has
      been trained on the protocol. Written consent with a witness will be completed once all
      questions are answered and exclusion and inclusion verified. Copies of all documents will be
      provided to the subjects. Once subjects are consented, they will be assigned an enrollment
      number. Prior to subject enrollment, randomization will done by a statistician and randomized
      group (lumbar plexus block (current practice) or QL block) assigned based on the subject
      enrollment number.

      Design: This prospective, single blinded clinical trial will randomize subject to receive a
      lumbar plexus or QL block prior to THA. The randomization will be created by a statistician
      prior to subject enrollment.

      Groups: Subjects will be randomized to receive a preoperative lumbar plexus (n = 100) or QL
      (n = 100 ) block prior to THA.

      Potential participants that are on the operating room schedule for THA will be screened for
      eligibility via chart review.

      Once subjects have signed an informed consent, they will be assigned an enrollment number.
      Numbers would be assigned sequentially with the first enrolled subject receiving "001," the
      second subject receiving "002," and the last subject receiving number "184." Randomization
      will be created prior to the study starting by a statistician with half of the research
      subject number being assigned to receive a QL block and the other half assigned to receive a
      lumbar plexus block, which is our current standard of care. The regional anesthesia team will
      open the envelope labeled with the subject's assigned number to reveal the randomization.

      Following informed consent, all subjects will be positioned, prepped and sedated for the
      randomized regional anesthesia procedure in the preoperative holding area. The subject will
      be positioned in the lateral decubitus position with the operative side up and pulse oximetry
      and blood pressure cuff placed for monitoring. As part of routine care, the subject will
      receive sedation for their comfort. All subjects would receive 20 ml of 0.5% ropivacaine in
      their nerve block regardless of randomization. The relevant anatomy will then be identified
      using either surface landmarks (lumbar plexus block) or an ultrasound (quadratus lumborum
      block). All participants, regardless of group assignment, will be positioned, have an area on
      their back and side cleaned, have an ultrasound placed, and numbing medication placed just
      below the skin at both block sites (skin wheal). This will be done so that participant and
      the team collecting result will be blinded. Subject, surgeon, intraoperative anesthesia team
      and data collectors would all be blinded to the allocated group.

      Subjects randomized to the lumbar plexus block group will receive a subcutaneous lidocaine
      skin wheal 3-4 cm lateral to midline on the operative side along the intercristal line. A
      nerve stimulator will be sent to 1-1.5mA and a stimulating needle inserted perpendicular to
      the skin. The needle will be advanced slowly until the quadriceps muscle is stimulated and
      maintained at less than 0.6mAs. Ropivacaine (20ml, 0.5%) will be injected slowly with
      frequent aspiration to rule out inadvertent intravascular needle placement.

      Subjects randomized to the quadratus plexus block group will receive a subcutaneous lidocaine
      skin wheal that will be placed after ultrasound identification of external oblique, internal
      oblique, transverse abdominus and quadratus lumborum muscles. A needle will then be advanced
      under ultrasound guidance below the internal oblique aponeurosis and lateral to the quadratus
      lumborum muscle. Ropivacaine (20ml, 0.5%) will be injected slowly with frequent aspiration to
      rule out inadvertent intravascular needle placement. Local anesthetic injection will also be
      observed with real time ultrasound guidance.

      The participant's chart will be reviewed for data collection.

      Participants will also be asked to perform a Visual Analog Scale pain score preoperatively
      (baseline), postoperatively (once awake) and approximately 24 hours post operatively.

      Care in the perioperative period will otherwise be standardized. In the post-anesthesia care
      unit (PACU), hydromorphone or morphine will be titrated by the PACU nurse for the subject's
      comfort.
    
  