
    
      The research goal of this study is to obtain CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) from
      peripheral blood and/or bone marrow, and Mononuclear Cells (lymphocytes and monocytes), and
      granulocytes (grans) from peripheral blood that will be used in the laboratory and/or in the
      clinic to develop new cell therapies for patients with inherited or acquired disorders of
      immunity or blood cells. Development of novel cellular therapies requires access to HSC,
      Mononuclear Cells and/or granulocytes as the essential starting materials for the
      pre-clinical laboratory development of gene therapies and other engineered cell products. HSC
      or blood cells from healthy adult volunteers serve both as necessary experimental controls
      and also as surrogates for patient cells for clinical scale-up development. HSC or blood
      cells from patients serve both as the necessary experimental substrate for novel gene therapy
      and cellular engineering development for specific disorders and as pre-clinical scale up of
      cellular therapies. Collection of cells from adult patients collected in the NIH Department
      of Transfusion Medicine (DTM) under conditions conforming to accepted blood banking clinical
      practice may also be used directly in or cryopreserved for future use in other NIH protocols
      that have all required regulatory approvals allowing such use. In summary, the research goal
      of this protocol is the collection of HSC or blood cells that may be used for both laboratory
      research and/or for clinical treatment in other approved protocols.

      Participants include: 1. Adult patients with any primary immune deficiency (PID) or other
      blood disorder where collection is both for clinical use in another approved treatment
      protocol to benefit the patient and for laboratory research; 2. Adult patients with any
      primary immune deficiency (PID) or blood disorder where collection is for laboratory research
      use only. 3. Healthy adult volunteers where the collection is for laboratory research use
      only.

      The majority of subjects will have HSC collected from peripheral blood by apheresis. Daily
      subcutaneous injections of G-CSF (granulocyte colony stimulating factor/filgrastim) for 5 to
      6 days is a standard of care method used to mobilize HSC to the peripheral blood prior to
      apheresis, and will be used for most subjects. Plerixafor (Mozobil) is approved as standard
      of care for use in combination with G-CSF to mobilize HSC.

      Some adult patients will have a clinical scale aspiration collection of bone marrow to obtain
      HSC for clinical use in another approved treatment protocol. Some adult participants may have
      a small sample needle aspiration collection of bone marrow obtained for laboratory research
      purposes only.

      Mononuclear cells and/or Granulocytes (gran) will be collected from peripheral blood by
      apheresis following no stimulation, using G-CSF alone, or a using a combined single dose of
      G-CSF (480mcg) and Dexamethasone (8mg) prior to collection as is the standard of care
      pre-treatment used in the NIH DTM for collection of granulocyte transfusions from healthy
      donors.

      As noted, HSC, mononuclear cells, and gran collection from patients with PID or other blood
      disorders may be used for laboratory research or may be designated for future clinical
      treatment of the patient under separate treatment protocol. HSC, mononuclear cells, and gran
      collection from healthy volunteers will be designated entirely for laboratory research.

      HSC will be used for the following three clinical purposes, where clinical treatments would
      occur under separate IRB approved protocols: 1. Autologous HSC from patients may be
      genetically modified and infused into the patient for treatment of an infection or the
      underlying disease (Gene therapy); 2. Autologous HSC from patients may serve as back up
      (rescue product) for patients undergoing matched unrelated donor transplantation or
      haploidential transplantation;

      Mononuclear Cells (lymphocytes and monocytes) and granulocytes will be used for the following
      clinical purposes, 1. Autologous lymphocytes may be genetically modified and infused into the
      patient for treatment of an infection or the underlying disease (Gene therapy); 2. Autologous
      lymphocytes, monocytes and granulocytes (neutrophils) may be transfected with mRNAs to
      transiently express a therapeutic protein for treatment of an infection or the underlying
      disease (Gene therapy).

      HSC, lymphocytes, monocytes and granulocytes will be used for laboratory research studies
      that include: Delineating the pathophysiology of inherited immune deficiencies; Delineating
      the physiology of and improving engraftment of hematopoietic stem cells; Determining how
      hematopoietic stem cells may be maintained in ex vivo culture without losing pluripotent
      potential; Delineating the molecular mechanisms responsible for lineage specific
      differentiation; Developing efficient methods for gene transfer into hematopoietic stem cells
      for corrective gene therapy; Developing methods for restoration of function in defective
      peripheral blood monocytes and/or granulocytes; Further characterization of peripheral blood
      monocytes and/or granulocytes from patients with PID.
    
  