
    
      High blood pressure (BP) is a major independent risk factor for cardiovascular mortality in
      individuals on haemodialysis, and yet BP is extremely poorly controlled in this population.

      Excessive dietary salt intake is likely to be a major cause of hypertension in these
      patients. Firstly, excessive salt intake will result in thirst, excessive fluid intake and
      weight gains between dialysis, and thereby chronic over-expansion of extracellular fluid
      volumes resulting in high blood pressure. Secondly, salt may have direct effects on the
      arterial tree contributing to endothelial dysfunction that has clearly been demonstrated in
      uraemic individuals, including haemodialysis patients. Abnormalities in endothelial nitric
      oxide (NO) production may play an important role in salt-sensitive hypertension, mediated by
      the potent inhibitor of NO synthase, asymmetrical dimethylarginine (ADMA). Plasma ADMA
      concentrations are several-fold higher in individuals on dialysis than in normal controls,
      and it would be of interest to see whether ADMA concentrations decrease with a reduction
      dietary salt intake.

      In spite of the importance of dietary salt intake in haemodialysis patients, there are no
      controlled studies which delineate the mechanisms by which salt intake affects BP. We propose
      to conduct a prospective double-blind placebo controlled cross-over study of normal (10 to 12
      grams salt per day) versus modestly reduced (6 grams per day) salt intake over an eight week
      period in haemodialysis patients. The primary outcome measure is the change in pre-dialysis
      systolic BP. Other outcome measures include mean systolic and diastolic BP as measured by
      ABPM, thirst scores, daily weight gains and thoracic fluid content, as measured by thoracic
      bioimpedance. Furthermore, in a sub-group of subjects will we study the changes in plasma
      ADMA concentrations with reductions in salt intake, and examine correlations with changes in
      BP and systemic vascular resistance.
    
  