
    
      In the United States, alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is the second most common indication for
      liver transplant (LT). Traditionally, ALD patients have been required to complete a six-month
      mandatory period of alcohol abstinence before LT. More recently early LT for severe alcoholic
      hepatitis is being performed without any pre-transplant alcohol treatment because of the high
      medical acuity and mortality associated with this disease. Importantly, the limited studies
      to-date demonstrate comparable survival among early (ELT) versus standard (SLT) transplant
      recipients. Return to alcohol use is a major concern for all LT recipients with ALD, with
      estimates of alcohol relapse ranging between 16 and 49%. Although most LT clinics have
      enforced pre-LT alcohol treatment, far less attention has been paid to post-LT services,
      despite the high risk and severe consequences of relapse during this period. Numerous
      evidence-based treatments are available for alcohol use disorder (AUD). In recent years, the
      investigators and others have developed web- and text-based versions of these
      empirically-supported interventions to expand the reach and replicability outside of formal
      alcohol clinic settings. Delivery of AUD interventions in non-traditional settings is
      feasible, acceptable to patients, and effective in reducing alcohol use. The investigators
      propose to implement and evaluate the effects of alcohol treatment integrated into routine
      post-LT care. All patients receive physician instructions to stop drinking and engage in
      alcohol services (treatment as usual: TAU). ELT (N=100) and SLT (N=100) patients will be
      randomized on a 2:1 basis to integrated AUD treatment (IAT) or TAU. IAT will include
      computer-delivered BI in the hospital, nurse-delivered alcohol monitoring counseling at each
      outpatient LT follow-up visit, and at-home participation in web-based, 7-session CBT4CBT,
      supplemented by tailored text messages. Also, because of the evidence that ALD patients
      significantly underreport drinking to LT providers, the investigators will compare post-LT
      alcohol relapse rates using a well-validated biomarker of recent drinking (PEth), patient
      self-report on a validated alcohol instrument, and patient report to LT provider. Finally,
      the investigators will identify predictors of post-LT alcohol use and treatment engagement
      for ELT and SLT patients. Key measures will include: alcohol use; engagement in alcohol
      treatment; retention in post-transplant follow-up care; mood and anxiety; and quality of
      life. Given the severe consequences of alcohol relapse among both ELT and SLT recipients, it
      is critical to accurately identify alcohol use and implement alcohol interventions early in
      the post-transplant period to optimize short- and long-term patient outcomes and ultimately
      tailor treatments for this high-risk population.
    
  