
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of two treatments for mild to severe
      COPD patients: one, Yong Chong Cao capsule treatment and conventional medicine based on 2017
      Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) and Chinese Treatment
      Guidelines; the other, Bailing capsule treatment and conventional medicine.

      COPD, with high prevalence, morbidity, mortality and economic burdens, affects millions
      worldwide. Although many therapies exist and are being developed to relieve symptoms and
      reduce mortality in COPD, most have only been studied in placebo-controlled efficacy studies
      in highly selected populations. There are few clinical trials to compare therapeutic
      alternatives in real world. Furthermore, some randomized controlled trials on Yong Chong Cao
      capsule, one therapeutic type of Cordyceps sinensis in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM)
      interventions, especially based on the syndrome of insufficiency of qi of the lung and kidney
      patterns, have been the certain evidence for showing definite effect for COPD patients. In
      addition, studies in real world populations of COPD that received different cordyceps
      sinensis therapies that do have efficacy evidence was found wide variations in care delivery.
      In short, there is a need to compare the effectiveness of two capsule in patients with mild
      to severe COPD.

      This is a multi-center, open-label, randomized, controlled study to evaluate the
      effectiveness of Yong Chong Cao capsule for patients with mild to severe COPD compared with
      Bailing capsule. Following a 14 day run-in period, approximately 240 subjects will be
      randomly assigned to Yong Chong Cao capsule treatment group, Bailing capsule treatment group
      for 24 weeks. After the 24 weeks treatment period, subjects in two treatments arms will
      follow-up 24 weeks. The primary outcome measure is the frequency of exacerbations. The
      secondary efficacy measures include FEV1, dyspnea (MMRC), exercise capacity(6MWD), quality of
      life (CAT, SGRQ). Safety will be assessed through the collection of adverse events. There
      will be a total of 4 study visits (baseline, the 12 and 24 weeks of the treatment, the 24
      weeks of follow-up).
    
  