
    
      This Phase 2 study aims to test whether paramedic titration of oxygen is feasible and results
      in an equivalent number of patients arriving at the ED with a safe oxygen level compared with
      the current approach of 100% oxygen.

      Hypothesis: There is no difference in the proportion of OHCA patients who arrive at the
      emergency department with oxygen saturation greater than or equal to 90% whether they
      received an inspired oxygen fraction of 100% achieved by a flow rate of 10 litres per minute
      compared to a titrated oxygen fraction achieved by a flow rate of 2 litres per minute.

      This is a Phase 2, multi-centre, prospective, randomised study to be conducted in Melbourne
      and Adelaide.

      During cardiac arrest, the patient will receive the current standard of care with oxygen
      delivery (≥10L/min) by ETT/ SGA connected to bag/valve/ oxygen reservoir.

      If ROSC is achieved, all the standard post resuscitation treatments will be given as per
      current ambulance Clinical Practice Guidelines, except for the amount of oxygen delivered.

      The initial ventilation post ROSC for two minutes will be 600mL x 10L/ minute with oxygen
      flow rate ≥10L/min until a satisfactory pulse oximeter trace and reading is achieved.

      After the eligibility criteria are met, the patients will be randomised by the opening of an
      opaque envelope containing a computer generated allocation to either continued oxygen
      >10L/min or decreased ("titrated") oxygen 2L/min with a target oxygen saturation of 90-94%.

      Patients allocated to oxygen >10L minute ("standard care") will continue on this therapy to
      hospital.

      In the 2L/min oxygen group, the oxygen flow will be changed immediately back to >10L/min if:

        -  The oxygen saturation falls to <90% at any time, or

        -  Recurrent cardiac arrest occurs, or

        -  The pulse oximeter trace fails Following any of these events, this high-flow oxygen will
           continue to hospital. If a patient is extubated or has a SGA removed post randomisation
           because of improving conscious state, then standard care will be used (i.e. face mask
           with oxygen ≥10L/min).

      For patients with ROSC in whom intubation is planned, ventilation with high-flow oxygen will
      continue during the intubation process and randomisation will be delayed until 2 minutes
      after the ETT is confirmed as correctly placed using ETCO2 and the pulse oximeter trace reads
      ≥95%.

      At ED handover, the patient will receive oxygen therapy as determined by the treating
      emergency medicine physician.
    
  