
    
      Vitamin D2 (Ergocalciferol) is approved by the FDA to treat Vitamin D deficiency and will be
      given according to approved labeling. This drug has not been systematically studied to test
      the potential benefits of Vitamin D in patients who suffer from statin-induced muscle pain.
      Vitamin D2 is the current standard of care for treating vitamin D deficiency. Since the
      investigators are using Vitamin D2 therapy to treat vitamin D deficiency, and because our
      trial is a pilot study, the data will not be submitted to the FDA for consideration of
      changing the labeled indications for Vitamin D2 therapy.

      This is a randomized, double-blinded, and placebo-controlled pilot study that will only be
      performed at CSMC. 40 females with moderate to severe myopathic pain while on Simvastatin
      will be enrolled in this study and will be randomized at a 1:1 ratio. Patients who will be
      approached are considering an alternative statin medication as part of their clinical care to
      address their muscle pain.

      Participants will be recruited from the investigators' clinic patients. The study will be
      discussed with a patient during clinical visit by the treating doctor. Interested individuals
      will be provided with a copy of the consent form to take home for review with friends,
      family, and other physicians. The patient may then call the study staff to set a study
      appointment or enroll in the study during the clinical visit. A study investigator will
      discuss the study with the patient and ask the patient to read through the consent. The
      investigator will encourage the patient to ask any questions or discuss any concerns she
      might have.

      If the consenting investigator is also the patient's treating doctor, the consenting
      investigator will request that the study coordinator approach the patient to determine the
      patient's interest in the study in order to avoid a conflict of interest. The coordinator
      will explicitly tell the patient that the patient's participation in the study is completely
      voluntary and that the patient's medical care will not be affected should she choose not to
      participate.

      Participation in this study will be approximately 8 weeks. 20 participants will be randomized
      to the treatment group and 20 to the placebo group. The treatment group will receive Vitamin
      D2 therapy at 50,000 IU for 8 weeks (once per week) while the placebo group will receive a
      placebo pill (once per week) that is identical in nature. Participants have 2 study visits
      respectively at Week 0 and Week 8, and 1 phone follow-up visit at Week 1. In addition to the
      administration of Vitamin D2 or placebo mentioned above, other study procedures include
      informed consent, physical exam, questionnaires (brief pain assessment, and SF-12 to assess
      limitations on physical activity), review of medical records, medication and supplement
      review, blood draw, and phone followup. Subjects will be asked to stop any supplemental
      Vitamin D therapy to maintain an equal dose within patients in the Vitamin D2 and placebo
      group.

      Prior to randomization, statin medication will be changed from Simvastatin to Atorvastatin
      and patients will be followed up by telephone at Week 1 for tolerability of the new statin
      medication. When a patient is intolerant to a particular statin, it is the standard of care
      to attempt another statin medication. Typically, many choose atorvastatin since a lower dose
      of the drug can be used to obtain the same target LDL/HDL, and lower doses reduce the risk of
      toxicity. This change in medication would be preformed regardless of the research protocol.
      Since the statin will be switched to a lower dose, it is possible that it will be a
      confounding factor, however, even the placebo group will be switched to the same alternate
      statin, reducing the differences between the two groups. In addition, Atorvastatin is also
      metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme, and because the presumed mechanism of association between
      vitamin D deficiency and statin-induced myopathic pain pivots on this enzyme, the
      investigators wanted to choose a statin that continues to utilize this enzyme. But, for
      reasons stated above, Atorvastatin has less myopathic symptoms due to lower doses used.

      At the conclusion of the study, those in the treatment group whose serum 25 OH D levels have
      reached > 30ng/mL (therapeutic) may continue on maintenance doses on ergocalciferol (1,000
      Units/day) if they are receiving clinical benefit. For those whose 25 OH D levels are <
      30ng/mL, regardless of whether they received clinical benefit or not from the treatment arm,
      they will be offered a repeated 8 week course of Ergocalciferol therapy at 50,000 Units/week
      under standard of care. It will be up to the patient to accept or decline the therapy.
    
  