
    
      The ANRS 12229 PAANTHER 01 (Pediatric Asian African Network for Tuberculosis and HIV
      Research) study, which enrolled 438 HIV-infected children of median age 7.3 (IQR: 3.3 - 9.7)
      years with presumptive TB in four countries (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cambodia, Vietnam) from
      2011 to 2014, aimed at developing a diagnostic prediction score and algorithm for TB
      treatment decision in HIV-infected children. This was the first study developing a TB
      diagnostic score exclusively in HIV-infected children, using methods recommended for
      diagnostic prediction models. Based on microbiological, clinical and radiological features,
      the best scoring system obtained had a sensitivity of 88.6% and specificity of 61.2% when
      Xpert MTB/RIF was included in the algorithm. The investigators showed previously that
      mortality is high in children with both confirmed and unconfirmed TB and that initiation of
      anti-TB treatment, that occurred at a median time of 7 (IQR: 5 - 11) days in the study, led
      to delayed ART initiation, which is associated to significantly increased mortality. The
      score, based on easily collected clinical features, chest radiographic features, Xpert
      MTB/RIF results, and abdominal ultrasonography, could enable same-day TB treatment decision.
      Abdominal ultrasonography has shown promise for the diagnosis of TB in both HIV-infected
      adults and children. In the PAANTHER study, it detected abdominal lymphadenopathy in 50% of
      culture confirmed TB cases and 35% of all confirmed and unconfirmed cases, with a specificity
      of 85%.

      Developed in tertiary research-experienced health facilities, the PAANTHER score could enable
      standardized treatment decision in HIV-infected children with presumptive TB, and could be
      recommended for extensive use in secondary and primary healthcare settings where most of
      these children are seeking care. However, external validation studies are now needed to
      assess the predictive performance of the PAANTHER diagnostic score on independent datasets.

      The PAANTHER TB treatment decision algorithm will be used for a TB treatment decision by site
      clinicians in all children enrolled in the study. Validation of the algorithm will be
      performed by evaluating the safety of withholding TB treatment in children not initiated on
      treatment as per the PAANTHER TB treatment decision algorithm. The safety of this strategy
      will be carefully assessed through review of safety reports every 4 to 6 months during study
      conduct by the safety sub-committee of the SAB.

      Occurrence of algorithm failures in terms of missed TB cases (TB cases subsequently detected
      among untreated cases, i.e. false negatives) and cases with unlikely TB among those initiated
      on TB treatment as per the algorithm (cases not secondarily validated as confirmed or
      unconfirmed TB cases by the expert committee, i.e. false positives) will enable to estimate
      the negative and positive predictive values of the algorithm.

      A centralized international Expert Committee will clinically review and validate TB diagnosis
      in children. This will enable assessment of the added value of new markers (MLR and CRP) and,
      if need be, to propose a new version of the score based on an optimised predicted
      probability.

      The TB-Speed HIV study will be implemented in 7 tertiary healthcare level hospitals in
      capital cities of Côte d'Ivoire, Uganda, Mozambique, and Zambia. A total of 550 HIV-infected
      children (aged < 15 years) with clinically suspected TB (presumptive TB) will be enrolled,
      using standard entry criteria. The inclusion period will last until all sites have reached
      the expected number of children enrolled.
    
  