
    
      To establish and maintain a CDA registry (CDAR): a comprehensive registry of subjects with
      the diagnosis of any type of congenital dyserythropoietic anemia in North America. Subjects
      and their physicians have expressed interest in participating in a national/international
      registry that could promote research and further understanding of this rare disease-group.

      CDAs consist a heterogeneous group of rare genetic disorders causing ineffective
      erythropoiesis with the characteristic finding of multinuclear erythroid precursors in the
      bone marrow. The other hematopoietic lineages seem unaffected. The diagnosis of CDA is
      clinically challenging and is based on identifying the characteristic morphology of
      erythroblasts in the bone marrow of subjects presenting with chronic anemia, frequently with
      evidence of hemolysis but suboptimal reticulocytosis, and iron overload. Three types are
      well-defined by marrow morphology, although a recent classification recognizes seven
      different genetic types. Since certain gene defects were identified in the different types of
      CDAs, our understanding of the biology and pathogenesis of these diseases has been improving.
      However, many gaps still exist in our understanding of the related molecular mechanisms
      primarily due to the rarity of the disease and the lack of systematic approach to study these
      subjects. In addition, the heterogeneity observed among subjects and the clinical overlap
      with other hematologic disorders, namely hemolytic anemias with brisk erythropoietic response
      that may be associated with erythroid dysplasia, and with ineffective erythropoiesis, further
      complicates the diagnosis and often delays appropriate diagnosis and therapy.

      The purpose of CDAR will be to establish a database and bio-repository for CDA subjects and
      their families in order to systematically study this rare disease-group. Data regarding these
      subjects will be collected confidentially at initial presentation or diagnosis and
      periodically thereafter over a long period of time (>15 years). In addition, blood, bone
      marrow and/or DNA samples of enrolled subjects will be stored for research studies with the
      aim to improve our understanding, diagnosis, and treatment of CDA.
    
  