
    
      DESCRIPTION: Medical therapy for Crohn's disease is of variable success in ameliorating the
      cardinal symptoms of the disease (diarrhea, abdominal pain), in treating extraintestinal
      manifestations (fatigue, anorexia, fever, weight loss, arthralgias, skin, eye, liver and
      kidney manifestations), and in preventing complications (stricture, fistula, abscess).
      Currently, therapy is most often implemented in a stepwise fashion, progressing through
      anti-inflammatory medications (sulfasalazine, mesalamine), antibiotics (metronidazole,
      ciprofloxacin), corticosteroids, immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive medications, including
      thioguanine compounds (6 mercaptopurine or its prodrug azathioprine), methotrexate, and
      finally, infliximab (anti-tumor necrosis factor). A common approach is the gradual addition
      of more potent medications to agents that are believed to be safer, but may also be less
      effective. Despite the current approach to medical therapy in Crohn's disease, a substantial
      number of patients-from 20 to 40%-require surgery within 3 years of diagnosis, excluding
      those requiring surgery at the time of diagnosis. Nearly 80% of patients require surgery by
      20 years from the onset of disease.

      Corticosteroids have long been a mainstay of therapy in Crohn's disease although side effects
      are frequently observed with both short term and long-term use. Potential side effects are
      well-described, and may include relatively minor problems such as insomnia and acne, as well
      as more serious adverse effects, including hypertension, narrow-angle glaucoma, depression,
      weight gain, adrenal suppression, Cushing's syndrome, diminished bone mineral density, and
      infections.

      Azathioprine is often used to treat patients with steroid resistant or dependent Crohn's
      disease. Azathioprine is used as a steroid sparing agent, as treatment for active,
      inflammatory disease, for maintenance of remission, as therapy for perforating disease
      (fistulae), and for specific extraintestinal manifestations. To date, however, randomized,
      controlled clinical studies assessing a range of doses of azathioprine in Crohn's disease
      have not been conducted. The optimal weight-based dose is not known.

      EXPECTED CONTRIBUTION: This study will identify an optimal weight based dose of azathioprine
      for treatment of patients with active Crohn's disease requiring treatment with
      corticosteroids.

      STUDY HYPOTHESIS: An optimal weight-based dose of azathioprine will induce and maintain
      remission in subjects with steroid-dependent Crohn's disease.

      COMPARISON: Three different doses of azathioprine will be compared in this study (0.5, 2.5,
      and 3.5mg/kg/day). Subjects will take the study medication for 9 months.
    
  