
    
      The investigators will leverage increasingly available technologies to impart a Universal
      Medication Schedule (UMS) in primary care to help patients living with diabetes safely use
      and adhere to complex drug regimens. The UMS standardizes the prescribing and dispensing of
      medicine by using health literacy principles and more explicit times to describe when to take
      medicine (morning, noon, evening, bedtime). This eliminates variability found in the way
      prescriptions are written by physicians and transcribed by pharmacists onto drug bottle
      labels. The proposed intervention will standardize prescribing within an electronic health
      record (EHR) so all medication orders include UMS prescription instructions ('sigs') and
      patients receive a medication information sheet with their after-visit summaries.
      Additionally, to help patients remember when to take prescribed medicines we will link
      unidirectional short message service (SMS) text reminders to the EHR, delivering medication
      reminders to patients around UMS intervals.

      The investigators will conduct a 3-arm, multi-site trial to test the effectiveness of the
      UMS, and UMS + SMS text reminder strategies compared to usual care. The investigators will
      enroll a total of 900 English and Spanish-speaking patients with poorly controlled type 2
      diabetes mellitus. Enrolled patients will complete follow-up interviews 3 and 6 months
      following their baseline interview.

      The aims of the investigation are to:

        1. Test the effectiveness of the UMS, and UMS + SMS text reminder strategies compared to
           usual care.

        2. Determine if the effects of these UMS strategies vary by patients' literacy skills and
           language.

        3. Using mixed methods, evaluate the fidelity of the two strategies and explore patient,
           staff, physician, and health system factors influencing the interventions.

        4. Assess the costs required to deliver either intervention from a health system
           perspective.
    
  