
    
      STUDY PROCEDURES FOR PARTICIPANTS RANDOMIZED TO STANDARD OF CARE ARM

      A. Visit 1-SOC: Baseline Visit for Standard of Care Participants

      At Study Visit 1, participants randomized to the SOC will complete the baseline questionnaire
      to collect sociodemographic, HIV clinical and treatment history, self-reported ART medication
      adherence, quality of life, and resource allocation data. Study staff will review participant
      records to collect data on clinic initiation start date, opportunistic infection history, ART
      initiation date, ART regimen history, CD4 count and viral load result histories. A single
      10cc blood specimen will be drawn for storage for future testing for viral load, resistance
      testing, and drug therapeutic monitoring. Upon completion of the baseline questionnaire,
      participants will be referred to clinic counselors who will conduct adherence support
      counseling as per standard clinical procedures. A follow-up study visit will be scheduled 3
      months from the baseline date (or at 1 month for pregnant participants only). Any interim
      clinical visits that are indicated by the clinic staff will be maintained. The participant
      will be instructed to continue their current ART regimen until at least the next clinical
      visit.

      B. Visit 2A-SOC: Repeat Viral Load Testing Visit

      At Study Visit 2A, participants in the SOC arm will undergo blood collection for viral load
      testing in keeping with WHO guidelines. An additional tube 10cc tube will be drawn for
      storage for future analyses. A study questionnaire will be administered to assess
      self-reported ART medication adherence. No other procedures are scheduled at this visit.
      Participants will be notified that study staff will contact them as soon as their results are
      available, to request return to clinic for further management. The participant will be
      instructed to continue their current ART regimen until at least the next clinical visit. As
      soon as the viral load result is available, study participants will be contacted and
      requested to return to clinic for review. If the viral load is indeterminate or not completed
      for any reason, study staff will request that the participant return for a repeat viral load
      test.

      C. Visit 2B-SOC: Viral Load Testing Results and Therapeutic Management

      At Study Visit 2B, study clinicians will review the viral load result. Participants with a
      viral load ≤ 1,000 copies/mL will continue their first-line (NNRTI-based) ART regimen without
      change. Participants with a viral load >1,000 copies/mL will change ART regimen to a
      second-line, protease inhibitor (PI)-based or, if available, integrase inhibitor (II)-based
      therapy. Clinicians will also be encouraged to change the nucleos(t)ide reverse transcriptase
      component of the regimen (for example, changing from zidovudine to tenofovir), based on prior
      exposures, as well as WHO and national guidelines. All regimen decisions will be made by the
      study clinician, in cooperation with clinic staff at the study sites. In the case of complex
      management issues, the site principal investigators (Dr. Bosco Bwana in Mbarara and Dr. Yunus
      Moosa in Durban) will be contacted to offer input. At the conclusion of Visit 2B-SOC,
      participants in the SOC arm will be scheduled for a final study visit approximately 6 months
      later. A final visit at 6 months is chosen to allow ample time for drug suppression for
      participants with detectable viral load at this 3-month visit. Non-study clinical visits for
      routine clinical care will continue in the interim as determined and scheduled by clinic
      staff.

      D. Visit 3: Outcome Assessment

      At Study Visit 3, participants will undergo repeat blood testing for plasma viral load and,
      if the viral load is detectable, reflex resistance testing will be performed. An additional
      10cc tube will be drawn for storage for future testing. A study questionnaire will be
      administered to assess resource allocation, ART medication adherence, and quality of life.
      Study staff will review participant records to update interim CD4 count, viral load, and ART
      regimen data. Results of viral load and resistance testing from this visit will be
      immediately made available to clinic staff for further patient management. At the conclusion
      of Visit 3, study procedures will be complete.

      E. Missing and Late Appointments

      If study participants do not return for study visits, study staff will call them to encourage
      return to clinic for continuation or completion of procedures. For participants who do not
      return within 7 days of a scheduled visit and unreachable by phone, a study staff member will
      attempt to track them at home using a standardized lost-to-follow-up form and procedures
      developed and used successfully both for program and clinical care in Mbarara for over 10
      years. If participants are located, study staff will encourage them to return to clinic to
      complete procedures and/or conduct the blood draw and questionnaire in in the field if the
      participant agrees.

      STUDY PROCEDURES FOR PARTICIPANTS RANDOMIZED TO RESISTANCE TESTING ARM

      A. Visit 1-RT: Baseline Visit for Resistance Testing Participants

      At Study Visit 1, participants randomized to the RT will complete the baseline questionnaire
      to collect sociodemographic, HIV clinical and treatment history, self-reported ART medication
      adherence, quality of life, and resource allocation data. Study staff will review participant
      records to collect data on clinic initiation start date, opportunistic infection history, ART
      initiation date, ART regimen history, CD4 count and viral load result histories. Upon
      completion of the baseline questionnaire, participants will undergo phlebotomy for resistance
      testing. Participants will be notified that study staff will contact them as soon as their
      results are available, to request return to clinic for further management. Upon completion of
      the study procedures, participants will be referred to clinic counselors who will conduct
      adherence support counseling as per standard clinical procedures. The participant will be
      instructed to continue their current ART regimen until at least the next clinical visit. As
      soon as the resistance test result is available, study participants will be contacted by
      phone and requested to return to clinic for review.

      B. Visit 2-RT: Resistance Testing Results and Therapeutic Management

      At Study Visit 2-RT, study clinicians will review the resistance testing result. A study
      HIV-1 RNA drug resistance interpretation guide will be used to help guide decision-making.
      Participants without significant drug resistance, as determined by the study clinician in
      consultation with the resistance interpretation guide will continue their first-line
      (NNRTI-based) ART regimen without change. Participants with therapeutic drug resistance will
      change ART regimen to a second-line, protease inhibitor (PI)-based or, if available,
      integrase inhibitor (II)-based therapy. Clinicians will also be encouraged to change the
      nucleos(t)ide reverse transcriptase component of the regimen (for example, changing from
      zidovudine to tenofovir). All regimen decisions will be made by the study clinician, in
      cooperation with clinic staff at the study sites. In the case of complex management issues,
      the site principal investigators (Dr. Bosco Bwana in Mbarara and Dr. Yunus Moosa in Durban)
      will be contacted to offer input. At the conclusion of Visit 2-RT, participants will be
      scheduled for a final study visit approximately 9 months from the time of enrollment. A final
      visit 9 months later is chosen to match the approximate 9-month study duration for
      participants in the SOC arm. Non-study clinical visits for routine clinical care will
      continue in the interim as determined and scheduled by clinic staff.

      C. Visit 3: Outcome Assessment

      At Study Visit 3, participants will undergo repeat blood testing for plasma viral load and,
      if the viral load is detectable, reflex resistance testing will be performed. An additional
      10cc tube will be drawn for storage for future testing for viral load, resistance testing,
      and drug therapeutic monitoring. A study questionnaire will be administered to assess
      resource allocation and quality of life. Study staff will review participant records to
      update interim CD4 count, viral load, and ART regimen data. Results of viral load and
      resistance testing from this visit will be immediately made available to clinic staff for
      further patient management. At the conclusion of Visit 3, study procedures will be complete.
    
  