
    
      The primary goal of the proposed clinical trial is to eliminate cancer tumor using an
      autologous cell therapy aiming at mounting an efficient immune anti-tumor response by
      selectively depleting regulatory T-cell during a controlled amount of time. This strategy
      will be tested in patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal who are not eligible for
      surgery.

      This is an open-label single cohort phase I-II therapeutic trial. Patients with hepatic
      metastases from primary colorectal cancer, not eligible to surgery and relapsing from
      conventional chemotherapy and/or targeted therapy, will be included.

      Following patient inclusion:

        1. A lymphapheresis will be performed at D-15 which will be subjected to cell sorting
           /purification of regulatory T cells on the one hand and T lymphocytes depleted from
           regulatory T cells (effectors T-cells) on the other, and subsequently frozen and stored
           (The procedures for ex vivo regulatory T cell depletion has been validated in a previous
           study - AFSSAPS- TC 192) ;

        2. A lymphoid-ablative chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide + fludarabine) will be perform from
           D1 to D5,

        3. Autologous effector T-cells administration will be performed at D7. Efficacy will be
           assessed through tumor size change. Change in tumor size will be assessed with CTscans
           (RECIST criteria), MRIs (functional criteria following injection: DCEMRI and diffusion
           MRI to assess change in cellularity and tumor necrosis and morphological criteria
           RECIST), and sonography with contrast injection (to assess vascular microcirculation).
           Assessments will be done prior to lymphoid-ablation and then monthly for 9 months.
           Safety will be systematically assessed daily during in-patient period using the World
           Health Organisation - Common Toxicity Criteria (WHO-CTC).
    
  