
    
      Primary Objective 1 was to test for an arm difference in pathological complete response
      rates. Secondary Objective 2 was to estimate and test the difference in pathologic complete
      response rates between drug-sensitive patients who received their preferred drug and
      drug-resistant patients randomized to AC or TC.

      Secondary objectives included: to determine the 60% cutoff for the genomic profiles resulted
      in a larger pathologic CR rate for the guided arm than for the unguided arm; to compare the
      pathologic CR rates of patients whose genomic predictive probabilities indicated that they
      were resistant to both chemotherapy regimens with the pathologic CR rates of patients whose
      genomic predictive probabilities indicated that they were sensitive to only one treatment and
      who were then randomly assigned to a treatment for which they were resistant (combining AC
      and TC subgroups); Secondary Objective 3 in patients with T2 and T3 tumors classified as
      requiring mastectomy at baseline, compare the guided and non-guided treatment arms on rates
      of breast conserving surgery with negative final margins; Secondary Objective in patients
      with T2 tumors classified as potential candidates for breast conservation, compare the guided
      and non-guided arms on rates of breast conserving surgery at first attempt; Secondary
      Objectives 5, 6, 7 and 8 to correlate genomic profiles (i.e., genomic predictive
      probabilities) with clinical response, disease-free survival, sites of recurrence, and
      overall survival; Secondary Objective 9:to compare the mean cost of guided versus non-guided
      treatment; and Secondary Objective 10 to assess patient perceptions of participating in a
      clinical trial that evaluated cancer genomics for preoperative systemic therapy of
      early-stage breast cancer.

      Objective 10 details: Due to space limitations in the Outcome Measure Description field,
      details are supplied here:

      To assess patient motivation and participation for study participation in a clinical trial
      evaluating cancer genomics for treatment patients provided responses for the following
      questions at both baseline (the day of chemotherapy start) and following post-surgical
      medical oncology evaluation:

      One of the goals of this study is to tailor your cancer treatments for you based upon a
      genomic analysis of your tumor. How much did the knowledge that the treatment is potentially
      tailored specifically for your tumor influence your decision to participate in this study?
      (Select One)

      Response 1: I did not know that the treatment was tailored.

      Response 2: I do not understand what "tailored treatment based upon genomic analysis of "my
      tumor" means.

      Response 3: The information that this was a tailored treatment based upon genomic analysis of
      my tumor decreased my willingness to participate in this study.

      Response 4: The information that this was a tailored treatment based upon genomic analysis of
      my tumor was of neutral value in the decision making process to participate in this study and
      did not influence my decision to participate.

      Response 5: The information that this was a tailored treatment based upon genomic analysis of
      my tumor played a minor role in helping me decide to participate in the study.

      Response 6: The information that this was a tailored treatment based upon genomic analysis of
      my tumor played a major role in helping me decide to participate in the study.

      Response 7: The information that this was a tailored treatment based upon genomic analysis of
      my tumor was the primary reason that I decided to participate in the study.
    
  