
    
      The CTN 0064 study leverages the existing research infrastructure and cohort of the CTN 0049
      (NCT01612169) randomized, controlled trial (RCT). CTN 0049 ("Project HOPE -- Hospital Visit
      as Opportunity for Prevention and Engagement for HIV-Infected Drug Users") is a three-group
      RCT that evaluated the most effective strategy to achieve HIV virologic suppression among
      HIV-infected substance users who were recruited from hospital settings. Between July 2012 and
      January 2014, a total of 801 HIV-infected hospitalized patients were recruited from 11
      participating sites throughout the U.S. and randomized to one of the following three groups:
      1) Patient Navigator intervention, 2) Patient Navigator plus Contingency Management
      intervention, and 3) Treatment as Usual. All CTN 0049 participants provided informed consent
      and completed baseline computer assisted personal interviews or CAPI (computer assisted
      personal interview: focusing on drug use, mental health, demographics and socio-economic
      factors, HIV care and drug treatment history) and blood draws (for HIV viral load and CD4
      count). The two intervention groups received up to 11 patient navigation sessions over a
      6-month period to actively assist participants in linking to HIV primary care and substance
      use treatment. Participants in all three groups completed follow-up assessments consisting of
      CAPI, blood draws, urine collection and breath analysis at approximately 6 and 12 months
      post-randomization. Medical records were reviewed to document receipt of HIV care and
      treatment during the study period. CTN 0064 will leverage the CTN 0049 research
      infrastructure and cohort by utilizing the 11 participating CTN 0049 research teams to
      recruit their randomized participants into the CTN 0064 study.

      CTN 0064 has two main components: Component 1 is the baseline assessment for CTN 0064. It
      will also serve as a long-term follow-up assessment for CTN 0049 for those who consent to
      participate in CTN 0064. Participants whose HCV antibody test result is positive in this
      baseline assessment will be invited to enroll in Component 2. Component 2 is an RCT that will
      assess the effectiveness of a Care Facilitation intervention (compared to Control) in moving
      HIV/HCV co-infected substance users forward along the HCV care continuum. The study's primary
      objective is based on Component 2 and will be operationalized as movement through a series of
      (potentially non-sequential) pre-defined, clinical steps along the HCV care continuum
      (including the ultimate step, sustained virologic response to treatment at 12 weeks post
      treatment completion [SVR12]) (AASLD/IDSA/IAS-USA). Secondary objectives will be to assess:
      1) success at each step in the HCV care continuum, 2) engagement in HIV care and substance
      use treatment, and 3) HIV viral suppression as well as 4) to examine other long-term outcomes
      of the CTN 0049 cohort.

      All adults who were randomized into the CTN 0049 study and who provided consent to be
      contacted about future studies (hereafter, referred to as the "CTN 0049 cohort") will be
      invited to enroll in the CTN 0064 study. All participants will provide informed consent and
      complete Component 1, consisting of: 1) a computer assisted personal interview or CAPI
      (capturing history of HIV care, HCV testing and care, substance use and substance use
      treatment; mental health; demographics; and socio-economic factors), 2) HCV antibody
      screening via rapid HCV test (and, if HCV antibody positive, HCV RNA testing via
      venipuncture), 3) associated pre-/post-HCV test information and counseling, 4) blood specimen
      collection via venipuncture, and 5) drug/alcohol toxicology screening (via urine evaluation).
      The blood specimens of all participants will be assessed for HIV viral load and CD4 count.
      The blood specimens for the subset of participants who screen as HCV antibody positive will
      be assessed for HCV RNA to determine if their HCV infection is active.

      Participants who screen as HCV antibody positive will be randomized into Component 2 and
      assigned to one of two groups: 1) HCV Care Facilitation intervention or 2) Control. The Care
      Facilitation intervention group will receive up to 12 sessions during a 6-month intervention
      period. Follow-up visits with both groups will be conducted at approximately 6 and 12 months
      post-randomization. These visits will consist of CAPI, blood specimen collection, and
      drug/alcohol toxicology screening. Medical records will be reviewed to document HCV testing,
      receipt and use of HCV clinical evaluation, care and treatment (as applicable); and HIV care
      and treatment before and during the study period.
    
  