
    
      Conventionally volume measurements can be made by using multiplanar or VOCALTM (Virtual Organ
      Computer-aided AnaLysis). Recently, a new technique, XI VOCALTM (eXtended Imaging VOCAL) has
      been described. Combined with the inversion mode, measurements for the liquid-filled
      structures can also be made. The potential use in clinical diagnosis and prediction of
      pathologies of volume measurements particularly in the first trimester are yet to be
      investigated.

      3D ultrasound is found to be superior to 2D parameter in volumetry measurement. However,
      currently, there are still very few studies done to evaluate the potential use of volumetry
      measurement in clinical practice, especially of the validity and reproducibility of XI
      VOCALTM; and the variation of results obtained within different ultrasound machines. Due to
      the potential use of volumetry measurements in clinical practice, the accuracy in volumetry
      measurement is very important and the development of new technique need to be fully explored
      so that its benefits can be fully used for the contribution of clinical practice.

      So far no research has been done to evaluate the difference in the results obtained between
      different ultrasound machines, in particularly for volumetry measurements. This is important
      because if there is no significant difference in results between difference machines, we can
      accumulate the results from these machines for a study, which can include a more variety of
      samples. Furthermore, it will be much easier to compare results of one machine with another
      for similar studies.

      Both Voluson 730 and Accuvix have been used widely in research studies on 3D volumetry but
      comparison of the results obtained from these two machines have not been done. We do not know
      whether the results generated from one machine can be extrapolated to the other machine for
      clinical or research purpose. Thus more research needs to be done in this area.

      Thus, this study is carried out to evaluate the potential use of the new modality of XI
      VOCALTM in the volumetry measurement of regular and irregular shaped objects, comparison of
      results obtained between different widely used machines, and the potential used of volumetry
      measurements in the prediction of common and important clinical pathologies such as
      αº-thalassemia.
    
  