
    
      Background: Excessive use of antibiotics may lead to unnecessary adverse events and raise the
      emergence of bacterial resistance, an increasingly serious problem in Europe. In absolute
      terms most antibiotics are prescribed in primary care with considerable unexplained variation
      of antibiotic use indicating the need for further important improvement of prescription
      practice in Switzerland.

      Aim: To evaluate the effect of a continuous postal and web-based feedback and peer comparison
      system of individual antibiotic prescription rates on the prescription behaviour of primary
      care physicians in Switzerland.

      Design: Randomized, controlled, pragmatic intervention trial. Setting: Primary care providers
      of Switzerland above the median of antibiotic prescription rates.

      Population: Primary care physicians caring for patients enlisted with social health insurance
      companies that provide invoice data to the SANTÉSUISSE DATENPOOL AND TARIFPOOL.

      Endpoints: Primary endpoint: Prescription rate of antibiotics as defined daily doses (DDD)
      per 100 consultations at 12 and 24 months. Secondary endpoints: Costs-savings from the
      intervention, acceptability of the program, percentage of prescriptions fulfilling
      disease-specific quality indicators for outpatient antibiotic criteria by the European
      Surveillance of Antimicrobial Consumption (ESAC).

      Intervention: Quarterly postal and electronic feedback for 24 months on the crude number of
      antibiotics prescribed, a population adjusted benchmark-profile in comparison to other
      primary care physicians, and evidence-based guidelines for the use of antibiotics in primary
      care. Physicians in the control group receive no information.

      Variables and measurement: Rates of antibiotic prescriptions overall and per drug class
      (DDD), cost of prescribed drugs and the intervention program; number of web-application
      logins and participation cancellations, and - in a sub-sample - number of prescriptions
      fulfilling disease-specific quality indicators for outpatient antibiotic criteria (ESAC).

      Expected results: We expect a 5% reduction of antibiotic prescription rates between the
      intervention and control groups after 12 months with an assumed participation rate (at least
      one web-access) and return of acceptance questionnaire of 30%. We expect that the
      intervention program will be cost-saving. ESAC quality indicators will be a useful tool for
      monitoring the quality of antibiotic prescription in ambulatory care in Switzerland.

      Analyses: Analysis will be done by intention to treat principles. We will use linear
      regression analysis to determine the difference in antibiotic prescriptions between the
      intervention and the control group with appropriate adjustment for the case mix of patient
      populations and self-dispensation. Based on outpatient data of 2009 from the Helsana
      insurance and conservative effect estimates a sample-size of 1427 physicians each for the
      intervention and control group is planned.

      Significance: This trial will investigate if a repeated feedback system results in a
      long-term reduction of antibiotic prescription practices. In addition, the feasibility of a
      web-based interface as communication tool to primary care physicians will be assessed. If
      effective, the system could be easily employed for other interventions as well.
    
  