
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease is a condition in which there is a rise of gastroduodenal
      contents into the esophageal lumen, causing mucosal damage. Among treatments, medications are
      the most common used ones but up to 10%-40% doesn't respond to this type of treatment.
      Surgical treatment has been considered as the gold standard; however, with complications such
      as bleeding, perforation, or dysphagia after surgery. Moreover, not all patients are
      candidates to receive this type of treatment. Based on these data, new techniques have been
      explored in order to reduce morbidity, mortality and costs in the treatment of these
      patients.

      Among different endoscopical treatments, ablation of EGJ is a new promising technique which
      can be used to perform a closure at this level throughout the scar secondary to hybrid-APC
      treatment, consequently decreasing gastroesophageal reflux. So, the aim of this study is to
      evaluate safety and efficacy of ARAT in a group of patients with confirmed GERD.

      This is a quasi experimental study that will be conducted in a tertiary care center in Mexico
      city, Mexico. In an endoscopy department at the Mexican Institute of Social Security between
      January 2018 and July 2019. Those patients diagnosed with gastroesophageal reflux who are
      candidates and who accept this type of treatment will be evaluated. Patients who meet the
      inclusion criteria will be the definitive candidates. The risks and benefits of this type of
      endoscopic treatment will be explained as well as the potential scope of this endoscopic
      alternative. We will evaluate safety and efficacy of this new procedure.

      The technique of the procedure involves ablation of the mucosa of the EGJ using Hybrid-APC
      (ARAT). The ablation field is initially marked with a Hybrid-APC. Subsequently, saline
      solution mixed with indigo-carmine is injected at the submucosa level to raise a submucosal
      bleb, followed by ablation of the mucosa along the lesser curvature. The approximate duration
      of the procedure is 40min.

      Follow-up will include objective evaluation of reflux disease with: upper endoscopy,
      manometry, pHmetry, reflux questionnaire, and need of PPI (proton-pump inhibitor) dose
      quantification.
    
  