
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      sEphB4-HSA.

      II. To describe the dose limiting toxicities and adverse event profile of sEphB4-HSA in
      patients with advanced solid tumors.

      III. To describe the pharmacokinetics of sEphB4-HSA. IV. To describe the anti-tumor activity
      of sEphB4-HSA as manifested by responses to treatment.

      V. To obtain preliminary evaluation of effect of sEphB4-HSA on absolute circulating tumor
      cell (CTC) numbers as compared with pre-treatment levels using pre- and during treatment CTC.
      Exploratory evaluation of effect of sEphB4-HSA on downstream protein mediators of the Ephrin
      pathway (pAKT, pSrc) and their transcriptional target genes (rgs5 and psenen) will be
      performed.

      VI. To collect pilot information to identify a dose or doses with biologic activity. Biologic
      activity after treatment with sEphB4-HSA will be defined as evidence of drug-on-target effect
      as manifested by reduction in absolute CTC numbers. Other exploratory evaluations of
      drug-on-target effect such as increase in transcript levels of psenen or rgs5 may be
      considered in the assessment of biologic activity.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients will be assigned to receive recombinant
      EphB4-HSA fusion protein intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes in one of the following treatment
      schedules:

        1. Weekly treatment - administered on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        2. Every 2 weeks treatment - administered on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        3. Every 3 weeks treatment - administered on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  