
    
      There is an unmet need for improved therapeutic paradigms in colorectal cancer, the 3rd
      leading cause of cancer and 2nd leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. This need is
      underscored by the populations in jeopardy, including the ~100 million people in the US over
      50 y that have a 1:8 risk associated with a disease-specific mortality of 50%. Mortality
      reflects metastatic disease: ~50% of patients initially present with regional or distant
      metastases, while ~20% present with occult metastases. Beyond the general population risk,
      there is an established stage-specific difference in outcomes in pN0 (node negative) African
      Americans with colorectal cancer, who exhibit ~40% excess mortality attributable to race.
      Reductions in mortality have been hampered by the absence of effective chemo-, radio-, and
      immuno- therapeutic approaches to metastatic disease. In that context, immunotherapy has been
      disappointing, in part, reflecting the absence of antigens that are tumor-specific,
      immunogenic, and universally associated with neoplasia. Moreover, the gap in survival between
      African Americans and Caucasians specifically reflects the inability to identify those with
      occult metastases who are at increased risk for developing recurrent disease.

      This study advances an emerging paradigm in colorectal cancer cell detection and eradication,
      employing GCC as a molecular marker and immunological target. GCC is a protein whose
      expression is normally restricted to intestinal epithelial cells, but universally expressed
      by metastatic colorectal tumors. We have clinically validated the detection of occult
      metastases in lymph nodes by quantifying GCC mRNA (messenger RNA) by reverse transcriptase
      (RT)-PCR (qRT-PCR). This study revealed that occult metastases were the most powerful
      independent predictors of survival in pN0 patients. Further, there is a disproportionate
      burden of occult disease in African American, compared to Caucasian, patients. This new
      molecular staging platform provides a unique opportunity to identify occult metastases
      underlying racial disparities in disease recurrence, which could be prevented by
      tumor-targeted immunotherapy.

      In the absence of ideal tumor antigens, immunotherapy has been directed to tissue-specific
      proteins. Barriers to employing self-antigens include tolerance, which limits anti-tumor
      immunity, and autoimmunity. The present study advances an emerging paradigm exploiting
      immunological compartmentalization of mucosally-restricted antigens to generate systemic
      antitumor immunity without autoimmunity. Asymmetry in immunological cross-talk between
      compartments, wherein systemic T and B cell responses rarely extend to mucosae, suggest that
      proteins normally expressed in mucosae, but which are expressed systemically by tumors, may
      serve as vaccine targets for metastases. Advantages of these cancer mucosa antigens include
      unique systemic immunoreactivity profiles supporting highly effective durable antitumor
      immunity in the context of absent immunological cross-talk between compartments restricting
      autoimmunity. Here, this paradigm will be advanced employing the tumor marker GCC, which
      induces immune responses that oppose metastatic colorectal cancer in preclinical models,
      without autoimmunity. This study will define the safety and immunological efficacy of
      adenoviral GCC vaccine in African American and Caucasian pN0 colon cancer patients with
      excess recurrence risk reflecting occult lymph node metastases identified by GCC qRT-PCR.
      This study will be the first step in translating GCC into a vaccine for the secondary
      prevention of metastases in African American and Caucasian colorectal cancer patients.
    
  