
    
      BACKGROUND

      Patient-controlled admissions are short self-referred inpatient admissions in mental health
      services without approval by clinicians (Heskestad & Tytlandsvik 2008). The intention is to
      reduce a high use of inpatient care. Patients are signing a contract for a specified period
      with such stays limited to a maximum number of days per stay and with a minimum number of
      weeks between stays.

      A systematic review on patient-controlled hospital admissions identified six small studies
      which had all been done in Norway and including patients with schizophrenia, affective
      disorders, anxiety disorder, personality disorder and substance abuse (Strand et al 2015).
      The review showed a tendency towards a reduction in involuntary inpatient care and use of
      inpatient days, but it could not conclude on effect due to small sample sizes and
      methodological limitations. A later and larger study in Denmark showed a reduction in
      involuntary admissions and inpatient days compared to historical controls, but not compared
      to another matched group with treatment as usual (Thomsen et al 2018). The model is line with
      research on the positive influence of shared decision-making, where the patient has a major
      influence on decisions on choice of treatment (Wills & Holmes-Rovner 2006) and research on
      the use of low-threshold crisis units as an alternative to stay at psychiatric hospital
      departments (Lloyd-Evans et al 2009). But more studies are needed to explore the usefulness
      of patient-controlled admissions for different patient groups.

      CONTEXT

      The current study is being done in inpatient wards in four community mental health centers of
      Akershus University Hospital, Norway, after a smaller pilot study that indicated potential
      effect for patients with affective illness, but less for patients with psychosis (Støvind et
      al 2012). Based on the pilot project and earlier studies, it was estimated that two
      patient-controlled beds in each center would be enough to meet the needs for
      patient-controlled hospital admissions for approximately 120 patients within the target
      group. Each of the 19 health trust in Norway has 2-5 community mental health centers, and 40
      % of the beds in mental health services in Norway are in community mental health centers.

      AIMS

      The aims of the study are to describe the use and experiences of patient-controlled
      admissions, compare the use of inpatient admissions and inpatient days during the 24 months
      before and after baseline, and to identify subgroups who may benefit from the model.

      The study protocol in Norwegian was approved by the Regional Committee on Medical and Health
      Research Ethics in Norway South East 29 April 2011 (reg.no. 2011/790).

      RESEARCH QUESTIONS

      (RQ1) Has the model and use of patient-controlled admissions been implemented according to
      the plan? (RQ2) Are the number of admissions, involuntary admissions or days of stay reduced
      for the 24 months contract period compared with the previous 24 months? (RQ3) Are there any
      differences among subgroups in changes in admissions or total inpatient days? (RQ4) How has
      the patients' contact with staff, participation in activities and experiences of the stay
      been for patient-controlled stays? (RQ5) How has the patients' and relatives' experience been
      with the model of patient-controlled admissions for 24 months? (RQ6) Do the results indicate
      which patients seem to benefit from patient-controlled admissions?

      DESIGN

      The study is a pre-post prospective intervention study where the use of inpatient admissions
      in the contract period is compared to a similar period before baseline so that the patients
      are their own controls.

      RECRUITMENT AND SAMPLE

      The study has aimed to recruit 120 patients. The eligible patients have a severe mental
      illness, high use of inpatient mental health care the last two years and are expected to
      benefit from patient-controlled admissions. Only patients giving written consent are
      included. The inclusion period was planned for 12 months (April 2011 to March 2012) but was
      extended with 9 months (to December 2012) due to slower recruitment than expected. The
      patients are followed for 24 months from baseline.

      INSTRUMENTS AND VARIABLES

      Data on patients at baseline (start of period with contract about patient-controlled
      admissions, and inclusion in the study) includes socio-demographics, current use of health
      services, ICD-10 diagnoses, ratings on type and severity of current psychiatric problems
      using the Health of the Nation Outcome Scales (HoNOS) (Wing et al 1998) and use of alcohol or
      illegal drugs using Alcohol and Drug Use Scales (Mueser et al 1995).

      Data on each patient-controlled admission and the patient's experience of this includes date
      and hour for self-referral, date and hour for admission, date and hour for discharge, reasons
      for self-referral, contacts with staff and participation in activities during the stay, and
      satisfaction with the stay.

      Data on patients' experience with the model with patient-controlled admissions includes
      questions about feasibility of using patient-controlled admissions, satisfaction with the
      contract and the patient-controlled stays, how they think the model may have changed their
      use on inpatient care, and how the model may be improved. Data on relatives' experiences with
      the model includes the same question as to the patient but adapted to the relatives'
      situation.

      Data on all inpatient admissions/stays in the mental health services for each participant at
      Akershus University Hospital for the 24 months contract period and for the 24 months period
      before baseline is extracted from the electronic patient records. For each stay data is
      extracted on department/section, admission date, discharge date, whether admission was
      voluntary/involuntary, and date for changing involuntary stay to voluntary stay.

      DATA COLLECTION

      Data on the patient's situation and mental health at baseline is collected by mental health
      nurses trained in completing the assessment form in collaboration with the clinician of the
      patient. Data on each patient-controlled admission is collected by the ward staff during the
      stay and in an interview with the patient at the end of the stay. Data on the patient's and a
      relative's experience with the model is collected by the ward staff in a brief interview or
      telephone interview at the end of the 24 months contract period.

      Data on all inpatient admissions/stays in the mental health services for each participant is
      extracted later from the electronic patient journal system at Akershus University Hospital
      for the 24 months contract period and for the 24 months period before baseline.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Descriptive analyses will be done to describe the patient sample and their situation at
      baseline, the use and characteristics of the patient-controlled admission/stays, and the
      patients' and relatives' experiences with the patient-controlled admission model.

      Testing of significant differences in use of admissions and inpatient days between the 24
      months contract period and the previous 24 months period with treatment as usual will be done
      with t-test and chi-square. Multiple regression analyses will be used to study association
      between baseline characteristics and the use of patient-controlled admissions. If subgroups
      with different patterns of use of patient-controlled admission/stays are identified, analyses
      may be done to identify characteristics of these groups, depending on the size of sample and
      subgroups.

      The inclusion period was 2011-2012. Data collection was done 2011-2014. Data extraction from
      the patient records was done 2015-2016. Quality control and organization of data was done
      2017-2018. Data analysis will start in August 2018.
    
  