
    
      Single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, safety, activity, and
      pharmacokinetic (PK) study of 2.0 g of SRT2104 administered orally once daily for 28
      consecutive days to two different populations: type 2 diabetic (T2D) subjects on an existing,
      stable, hypoglycemic regimen and otherwise healthy cigarette smokers (≥ 10cigarettes/day for
      at least 1 year). Approximately 24 subjects with T2D and 24 otherwise healthy cigarette
      smokers, aged 18-60 years, who fulfill the inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be enrolled in
      this study to ensure at least 20 evaluable subjects per population are enrolled. Subjects
      will be evenly stratified and randomized to receive SRT2104 2.0 g/day or placebo once daily
      for 28 days. After 28 days, subjects will cross over to receive the other test article for
      another 28 days of dosing, bringing the total dosing period to 56 days.

      Subjects will sign the informed consent form at the screening visit (to occur within 21 days
      of first dose of test article), and will undergo screening assessments to verify eligibility
      for the study. If eligible and willing to participate, subjects will return to the clinic on
      Days -1 and 1 for safety assessments, hematology and biochemistry measurements, platelet
      monocyte aggregation (PMA) assessment, forearm venous occlusion plethysmography, pulse wave
      analysis (PWA), pulse wave velocity (PWV) and PK sampling. The first dose of test article
      will occur on Day 1 after eligibility has been confirmed. After each 28 day dosing period,
      subjects will return on Day 28 and Day 56 for safety assessments, hematology and biochemistry
      measurements, forearm plethysmography, PWA, PWV, and PK sampling. Subjects will return to the
      clinic on Days 2, 15, 29, 43, and 57 for safety assessments and additional PK sampling.
      Subjects will be asked to complete a study drug diary on a daily basis for compliance and
      adverse event (AE) monitoring (diabetic subjects will be required to monitor and record their
      fasting blood glucose in the diary also). An End of Study visit will occur 14 days following
      the final dose of SRT2104 or placebo on Day 70. A followup safety call will be made to each
      subject 30 days following their final dose of SRT2104 or placebo (Day 86).
    
  