
    
      The PRM Department of Montpellier University Hospital usually provides between 8500 and 9500
      medical consultations/year. A total of 830 medical consultations have been cancelled during
      the lockdown for COVID-19 between March 17th, 2020, and May 11th, 2020. This survey was
      approved by the local Institutional Review Board (IRB accreditation number: 19871).

      Procedure Phone calls were performed by residents. These young doctors worked in the PRM
      Department for 4 months before the beginning of the outbreak and were used to the PRM medical
      practices of the senior practitioners. They received a special dedicated education before
      they start calling the patients. They fulfilled a structured questionnaire for each patient.
      Each resident was supervised by a senior MD. A personalized daily appointment was organized
      with the group of residents to check for difficulties in recording the data and to answer any
      question from them. Questionnaires were collected each day and data were daily implemented in
      a dedicated database.

      Data recorded Descriptive data concerning age, description of the underlying disease, and
      delay from the cancelled consultation were recorded at the beginning of the call.

      The main Judgment criterion is the necessity to schedule a medical consultation within the
      next 3 weeks: immediate telephone consultation for urgent but easy situations (like refilling
      a prescription or advising the patient), or short-term consultation within the next three
      weeks. Other patients have been proposed for a delayed consultation within the next 3 months.

      Secondary objectives are: 1/ the reason for this urgent need of a medical consultation within
      the next 3 weeks, 2/ the category of patients for whom this need was the most prevalent,
      3/the relationship between the date of the cancelled consultation and the feeling of
      emergency for reprogramming it, 4/ the disruption of home-based or community-based
      rehabilitation and its consequences for patients, and 5/ the access to other medical services
      for those patients during the quarantine period.
    
  