
    
      This trial will compare the results of 2 cohorts, with different treatment intervals, to
      assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of IVT of ranibizumab for the treatment of wet
      AMD. Specifically, this trial will evaluate the ability to reduce the amount of visits and
      IVT ranibizumab treatments needed all while maintaining an exudation-free macula. Subjects in
      both cohorts will be followed for a total of 156 weeks.

      Cohort A (control arm, monthly, n=20) Subjects will receive monthly treatment of IVT 0.5 mg
      ranibizumab from Day 0 to week 100. Monthly treatment is defined as every 28 days (±7 days).
      Dosing should not occur earlier than 21 days after the previous treatment.

      Week 104 - Week 156 Starting at week 104 subjects will be seen monthly and treated with IVT
      ranibizumab pro re nata (PRN) based on pre-defined re-treatment criteria.

      Retreatment criteria for PRN phase

      Re-treatment will be initiated if any of the following criteria are meet:

        -  Presence of any abnormal intraretinal or subretinal fluid on high resolution SD-OCT.

        -  Presence of new intraretinal or subretinal hemorrhage related to AMD on examination.

        -  10 letter loss from previous visit, related to active wet AMD in the opinion of the
           treating investigator

      Cohort B (comparator arm, TREX, n=40) Subjects will receive a minimum of 3 consecutive IVT
      0.5 mg ranibizumab (visits 2, 4 and 5). Starting at week 8, if a subject has achieved a "dry"
      macula; signs of active exudation have resolved by both ophthalmic exam and SD-OCT evaluation
      they will begin a Treat and Extend protocol.

      For a macula to be considered "dry" it must meet both the following criteria:

        1. Resolution of intraretinal and subretinal fluid

        2. Resolution of all subretinal hemorrhage related to active exudative AMD

      Resolution of pigment epithelial detachments (PED) is not required for a macula to be
      considered "dry". Small intraretinal cystic areas observed on SD-OCT are acceptable and the
      corresponding macula can be considered dry. The criteria for these are specific; see
      reference images (Appendix D) for examples of acceptable intraretinal cystic spaces. When
      cysts described in Appendix D are present the macula should be considered dry and should be
      notated on the SD-OCT interpretation. Also, minimal increased retinal thickening on SD-OCT
      without definitive intraretinal or subretinal exudative fluid can be observed and the
      corresponding macula will be considered dry.

      Once a "dry" macula is achieved the interval between visits is then lengthened by 2-week
      increments, at every visit the macula is "dry". IVT ranibizumab will be rendered at every
      visit, no earlier than 7 days before the target date and no later than 7 days after the
      target date; the interval between visits is individualized based on each patient's response
      to treatment. The interval between injections will not exceed 12 weeks

      After a subject is extended beyond 4-weeks and develops recurrent exudative disease activity,
      the eye is treated and the treatment interval for the next visit is reduced by 2 weeks,
      compared to the previous treatment interval. The interval between treatments will be reduced
      by 2-week intervals until a dry macula is again established. Once a dry macula is again
      achieved, the interval between visits will be extended by 1-week intervals, instead of 2-week
      intervals.

      For example: If recurrent exudative disease activity is detected after an 8-week interval,
      the eye is treated and the interval for the next visit is reduced to 6 weeks; if the macula
      is then dry after the 6-week interval, the interval is increased to 7 weeks. If the macula is
      then dry after the 7-week interval, the interval is increased to 8 weeks, etc.

      Once an eye is extended by 1-week intervals, if recurrent exudative disease is detected
      again, the treatment interval for the next visit is reduced by 1 week, compared to the
      previous treatment interval, and will continue to be decreased by 1-week intervals until dry
      or the 4-week interval is reached. Once a dry macula is again established, the most recent
      interval between treatments is maintained for one additional visit; if the macula remains dry
      at this time, the interval will then be extended by 1-week increments.

      If an eye exhibits recurrent exudative disease activity 3 times at a given interval and is
      unable to extend beyond that interval, the eye will continue treatment at the next shorter
      interval for 3 consecutive visits. After these 3 visits, the interval between visits will
      again be extended by 1-week intervals, while the macula remains "dry". If the eye exhibits
      recurrent exudative disease activity, the interval will be decreased by 1-week intervals
      until the macula is again "dry." The eye will then continue treatment at this interval for 3
      consecutive visits before extending by 1-week again. This pattern of repeating 3 visits at
      the same "dry" interval will be repeated each time after the eye becomes "wet" before again
      attempting another 1-week extension.

      Evidence of recurrent exudative activity

      Clinical evidence of recurrent exudative disease activity requiring reducing the interval
      between treatments includes any of the following:

        1. Evidence of subretinal or intraretinal fluid on SD-OCT which is not classified as small
           intraretinal cystic areas unrelated to active exudative AMD (Appendix D) or minimal
           increased retinal thickening by SD-OCT without definitive intraretinal or subretinal
           fluid

        2. New macular hemorrhage related to active exudative AMD.

        3. ETDRS VA loss of 5 letters from the previous measurement due to neovascular AMD disease
           process with corresponding SD-OCT evidence of fluid in the macula.

        4. Increase in CRT of 50 microns due to active exudative AMD.

      The isolated presence of a PED, or enlargement of a PED, does not constitute evidence of
      exudative disease activity.

      If an eye has an ETDRS VA decrease of ≥ 4 lines (20 letters) or a subretinal macular
      hemorrhage of 1DD or larger, at any point during the trial, the subject will subsequently be
      treated with ranibizumab every 4 weeks.

      Week 104 - Week 156 Starting at Week 104 subjects who have achieved a "dry" macula, at the 12
      week interval will be seen monthly and treated pro re nata (PRN) based on pre-defined
      re-treatment criteria. Study visits should be scheduled to occur every 28 (±7) days relative
      to the date of week 104 visit.

      Retreatment criteria for PRN phase

      Re-treatment will be initiated if any of the following criteria are met:

        -  Presence of any abnormal intraretinal or subretinal fluid on high resolution SD- OCT.

        -  Presence of new intraretinal or subretinal hemorrhage related to AMD on examination.

        -  10 letter loss from previous visit, related to active wet AMD in the opinion of the
           treating investigator

      Starting at Week 104, subjects who have NOT achieved extension to the 12-week treatment
      interval will continue with the treat and extend protocol. At any time during weeks 104 to
      156 if a subject achieves a "dry" macula, at the 12-week interval, they will immediately
      begin monthly PRN treatment based on pre-defined re-treatment criteria. Study visits should
      be scheduled to occur every 28 (±7) days, relative to the date the 12-week interval is
      achieved. Subjects will not be treated at the visit they achieve the 12 week interval (this
      is the date PRN treatment will begin).
    
  