
    
      Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is an underdiagnosed form of pulmonary
      hypertension whose pathogenesis remains to be fully elucidated. Altered endothelial
      homeostasis, defective angiogenesis and inflammation have been implicated. The formation of
      the organised occlusions is considered to arise from a failure to resolve acute pulmonary
      emboli. There is emerging evidence supporting the role of mediators of angiogenesis,
      inflammation and the coagulation cascade (and their many interactions) in CTEPH. Pulmonary
      endarterectomy (PEA), to remove these occlusions, may be a cure in some patients. Assessing
      circulating proteins associated with these processes may be not only useful for understanding
      disease pathogenesis but may also lead to improvements in clinical assessment.

      The study was approved by the Regional Ethics Committee (Papworth Hospital Research Tissue
      Bank; 08/H0304/56+5). Consecutive patients undergoing PEA surgery at Royal Papworth Hospital
      National Health Service Foundation Trust, United Kingdom, who consented for participation in
      the Research Tissue Bank between February 2012 and August 2014, were recruited. A validation
      data set included all consecutive samples collected from CTEPH patients prior to PEA between
      April 2010 and Aug 2017. Patients were diagnosed in accordance with international guidelines.

      Patients had serum samples collected from a peripheral vein prior to PEA. In a subset of
      patients, further sampling was performed at the first follow up visit to Papworth Hospital
      3-6 months post-PEA. Customized human cytokine/chemokine magnetic bead assays and customized
      human angiogenesis/growth factor assays were used to measure levels of circulating proteins
      in these serum samples (interleukin [IL] 6, IL8, IL10, tumour necrosis factor [TNF] α,
      angiopoietin 2 [Ang2], endoglin, vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF] a, VEGFc, VEGFd
      and bone morphogenetic protein 9 [BMP9]).

      Levels were compared to levels from patients with chronic thromboembolic disease but no
      pulmonary hypertension (CTED) and healthy age and sex matched controls. In addition
      multivariate rank regression models were used to assess associations between levels of
      circulating proteins and clinical assessments carried out as part of the patients routine
      clinical care.
    
  