
    
      Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a form of thrombotic microangiopathy, characterized by
      microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and acute renal impairment of varying
      severity, which may be preceded by an episode of diarrhea with or without blood. Karmali et
      al. showed the relationship between this syndrome and diarrhea caused by Shiga
      toxin-producing bacteria such as Escherichia coli. These cytotoxins, called Shiga-like toxins
      or Shiga toxins (Stx), are also called verotoxins, due to the characteristic cytopathic
      effect they cause on Vero cell cultures.

      HUS is often classified into 3 primary types: 1) HUS due to infections associated with
      Shiga-toxin producing E. coli (STEC) or Shigella dysenteriae Type 1, often associated with
      diarrhea, with the rare exception of HUS due to a severe disseminated infection caused by
      Streptococcus pneumoniae, 2) HUS related to complement abnormalities or related to factor
      ADAMTS13 deficit, such HUS is also known as "atypical HUS" and is not associated with
      diarrhea, and 3) HUS of unknown etiology that usually occurs in the course of systemic
      diseases or physio-pathologic conditions such as pregnancy, after transplantation or after
      drug use.

      E. coli bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Cattle and sheep are
      the main reservoirs of STEC, and the major transmission route is believed to be food
      contaminated with animal feces. Contaminated water has also been recognized as a source, and
      direct human-to-human and animal-to-human transmission have been reported.

      E. coli consists of a diverse group of bacteria. Most of them are harmless and an important
      part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, that can
      cause either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. Diarrheagenic E. coli
      strains are categorized into 6 pathotypes: 1) Enterotoxigenic E. coli, 2) Enteropathogenic E.
      coli, 3) Enteroaggregative E. coli, 4) Enteroinvasive E. coli, 5) diffusely adherent E. coli,
      and 6) STEC. STEC may also be referred to as verocytotoxin-producing E. coli (VTEC). This
      last pathotype is the one most commonly associated with foodborne outbreaks.

      Treatment of STEC HUS renal damage caused by Stx is available. The investigational medicinal
      product (IMP), INM004, proposes to neutralize the toxin in the bloodstream to prevent the
      interaction of the Stx with the specific receptor, by means of a polyclonal antibody to be
      administered upon the appearance of symptoms (bloody diarrhea) and diagnosis of infection by
      STEC, thereby preventing the action of the toxin in the body. Thus, the initial hypothesis
      for examination is for the prevention of the full expression of HUS, based upon presumptive
      clinical, biochemical, and other biological evidence suggesting a risk of HUS at the time of
      treatment application. The polyclonal antibody (F(ab')2 fragment) is obtained by processing
      the serum of equine animals previously immunized against engineered Stx1B and Stx2B
      immunogens.

      INM004 could be administered at the earlier stages of STEC disease since subjects with STEC
      diarrhea are more likely to benefit from Stx neutralizing antibodies before the development
      of extra-intestinal manifestations and HUS. Neutralizing equine anti-Stx F(ab')2 antibodies
      (INM004) have the objective of preventing the development of HUS by blocking the circulating
      toxins in patients infected with STEC. Therefore, INM004 may be used in patients with a
      clinical manifestation of bloody diarrhea and a positive Stx result in feces. Early
      interruption of the Stx mediated cascade is expected to prevent the development of HUS,
      alleviate the severity of the illness, the rate of complications and the incidence/duration
      of hospitalizations. Therefore, patients in the early phases of the disease will be targeted
      in this study, ie, children who seek medical care due to diarrhea associated with STEC
      infection before HUS development.

      Pediatric subjects between 1 and 10 years (y) of age at the time of screening with an
      increased risk for development of HUS defined by the presence of bloody diarrhea based upon
      history or presentation and positive screen for Stx2 in the stool will be enrolled.

      Bloody diarrhea and positive screen for Stx2 have been included as inclusion criteria as
      these factors have been identified as risk factor for HUS development and will serve to
      enrich the patient population within the study to those most likely to benefit from this
      therapy.

      Case of Bloody Diarrhea Any person with an increase in the number of daily stools and
      alteration in the stool consistency, with presence of visible blood, which may include
      episodes of stool formed with blood in the form of streaks on its surface or blood visible
      only under a microscope, which may be accompanied by other symptoms such as vomiting, nausea,
      abdominal pain, or fever.

      Case of Shiga Toxin producing Escherichia coli Infection

      Identification of the etiological agent by at least 1 of the following laboratory criteria:

        -  Isolation of an E. coli strain that produces Stx or harbors stx1 or stx2 gene(s);

        -  Direct detection of stx1 or stx2 gene(s) nucleic acid (without strain isolation);

        -  Direct detection of free Stx in feces (without strain isolation). The surveillance of
           the STEC strains is performed using subtyping techniques: 1) genotyping of stx and eae
           by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-restriction fragment length polymorphism and 2)
           pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. STEC O157 and non O157 strains are recovered from the
           clinic, animal, food and environmental samples, and E. coli O157:H7, a Stx2a/Stx2c
           producer, harboring eae and ehxA genes, is the most common serotype.

      Case of Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome Patient of any age who presents in an acute form with
      microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and renal compromise.

      Case of Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome with Confirmed Diagnosis of Shiga Toxin producing
      Escherichia coli

      Case of HUS with identification of the etiological agent by at least 1 of the laboratory
      criteria:

        -  Screening of stx1 and/or stx2 by PCR/isolation of STEC

        -  Detection of free Stx in stool

        -  Detection of serogroup-specific O antigen antibodies O157, O145, O121
    
  