
    
      Background: Solid organ transplantation (SOT) is an increasingly used life-saving treatment
      for end-stage organ failure. Organ rejection and infections are the main complication to SOT
      and the balance of immunosuppression is of major importance to prevent these complications.
      However, to date the only mode to monitor treatment is by assessing drug concentrations,
      which has low correlation with the clinical outcome and does not represent the net state of
      immunosuppression.

      Methods: Prospectively the investigators plan to enroll 600 adult patients on the waiting
      list for SOT or with a planned transplantation at Rigshospitalet, Denmark. Prior to
      transplantation and on different time points up to two years post-transplantation we will
      perform a complete immunological profile. This profile will consist of classical descriptive
      immune phenotyping (flowcytometry), circulating biomarkers and the functional assay
      TruCulture®. In TruCulture® whole blood is stimulated with stimulants imitating bacterial,
      viral and fungal infections, where after a panel of selected cytokines is quantified.

      Clinical data from electronic health records will be obtained retrospectively from the
      PERSIMUNE data repository. These data are generated as part of routine care and include vital
      signs, biochemistry-, microbiological-, pathological-results as well as data about
      medication, demographics, diagnoses, hospital contacts, surgical procedures and mortality.

      Discussion: This will be the first large scale study to determine several aspects of immune
      function and perform a complete immunological profiling in SOT recipients. It is expected
      that this new knowledge will provide information to generate prediction models identifying
      patients at increased risk of infection and/or rejection. If the study is successful, the
      investigators will subsequently use the generated prediction models to propose personalized
      immunosuppressive regimens to be tested in future randomized controlled trials.
    
  