
    
      Background: Management of pain is challenging part of dental treatment, sometimes pain is a
      major postoperative symptom after many dental procedures especially for endodontics. The aim
      of the present randomized clinical trial was to investigate the efficacy of using paracetamol
      alone and three combinations of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs with paracetamol, to
      control postoperative endodontics pain.

      Methodology: 185 patients who had anterior or premolar teeth with irreversible pulpitis
      without any signs and symptoms of apical periodontitis and with moderate to severe pain.
      Patients were divided by allocation randomization into five groups. Four experimental groups
      receiving different medication; group I (single dose of paracetamol); group II (ibuprofen /
      paracetamol); group III (diclofenac k / paracetamol), group IV (mefenamic acid /paracetamol)
      and group V (no medication group). The groups received the medication after the first
      appointment where the pulp removed, and canals fully prepared. Pain intensity was scored
      based on 10-point VAS before and after treatment for up to 8 hours postoperatively. Sign test
      used for comparing pain score before and after treatment. This randomized control clinical
      trial was conducted on patients who were considered potential candidates if they had moderate
      to severe spontaneous pain of odontogenic origin (40-100 mm on a visual analogue scale, VAS).
      Patients were selected from those attending the Conservative dentistry clinics in both the
      University and the Teaching Hospital Emergency Clinic.

      The medications were prepared in the laboratories of faculty of Pharmacy. Four groups of
      medications were prepared as follows; Group I: paracetamol 1000mg Group II: ibuprofen 600mg +
      paracetamol 1000mg, Group III: Mefenamic acid 500mg + Paracetamol 1000mg Group IV: Diclofenac
      K 50mg + paracetamol 1000 mg
    
  