
    
      Hidradenitis suppurativa is a chronic suppurative and scarring disease primarily affecting
      the axillae and inguinal and perineal areas. The apocrine glands are the primary targets. It
      is characterized by firm, tender red nodules that soon become fluctuant and painful. Rupture
      of the lesion, suppuration, formation of sinus tracts and scarring may occur.

      The exact etiology of HS remains obscure. Proposed etiologic factors include follicular
      occlusion and bacterial infection, genetics, host defense defects, hormones, cigarette
      smoking, and irritants. Hormones seem to play a role, as the condition occurs after puberty,
      affects more women than men, and often flares in the perimenstrual period.

      Treating hidradenitis remains a challenge. Although many patients benefit from long-term
      treatment with systemic antibiotics (eg, tetracycline, minocycline, clindamycin, erythromycin
      in combination with metronidazole), no published evidence suggests that the long-term use of
      antibiotics alters the natural course of HS. Oral isotretinoin has been used, but is
      effective only in some cases. Some patients have had a beneficial response to biological
      agents, especially anti-TNF alpha biologicals such as infliximab. Oral contraceptives
      containing norgestrel or cyproterone acetate, alone or in combination with supplemental
      cyproterone acetate, spironolactone or dexamethasone (to block adrenal androgen production),
      have been shown to reduce the frequency and severity of attacks in women.

      YAZ is an oral contraceptive that is FDA approved for acne vulgaris. Unlike other progestins,
      drospirenone has unique antimineralocorticoid (mild diuretic effect) and antiandrogenic
      properties. The antiandrogenic property of drospirenone means that it blocks the male sex
      hormones that can cause acne. It is hoped that that YAZ will offer patients with hidradenitis
      suppurativa a safe and effective therapeutic option.

      Subjects will be assigned to a treatment group upon randomization. Bayer HealthCare
      Pharmaceuticals personnel, investigators, subjects and study nurse/coordinators will be
      blinded to the study product treatment assignment. The study duration will be 24 weeks with
      visits at screening, baseline (week 0), week 6, week 12, week 18, and week 24. Lesion counts
      (total, inflammatory, non-inflammatory) and an ISGA, and photography will be performed on
      every visit. A physical examination will be done at baseline and Week 24. Safety will be
      assessed from reported adverse events (AEs).
    
  