
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, accountings for
      60-70% of all demented cases. It is a neuro-pathological diagnosis determined by presence of
      neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques in the brain of patients with dementia. The
      disease frequently starts with memory impairment, but is invariably followed by a progressive
      global cognitive impairment. The major risk factor for Alzheimer disease is age, with
      prevalence doubling every 5 years after the age of 65.

      Diagnosis of Alzheimer's typically involves physical and neurological exams, as medical
      history and mental status evaluation, laboratory investigations and it involves brain imaging
      (such as MRI) which could identify other causes of problems such as stroke, tumor or head
      trauma. By physical and neurological examination, Alzheimer's disease characterized by
      gradual onset and progressive decline in cognition with sparring of motor and sensory
      function until later stages; the average course of Alzheimer's disease is approximately a
      decade, with a range of 3 to 20 years duration from diagnosis to death .Memory impairment is
      present in the earliest stages of the disease; patients have difficulty learning new
      information and retaining it for more than few minutes. As the disease advances, the ability
      to learn increasingly compromised, more distant memories are lost. Other cognitive loses
      include aphasia, apraxia, disorientation and impaired judgment. Cognitive impairment affects
      daily life; patients have difficulty planning meals, managing finances or medication, using
      telephone, driving. Many capacities may remain intact until later stages including
      performance of self-care activities of daily living as eating, bathing. Patients evidence
      personality alteration, irritability, anxiety, depression. Delusion, hallucination and
      aggression. Laboratory Evaluation includes Biochemical markers as measurement of
      Cerebrospinal fluid including Tau protein, amyloid beta peptides or neural thread protein and
      measurement of urinary biomarkers including neural thread protein. Also testing including Apo
      lipoprotein E epsilon 4 allele presenilin genes, amyloid precursor gene or TREM2. Diffusion
      tensor imaging (DTI) is an imaging technology based on magnetic resonance diffusion weighted
      imaging, which can make quantitative analysis of anisotropy of water molecules in different
      directions, so as to observe the microstructure of tissues non-invasively. So Diffusion
      tensor imaging can provide information of fiber orientation, the injury of fiber, and
      membrane permeability which cannot be obtained from conventional MRI. Diffusion tensor
      imaging enables mapping of White matter microstructure changes in development, aging and
      neurological disorders, From the tensor, it's possible to derive the mean diffusivity (DM)
      and the fractional anisotropy (FA) which is the most robust measures of anisotropy which
      measure the degree of deviation from isotropic diffusion. ). More recently, an additional
      DT-MRI derived index has been proposed .This index measures the degree of similarity of
      orientation of neighboring voxels and its named inter-voxel coherence (C).

      So Diffusion tensor imaging has therefore become a powerful technique in the study of
      neurodegenerative diseases in recent years.
    
  