
    
      The Rare Lung Disease Consortium (RLDC), a group of geographically-dispersed clinical
      research sites, has been established to conduct collaborative clinical research regarding
      rare lung diseases. The collaborative work includes diagnostic, therapeutic and other studies
      in patients with pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP), lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM),
      alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD), or hereditary interstitial lung diseases. These
      patients can have delayed or incorrect diagnoses, and sub-optimal clinical management. The
      present protocol is focused to individuals with PAP.

      PAP occurs as primary, secondary, congenital and idiopathic forms. RLDC investigators have
      previously shown that primary PAP is strongly associated with high levels of circulating,
      neutralizing anti-GM-CSF autoantibodies. Absence of GM-CSF bioactivity is thought to impair
      alveolar macrophage and blood neutrophil functions including reduced surfactant catabolism
      (alveolar macrophages - thought to result in surfactant accumulation in primary PAP) and
      immune dysfunction (neutrophil dysfunction, and possibly macrophage dysfunction - thought to
      increase the risk of infection in primary PAP). Secondary PAP is caused by an underlying
      condition believed to impair alveolar macrophage surfactant catabolism. Secondary PAP is
      related to other conditions, including myelogenous leukemias, infections and environmental
      exposures. Congenital PAP is caused by mutations in the genes encoding surfactant protein
      (SP)-B, SP-C or the ABCA3 transporter. Idiopathic PAP is that which results from unknown
      mechanisms. Anti-GM-CSF autoantibodies appear to be absent in secondary, congenital and
      idiopathic PAP.

      This cross sectional study protocol is designed to evaluate the autoimmune aspect of PAP in
      patients that are currently being followed by clinical investigators in the Rare Lung Disease
      Consortium (RLDC). The study involves a retrospective chart review and serological analysis
      of preexisting, stored serum samples from individuals diagnosed with PAP. Thus, this study
      will not involve any direct interactions or contact with PAP patients or any other study
      participants. It will yield diagnostic information regarding the use of anti-granulocyte
      macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) autoantibody testing in patients with PAP. It
      will also yield information about the extent of the autoimmune response in primary PAP. In
      addition, the study will compare/contrast the clinical phenotypes of individuals with
      anti-GM-CSF autoantibody-positive PAP in various regions of the world. A stringent evaluation
      of the autoimmune aspects of PAP including rigorous anti-GM-CSF antibody testing will provide
      a better understanding of PAP and is expected to confirm the usefulness of serum anti-GM-CSF
      antibody testing in the clinical diagnosis of PAP. The study will evaluate the rate of
      serious or opportunistic infections and other clinical and demographic data from patients in
      various regions of the world to determine if significant differences exist, which will
      provide important knowledge regarding infectious and other complications associated with PAP.
    
  