
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the effect of a 1-year geriatric evaluation and management (GEM) program on
           adherence to adjuvant chemotherapy (defined as tolerance and timely completion of
           planned dose) in patients with newly diagnosed breast or colon cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the effect of a 1-year GEM program on the health-related quality of life and
           functional, cognitive, and mental status of these patients.

        -  Evaluate the effect of a 1-year GEM program on 3-year disease-free survival of these
           patients.

        -  Compare the number of emergency room visits, acute hospitalizations, and associated
           Medicare costs within the first 12 months following randomization to a GEM program vs no
           program.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to tumor site (breast vs colon). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (intervention): Patients complete health-related quality-of-life (QOL) and
           comprehensive geriatric assessment questionnaires at baseline, within 30 days after
           chemotherapy or at 6 months, and then at 12-13 months to assess functional status (i.e.,
           activities of daily living), comorbidity (i.e., medical problems), medications, mood and
           memory, nutrition, and social support from family members and friends. Patients receive
           a home visit from a social worker and visit the Senior Adult Oncology clinic within 1
           month after the first course of chemotherapy. The clinic staff develops an
           individualized care plan for the patient and communicates the results of the assessment
           questionnaires and their recommendations (e.g., medication and/or specialty referrals)
           to the patient's primary care provider and oncologist. The staff meets weekly to monitor
           and update the patient care plan. Patients are followed in the Senior Adult Oncology
           clinic at least every 3 months for 1 year. Follow-up telephone calls and in-home visits
           are also conducted as needed. Patients are also assessed prior to each course of
           chemotherapy for toxicities related to the chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients complete a health-related QOL questionnaire at baseline,
           within 30 days after chemotherapy or at 6 months, and then at 12-13 months. Patients
           receive oncology and primary care by their usual health care providers.

      After completion of the study intervention, patients' medical charts are reviewed
      periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  