
    
      All patients who present for a colonoscopy and meet inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      asked to participate (see inclusion and exclusion criteria). All patients will undergo a
      regular bowel preparation with polyethylene glycol lavage (based on current standard of care)
      until clear rectal fluid is evacuated. Patients will be randomized to one of two groups:

        1. Standard colonoscopy, or

        2. Cap assisted colonoscopy. All colonoscopies will be performed using state of the art
           high-definition wide angle colonoscopy. The transparent cap, which is attached to the
           tip of the colonoscope, has a 4mm margin extending beyond the tip of the colonoscope.
           All patients will undergo a careful endoscopic examination. A timer will provide
           feedback on the time of insertion and the withdrawal time. Detected polyps will be
           assessed with standard white light and narrow band imaging to predict polyp histology
           (adenoma versus no adenoma), then resected and sent for histological evaluation
           according to standard of care. At least 8 experienced endoscopists at the participating
           centers will participate. Each endoscopist will perform at least 50 cap assisted
           colonoscopies as part of the study. Each endoscopist will be asked to complete a survey
           after 10 and after 50 cap assisted colonoscopies.

      Patients will be randomized in blocks of four allocated to each examiner. The order of
      randomization will be computer generated. Information on randomization will be contained in
      sealed envelopes assigned to each examiner and individually opened immediately before the
      procedure after a patient's All participating endoscopist will fill out a questionnaire
      regarding the use of cap assistance colonoscopy after the initial 10 cap assisted
      colonoscopies and after at least 50 cap assisted cap colonoscopies. Endoscopists will also
      undergo a training session with respect to real time polyp diagnosis before study
      commencement and after each 20 colonoscopies enrollment.
    
  