
    
      Cancer related fatigue (CRF) - a persistent sense of exhaustion related to cancer or cancer
      treatment - can severely interfere with activities of daily living, and has even been
      reported to be a factor in patient requests for hastened death. CRF can represent a serious
      clinical problem years after all treatment has ended. In our research with cancer survivors 1
      to 3 years after completion of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), 40% of those we
      interviewed reported that CRF was a major obstacle to the resumption of usual activities.
      Despite its impact on quality of life, CRF is under-reported, under-diagnosed, and
      under-treated.

      A variety of pharmacologic agents have been studied to treat CRF, but there is insufficient
      evidence to recommend their use. The most promising non-pharmacologic interventions --
      exercise and cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT) -- have shown equally modest effects. The
      proposed study focuses on a promising new intervention for CRF, using systematic light
      exposure (SLE), consisting of a daily 30-minute exposure to as much as 10,000 lux of light
      from a commercially available light box. Study collaborator, Ancoli-Israel and her colleagues
      have successfully piloted this line of research with breast cancer patients undergoing
      chemotherapy.

      The goal of this study will be to assess the effect of SLE on long-term HSCT and breast
      cancer survivors, and to determine the feasibility and acceptability of SLE as an
      intervention for CRF. The approach will be informed by the procedures that Ancoli-Israel and
      her colleagues developed for their research on SLE treatment for breast cancer chemotherapy,
      as well as by Redd's studies of CBT to treat adjustment disorders in survivors of HSCT. The
      study arms will test the efficacy of two different types of light treatment, bright white
      light and dim red light. Outcomes will be assessed through standardized measures of CRF,
      sleep quality, and quality of life.
    
  