
    
      In our previous research we successfully implemented Intensity Modulate Arc Therapy with
      concurrent administration of cisplatin 40mg/m2 weekly (IMAT-C) in the multimodality treatment
      of Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer (LACC) . By delivering a higher biological dose to the
      tumor and lowering the dose to the Organs at Risk (OARs), toxicity significantly dropped and
      local control improved. However, there remains room for improvement for both toxicity and
      response to the treatment. Macroscopic tumor rest on hysterectomy reflects the existence of
      chemoradiation (CRT) resistant foci and correlates with outcome. We hypothesize that both
      radiotherapy (RT)-related toxicity (a) as well as local response on CRT (b) can be improved
      by respectively:

        1. Reducing the dose on OARs by omitting iconographical non tumor-bearing parts of the
           uterus from the Clinical Target Volume (CTV).

        2. Performing a dose-escalation to those regions within the gross target volume (GTV)
           pointed out by Diffusion Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DW-MRI) to be at risk for
           treatment failure.

      To objectivize our hypotheses, we aim at:

        1. Demonstrating that omitting iconographical unaffected uterus from the treatment volume
           leaves no tumor behind in the non-targeted parts of the uterus, leads to lower doses to
           the OARs and decreases (acute) toxicity.

        2. Validating that a high baseline apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and an increase in
           ADC 2 weeks after start of CRT, for the whole tumor as well as for intra-tumoral
           regions, is prognostic for residual tumor on hysterectomy specimen and to consider the
           possibility for a further dose-escalation on tumors/intratumoral regions at risk for
           treatment failure.

      Importance to the field: Both toxicity and local relapse are major concerns in the treatment
      of LACC. Grade ≥ 2 toxicity influences daily life of patients significantly and is present in
      the majority of patients treated and even with image guided BT local relapse remains the
      major cause of treatment failure.
    
  