
    
      Tissues in the genitourinary system are both androgen- and estrogen-dependent. The clitoris,
      vestibule, urethra, anterior vaginal wall, peri-urethral tissue, and pelvic floor are
      androgen-responsive. In addition, the minor vestibular glands and the major vestibular glands
      (Bartholin's and Skene's) are androgen-dependent, mucin-secreting glands. Deficiencies of
      both estrogens and androgens can occur both naturally during menopause or iatrogenically
      because of certain medications (e.g. Depo Lupron, spironolactone) or surgically
      (oophorectomy). Menopause-related deficiencies of these sex hormones lead to atrophic changes
      in the genitourinary system which have been termed genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM).

      While erythema is a nonspecific finding in atrophic tissue, focal painful erythema in the
      androgen-dependent vestibule, particularly near the ostia of the Bartholin's glands (4:00 and
      8:00 o'clock) and Skene's glands (1:00 and 11:00 o'clock) or lesser vestibular glands, is
      highly suggestive of GSM. Patients with GSM will frequently complain of penetrative
      dyspareunia and experience allodynia with the cotton swab palpation of the vulvar vestibule.
      During examination of the vulvar vestibule, the examiner might note general pallor with
      superimposed erythema. Physical exam can be improved by magnification (i.e. vulvoscopy).

      Historically, GSM treatment involved both androgens and estrogens. However, in the absence of
      information about intracrinology, over the past few decades, estradiol-based therapies have
      been used exclusively. More recently, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical trials
      demonstrated that local vaginal dehydroepiandrosterone (Intrarosa®) improves symptoms in
      postmenopausal women including moderate to severe dyspareunia. These trials have demonstrated
      improvement in both subjective measures (such as improvement in dyspareunia) as well as
      objective measurement of vaginal health (improved vaginal maturation index, decreased vaginal
      pH) but they have not attempted to demonstrate improvement in the health of the vulvar
      tissue.
    
  