
    
      This is a feasibility pilot study involving 24 participants with type 1 diabetes.
      Participants will be recruited from the local type 1 diabetes clinic and insulin pump waiting
      list. Each participant will enter the trial for a period of 8 months. The investigators aim
      to test if maximising time in glycaemic range (blood glucose 3.9-10 mmol/L) will restore the
      glucagon response to insulin-induced hypoglycaemia.

      After signing informed consent participants will be screened for eligibility against the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Those who are eligible will have an initial 20-day period of baseline blood glucose data
      collection. This will be achieved using a blinded continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) device.
      Participants will continue on their pre-trial diabetes care during this period and will be
      required to monitor their own blood glucose as normal.

      The participants will be split into two groups using stratified sampling to match for: age,
      gender and BMI.

      Group 1 will be the control group. Participants in this group will continue on standard
      diabetes care for the duration of the trial. Participants will be required to undertake two
      further periods of blinded CGM monitoring at 4 and 8 months.

      Group 2 will be the intervention group. Participants in this group will be placed on the
      automated insulin delivery (AID) system and asked to follow a low carbohydrate diet of 30-40g
      of carbohydrate per main meal portion. The AID system will consist of: a Tandem t:slim X2
      insulin pump with control IQ technology and a Dexcom G6 continuous glucose monitor. After
      receiving training on the use of the devices these participants will enter a 2 week study
      run-in period to become accustomed to the devices and so that device settings can be
      optimised. As a safety measure these participants will be asked to measure blood ketones at
      least once daily throughout the trial. Study staff will monitor the data from the
      participants study devices throughout the trial and adjust settings as required to maximise
      time in glycaemic range.

      At the beginning and end of the trial all participants will undergo a hyperinsulinaemic
      hypoglycaemic clamp study to measure their counterregulatory hormone response to
      hypoglycaemic. Participants will also undergo cognitive tests and assessment of hypoglycaemic
      awareness during each clamp study.
    
  