
    
      Intervention: the sample of participants will be distributed in 4 groups. The placebo (PG)
      group will receive 100 ml of saline solution 15 min before anesthetic induction. The ketamine
      group (KG) will receive 0.3 mg / kg of ketamine in saline (total volume of 100 ml) 15 min
      before anesthetic induction. The magnesium sulfate group (SG) will receive 40 mg / kg of
      magnesium sulfate in saline solution (total volume of 100 ml) 15 min before anesthetic
      induction. The mixed group (MG) will receive 0.15 mg / kg of ketamine + 20 mg / kg of
      magnesium sulfate in saline solution (total volume of 100 ml) 15 min before anesthetic
      induction. All participants will be submitted to balanced anesthesia. Anesthetic induction
      will be started after 5 min of pre-oxygenation, with lidocaine 1.5 mg / kg, fentanyl 3 µg /
      kg, propofol until clinical hypnosis, cisatracurium 0.1 mg / kg and intubation after adequate
      neuromuscular relaxation. Maintenance will be with sevoflurane in concentration under
      clinical demand, repeating boluses of fentanyl 1 µg / kg and cisatracurium 0.03 mg / kg, as
      needed.

      Primary Outcomes: time between the end of anesthetic administration and bispectral index
      (BIS) > 60, and a battery of neuropsychological tests to assess postoperative cognitive
      dysfunction tested in the Brazilian population 3 h after the end of anesthetic
      administration.

      Secondary Outcomes: response to the brief pain inventory questionnaire and opioid consumption
      in the first 2 postoperative days.

      Recruitment and timeline : patients will be recruited in the pre-anesthetic evaluation and
      assessments will be made of covertly in the immediate postoperative period and during the two
      days after surgery, being registered the pain scores and the consumption of opioids.

      Sample calculation: the sample of 120 participants was calculated with a 95% confidence index
      and 80% statistical power. To compensate for losses, 140 individuals will be recruited.
    
  