
    
      The proposed trial is an interventional, randomized, placebo-controlled, adaptive clinical
      trial in outpatients with symptomatic microbiologically-confirmed SARS-CoV-2, in stable
      clinical condition, and increased levels of serum C-reactive protein.

      Potential participants will be identified via Public Health after a diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2
      infection is made either by positive nucleic acid testing or by antigen detection, from a
      nasal or pharyngeal swab. These study candidates will be asked for permission to be
      contacted. If this person agrees, a research collaborator will contact the potential
      participant by phone call. During this phone call, verbal informed consent to be included in
      the study will be requested.

      After inclusion in the study, participants will be divided into two groups with the below
      follow-up outline:

        -  Group 1 non-RCT: Asymptomatic participants (no symptoms of early COVID-19). These
           participants will be followed by phone call every 48 hours for 14 days. If asymptomatic
           participants develop clinical symptoms of early COVID-19 during follow-up
           (pre-symptomatic COVID-19), they will be transferred to Group 2. Otherwise, study for
           this group will end at the 14 days timepoint with the exception 20 participants who
           consent to partake in the pulmonary evaluation at 12 weeks (tertiary/exploratory
           objective, see sections 3.1 and 7.1).

        -  Group 2 non-RCT: Participants with symptoms of early COVID-19 will undergo full
           follow-up every 48 hours for 4 visits (8 days) which will consist of:

             -  Review of clinical symptoms by phone call.

             -  Oxygen saturation.

             -  C-reactive protein in blood.

      The strategy for the follow-up visits is described below. Participants in this group who
      present with the inclusion criteria and without exclusion criteria (section 1.5) will be
      asked to join the randomized control trial. Otherwise, study for this group will end at the 8
      days time point with the exception of 20 participants who consent to partake in the pulmonary
      evaluation at 12 weeks (tertiary/exploratory objective, see sections 3.1 and 7.1).

      Study visits:

      Monitoring of C-reactive protein and oxygen saturation will be evaluated at the participant's
      home following a COVID-19 safe procedure. C-reactive protein will be determined by a
      point-of-care diagnostic device (Afinion[TM] 2 Analyzer, Abbott Laboratories, USA; Health
      Canada Regitration number 99614) using C-reactive protein cartridges and controls by the same
      manufacturer (Afinion CRP and Afinion CRP control Health Canada Registration number 98995).
      More information of the point-of-care device can be found at:
      https://www.globalpointofcare.abbott/en/product-details/afinion2-analyzer.html). A kit with
      all the necessary materials (gloves, lancet, alcohol scrubs, pulse oximeter (ToronTek-E400,
      Health Canada Registration number: 90629) and AfinionTM C-reactive protein cartridges) will
      be placed at the front door of the participant's home. In the case of long-term care
      facilities, nursing homes or other facilities with healthcare workers, the kit will be
      provided to the participant's main caregiver. The research associate (research coordinator,
      research assistant or medical student) will never be in contact with the participant or
      relatives and will always wear a mask and gloves to manipulate the material.

      An educational video will be offered to participants to self-perform blood drop collection to
      the integrated capillary system. Those patients unable to perform self-collection of blood
      drop will be offered to remain in the study to know the evolution of clinical symptoms and
      outcome.

      In each visit, a kit will be delivered to the participant's home by a research coordinator or
      research assistant. The content of the kit for each visit will contain the following items.

        1. Pulse oximeter.

        2. Surgical mask.

        3. Alcohol pads (x2).

        4. Single-use lancet (Unistik 3, Owen Mumford Ltd, Health Canada Licence No.: 9790) (x2).

        5. Afinion 2 CRP cartridge.

        6. Paper sheet.

        7. Pen.

      In the first visit, the kit will contain a 50 mL bottle of hand sanitizer and a 1-liter sharp
      container that the participant will retain for the following visits. Briefly, the patient
      will be instructed to wash her/his hands before collecting the kit. Before touching any other
      item, the participant will put on the surgical mask. The next step will be to register the
      oxygen saturation using the pulse oximeter and will register the value on the paper sheet.
      After cleaning the tip of a finger with an alcohol pad, the participant will obtain a blood
      drop and load the capillary of the C-reactive cartridge. After completing this task, the
      visit will be completed and the participant will return the kit containing the pen, paper
      sheet, Afinion 2 CRP cartridge and pulse oximeter. The participant will be instructed to
      deposit the used lancet in the sharp container.

      Intervention: Eligible participants who sign informed consent for the RCT will be randomized
      at a ratio of 1:1 to:

        -  Oral prednisone in 25mg capsules with a dosage determined according to weight range for
           7 days.

        -  Oral placebo capsules with the same appearance daily for 7 days.

      Follow-up of RCT participants post-randomization and end of study (Figure 1, Table 2):

        1. During intervention (Day 0 to 7 post-randomization):

           i. A baseline questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) for state of patient health will be collected at
           day 0.

           ii. Clinical monitoring by phone call at day 3 and end of treatment (day 7). iii.
           C-reactive protein levels and oxygen saturation at the end of treatment (day 7)
           collected as described above.

        2. After intervention (Week 1 to 12 post-randomization):

           i. Once treatment is completed, follow up will be performed by phone calls on a weekly
           basis until week 12 post-randomization (end of study).

        3. End of study (Week 12 post-randomization). Visit at the post-COVID clinic. i.
           Participants will be asked to complete the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire and the Post-COVID
           Functional Status (PCFS) scale.

      ii. Spirometry: FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC. iii. 6-minute walking test.
    
  