
    
      Pain control after laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be achieved with the injection of local
      anaesthetic into the abdominal wall (TAP block) or into the surgical wounds. There is no
      reported literature comparing the two techniques with regard to early discharge rate,
      consumption of oral painkillers and return to daily activities in the week following surgery.
      In an era where day case surgery has become reality, there is a pressing need for strategies
      to optimize patients' pathways. In this context the postoperative pain control is a key
      point.

      To compare the two techniques in a randomized trial, a large number of participants would be
      needed. Therefore the investigators would conduct a pilot study first, to evaluate if further
      research in the form of a larger study is likely to demonstrate the benefits of the TAP block
      during laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

      During the developing of the research proposal, advice and comments had been given by the
      local Research and Development Department and the public.

      Recruitment

      Clinicians will identify potential participants in the surgical outpatient clinic. All
      patients who fulfil the entry criteria will be invited to take part in the study.

      Participants will be fully informed verbally about the proposed study and will receive a
      Letter of invitation to participant and a Patient information leaflet to take home. That will
      give them adequate time to read the documents and make an informed choice.

      Sample size

      As being a feasibility study it is required to have 30 cases per group in the final dataset,
      with a total of 60 patients.

      Consent

      Patients will be informed about the study and receive the information leaflet at the time
      they are enrolled for an elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the surgical outpatient
      clinic. Only once patients are fully informed will they be asked to make a decision to enter
      the trial. Participants willing to join the study will have written informed consent, on the
      day of surgery.

      Patients will be informed that they do not have to take part in the study if they choose to
      not be enrolled. Refusal to enter the trial will not compromise their care. Patients will
      also be informed that if at any time during the study they wish to withdraw they can do so,
      without having to give a reason and again this will not compromise their care. General
      Pratictioners will be informed by letter of their patients' inclusion in the study.

      Risks and Benefits

      There are no additional risks over and above participants' normal clinical care.

      Both anaesthetic techniques are currently in use in the Royal Devon and Exeter National Heath
      System Foundation Trust. The procedures themselves do have potential risks (side-effects)
      which would be explained routinely to both trial and non-trial patients ahead of surgery.
      Taking part in this study will not change these risks in any way.

      There are no immediate benefits to the participants from taking part in the trial at present.
      However, if the results are promising, the investigators will run a larger trial that could
      potentially lead to a new way of looking after patients having laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

      That may therefore lead to a future change in medical care that could help patients who will
      be having laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

      The investigators would be clear that no new technique or medication is being tested. Also
      there is no financial benefit from the study to both the participants and the research team.

      Conflicts of Interest

      None.

      Confidentiality

      All data will be stored anonymously against a participant number. Only the clinical team and
      research nurse will have access to the single table correlating participant's name number.
      Anonymity will be preserved throughout the trial.
    
  