
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safe dose level of sunitinib malate that can be combined with exemestane
           (pilot phase I).

        -  Evaluate the clinical response of neoadjuvant therapy comprising exemestane and
           sunitinib malate in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive and HER-2
           negative primary breast cancer (phase II).

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the safety and feasibility of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the percentage of patients undergoing breast-conserving surgery after
           completion of study therapy.

        -  Determine the safety profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the rate of complete pathological response in the breast and axillary lymph
           nodes at the time of surgery.

        -  Determine the extent of treatment-related inhibition of phosphorylation of VEGFR-2,
           PDGF, and c-KIT receptor tyrosine kinases.

        -  Find a genetic profile, based on the analysis of CYP19A1 polymorphisms, able to predict
           response to exemestane in neoadjuvant setting.

        -  Conduct exploratory investigation of biomarkers expression before and during therapy in
           order to identify molecular characteristics of responding tumors.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of sunitinib malate followed by a phase
      II study.

        -  Phase I pilot: Patients receive oral sunitinib malate and oral exemestane once daily on
           days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups:

             -  Group 1: Patients receive oral exemestane and oral placebo once daily on days 1-28.
                Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression
                or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Group 2: Patients receive oral exemestane once daily and oral sunitinib malate once
                daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      At 7-15 days after completion of study therapy, patients undergo definitive surgery.

      Blood and tissue samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study to examine
      inhibition of phosphorylation of VEGFR-2, PDGF, and c-KIT receptor tyrosine kinases; CYP19A1
      polymorphisms; and biomarkers analysis by cDNA microarrays, ELISA, and RT-PCR.
    
  