
    
      Fecal incontinence greatly affects quality of life and can negatively impact an individual's
      activity level, body image, and likelihood of institutionalization. Female sex and advancing
      age are known independent risk factors for fecal incontinence. Among community dwelling
      adults, the prevalence of fecal incontinence has ranged from 0.4 to 18 percent. Prevalence
      rates of fecal incontinence are even higher in women with pelvic floor disorders, reaching up
      to 41%, illustrating the large bearing on quality of life of this patient population.

      Fecal incontinence can be subtyped into three clinical subtypes: urge fecal incontinence,
      passive fecal incontinence, and fecal seepage. Urge incontinence refers to loss of fecal
      matter in spite of active attempts to retain contents; passive incontinence refers to
      involuntary loss of stool without awareness. Despite the clinical distinction of fecal
      incontinence subtypes, the pathophysiology of these subtypes is not known. Existing practice
      guidelines recommend categorizing patients into these subtypes, evaluating symptom severity
      by patient-reported outcomes, and assessing function of the anorectal complex with imaging
      and physiologic tests to best tailor management options. Although the framework for subtyping
      fecal incontinence exists, specific associations between subtypes and clinical, anatomic, and
      physiologic findings in women with pelvic floor disorders are not well delineated. Further
      characterizing the subtypes in relation to specific clinical, anatomic, and physiologic
      findings may allow us to better approach the treatment of women with fecal incontinence.

      Our comparison of the two fecal incontinence subtypes, urge-predominant fecal incontinence
      and passive fecal incontinence, will be evaluated for clinical severity, impact on quality of
      life, and anatomic and physiologic characteristics using validated instruments.

      Primary Aim:

      To compare the severity of urge fecal incontinence versus passive fecal incontinence in women
      with pelvic floor disorders.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. To compare anatomic characteristics in urge fecal incontinence versus passive fecal
           incontinence in women with pelvic floor disorders.

        2. To compare physiologic characteristics in urge fecal incontinence versus passive fecal
           incontinence in women with pelvic floor disorders.

        3. To compare quality of life characteristics in urge fecal incontinence versus passive
           fecal incontinence in women with pelvic floor disorders.

        4. To compare anorectal manometry results and patient preference of testing performed in
           the left lateral position versus dorsal lithotomy position.

      Null Hypothesis: Clinical, anatomic, and physiologic characteristics do not differ between
      urge-predominant fecal incontinence and passive-predominant fecal incontinence in women with
      pelvic floor disorders.
    
  