
    
      Tinnitus (known as "ringing in the ears") is a disabling medical condition. Its psychosocial
      impact is substantial, including anxiety, depression, stress, irritability, concentration and
      sleep disorder leading to detrimental effects on communication, education, professional
      fulfillment, mental health and quality of life. The cerebral bases of tinnitus and its
      consequence on human hearing health have received a lot of attention in the scientific
      literature. Yet, the relationship between the neurobiological dysfunction, psychological
      processes and clinical semiology of tinnitus remains poorly understood. Considering the
      current gaps in knowledge, there is a real need for clinical investigations into
      tinnitus-related brain changes and rigorous hearing, psycho-emotional, and cognitive
      assessments. the investigators recent discovery of a vulnerability to tinnitus associated
      with medial temporal lobe surgery (to treat refractory epilepsy) provides a new clinical
      model, which targets the temporal lobe regions as a tinnitus generator or mediator of its
      severity. The goal of this collaborative interdisciplinary study is to advance knowledge
      about the pathophysiology of tinnitus, as well as the socio-emotional, cognitive and
      psychoacoustic aspects associated to this hearing disorder. the investigators will first,
      characterize the subjective and self-reported hearing disorders with objective
      psychoacoustic, cognitive and affective measures in tinnitus sufferers and second, clarify
      the cerebral network underlying tinnitus and elucidate the role temporal lobe regions in the
      brain networks at play in surgical and non-surgical tinnitus. To this end, individuals with
      and without tinnitus, who had undergone or not a surgery will be compared in a 2 by 2 design.
      Investigating different patient cohorts with tinnitus who are well matched to both, healthy
      control populations and vulnerable clinical populations, without tinnitus is a valuable
      contribution of our proposal. Moreover, the psychological and hearing profiles of people with
      tinnitus will be examined in relation with their brain morphology and connectivity
      profiles.The project builds upon the internationally recognized leadership of the PI and her
      collaborators in the fields of auditory cognition and its neurobiological bases using
      neuropsychological, psychoacoustic, and neuroimaging methods in clinical populations. The
      members of the investigators consortium have all the necessary and unique expertise to carry
      out this innovative and interdisciplinary project.
    
  