
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the safety and immunization efficacy of MUC1 and HER-2/neu peptide vaccines
           combined with CpG oligodeoxynucleotide, sargramostim (GM-CSF), or both, as immune
           adjuvants suspended in Freund's incomplete adjuvant in patients with previously treated
           stage II or III adenocarcinoma of the breast.

      Secondary

        -  To describe the impact of immunization on clinical outcomes in patients with
           MUC1-positive breast cancer in terms of disease-free survival and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to Her-2/neu status (positive vs negative).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive a vaccine comprising incomplete Freund's adjuvant, MUC1 antigen
           vaccine, two Her-2/neu peptide-based vaccines, and sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously
           (SC) on day 1.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive a vaccine comprising incomplete Freund's adjuvant, MUC1 antigen
           vaccine, two Her-2/neu peptide-based vaccines (one of them different than in arm A), and
           CpG oligodeoxynucleotide SC on day 1.

        -  Arm C: Patients receive a vaccine comprising incomplete Freund's adjuvant, MUC1 antigen
           vaccine, two Her-2/neu peptide-based vaccines (one of them different than in arm A; the
           same as in arm B), GM-CSF, and CpG oligodeoxynucleotide SC on day 1.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who complete 6 courses of treatment without
      disease recurrence or a second primary or intolerable toxicity will go to the observation
      phase of the study for up to 2 years. Patients who develop recurrent disease during the
      observational phase will go to the event monitoring phase for up to 2 years.

      Blood samples are collected periodically. Blood samples and tissue samples from the patient's
      most recent surgery are used for correlative studies including immune responses to T helper
      and CTL epitopes by Elispot and tetramer analysis; and antigenic profiling by expression
      analysis of class I HLA antigens, MUC1, and HER-2 in tumor tissue.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically until disease
      recurrence or for up to 2 years.
    
  