
    
      Anti-EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) therapies, namely cetuximab and panitumumab,
      have become standards in the management of metastatic colorectal and head and neck cancers.
      These therapies are used in daily practice, that requiring to manage their skin and digestive
      toxicities. However, anti-EGFR are also frequently responsible for hypomagnesemia often
      neglected and under-treated.

      Magnesium remains the fourth cation and the second most important intracellular cation in the
      body. It is an indispensable cofactor in multiple enzymatic reactions. Hypomagnesemia may
      manifest as asthenia, cramps, muscle weakness, mood disorders. She is often underestimated
      because they are difficult to identify and accountable by clinicians in the context of cancer
      under chemotherapy.

      There is currently no national or international recommendation on the management of
      hypomagnesaemia in oncology and medicine in general. Hypomagnesemia is, in daily practice,
      mostly undiagnosed or untreated. There are, however, on the market many nutritional
      supplements rich in magnesium in the form of tablets or oral solution, in multiple dosages.

      To date, these food supplements rich in magnesium are sold without proof of effectiveness.
      The clinical data are very insufficient, and no oral supplementation is reimbursed. Moreover,
      the prescription of oral magnesium supplementation, often several intakes a day, adds to the
      oncology patient an over-medicalization, which can be poorly tolerated at the digestive
      level, and responsible for diarrhea and a lack of compliance. Oral hydration is one of the
      most prescribed medical advice and remains essential to combat the risk of dehydration in
      extreme ages. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) recommends in its opinion on "Dietary
      reference values for water" to consume 2 liters for women and 2.5 liters for men every day,
      all sources combined (food and beverages). The drink represent 80% of the water intake, that
      is about 1.5 Liter per day excluding food. However, there are multiple water marketed or
      distributed freely, with different compositions. Thus the quantity and quality of the mineral
      water consumed can influence the metabolism.

      The digestive absorption of magnesium provided by mineral water in a healthy individual was
      evaluated at around 40 to 50%. Rozana® mineral water, has the double advantage of being the
      French water the most concentrated in magnesium (160 mg / L) and of being lowly concentrated
      in sulphate, responsible of the laxative power of certain waters.

      Instead of adding magnesium supplements with a poor digestive tolerance, to patients with
      metastatic cancer and often with a heavy treatment , the aim of this study is to evaluate
      whether a change in oral hydration in quantitative and qualitative terms can decrease the
      rate of hypomagnesemia in patients treated with anti-EGFR.
    
  