
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the efficacy (based on post-treatment PET findings) of dose-painted
      intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) with concurrent chemotherapy for locally-advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer (LA-NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the efficacy (based on clinical endpoints including locoregional control
      [LRC], disease-free survival [DFS], and overall survival [OS]) of dose-painted IMRT with
      concurrent chemotherapy for LA-NSCLC.

      II. To evaluate the safety of dose-painted IMRT with concurrent and adjuvant chemotherapy for
      LA-NSCLC.

      III. To evaluate the utility of post-treatment PET/computed tomography (CT) imaging as a
      predictor of clinical outcomes following treatment with this novel approach.

      IV. To explore, in a preliminary manner, whether metabolomic markers in the blood and urine
      prior to and during the course of treatment are associated with treatment response, clinical
      endpoints, and treatment-related adverse events such as radiation pneumonitis.

      OUTLINE:

      RADIATION THERAPY: Patients undergo PET-adjusted IMRT or proton beam radiation therapy five
      days a week for 5 weeks.

      CONCURRENT CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and
      paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly for 5 weeks beginning week 1 of thoracic radiotherapy.

      CONSOLIDATION CHEMOTHERAPY: Beginning approximately 4-6 weeks after the completion of all
      radiation therapy and when esophagitis and chemotherapy-induced neuropathy are grade 1 or
      less, absolute neutrophil count (ANC) > 1500, and platelet count > 100,000, patients may
      receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment may
      repeat every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity at the discretion of the treating physicians.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12-16 weeks, 19 weeks, every
      3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for a total of 5 years.
    
  