
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      Phase 1

      1. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of tipifarnib, erlotinib hydrochloride, or
      temsirolimus in combination with a fixed dose of sorafenib in patients with recurrent
      glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma who are not taking enzyme-inducing antiepileptic
      drugs.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      Phase 1 and 2

        1. Characterize the safety profile of the doublet combinations of tipifarnib-sorafenib,
           erlotinib hydrochloride-sorafenib, and temsirolimus-sorafenib in patients with recurrent
           glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma.

        2. Characterize the pharmacokinetics of these doublet combinations, evaluating single-agent
           pharmacokinetics of each agent and the combination pharmacokinetics to determine
           drug-drug interactions.

      Phase 2

        1. Determine the efficacy of each of the doublet combinations, in terms of 6-month
           progression-free survival, in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme or
           gliosarcoma.

        2. Determine the efficacy of each of the doublet combinations, in terms of 12-month
           survival and objective tumor response, in patients with recurrent glioblastoma
           multiforme or gliosarcoma.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      Phase 2

        1. Perform exploratory correlative laboratory studies by examining tissue markers of signal
           transduction pathways by immunohistochemical analysis using tissue blocks obtained prior
           to initiation of protocol therapy, either from the time of diagnosis or subsequent tumor
           resection.

        2. Determine the relationship between tumor and blood biomarkers and clinical outcome of
           patients treated with the combination of targeted agents.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of tipifarnib, erlotinib hydrochloride,
      and temsirolimus followed by a phase II open-label study.

      PHASE I:

      Patients are sequentially assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

      GROUP 1: Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily and oral erlotinib hydrochloride once
      daily on days 1-28.

      GROUP 2: Patients receive sorafenib as in group 1. Patients also receive temsirolimus IV over
      30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

      GROUP 3: Patients receive sorafenib as in group 1. Patients also receive oral tipifarnib
      twice daily on days 1-21.

      In all groups, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In each treatment group, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib
      hydrochloride (group 1), temsirolimus (group 2), or tipifarnib (group 3) sequentially until
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined for each group. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity during
      the first course of therapy.

      PHASE II:

      Patients receive sorafenib as in phase I. Patients also receive erlotinib hydrochloride,
      temsirolimus, or tipifarnib as in phase I at the MTD determined in phase I.

      Tissue that was collected during a prior surgery is examined for biomarkers by
      immunohistochemistry (in patients enrolled in the phase II portion of the study). Biomarkers
      examined include epidermal growth factor receptor, Receptor tyrosine-protein kinase (HER-2),
      Protein kinase B (AKT), S6 ribosomal protein, and Receptor-linked tyrosine kinases (Erk).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.
    
  