
    
      The population of adults aged 60 years and older has been growing with around half of the
      people older than 85 years estimated to be frail. Age-related changes in multiple systems
      affecting balance, mobility, muscle strength, motor processing, cognition, nutrition,
      endurance and physical activity (PA) results in frailty. Studies on frail older adults have
      reported improvement in mobility and functional level following exercise interventions.
      Regular physical activity in this population has helped improve cardiovascular conditioning
      and quality of life, thus allowing these frail older adults a chance at independent living in
      the community. In addition to physical comorbidities, the presence of psychosocial issues
      such as depression may act as a barrier to community participation. Several PA interventions
      have demonstrated limited long-term effect and sustainable behavioral change in this
      population. An evidence-based fall prevention program called Matter of Balance (MOB) was
      developed to reduce fall risk and improve physical function and maximize activity
      participation in older adults. Meanwhile, Exergaming, a task-specific interactive gaming, has
      been gaining attention as a novel therapeutic alternative that promotes motor recovery in
      healthy and disabled populations. Exergaming involves repetitive-task specific exercises with
      movement execution feedback and motivation provided in real time. Studies have shown
      Exergaming improved symmetrical weight shifting, multi-directional stepping, single-stance,
      rapid movement training and self-initiated postural weight shifts in the participants. This
      anticipatory postural control training helps significantly improve balance control and
      mobility. In addition to the physical function domains that underlie physical frailty,
      executive cognitive domain functions also predict late-life physiological impairments. Thus,
      we postulate that PA facilitated through Exergaming and accompanied by simultaneous cognitive
      training is a novel approach to counter and inhibit frailty associated with physical function
      and cognitive decline.

      Aim 1: To test the feasibility (compliance and effectiveness) of cognitive-motor exergaming
      (CogXergaming) in the frail older adults and to compare the improvements in behavioral
      biomarkers in this group across balance, muscle fitness, cardiovascular fitness and global
      cognition to the group receiving the Matter of Balance training.

      Hypothesis: Participants will respond well to CogXergaming training paradigm and demonstrate
      significant improvements in balance, muscular fitness, cardiovascular fitness and global
      cognition as compared to the Matter of Balance training group.

      Aim 2: To examine the effect of CogXergaming on physical activity levels and quality of life
      measures post-intervention.

      Hypothesis: The participants who received CogXergaming will demonstrate significant
      improvement in physical activity and quality of life post-training as compared to their own
      pre-training scores.

      Aim 3: To examine the effect of CogXergaming structural and functional connectivity within
      the cognitive-motor areas pre and post training to establish effect size.

      Hypothesis: Post-training, participants will demonstrate improved memory consolidation,
      attention, motor planning and execution compared to pre-training indicating improved
      functional connectivity within the cognitive-motor areas.
    
  