
    
      Prior to undergoing CCTA, non-contrast CT scanning of the entire heart is usually performed
      in adults over 50-years of age in order to assess for the presence and severity of coronary
      artery calcium. By providing a modified CT scan with a reduced length the same data can be
      obtained by the imager to ensure a high quality scan while decreasing the patient's overall
      radiation exposure. Our objectives and specific aims to validate our hypothesis include:

        -  To assess the impact on CCTA image quality using modified calcium score approach

        -  To determine the rate of changes in the coronary CT angiography acquisition parameters
           after evaluation of the modified versus standard calcium scoring scout series.
           Significant changes in CCTA acquisition include any of the following as compared to
           recommended CCTA parameters prior to scout CT performance: a change (increase or
           decrease) in tube current (mA) by 50, any change in tube potential (kV), change to/from
           retrospectively-gated CCTA, any change in padding (acquisition window), or changing
           to/from a high definition CT scan acquisition.

        -  To assess the difference in patient estimated effective radiation exposure (mSv) between
           the modified versus standard calcium scoring techniques.

        -  To assess the difference in patient estimated effective radiation exposure (mSv) of the
           entire CCTA study (plus calcium scoring) between groups.

      Study Design Prospective, randomized single-center cohort study.

      Anticipated Requirements

        1. Facilities: Walter Reed National Military Medical Center

             1. Cardiology Clinic

             2. Cardiovascular Health and Interventional Radiology, Angiography and Recovery
                [CVHIR]

             3. Radiology Department (CT Section)

        2. Duration of enrollment: 12 months

        3. Budget: no additional budget is needed.

      Subject Population

        1. One hundred seventy-five (175) male and female adult subjects (military health
           beneficiaries age greater than 50 years) who are clinically referred for CCTA will be
           eligible for participation.

        2. The Walter Reed National Military Medical Center Cardiology Department and Radiology
           Departments perform multiple clinically appropriate and indicated coronary CTA studies
           weekly (approximately 8-12), which will allow for ease of subject recruitment. Although
           there are other open studies using CCTA in our department there is not a lot of overlap
           in their requirements and should not prohibit enrollment in our study. This study will
           enroll both men and women of all ethnic origins aged ≥ 50 years. All subjects will
           consent for themselves. All patients' participation in this research and subsequent
           contribution to our medical knowledge notwithstanding, no intent to benefit patients
           from enrollment is implied or offered. Pregnant women will be excluded from enrollment
           based on:

             1. Verbal admission of pregnant status; OR

             2. Positive urine pregnancy test performed within 7 days of CCTA in subjects not
                previously known to be pregnant.
    
  