
    
      Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a disease with high mortality and variable prognosis . It
      remains a disease with a highly variable outcome depending on the exact footprint of the AML
      .Although many patients with AML have a response to induction therapy ,refractory disease is
      common and relapse represents the major cause of treatment failure .In 2016 the World Heath
      Organization published revisions to classification of Myeloid Neoplasms and Acute leukemias
      .Well-established prognostic factors are cytogenetic aberrations such as t(8;21), inv(16),
      and t(15;17) as well as mutated IDH1/2, NPM1, and FLT3 genes but only few markers can
      specifically predict the outcome after HSCT .Immunophenotyping via flowcytometry comprises an
      additional fast technique to predict outcome in AML, although only few markers are yet
      established as prognostic factors in clinical routine diagnosis, despite the fact that new
      and rapidly available markers are needed to improve the treatment decisions in AML patients.
      This is even more since starting therapy in AML patients must be initiated immediately after
      diagnosis . Overall mortality from AML is high and treatment should be initiated within hours
      after first diagnosis . In hematopoietic cells,CD318 has been identified as stem cell marker
      for both benign and malignant progenitor cells. CD318+ bone marrow or cord blood-derived
      cells have been shown to be capable to initiate multi-lineage hematopoiesis in vitro and in
      vivo .CD318 (CUB domain containing protein-1, CDCP1) is a highly glycosylated single pass
      transmembrane protein express endomesenchymal and neural stem cells and fibroblasts and
      hematopoietic.Overexpression of CD318 has been recently correlated with poor overall
      survival(OS) in colonic ,breast ,renal, hepatocellular ,and pancreatic Carcinoma.possibly due
      to its role in metastasis formation via interaction with integrins and anti-apoptotic
      signaling via Akt. Of AML blasts, pronounced CD318 expression has been observed on the
      immature CD34+CD133+ leukemic cells subset implicated to be enriched for leukemic stem.
      However, the impact of CD318 on survival in hematological malignancies has so far not been
      analyzed. Study done by Jonas S et al showed 57% of AML patients expressed relevant CD318
      levels and a significant correlation of CD 318 surface levels with prognosis was observed .
      In our study investigators will use flowcytometry to detect CD318 on AML blasts and correlate
      it with disease course and outcome.
    
  