
    
      The bioprostheses (xenografts) to be used in this study are third generation valves derived
      from porcine aortic valves. The chief advantage over mechanical prostheses is that they do
      not require lifelong anticoagulation with warfarin with its attendant risks of haemorrhage if
      the patient becomes over anticoagulated, or thromboembolism if anticoagulation is inadequate.
      However their disadvantage is that they are prone to calcification and mechanical failure
      over time. Because of this, bioprosthetic valves are usually reserved for older patients in
      whom the chance of repeat surgery is reduced.

      The Medtronic Mosaic stented bioprosthesis has been recently introduced. The Mosaic
      bioprosthesis utilizes Physiological Fixation (root fixation with zero pressure differential
      across the valve leaflets). This allows valves to maintain their natural leaflet structure
      and root geometry. The Mosaic bioprosthesis uses the AOA anti-mineralisation treatment.
      Developed in collaboration with Biomedical Design, Inc., AOA has been shown in multiple
      animal studies to be an effective treatment in preventing leaflet calcification.

      Baxter currently produces the Carpentier Edwards SAV porcine bioprosthesis that has abundant
      long-term follow-up data and is widely used. Low pressure fixation (less than 1.5mmHg) and
      anti-mineralisation treatment with FET 80TM are used in its preparation. The stent (which
      supports the cusps) has been designed to allow for the wider opening angle of the softer
      leaflets.

      These features aim to improve on the haemodynamic performance of earlier generation valves
      and offer the potential for increased durability. Early results look promising with excellent
      haemodynamic parameters and remarkably low rates of structural failure.

      If zero pressure fixation and anti-mineralisation treatment can be shown to increase the
      longevity of the bioprosthetic valve, the age criteria for implantation will undoubtedly be
      lowered allowing a younger cohort of patients to benefit from anticoagulation-free therapy
      and freedom from associated morbidities.
    
  