
    
      Patients at Grosvenor House Orthodontic Practice who are to be treated with fixed orthodontic
      appliances and fulfil the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the research.

      Once consented, patients will be randomly allocated to one of four groups, each group
      specifying a different amount of time between appointments following brace fitting.

      Once the subject has had their fixed orthodontic appliance fit, they will be offered
      appointments every 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks or 10 weeks to adjust there brace, depending on
      which group they are in.

      All patients will have both arches bonded simultaneously in a standardized way using 3M
      Unitek pre-coated Gemini brackets with MBT prescription. The initial archwire will be 0.014
      nickel titanium ligated using standard elastomeric ligation. Patients will then progress to
      0.018 nickel titanium followed by 0.019x0.025 heat activated nickel titanium followed by
      0.019x0.025 stainless steel. Round stainless steel archwires will be permitted if indicated
      for finishing or as a lower working archwire in Class III patients but the original archwire
      sequence will be adhered to wherever possible. Progression to the next archwire will only
      occur once each archwire becomes passive.

      Space closure of extraction spaces where indicated will be done with E-Links (TP
      Orthodontics, Inc.) running from the hook on the molar tube to a hook crimped onto the
      archwire between the lateral incisor and canine.

      Patients who fail to attend or cancel appointments will be offered another appointment within
      1 week of the original appointment.

      Once the orthodontic treatment is complete to the satisfaction of the patient and
      orthodontist, the brace will be removed. The time in days from brace fit to brace removal
      will be noted and a total treatment time will be recorded for each subject. A comparison will
      be made on the total treatment time between the four groups.

      A basic oral hygiene examination will be done at each appointment. The data will be analysed
      following treatment to determine whether appointment frequency has an impact on oral hygiene.

      A record will also be made of the number of appointments missed or cancelled and a comparison
      between groups will be made during the analysis.

      Treatment outcomes will be determined using the PAR (peer assessment rating) system which
      assesses certain features of the occlusion from pre treatment and post treatment plaster
      models, quantifying the level of improvement brought about by treatment. The outcome of
      treatment, as measured by PAR, will be compared between groups.
    
  