
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the utility of individual telephone sessions plus survivorship booklets versus
           the survivorship booklets alone in increasing knowledge about the psychological and
           physical impact of breast cancer and increasing awareness of appropriate psychological
           and medical resources among African American and Latina breast cancer survivors.

        -  Evaluate the utility of these interventions in improving psychological functioning
           (depression and anxiety) among breast cancer survivors.

        -  Evaluate the utility of these interventions in improving family and social functioning
           (changes in family and partner communications) among breast cancer survivors.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate predictors of health-related quality of life (demographic, medical care
           factors, psychological, socio-ecological, and socio-cultural factors) within and across
           breast cancer survivors ethnic groups to identify both general and ethnic-specific
           correlates.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to ethnicity (African American vs Latina).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

        -  Group 1: Patients receive a survivorship kit of booklets in English or Spanish. Patients
           then receive a follow-up telephone call at approximately 2 months to clarify any issues
           relevant to the survivorship kit of booklets.

        -  Group 2: Patients participate in 8 weekly telephone sessions addressing basic breast
           cancer information; education about psychological and medical effects of cancer and its
           treatments; resources including psychosocial, medical care facilities, and clinical
           trials information; stress management and relaxation; cognitive reframing of concerns
           and behavioral strategies; family communication; relational communication and intimacy;
           and social support. Patients also receive a survivorship kit of booklets as in group 1.

      After completion of study intervention, patients complete follow-up questionnaires at 4 to 6
      months.
    
  