
    
      A small flexible fibreoptic catheter is inserted in sacral hiatus and the areas of concern
      can be visualized on the screen. Effective drugs like active enzyme: Hyaluronic acid and
      corticosteroids then can be injected through the same catheter.

      With this method we can eliminate adhesions or scar tissue that may be pulling or irritating
      specific nerve roots.

      Indicated for this procedure are patients with low back pain or sciatic patients who have not
      had a successful result with back surgery or spine surgery and have experienced continued
      pain after surgery: Failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS). Trial will compare groups of
      patients after fulfilment inclusion with Failed back surgery syndrome who will undergo
      interventional pain release procedure epiduroscopy. Elimination of adhesions, or scar tissue
      will be provided mechanically (grabbers, balloon techniques, by radiofrequency or laser) and
      with medical support (Hyaluronic acid and Depo-Medrol administration via epidural catheter).

      The first group of patients enrolled in to the trial will undergo only mechanical lysis of
      epidural adhesions (grabbers, balloon techniques, by radiofrequency or laser).

      The second group of patients enrolled in to the trial will undergo mechanical lysis of
      epidural adhesions together with epidural drug administration (Hyaluronic acid 150 IU and
      Depo-Medrol 80mg).

      After first visit in ambulance patients will be about study informed. After agreement patient
      will be in to the study involved. Specific unique nine digits number will be assigned to each
      patient. Then patients will be randomized in to groups by special evaluated software created
      especially for this study. Patients will agree that about range of epiduroscopy (mechanical
      or combination of mechanical and drug administration) will be informed until the end of the
      study. This way will be patients blinded All acquired information will be noted in to the
      special anonymous protocol. Also patients will anonymously fulfill Oswestry Low Back
      Disability Questionnaire EQ-5D-5LQuestionnaire) .

      Second examination will be provided after 6 months. Patients will be in the beginning
      introduced to doctor only by their unique number. Doctor will be blinded and he will not
      dispose with information about microinvasive procedure and will examine patient. Data which
      will be collected: (Visual analogue scale, dermatome where pain is radiating, global pain
      scale, changes in analgesics drugs consumption). All acquired information will be noted in to
      the special anonymous protocol. Also patients will anonymously fulfill Oswestry Low Back
      Disability Questionnaire EQ-5D-5LQuestionnaire) .

      The third examination will be provided after 12 months same way. Patients will be in the
      beginning introduced to doctor only by their unique number. Doctor will be blinded and he
      will not dispose with information about microinvasive procedure and will examine patient.
      Data which will be collected: (Visual analogue scale, pain radiating dermatome, global pain
      scale, changes in analgesics drugs consumption). All acquired information will be noted in to
      the special anonymous protocol. Also patients will anonymously fulfill Oswestry Low Back
      Disability Questionnaire, EQ-5D-5LQuestionnaire).
    
  