
    
      This is a prospective, open-label investigation of skin testing with the Penicillin Skin Test
      Kit in subjects at least 18 years of age with a self-reported history of possible
      IgE-dependent penicillin hypersensitivity.

      At screening on Day 1, subjects and their parents/legal guardians (if applicable) will sign
      the informed consent form/ pediatric assent form. Following consent/assent, demographic
      information and medical history will be obtained, including prior and current medication use.
      Subjects will also be asked if they have had a respiratory infection in the past 2 weeks or
      antibiotics within the past 4 weeks. A physical examination will be performed, along with
      measurements of vital signs and, in subjects >5 years of age with active asthma, peak
      expiratory flow rate (PEFR). A urine pregnancy test will be obtained for all female subjects
      of childbearing potential.

      The skin test procedure will first involve puncture testing. Skin test reagents will include
      the Penicillin Skin Test Kit, histamine (positive control), and sodium chloride (negative
      control). Subjects who have negative skin puncture test results to any of the drug antigens
      contained within the Penicillin Skin Test Kit will then undergo intradermal testing in
      duplicate. Subjects who have a positive reaction to one or more puncture or intradermal tests
      contained within the Penicillin Skin Test Kit will be discharged from the study. However,
      subjects with any positive skin test to drug antigens in the Penicillin Skin Test Kit will be
      asked to return for retesting (puncture and intradermal) in 4 weeks.

      Subjects who have negative puncture and intradermal test results will be given the oral
      amoxicillin challenge, which will be comprised of a single, full oral dose of amoxicillin.
      The purpose of the oral amoxicillin challenge is to confirm lack of allergy and confirm the
      NPV (Negative Predictive Value) of skin testing. Subjects will be monitored at the study site
      for 1 hour following oral amoxicillin challenge and then sent home. The study site will
      follow-up by telephone with all subjects (or their parents/legal guardians in the case of
      young children) ≥72 hours after administration of the oral amoxicillin challenge.

      Adverse events (AEs) will be recorded from administration of the Penicillin Skin Test
      throughout the 3-day study period as spontaneously reported by subjects or observed by the
      site staff.

      Two normal subjects (i.e., no history of penicillin allergy) will be skin tested at each site
      to provide data on skin test specificity.
    
  