
    
      Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and in patients with diagnosed blood-brain barrier
      disruption:

        -  Performing a lumbar puncture as a routine diagnostic procedure in a patient with
           suspected neuroinfection. Biochemical assessment of the degree of the blood-brain
           barrier disruption based on the albumin ratio.

        -  Enrollment of patients diagnosed with neuroinfection to the study and obtaining informed
           consent.

        -  Performing the measurement involving fixation of the NIRS probes on the patient's head
           while intravenously injecting optical contrast agent - ICG (5-10 mg in a bolus). The
           measurement time is about 15 min. Monitoring of the patient's condition during the
           examination using a pulse oximeter monitor. The examination should be performed no later
           than 12 hours after the lumbar puncture to obtain a reliable correlation of results
           between the methods. The party responsible for the technical aspect of the investigation
           will be the Sponsor while the party responsible for the medical aspect (including the
           injection of the contrast agent) will be the Principal Investigator.

        -  Conducting a magnetic resonance test. The MRI imaging can be carried out before or after
           the test by the optical method, but with only a slight time delay (not more than 24h).
           The gadolinium will be injected at 5 mL/s (20 mL per patient). Calculating the cerebral
           blood flow and the cerebrovascular permeability coefficient and passing the information
           to the patient's doctor.

           3. The assessment of the contrast agent outflow kinetics parameters obtained with use of
           the optical method 4. The correlation of the results of the of the evaluation of the
           blood-brain barrier condition by MRI, biochemical assessment of the cerebro-spinal fluid
           and optical method.
    
  