
    
      Vascular calcification is a well-defined risk factor for cardiovascular disease and a-Klotho
      has been suggested to be an implicating factor in the process of vascular calcification,
      particularly in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD).

      With this study the investigators will examine the possible correlation of the levels of
      secreted a-Klotho with the severity of vascular calcification in the coronary arteries and
      aortic valve in patients with CKD at different stages of CKD. More precisely, a-Klotho was
      measured in 30 patients with end-stage renal disease under intermittent regular hemodialysis
      and 30 outpatients with stable CKD stage III (estimated glomerular filtration rate between 30
      and 59 mL/min/1.73^2).

      Participants in both groups were eligible only if stable for at least the last 3 months
      pre-enrollment. Calcification will be calculated using the well-established Agatston score
      after submitting all patients to multi-slice computed tomography.

      Continuous variables will be described as median (25th-75th percentile) and categorical
      variables as N (%). Variables will be compared between groups using the non-parametric
      Mann-Whitney U test for continuous and Fisher's exact test for categorical variables.
      Bivariate correlations of a-Klotho levels with clinical variables and calcification scores
      using the Spearman correlation coefficient will be examined. Identification of a-Klotho
      determinants, log-transformation of a-Klotho levels was done because of log-normal
      distribution and stepwise linear regression was used, with probability to remove the
      variable>0.1. Identification of determinants of coronary and aortic calcification was done
      via log-transformation of the corresponding calcium scores, (a value of 0 was assumed;
      log-transformed-1 for absent calcium) and, stepwise linear regression was used as above.
      Because of the small sample size, all regression estimates, and confidence intervals were
      calculated with re-sampling so that robust variable selection and stable estimates can be
      ensured.
    
  