
    
      This study examines an evidence-based obesity intervention as a means of reducing the impact
      of prediabetes on muscle function in obese older men of white and black race. A total of 168
      obese (BMI 30 kg/m2) male Veterans aged 60 yrs, with mild to moderate functional impairments
      (Short Physical Performance Battery score of 4 to 10 units) and prediabetes, will be
      randomized to a higher-protein weight loss treatment (HP-WL) or an RDA-level protein control
      weight loss treatment (C-WL). All participants receive individualized calorie prescriptions
      calculated to achieve a weight loss of ~1-2 pounds per week and attend weekly group support
      sessions designed to enhance diet compliance with goal setting, self-monitoring, stress
      management, and daily diet journaling. They will also attend a weekly low impact, chair
      exercise class. HP-WL participants are provided a supply of chilled/frozen high-quality
      protein foods (lean meats, low fat dairy products) sufficient to give 30 g high quality
      protein for two of three meals daily to help assure diet compliance. C-WL participants are
      provided 1 serving per day of high quality protein to avoid unintentional bias. Treatment
      responses will be compared for the primary outcome of functional performance by Short
      Physical Performance Battery and important secondary measures, including muscle quality,
      insulin sensitivity, lean body mass, physical activity, recent falls and fear of falling,
      instrumental activities of daily living, and quality of life at 0, 3 and 6 months. An
      exploratory aim examines potential mediators of racial differences in treatment responses and
      documents the most successful intervention strategies. This will be the first randomized
      controlled trial of a balanced, higher-protein diet during a metabolic challenge (caloric
      restriction) in those with prediabetes and the first study to look at racial differences in
      responses of obese older men to this regimen. Study findings will fulfill the RR&D mission by
      advancing interventions to improve physical function in older Veterans, yield novel
      information about the impact of balanced, higher protein on muscle quality and insulin
      sensitivity, and explore racial differences in responses to obesity interventions.
    
  