
    
      The proposed study aims to examine the relationships between maternal uncertainty, hope, and
      coping efficacy in mothers of children with Duchenne/Becker Muscular Dystrophy (DBMD). DBMD
      is described as a complex chronic condition causing challenges exemplified by both chronic
      and terminal illnesses. Parental adaptation to a child s DBMD diagnosis is multifaceted due
      to the evolution of the disease and uncertain timing of the progressive losses the child and
      family face. In addition to prognostic uncertainty associated with DBMD, there is uncertainty
      about the management of the condition, future and reproductive planning, the family s social
      connections, and the existential meaning of the child s life. It is not fully understood how
      mothers of children with DBMD appraise, cope with, and ultimately adapt to their child s
      condition in light of this uncertainty. While high degrees of perceived uncertainty may be
      seen as a threat to coping and adaptation, there is evidence that caregivers may find
      benefits in uncertainty. The theoretical literature suggests that a person s hope may
      influence the appraisal of uncertainty, as well as have therapeutic value in positively
      affecting coping and ultimately, adaptation. This study s conceptual framework is based on an
      integrated model from Lazarus and Folkman s Transactional Model of Stress and Coping, Mishel
      s Perceived Uncertainty in Illness Theory, and Dufault and Martocchio s Model of Hope. The
      proposed study uses a cross-sectional research design to explore the relationships between
      maternal uncertainty, hope, and coping efficacy and is nested within a larger longitudinal
      study designed to examine the predictors of wellbeing among mothers of boys with DBMD. In
      addition, open-ended questions will be used to describe the uncertainty the mothers perceive
      and the impact uncertainty has had on their life. Participants were recruited through the
      DuchenneConnect registry, Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy (PPMD), and Cincinnati Children s
      Hospital Medical Center Neuromuscular Clinic. Additional mothers will be recruited through
      the DuchenneConntect registry, PPMD, and the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
    
  