
    
      The study is a three - year randomized controlled trial that will experimentally evaluate the
      impact of CCTs and SMS reminders on immunization rates of children under 2 years of age. The
      study will investigate the influence of different amounts, schedules and design of CCTs on
      immunization rates to (1) determine the impact of small incentives on immunization coverage
      and timeliness in 0-23 months old Pakistani children, (2) measure the relative effectiveness
      and cost of effectiveness of different types of incentives structures (including the amount,
      progressivity and certainty of payment) on immunization coverage rates and timeliness in 0-23
      months old Pakistani children and (3)determine the impact of SMS reminder (both with and
      without incentives) on immunization coverage rates and timeliness in 0-23 months old
      Pakistani children.

      The study has a cross-cutting design where one experiment (1) will investigate (1a) sharply
      increasing versus slowly increasing payouts; (1b) high incentive versus low incentive and
      (1c) simple SMS reminder vs no reminder. A second experiment (2), orthogonal to the first,
      will also test lottery payouts vs non-lottery payouts and will cross-cut (1a), (1b) and (1c)
      with (2). Moreover two different incentive disbursement methods will be utilised namely
      mobile phone credit (air time) and mobile money (hard cash) through a mobile money
      provider-EasyPaisa.

      The study will have a total twelve arms. The first ten arms will be the incentive arms with
      eight using mobile phone credit and two utilising mobile money. Additionally arm eleven will
      only provide SMS reminders while control arm twelve will neither receive CCT nor SMS.

      The study will enroll a total of 11,200 participants. Additionally to evaluate the proportion
      of immunized children, the study will also (4) examine 15% of the enrolled children for
      sero-survey biomarkers - the gold standard for establishing immunity, among different
      intervention and control arms

      Study Site

      All the study activities will be conducted in EPI centers in Korangi town of Pakistan, a
      suburban area adjoining Karachi city, located in Korangi district of Sindh province. Korangi
      town belongs to one of the lower socioeconomic areas in Karachi city. It is ethnically
      diverse, with low to middle income areas and has the presence of an existing research
      infrastructure and experience capable of running an mHealth immunization registry. Healthcare
      services in Korangi town are provided mainly by seven public basic health units, two private
      hospitals, and three private clinics.

      Randomization

      Enrolled participants will be randomly assigned to study arms. The stratified randomization
      sequence will be created using statistical software through random block sizes. For this
      study, a block randomization procedure has been put in place with a block size of 48 and six
      different strata based on enrollment vaccine and gender. These strata are: BCG-Male and
      BCG-Female, Penta1-Male and Penta1-Female and Penta2-Male and Penta2-Female. Performing block
      randomization ensures that the effect of gender and enrollment vaccine is removed as
      confounding variables in determining treatment outcomes. Furthermore, it ensures that the
      treatment assignments are not over/under-represented in any particular stratum.

      Study Procedure

      When a child first comes to any of the participating immunization centers the field worker
      will approach the caregiver and introduce the study and determine eligibility. From prior
      experience, it is possible that the caregiver will be unable to recall their mobile number at
      their first visit to the EPI center. Therefore, if screening criteria is not met and the
      child is coming for BCG/Penta-1 visit, the field worker will instruct the caregiver to bring
      the mobile number on the next visit. If the caregiver successfully provides the mobile number
      up till the time of Penta-2 visit , and meets the rest of the eligibility criteria, the field
      worker will proceed to taking the informed consent.The field worker will obtain a verbal
      informed consent by providing a detailed explanation of the information contained in the
      informed consent form and answering any questions that may arise. Contact cards will be
      provided to participants containing the contact details of the study team and IRB in case of
      any queries/complaints and the informed consent will be available in both English, and Urdu.
      If the caregiver refuses to respond or does not consent, the child will not be enrolled, but
      will proceed to the vaccinator to get his routine scheduled immunizations. Interviewees will
      be informed during the informed consent process about the possibility of being approached for
      enrollment in subsequent antibody assessment or any other study related follow-up
      information.

      If the caregiver provides consent, the child will be enrolled in the Zindagi Mehfooz digital
      immunization registry platform and will receive a unique ID in the form of a QR code pasted
      on the child's EPI card. The caregiver's CNIC number if provided will also be captured and
      will be entered into the registry, linking the child's ID to the caregiver's CNIC. Once all
      information is submitted successfully, the system is pre-programmed to randomly allocate the
      child to one of several treatment groups within the two interventions.

      All participants (irrespective of whether they are in the treatment or control arms) will
      receive the routine EPI vaccinations as per Pakistan's EPI Immunization schedule (one dose of
      BCG (Bacille Calmette-Guérin) and polio soon after birth, 3 doses of pentavalent (DPT + HepB
      + Hib) vaccine and oral polio vaccine at 6, 10 and 14 weeks of age,at 6, 10 and 14 weeks, and
      2 doses of Measles vaccine and 9 and 15 months of age) and the vaccinator will record the
      child's immunization data in the EPI immunization card as well as the EPI registry.

      All the field data and specimen collecting activities will be conducted by a team of one
      field supervisors and four field workers for every four EPI centers. The biomarker assessment
      will be done by a professional phlebotomist/nurse trained in finger stick capillary blood
      collection.

      Follow-up

      When the next immunization is due, the caregiver will receive an SMS reminder for the
      follow-up visit (if in the appropriate treatment arm). At the follow up visit, the field
      worker will scan the child's QR code and retrieves his/her past immunization data. If the EPI
      card is not available, child data will be screened through additional identifiers (including
      child name, father name, CNIC number, mobile number). The immunizations received on the
      current visit will be recorded in the registry and the caregiver becomes eligible for the
      cash incentive if they are in the in the appropriate intervention arms. In the control group,
      no incentive or reminders are received.

      Antibody Assessment Recruitment and Consent Process

      After 3 months following the recommended last immunization visit of measles-2 vaccine
      (children between 18 -24 months), a randomly selected sample of children will be approached
      for the antibody assessments either when they come for the Measles-2 vaccine at the EPI
      center or through household visit to the child's house (address of the child and phone number
      of the caregiver would be recorded at the time of enrolment). Randomization will be carried
      out in real-time on an android device through an online server. After conducting a short
      immunization verification survey with caregiver consent, the field worker will proceed with a
      detailed explanation of the information contained in the written informed consent form for
      antibody assessment and signatures of the caregiver will be taken as proof of consent. Blood
      collection will then proceed at the child's house and an interviewer trained in capillary
      blood collection or a phlebotomist will collect a finger stick capillary blood specimen using
      standard aseptic techniques into serum separator tubes. Personal protective equipment
      (gloves, sharps box) will be used by the interviewer/phlebotomist and a maximum of three
      capillary blood draw attempts will be attempted. To minimize distress and pain, parents may
      be asked to hold, breastfeed, or provide other distractions for the child. At least one
      interviewer or field supervisor will be present during the blood collection to assist. The
      specimen vials will be coded immediately with the child's QR code and a maximum of 0.5 ml of
      blood will be drawn from each child with a minimum volume of 0.2 ml.

      If the child is not present at the time of the survey or if the caregiver would like to
      reschedule the blood collection, the household will be revisited at the time the caregiver
      prefers. A maximum of three attempts will made to contact the child before moving on to next
      randomized child.

      Each finger stick capillary blood sample will be kept in cold box at 4-8°C and transported to
      Indus Lab Karachi by a designated vehicle within two to four hours of collection.

      Laboratory Procedures

      Lab testing will be performed periodically throughout the biomarker specimen collection
      period when an adequate number of specimens are available for testing. Serum specimen will be
      tested for measles IgG antibodies (Enzygonost ELISA, Siemens, Germany; reported sensitivity
      and specificity of 99.6% and 100% respectively) and tetanus toxoid IgG antibodies (Euroimmun
      anti-TT IgG ELISA; reported sensitivity and specificity of 94.1% and 100% respectively).
      Serum samples will be categorized as negative, equivocal or positive as recommended by the
      manufacturers. Samples with equivocal results will be re-tested and, if equivocal again, will
      be categorized as positive, according to a previous study.

      Data Management and Analysis

      Data will be analyzed using STATA 13. The immunization coverage for each vaccine by study arm
      will be assessed for children under 2 years of age as reported through their digital
      immunization record. Bivariate and multivariate analysis using a generalized linear model of
      estimated risk ratios for FIC coverage will be conducted (using α = 0.05 for evaluating
      statistical significance). For multivariate analysis, covariate selection will be based on a
      priori knowledge using previous studies and biological plausibility.

      Primary specification for the analysis

      The investigators will use intention to treat analysis-that is, all participants will be
      analysed with the assumption that they remained in the treatment group to which they were
      initially assigned. The main regression analysis will thus be:

      Y=a SMS + b Lottery + c High*FLAT + d High*SLOPE + e Low*FLAT+ f LOW* Slope + e

      Where:

      Y is the relevant outcome measure (FIC coverage) The coefficient "a" gives us the impact of
      the SMS reminder in the control group.

      The coefficient "b" gives us the impact of lottery versus sure payment, keeping constant the
      level and structure of the incentive.

      The coefficients c, d, e and f give us the impact of different incentives (compared to the
      SMS control group).

      Antibody Data Analysis There will be three possible outcomes for the antibody analysis namely
      positive, negative and equivocal. The first two are self explanatory and for the latter the
      following approach will be used For a well-performed ELISA test, equivocal results are
      generally caused by four reasons: an imperfect sample condition, such as general protein
      degradation (low total antibody level) due to imperfect blood sample preparation; a nearly
      undetectably low level of target antibody in sample; insufficient primary antibody coating;
      and unspecific binding leading to high background noise. Since the current study is intended
      to ascertain history of vaccination, it is intended to define positive even when protective
      antibody level is not induced. Thus, the first three potential causes that lead to equivocal
      results will be defined positive in this study, while the fourth potential cause will be
      excluded by observing valid negative control tests.
    
  