
    
      The course of patients with chronic heart failure is marked by periodic episodes of clinical
      decompensation that not only impair the quality of life and may be fatal but also consume
      substantial health care resources, primarily due to the costs of hospitalization. Heart
      failure management programs have been developed to reduce the frequency and severity of these
      clinical events, but their effectiveness may be limited by physicians' difficulty in
      identifying patients at imminent risk. Reliable prediction of these events may afford
      physicians the opportunity to intervene aggressively and potentially minimize the need for
      hospitalization or the risk of a serious adverse outcome.

      Noninvasive impedance cardiography (ICG) is a simple test that utilizes changes in thoracic
      electrical impedance to measure thoracic fluid content, changes in the duration of cardiac
      ejection and the velocity of blood flow within the aorta. ICG has been used to estimate
      cardiac output and cardiac filling pressure in patients with or without heart failure (HF).

      PREVENT-HF is a randomized prospective study being conducted at up to 35 experienced
      investigative centers from the United States, Canada, and Europe. Subjects will be enrolled
      within 4-12 days of a discharge from a hospitalization for exacerbation of heart failure,
      with screening procedures to occur prior to the enrollment. Following enrollment, subjects
      will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to outpatient management by either clinical assessment
      (Standard Care Arm) or ICG in addition to clinical assessment (ICG Arm) during the enrollment
      visit. ICG variables will be collected in all subjects but will be blinded in the Standard
      Care Arm. Each subject's study participation will last for a minimum of 24 weeks and a
      maximum of 52 weeks post-discharge. Four weeks after hospital discharge, subjects will visit
      the clinic. Remaining study visits will occur every four weeks thereafter until the subject
      has completed the 52-week visit or until the subject has experienced a hospitalization that
      has been adjudicated by the Clinical Events Committee as being a heart failure
      hospitalization.

      In the PREDICT study, a composite ICG score was the most powerful predictor of a short-term
      HF event when compared to standard clinical variables. This composite ICG score is provided
      for subjects in the PREVENT-HF ICG Arm. If the score indicates a subject is at a higher risk
      for a short-term HF event, clinicians will be required to intervene. Clinicians may intervene
      if indicated by the subject's clinical status for an intermediate-risk score, and
      intervention is not recommended based on the ICG score for lower-risk scores. Compliance to
      these guidelines will be tracked.
    
  