
    
      This is a prospective, double-binding, cross-sectional, randomized, sham-controlled, and
      single-center project aimed to investigate the effect of rTMS treatment of social cognition
      abilities in MCI subjects at 2 and 4 weeks, and after 8 weeks from baseline.

      All patients will be recruited at Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Department of Neurology,
      Regional Civic Hospital, Lugan; Department of Geriatric Italian Hospital Viganello; and
      Department of Geriatric, Beata Vergine Hospital Mendrisio; Southern Switzerland, Switzerland.

      Primary objective:

      1. To investigate whether the application of high-frequency rTMS, for 2 or 4 weeks, to the
      RPTJ and MPFC resulted in social cognitive improvements.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To verify whether the social cognition benefits previously recorded might persist after
           8 weeks the end of the stimulation, with a major benefit with a longer rTMS application
           (4 weeks).

        2. To investigate whether the application of high-frequency rTMS, at 2 weeks or 4 weeks, to
           the RPTJ and MPFC contributes to improve cognitive functions as well as neuropsychiatric
           (depression) and functional aspects.

        3. To verify whether the cognitive functions, neuropsychiatric aspect, and functional
           benefits previously recorded persist after the end of the rTMS stimulation.

      Primary analysis: To investigate the behavioral effects induced by the rTMS protocol after 2
      and 4 weeks of daily stimulation on social cognition skills, executive/attentive functions,
      neuropsychiatric and functional aspects will be used a mixed-model ANOVA, considering the
      group as a between-subjects factor, and time as a within-subject factor.

      Secondary Analyses: To investigate the direct or mediated rTMS effect on social cognition
      skills, a multivariate linear regression analysis will be done for each social cognition
      measure (ToM, empathy, social perception, social behavior) changes after rTMS treatment at 2
      and 4 weeks as the dependent factor, separately, and appropriate screening/baseline dependent
      variables and rTMS groups as independent factors.

      The evaluation and treatment of social cognition alterations in subjects with MCI can be
      useful for two main aspects: first, the mild cognitive and behavior impairment of these
      subjects favor a better answer at the treatment, both at the behavioral level and in terms of
      brain structural and functional response; second, treatment of these abilities in MCI
      population might retard the conversion to dementia. More importantly, the detection of
      predominant social cognition alteration in early phases of cognitive decline might be
      potentially helpful to differentiate individuals who will develop frontotemporal dementia.
      Therefore, it is important to investigate and define a treatment protocol to limit social
      cognition disturbances in MCI.
    
  