
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To document the quantitative characteristics of a cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific
           HLA-peptide tetramer-binding assay (TBA) for cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) in patients
           who have undergone allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or peripheral blood stem
           cell transplantation (PBSCT).

        -  To confirm the optimal TBA conditions for CTL characterization in these patients.

        -  To compare the TBA results for these patients with conventional assays for CTL
           functions.

        -  To compare CMV-specific TBA during the first 3 months after allogeneic BMT or PBSCT and
           to determine whether this binding function, in either donor or recipient, is a surrogate
           marker for protection from risk of CMV infection in these patients.

        -  To determine whether acquisition of CMV-specific TBA protects from risk for CMV disease
           in patients having active CMV infection after allogeneic BMT or PBSCT.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients accrue initially to cohort 1 until a
      sufficient number of stem cell transplantation (SCT) recipients are enrolled. Patients then
      accrue to cohort 2 based on documented cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and preemptive
      treatment with ganciclovir within 90 days after SCT (patients previously accrued to cohort 1
      can be accrued to cohort 2 if they develop CMV infection).

        -  Cohort 1: Patients undergo blood sample collection on approximately days 40, 90, 120,
           150, 180, and 360 post transplantation. Samples are analyzed (to determine the
           development of CMV immunity) for prevalence of CMV-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes
           (CTL) by HLA-peptide tetramer-binding assay (TBA) pp65, with and without in vitro
           stimulation (IVS). Samples collected on days 40 and 90 are also analyzed by chromium
           release assay (CRA). Patients suspected of developing CMV viremia may receive
           ganciclovir according to standard clinical practice.

        -  Cohort 2: Patients undergo blood sample collection on approximately days 90, 120, 150,
           180, and 360 after SCT. Samples are analyzed by TBApp65 staining and for prospective
           measurement of CMV-specific CTL functions.

      All patients undergo routine clinical surveillance for CMV infection on days 21 to 100 after
      SCT. CMV viral load measurements are obtained twice weekly by CMV-DNA PCR assays on blood
      cells and plasma and shell-vial blood cultures. In cohort 2, CMV viral load is also
      determined on days 90 (if not previously as part of cohort 1), 120, 150, 180, and 360. The
      CMV infection data obtained is then compared with TBA and CTL measurements using HLA-specific
      tetramers and IVS-induced cytotoxicity assays. Clinical events, such as graft-versus-host
      disease, underlying disease status, and procedure-related complications are also analyzed and
      correlated with TBA results.

      Stromal cell cultures are obtained from marrow donors at the time of marrow harvest for use
      as target cells in CTL assays. Donor saliva samples are also obtained for detection of CMV
      infection by shell-vial method.
    
  