
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Electrical impedance tomography (EIT) monitoring has been researched as a method to determine
      the spatial impedance distribution in a body cross section, but has yet to become an
      established clinical tool. EIT monitoring gives a dynamic, breath-to-breath measurement of
      both global and regional ventilation. Recently, there has been evidence that EIT monitoring
      has great potential to become a non-invasive bedside tool for assessment of regional lung
      ventilation without documented hazards. Potential applications include any adult patients in
      acute respiratory failure. Data collected from this research may contribute to improved
      patient safety outcomes.

      PURPOSE:

      The purpose of this pilot study is to examine the feasibility of using the EIT monitor in ICU
      setting on patients with acute respiratory failure and to compare the EIT monitor data to
      standard of care patient assessments. It is hypothesized that the EIT monitor, when applied
      to adults in acute respiratory failure, will correlate with conventional standard of care
      assessments for these patients.

      METHOD:

      This pilot study design will consist of a prospective, blinded evaluation of the EIT monitor
      for patients with acute lung injury or acute respiratory distress syndrome.

      Once a patient has met the inclusion criteria and has signed informed consent:

        1. EIT electrode chest band will be applied by trained respiratory care staff. Application
           includes elastic chest band with 16 electrodes.

        2. EIT electrode chest band is connected to the EIT monitor which will be turned on and
           will monitor and store EIT data.

        3. EIT monitoring will take place for 4 to 6 hours, during day shift (7am to 4pm)

        4. Patient's may be monitored on three separate days.

      No interventions, tests or modifications to the standard of care will occur to patients for
      this pilot study of EIT monitoring. Clinicians guiding the care of these patients will be
      blinded to the EIT data. The EIT chest band will be removed if transport of the patient is
      necessary or if care is needed in the area of the chest band.
    
  