
    
      Objectives: To develop an easily understood CC tool accessible to all T1D patients.

      Primary outcome - HbA1c at 3 and 6 months after intervention. Second primary - patients
      satisfaction with the tool.

      Methods: The investigators created a tool which includes two tables with the patients'
      individual doses calculated by the clinics professional team, displaying his IS and C:I. The
      first table's values drive from the IS, showing how many insulin units should be given to
      correct blood sugar levels according to the measured result before the meal, and second
      drives from the patient's own C:I, which shows how many insulin units should be given
      according to the chosen food items. Blood glucose target is also decided on an individual
      basis. Together, with the patient, the investigators create a list containing only food items
      in one's personal diet with attached values. Protein dishes and fatty items such as oil or an
      egg appear with the value of zero insulin if that is the correct figure for the particular
      patient. After filling out the two tables, the investigators apply them in 8 steps 1-measure
      blood sugar, 2-find the right insulin correction dose according to the 1st table, 3-plan the
      meal, 4-find the insulin dose for the food items chosen, 5-combine the insulin dose of step
      2+4, 6-injection insulin by pen or insulin pump, 7-consume the meal. 8-measure blood sugar 2
      hours after meal to make sure the right dose was applied. At all visits the lists are
      discussed and missing food items are added. Using this tool enables to introduce CC to most
      patients.The tool has been applied in different languages: Hebrew, Arabic, Russian, English
      and Amharic and was used by patients whose individual learning skills varied over a very wide
      spectrum.

      Patients were randomized into two groups. Group 1-received the new tool. Group 2-learned carb
      counting on customary basis. All participants met 6 times with a registered dietician
      diabetes educator to practice carb counting.

      Data collected at recruitments and at the end of the study: HbA1c, daily insulin dosage,
      lipids profiles and questioners (PAID of WHO).

      Subgroup analyses were done according to gender, diabetes years and education.
    
  