
    
      Studies in model organisms suggest that aged cells can be functionally rejuvenated, but
      whether this concept applies to human skin is unclear. Recently, we applied 3'-end sequencing
      for expression quantification ("3-seq") to discover the gene expression program associated
      with human photoaging and intrinsic skin aging (collectively termed "skin aging"), and the
      impact of broadband light (BBL) treatment. We found significant changes in 2,265 coding and
      noncoding RNAs, of which 1,293 that became "rejuvenated" after BBL treatment, whereby they
      became more similar to their expression level in youthful skin. Rejuvenated genes (RGs)
      included several known key regulators of organismal longevity and their proximal long
      noncoding RNAs. Hence, BBL treatment can restore gene expression pattern of photo-aged and
      intrinsically aged human skin to resemble young skin.

      However, the duration of these effects and the potential to augment these effects through
      increases in particular wavelengths of light have not been explored. The Sciton SkinTyte
      (800-1800nm) is the ideal technology to examine these questions, since this device has been
      used in the clinical setting to reduce cheek and submental laxity (Gold, 2010). It
      incorporates the broadband light technology with an emphasis on 590 nm filter to achieve
      these clinical results.

      This study will be conducted in accord with Declaration of Helsinki principles. After
      Institutional Review Board approval and informed consent is obtained, six female participants
      over the age of 55 years will undergo BBLST treatments to the left forearm. Inclusion
      criteria included Fitzpatrick skin type II or III, and a global assessment of forearm skin
      aging consistent with moderate or severe forearm skin aging (modified validated instrument
      from McKenzie et al., 2011) for treated participants. Treatments will be performed on the
      Sciton Joule Platform using BBL in Skintyte mode with 590ST filter. On a separate part of the
      arm that is clearly marked, Skintyte alone will be applied. Untreated areas will also be
      marked. All markings will be photographed. The same investigator will perform the treatments
      at 4-week intervals for a total of 3 treatments. At each treatment session, two or more
      passes were performed. Four weeks after the third BBL treatment, 4 mm skin biopsies will
      performed by Keys punch technique from the BBLST treated, ST treated and adjacent untreated
      skin. These specimens will be bisected and placed into either RNAlater (Ambion Cat# AM7022)
      or formalin solution for with H&E, von Giesen or PAS staining.
    
  