
    
      Background:

      Recent research has shown that dietary components may lead to impaired intestinal innate
      immunity due to alterations in the microbiome, mucous layer, intestinal permeability or
      change in bacterial adherence and translocation. Pfeffer Gik et al (Dig Dis, 2014) compiled a
      list of food components and additives that impair the intestinal epitheliums ability to
      contain bacteria to the lumen, and consequently increase intestinal permeability which, in
      turn, increases the uptake of luminal antigens and microbial factors. The list includes
      Gliadin, Saturated fat milks, emulsifiers such as Carboxymethylcellulose, Polysorbate 80 and
      Sodium Caprate )Levine A, Wine E, 2013). In Crohn's disease, intervention with EEN or a
      Crohn's disease exclusion diet have shown high rates of remission in mild- moderate CD
      patients. The CDED led to remission in 70% of patients, primarily with patients with early
      mild to moderate disease (Sigall-Boneh R et al, 2014).

      Unlike CD, none of these studies have systematically examined the relationship between normal
      diet intake and relapses in UC. Devotka et al demonstrated that a bloom in sulphide reducing
      bacteria increased colitis in IL10-/- mice. This was due to increased Bilophila Wadsworthia
      which is sulphide dependent (Brown k et al, 2012). Studies have shown that the rate of
      butyrate utilization in normal specimens was almost double than that found in UC Specimens.
      Moreover, high fiber diet can affect the microbial composition (Pitcher MCL et al, Gut, 2000)
      and regulatory T cells in the colon (Singh N et al, 2014).

      Until recently, UC was not considered to be a bacteria mediated disease. However, our
      increased understanding of UC indicates that bacteria might have a role in pathogenesis or
      severity of the disease. The strongest evidence comes from Japanese studies in patients with
      moderate to severe colitis, which demonstrated that triple therapy with penicillin ,
      tetracycline and metronidazole led to remission in steroid refractory patients in 60% of
      patients, and this was reproduced in a follow up randomized controlled trial which showed a
      70% remission rate (UEGW Amsterdam 2012, Ohkusa T et al 2005 ). On the other hand a previous
      trial had shown 44% response and only (Ohkusa T et al 2010). A recent retrospective study in
      Israel showed a 65% response and 50% remission rate in patients with severe refractory
      colitis. Thus it is unclear at present if antibiotics are useful only in severe colitis , or
      if this reflects heterogeneity among studies.

      Diet and antibiotics are the two proven treatments that may alter the microbiota clinically.
      Theoretically, controlling the microbiota by diet or antibiotics may allow for control of the
      disease without immune suppression , and this has yet to be evaluated.

      Based on our previous success in improving remission and decreasing inflammation with a novel
      dietary intervention in Crohn's disease, and based on these previously mentioned studies, we
      have postulated that a diet could be beneficial for patients with Ulcerative Colitis. We
      further hypothesize that patients failing diet might respond to antibiotic therapy If
      patients respond to the diet this would have an immediate impact and be the first evidence
      for a specific diet that works in UC. If the diet fails and the antibiotics succeed, this
      would be the first evidence for the effect of oral antibiotics in mild disease .
    
  