
    
      This study aims at testing the implementation and effectiveness of the CCD program on early
      child development in selected day care centers in Beirut. It is being conducted in
      collaboration with World Vision and the Lebanese Ministry of Public Health.

      Day Care centers are invited by the ministry of health to participate in this proposed study.

      After securing the approval of the Center's director, caregivers working at those day care
      centers are being invited to participate in this study.

      Those caregivers who agree to participate will receive either training on the CCD program AND
      early child nutrition from World Vision (Infant & Young Child Feeding Project WV-IYCFP)
      (Intervention group) or training on early child nutrition from WV-IYCFP only (control group).

      The Care for Child Development (CCD) Program developed by World Health Organization (WHO)
      /UNICEF provides caregivers with recommendations for stimulating child development through
      play and communication activities.

      WV-IYCFP provides activities related to raising awareness on breastfeeding and complementary
      food introduction to optimize child nutrition.

      The Intervention group (CCD-Group) consists of 10 day care centers chosen randomly. Three
      caregivers from each center (total 30 caregivers) will attend a day-and-a-half CCD training
      at the Center of Excellence for Early Child Development at AUBMC. In addition, they will
      participate in the World Vision activities related to the Infant & Young Child Feeding
      Project (WV-IYCFP). The day care centers in this group will receive a manual including early
      child development concepts and techniques to be used as a reference.

      The Control group (WV-Group) consists of 10 day care centers chosen randomly. Three
      caregivers from each center (total 30 caregivers) will participate in activities related to
      the WV-IYCFP.

      Caregivers in both groups will be asked to take a knowledge assessment questionnaire on child
      development before and after each training, then at 6months and 12 months after the
      intervention.

      In both groups, caregivers' behavior in early child stimulation will be assessed before and
      after the trainings. Caregivers will be observed delivering child care as per each center's
      routine; their behavior will be assessed using a predetermined behavioral check list
      developed based on the CCD program.
    
  