
    
      1. Scientific Rationale Enoxaparin is a commonly used low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)
           for the treatment of neonatal and children thrombosis that is monitored with anti-factor
           Xa (anti-Xa) levels. However, this therapeutic range of anti-Xa (0.5 - 1.0 u/ml) was
           extrapolated from adult studies. The burden of pain to neonates and children due to
           venipunctures and of resources to the health care system also warrants an evidence-based
           review to assess the utility of monitoring LMWH therapy with anti-Xa levels. This FiXET
           trial is to compare the approach of treating thrombosis in neonates and children with
           enoxaparin using weight adjusted fixed dose to variable dose titrated to maintain a
           pre-determined anti-Xa range (0.5-1.0 u/mL). We plan to recruit 20 neonates and children
           over the study period, who will be randomized within their first week of
           anti-coagulation treatment. Key feasibility outcomes include screening/recruitment
           ratio, monthly recruitment rate, and completeness of data collection. We will also
           measure the safety outcome of bleeding as well as comment on efficacy of resolution of
           thrombosis as a secondary outcome.

           1.1 Potential Risk and Benefits The administration of weight adjusted fixed dose of
           enoxaparin without anti-Xa monitoring has the potential to reduce pain from multiple
           venipunctures in neonates and children as well as resources used in their care. The
           results of the FiXET trial will provide preliminary clinical data regarding the
           feasibility and safety of this approach to anticoagulation treatment in neonates and
           children. It will also provide a preliminary idea about the efficacy of such an
           approach. This trial, if successful, will set groundwork for a larger multicenter
           randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy of administering enoxaparin to
           neonates and children without monitoring to the current conventional approach of routine
           monitoring with anti-Xa levels.

        2. Study Objectives The aim of this trial is to determine the feasibility and safety of
           doing a randomized control trial to compare the approach of treating thrombosis in
           neonates and children with enoxaparin using weight adjusted fixed dose to variable dose
           titrated to maintain a pre-determined anti-Xa range (0.5-1.0 u/mL).

        3. Eligibility Criteria Four or more tertiary hospitals will participate in this trial. We
           plan to recruit a total of 20 patients based on the following protocol-defined inclusion
           and exclusion criteria.

        4. Study Design FiXET trial is a prospective pilot, feasibility and safety multicenter,
           randomized controlled trial. Recruitment will start following institutional REB
           approval. This will occur over 1year per centre and may take up to 2 years. Analysis and
           dissemination will occur after this period of time.

           4.1 Study Endpoints

           Primary Objective The primary outcome of this trial is to assess feasibility and safety,
           as defined below, of administering a weight adjusted fixed dose of enoxaparin to
           neonates and children with thrombosis.

           Feasibility criteria

             -  At least 5 subjects can be recruited in each participating centre over the study
                period

             -  At least 50% of all approached patients can be recruited

             -  Complete data collection and follow-up of at least 90% of all recruited subjects

           Safety criteria

           - No more than 20% of subjects are removed from the study due to 1) low or high anti-Xa
           levels, or 2) major bleeding

           Major bleeding will be defined as (i) fatal bleeding; (ii) clinically overt bleeding
           resulting associated with a decrease in hemoglobin of 20 g/L (2 g/dL) in a 24 hour
           period; (iii) bleeding into a critical organ (intracranial, pulmonary or
           retroperitoneal); or bleeding requiring surgical intervention [17].

           Minor bleeding will be defined as any overt or macroscopic evidence of bleeding that
           does not fulfill criteria for major bleeding [17].

           Secondary Objective Secondary outcome measures include 1) efficacy in resolution of
           thrombosis; 2) mean anti-Xa levels; 3) number of enoxaparin dose adjustments required in
           the control arm; and 4) number of venipuncture attempts for blood sampling in patients.

        5. Expected Duration of Participant Participation The duration of enoxaparin therapy will
           be 6 weeks to 6 months at the discretion of the treating physician.
    
  