
    
      This is a two-arm, randomized, clinician-blind study. No severe adverse effects are expected
      to be experienced in the control group. All subjects are allowed to treat cold sore related
      pain with an oral analgesic - paracetamol (APAP). The use of APAP for pain will be recorded
      as a concomitant medication. However, subjects will be required to refrain from using any
      additional treatment (topical or systemic) during study participation.

      Subjects randomized to treatment will be instructed to initiate the therapy within 1 hour
      onset of their first sign or symptom and record their assessment in the diary card (for no
      treatment subjects, they will only record assessments upon onset of first sign or symptom).
      All subjects will return to the study center for clinical assessments within 24 hours and 48
      hours after onset of first sign or symptom/initiation of treatment and every other day
      thereafter, with a final visit at Day 10 or at the time of completion/discontinuation if
      before Day 10. Diaries will be completed each day, beginning upon initiation of therapy (Day
      0) and continuing until study completion/discontinuation, and will include information on
      study product applications.

      Subjects assigned to a patch treatment will wear a patch continuously on their lesion and
      will apply a new patch on occasions where the patch becomes loose, falls off or becomes
      unsightly, including at study visits to the facility where subjects will be asked to remove
      their patch for clinical assessments. Treatment will continue until the lesion is healed, for
      a maximum of 10 days. As the test period will possibly extend through the end of year holiday
      break, subject visits and treatments will be halted during this break. All subjects who have
      not initiated therapy including subjects assigned no treatment group, will be allowed to use
      their regular therapy for a cold sore outbreak during the holiday break.
    
  