
    
      Rationale for this clinical trial The goal of analgesia in pregnancy is to reduce pain while
      minimizing both maternal and fetal adverse effects. Current opioids used in pregnancy provide
      minimal pain relief and are associated with adverse effects. IV acetaminophen has been shown
      to significantly improve pain control following cesarean section and in the first stage of
      labor. Moreover, IV acetaminophen reduces the need and consumption of opioids following
      surgery. If IV acetaminophen can be as effective in controlling pain associated with maternal
      medical conditions and uterine contractions with labor, then the use of parenteral opioids in
      pregnant women and its exposure to the fetus could be reduced. This could provide new
      opportunities in the medical management of pain in pregnancy. Thus we propose a comparative
      effectiveness trial of IV acetaminophen compared to IV morphine.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that IV acetaminophen is as effective as IV morphine in reducing pain in
      pregnant women. In doing so, IV acetaminophen can reduce the amount of narcotics needed in
      women with pain.

      Objectives:

      To determine if IV acetaminophen can:

        1. Decrease pain in pregnant women

        2. Reduce the amount of opioid use in pregnant women who encounter pain

        3. Reduce maternal and fetal adverse effects compared to opioids

      Study Design:

      For this comparative effective trial, we propose a randomized, controlled trial of IV
      acetaminophen vs. IV morphine in pregnant women. Prior studies have confirmed that IV
      acetaminophen is effective in controlling pain compared to placebo.[14,20] Thus,
      administering just a placebo for pain control is not justified at this time.

      We will include 3 different groups of pregnant populations who encounter pain for different
      reasons.

      Group 1: Pregnant women with uterine contractions, but not in labor Group 2: Pregnant women
      with uterine contractions in the first stage of labor Group 3: Pregnant women with a medical
      condition associated with pain.
    
  