
    
      Studies have shown that educational interventions in patients nearing end-stage renal disease
      (ESRD) can delay the need for dialysis and increase the likelihood of the patient choosing
      in-home vs. in-center dialysis. Given the higher cost of in-center hemodialysis compared to
      in-home strategies, such as peritoneal dialysis, efforts at increasing use of in-home
      dialysis modalities are likely to be cost-effective. Moreover, while few studies of
      educational interventions have long-term follow-up, one study suggests that patients exposed
      to educational interventions have improved long-term survival once on dialysis.

      The long-term goal is to improve clinical and patient-centered outcomes in patients
      transitioning from Chronic Kidney Disease Stage (CKD) IV and V to dialysis-requiring ESRD.
      The short-term goal of this pilot project is to evaluate the feasibility of delivering
      digital-enabled ESRD education to patients with CKD stage IV and V (eGFR<30ml/min/1.73m2, not
      yet on dialysis) in clinical care. The investigators will provide this education in the form
      of in-person nurse advice, online digital content including videos, and online messaging with
      a nurse, moderated patient group and peer mentor. The main objective of the educational
      program will be to 1) Increase awareness of options, 2) Prioritize options based on patient
      lifestyle and values, 3) Build confidence in modality decision.

      The investigators will develop individualized, digitalized educational content (which
      includes videos, text and illustration) for patients with CKD that will increase awareness of
      ESRD care options including in-home hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis and choosing not to
      have dialysis. Patients will enroll in a month-long program during which they have access to
      the educational app, including lifestyle and modality educational content and online
      messaging where they can access a nurse for 1 on 1 discussion, a patient mentor for 1 on 1
      discussion, and a patient group for group mentorship exercises. The investigators will pilot
      these materials in patients at high risk of progression to dialysis and evaluate the primary
      outcomes of whether they were able to complete the program and make a modality choice.
      Secondary outcomes will include assessments to determine the intervention's impact on patient
      dialysis modality awareness and likelihood of choosing a home-dialysis modality. At the end
      of the study, the investigators will provide an insights report to the study participants'
      doctors and survey the doctors to ascertain their perspectives on the usefulness of the
      educational program for their patients' care.
    
  