
    
      Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer among women in the United States. It has always
      been the hope that devising methods of earlier detection would lead to improvement of
      long-term survival. Therefore, the development of novel, more selective, and noninvasive
      diagnostic techniques is a priority. Mammography is currently the most commonly used breast
      imaging modality for both screening and diagnostic purposes. Additionally, breast ultrasound
      imaging and breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are generally used to supplement or help
      confirm any indeterminate or suspicious finding prior to consideration of a breast biopsy.
      However, these conventional imaging methods lack information about tissue function and have
      lower diagnostic accuracy.

      Most recently, near infrared (NIR, of wavelength 700-900 nm) optical diffuse spectroscopic
      imaging has been investigated as a novel diagnostic tool for breast cancer. In the
      near-infrared (NIR) light spectrum, oxygenated hemoglobin and deoxygenated hemoglobin are the
      major chromospheres in tissue, and the absorption spectrums of the two hemoglobin states
      differ across these wavelengths. Thus, there have been many contemporary attempts to use the
      intra-tissue absorption and scattering of NIR light to quantify functional tissue parameters
      such as hemoglobin concentration (HbT) and oxygen saturation (StO2), including tumor
      differentiation within the human breast. To a very good approximation, NIR photons diffuse
      through relatively thick tissues, such as several centimeters of a human breast. Functional
      imaging with NIR light offers several novel tissue parameters that differentiate tumors from
      normal breast tissue. For example, hemoglobin de-saturation in tumors may be increased due to
      the high oxygen demand of cancers and blood volume may be increased over that of normal
      background tissue due to the greater vascularization and metabolic needs of cancers.

      While NIR imaging provides additional physiological parameters that potentially help to
      improve the specificity of breast cancer diagnosis, its relatively low spatial resolution
      makes it unsuitable for morphological analysis. The resolution of a NIR system is
      intrinsically limited by the diffusive nature of the near infrared light in tissue.
      Currently, typical instruments can distinguish simple structures of approximately 1 cm in
      size; sharp edges are typically blurred by a few millimeters. It was proposed that the
      imaging technique combining near infrared and ultrasound modalities has the potential to
      fully utilize their complementary features and overcome their deficiencies. This protocol
      defines the clinical study to prove the concept of the near infrared/ ultrasound dual modal
      imaging and to evaluate its sensitivity and specificity for breast cancer diagnosis.
    
  