
    
      This is a non-randomized evaluation for which 20 adult patients will be imaged at University
      Hospitals Birmingham who present with a wound which has been previously infected and which
      requires a skin graft. The MolecuLight i:X Imaging Device will be used to take standard (ST)
      and fluorescent (FL) images of each graft site. The MolecuLight i:X will also be used to take
      measurements of the wound using the measurement feature of the device.

      Once a patient has identified as being suitable for the trial, the study will be introduced
      to them by a member of their circle of care. They will be provided with an informed consent
      form, provided time to consider the study and have any of their questions answered. The
      patient will be asked to sign and date the ICF if they choose to participate in the study.The
      subjects will be recruited for a period of 2 months.

      The execution of the full protocol is expected to take approximately 15 minutes during a
      single clinic visit for each study subject. During the clinic visit, the clinician will treat
      the patient based on their clinical practice. Prior to the application of the skin graft, the
      Moleculight i:X will be used to take standard and fluorescent (FL) images of each graft site
      by the study team. The wound will be measured using the measurement application of the i:X,
      using WoundStickers. Following imaging the skin graft will be applied and treatment will
      continue as per the clinician's clinical practice.

      The clinician will be blinded to the results of these FL images until the end of the study.
      In this trial, the device is not intended to guide treatment. There will be a follow-up with
      each patient at 1 month after the grafting procedure to ask if the grafting procedure was
      successful. There will not be any imaging or sampling required at the time of follow-up. The
      information gathered will be used for post-hoc analysis to assess if the presence of a
      fluorescence signal at the time of imaging is correlated to graft failure.
    
  