
    
      Participants will call study line given on recruitment materials and be screened over the
      phone.

      Baseline visit:

      Individuals who meet the screening criteria will be invited to a one-hour training session
      about the website and diet plan book. During the training, a coordinator will review the
      consent form with the participants and ask if they have any questions. The coordinator will
      take consented individuals' height, weight and blood pressure measurements. Participants will
      be given a pedometer to use during physical activities and a meal replacement book to use as
      a resource.

      After baseline visit:

      All participants will complete surveys online (Demographics, Three-Factor Eating
      Questionnaire, Motivation, Weight Loss Habits, Medication log, International Physical
      Activity Questionnaire) and be randomized into one of two groups. The intervention group will
      be asked to record their weight, physical activity steps, pre-portioned food items and
      journal entries on a daily basis. The control group will be sent an email informing them they
      will have access to the tracking, journals and website in three months.

      Intervention Group:

      Participants will receive daily emails with links to record their weight, physical activity
      steps and pre-portioned food items; participants will also complete a journaling response to
      two writing prompts. The emails will contain links to the website to be used as a resource.
      Every week, participants will enter whether they have an appointment with primary care
      provider in the next week. Participants will also receive weekly blogs from the principal
      investigator; participants can opt out of receiving the blog emails at any time. Coordinators
      will review the database weekly. If a participant has lost ten pounds, they will be emailed
      to call their doctor since weight loss can affect blood pressure and medication needs. If a
      participant has an upcoming primary care provider appointment, they will be emailed to print
      out their tracking graphs (weight, steps taken, meal replacements). Coordinators will also
      monitor journal responses; coordinators will contact participants who wrote useful entries to
      ask if the participant's responses can be shared with other participants. Shared posts will
      be anonymous; only the age of the individual will be given.

      Month one and two visits:

      Participants from both groups will be asked to come to Hershey Medical Center to have their
      height, weight and blood pressure measured.

      Month three visit:

      Participants from both groups will be asked to come to Hershey Medical Center to have their
      height, weight and blood pressure measured. Prior to their visit, participants will be asked
      to complete a series of surveys online (Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire, Motivation, Weight
      Loss Habits, Medication log, International Physical Activity Questionnaire, Satisfaction).
      Participants in the control group will be given a booklet containing the writing prompts,
      tracking and website address to complete on their own if they so choose.

      Participants will be asked if they would like to come back for an optional video interview.
      The interview will consist of six questions about their experience with the study.
    
  