
    
      This study is a Type 1 hybrid effectiveness-implementation trial. County jails willing to
      provide extended-release naltrexone (XR-NTX) and extended-release buprenorphine (XR-B) will
      participate in a randomized controlled trial throughout the state of Maryland, in which 240
      incarcerated men and women will be randomly assigned within gender within jail to one of two
      arms: Arm 1. XR-B (n=120). XR-B in jail followed by 6 monthly injections post-release at a
      treatment program. Arm 2. XR-NTX (n=120). XR-NTX in jail, followed by 6 monthly injections
      post-release at a treatment program. In addition to the RCT the investigators will use a
      learning collaborative to examine the acceptability and feasibility of medications for opioid
      use disorder (MOUDs). Aim 1. To determine the effectiveness of XR-B compared to XR-NTX in
      terms of: Primary. (a) pharmacotherapy adherence (number of monthly injections received).
      Secondary. (b) illicit opioid urine test results; (c) self-reported illicit opioid use; (d)
      overdose events (non-fatal and fatal); (e) quality of life (i. physical health; ii. mental
      health); (f) HIV risk behaviors (i. sexual behavior; ii. needle use or sharing); and (g)
      criminal activity (i. crime days; ii. re-arrest; iii. re-incarceration). Aim 2. To use a
      learning collaborative involving all 7 RCT county jurisdictions as well as 3 additional
      counties that selected not to participate in the randomized trial to understand factors
      related to: (a) acceptability of providing long-acting agonists and antagonists in jail
      settings; and (b) feasibility of providing medication continuity of care from jail to
      community treatment providers. Aim 3. Calculate the cost to the correctional health system of
      implementing an XR-B or XR-NTX program, and determine the relative value of each strategy,
      including the costs associated with the subsequent interventions in the community, from a
      state-policymaker and societal perspective.
    
  