
    
      Based on the operating procedures established by the Corrona Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
      Registry, the Psoriasis Registry will use a parallel structure based on a design and strategy
      developed by Corrona, LLC. This registry will be cooperatively managed by scientific,
      operational, and quality leaders at Corrona and medical leaders appointed by the National
      Psoriasis Foundation (NPF).

      Investigators may enroll patients who have started on or switched to a systemic agent for
      psoriasis within the previous twelve months. Currently approved subcutaneous biologics are
      indicated for adult patients with chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are
      candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. The currently approved intravenous biologic
      agent is indicated for adult patients with chronic severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates
      for systemic therapy, and when other systemic therapies are medically less appropriate. All
      patients will receive standard of care treatments prescribed by the investigator, in
      accordance with the FDA-approved drug labeling, and all treatment decisions are the sole
      responsibility of the investigator.

      This study will be conducted at approximately 200 sites across North America. Sites are
      assessed and selected through interviews with potential investigators and a corresponding
      site feasibility survey that includes information on the investigator's qualifications,
      previous research experience, and the availability of support staff, sub-investigators, and
      patient population.

      The Corrona Psoriasis Registry is a longitudinal, observational study; therefore, the
      duration is indefinite with no pre-determined stop date. The enrollment period is estimated
      to take approximately four years, and subjects will be followed for a minimum of eight years
      beginning from the time the subject is enrolled.

      The design is a prospective, multicenter, observational registry for subjects with psoriasis.
      Longitudinal follow-up data is obtained via Corrona Questionnaires completed by both subjects
      and their treating dermatologists (also known as "Providers" for a Corrona registry study)
      every 6 months (+/- 30 days). The registry is designed to collect data on patient
      demographics, smoking history, disease duration, disease severity, disease activity, history
      of prior psoriasis treatment, comorbidities, hospitalizations, adverse events of special
      interest, medication use, and laboratory results.

      The registry is linked to external data sources including the Centers for Disease Control's
      National Death Index (NDI), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and other
      administrative data sources to support drug safety monitoring and other research activities.

      Any adverse events that are spontaneously volunteered by the subject or discovered as a
      result of general questioning by the investigator should be recorded on the Provider
      Follow-up Questionnaire for that visit.
    
  