
    
      Excessive anxiety among elementary age students is common, severely impairs academic, social,
      and behavioral functioning, and is associated with significant educational and health care
      costs. Despite the high burden of anxiety, less than half of children with anxiety receive
      the services they need to succeed in school. School clinicians can and do support these
      youth, however, their caseloads are high and their time to provide individualized services is
      limited. Consequently, there is a critical need to expand the network of providers who can
      assist students with anxiety and address this malleable obstacle to student academic success.
      Because somatic complaints, such as headaches and stomach aches, are a hallmark feature of
      excessive anxiety, school nurses are often the first school-based personnel to identify
      problematic anxiety in students. However, school nurses currently lack training in
      evidenced-based anxiety reduction interventions. The current study leverages findings from a
      three-year IES Development award (R305A140694), through which our team developed and assessed
      the feasibility of training elementary school nurses to use a brief intervention to reduce
      student anxiety; it was demonstrated that the training and intervention (i.e., Child Anxiety
      Learning Modules; CALM) was indeed feasible to implement and resulted in positive changes in
      student outcomes. CALM is now a fully developed intervention with ready-to-use intervention
      components and materials, training and coaching procedures, and is ready for an initial
      efficacy evaluation in authentic school settings. Toward that end, the primary purpose of
      this study is to evaluate the efficacy of CALM in a fully powered randomized controlled
      trial. CALM will be delivered by elementary school nurses in rural, suburban, and urban
      elementary schools in Connecticut and Maryland to enhance the generalizability of findings
      across socioeconomic, racial, ethnic, and neighborhood settings (as approximately 80% of
      schools in the US have a school nurse). The efficacy of CALM will be tested using gold
      standard methods (e.g., independent evaluators to assess primary outcomes). The study's
      primary aim is to evaluate the efficacy of CALM, compared to a credible comparison condition
      (CALM-R; a school nurse delivered relaxation skills only intervention that parallels CALM in
      time and format) as well as a waitlist control, for reducing anxiety symptoms and improving
      educational outcomes at post-intervention and a one year follow-up. The secondary aim is to
      examine the cost effectiveness of CALM relative to CALM-R and the waitlist control. An
      exploratory aim is to examine potential predictors, moderators, and mediators of student
      outcomes based on the proposed theory of change. If efficacious, CALM will be the first
      evidenced-based school nurse delivered intervention to assist youth with excessive anxiety,
      filling an important gap in current practices.
    
  