
    
      Poor urban children are at an increased risk for language and cognitive delays. Such delays
      can lead to poor school readiness and disparities in educational outcomes when compared to
      children from middle and upper income strata. Reach Out and Read (ROR), a national program
      which promotes parent-child reading activities for children 6 months through 5 years of age
      at pediatric well child visits, has been shown to improve at-risk children's expressive and
      receptive language development. However, poor children who participate in ROR still
      demonstrate language outcomes that are below national averages. It isn't clear whether early
      literacy promotion, i.e. promotion of parent-child reading prior to six months of age, is
      more effective than standard literacy promotion and can further improve poor children's
      language and cognitive outcomes. Therefore, this study will test the effectiveness of early
      literacy promotion compared to standard literacy promotion among poor at-risk children.
      Children with Medicaid insurance who are under 1 month of age, were born at least 35 weeks
      gestation, whose mothers speak English or Spanish and are 15 years of age and older, and are
      without any neurodevelopmental disabilities will be eligible to participate. One to two urban
      practices affiliated with The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) who have implemented
      ROR as standard practice will be recruited to participate. One hundred twenty eligible
      children attending participating practices will be recruited to participate and consented,
      stratified by practice site, and randomized to receive early literacy promotion or standard
      literacy promotion. Early literacy promotion will consist of the provision of developmentally
      appropriate books selected specifically for well visits starting from one month of age to six
      months; discussion of the importance of reading, talking, and singing by pediatric
      clinicians; and text message reminders to parents concerning early literacy and daily
      reading. Standard literacy promotion will consist of the Reach Out and Read Program with
      provision of developmentally appropriate books at all well visits from six months of age
      onward and promotion of reading, talking, and singing activities by pediatric clinicians.
      Mothers will complete study measures consisting of demographic characteristics, postpartum
      depression symptoms, health literacy, and adverse childhood experiences at enrollment, and
      mothers and children will complete measures of reading activity (Stim-Q) at 6, 12, 18, and 24
      months of age and child expressive and receptive language development (Preschool Language
      Scale) at 6 and 24 months of age. Differences in child language outcomes will be assessed
      using intention-to-treat. Results of this study will be disseminated to key stakeholders
      through peer-reviewed manuscripts, reports, social media, and evidence-to-action briefs
      prepared by Policylab at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Study findings will be of
      importance to the Annie E. Casey Foundation's Read! By 4th in Philadelphia and other
      community Grade-Level Reading Campaigns, the Clinton Foundation's Too Small to Fail
      initiative to advance early brain development, and Great Start Collaborative's Early to Read
      campaign.
    
  