
    
      Metformin (Glucophage) is the standard first line therapy for patients with type 2 diabetes
      mellitus. The landmark UK Prospective Diabetes Study Group demonstrated significant reduction
      in the risk of myocardial infarction and overall mortality in overweight patients with type 2
      diabetes treated with metformin and metformin was more effective in controlling blood glucose
      compared with lifestyle only diet-based policy. The observed improvement of blood glucose was
      not associated with weight gain or hypoglycaemia in contrast to treatment with either a
      sulphonylurea or insulin.

      It is well accepted that patients' compliance with therapy tends to decrease as the dosage
      frequency increases and that regimens should be simplified as far as possible to support good
      compliance with therapy. The use of an extended-release formulation of metformin (Glucophage
      XR速) may support the simplification of treatment for patients by allowing a once-daily
      administration of metformin.

      Although patients taking metformin had significantly lower fasting and postprandial plasma
      glucose and hemoglobin A1C concentrations, they also had a higher prevalence of
      Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects. The most commonly reported symptoms was diarrhea (53,2 %
      compared to 11,7% on placebo). In a study employing self-administered questionnaires to
      ascertain GI symptoms in patients with type 2 diabetes approximately 20% of those taking
      immediate-release metformin reported diarrhea as the most common symptoms. Although less than
      5% of patients discontinue metformin treatment for this reason, such adverse events can be
      troublesome, may limit the dosage of metformin and may impair compliance with therapy.
      Glucophage XR may lead to improved tolerability, by smoothing the peaks and troughs in
      metformin plasma concentrations and delaying the achievement of peak plasma concentration,
      compared with an immediate-release formulation. Initial placebo-controlled clinical trials
      with Glucophage XR indicate that 9,6% patients reported diarrhea (compare to 1,5% on
      placebo).

      Thus, the use of Glucophage XR速 may provide benefits in terms of improved patient management,
      by enabling once-daily dosing and reducing the incidence of gastrointestinal side effects for
      some patients. A prospective observational study will be valuable to provide information on
      the day-to-day experience of using Glucophage XR速 in the management of this patient
      population. The data may provide an insight into the use of Glucophage XR速 in routine
      clinical practice in Thailand.
    
  