
    
      Recovery of motor function continues to be a problem following Spinal Cord Injury.
      Non-invasive brain stimulation techniques, targeting cortical areas, have been shown to
      enhance the excitability in the human motor cortex, and these changes in the motor cortex may
      be of significance for the rehabilitation of brain injured patients. However, little is known
      about the adaptational changes in the excitability/plasticity of spinal neural circuits in
      spinal cord injury patients.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the excitability of cortical and spinal
      inhibitory and excitatory mechanisms before and following a period of repetitive and
      synchronized dual peripheral nerve and brain stimulation. Repetitive, paired brain and
      peripheral nerve stimulation as a neuromodulatory tool, paired associative stimulation (PAS),
      has been well described. In this technique, stimuli are timed such that afferent and efferent
      volleys interact at the level of the cortex, that lead to a temporary enhancement of Motor
      Evoked Potential (MEP) amplitude in target muscles, and when applied repeatedly, lead to a
      sustained effect, outlasting the intervention period. This repetitive technique has been done
      in healthy subjects and patients with neurological diseases. By modifying the time between
      paired stimuli, the investigators will generate afferent/efferent interactions in the spinal
      cord.

      The working hypothesis of this study is that the acute facilitation of the H-reflex during
      Paired TMS and peripheral nerve stimulation, may be harnessed to modulate spinal excitability
      (sustained increase in the MEP amplitude). That is, the investigators will test if similar to
      PAS, a change in excitability outlasting the stimulation/intervention period may occur with
      afferent/efferent interactions, although at the level of the spinal cord rather than the
      cortex, and be useful to strengthen residual pathways after damage to the spinal cord.
    
  