
    
      The investigators will recruit adolescents with type 1 diabetes age 11-<13 years and one
      parent to participate in this 24-month study. While this is admittedly a long enrollment
      time, study commitments following enrollment will be limited to three in-person visits at
      yearly intervals and one virtual or in-person device training session to improve adherence.
      Participants must be pubertal, as puberty appears to contribute significantly to the insulin
      resistance that is likely related to worsened blood glucose control. Pubertal assessments
      will occur at yearly intervals.

      Participants will be randomized to either continue their current diabetes therapy (with the
      addition of use of a Dexcom CGM, forming the "Usual Care+CGM" Control Group; this includes
      both adolescents using insulin pumps or multiple daily injections [MDI]). The Experimental
      Group will use an AP system during the two year duration of the study. The primary outcome
      will be HbA1c between groups at the 24-month visit.

      Following confirmation of eligibility participants will be assessed at Visit 1, with
      assessments described further below. Randomization will occur at the end of Visit 2. A Run-In
      Period of 2 weeks will be required for participants who do not have prior CGM experience or
      MDI participants who have no prior insulin pump experience.

      Participants will undergo a Triple-Labeled Glucose Assessment at months 0, 12 and 24. This
      assessment is to evaluate the degree of insulin resistance including in the hepatic and
      peripheral compartments. They will also complete multiple questionnaires assessing aspects of
      adolescent psychology and sociology. HbA1c will also be collected using a local lab.

      CGM glucose data will be collected continuously via remote connection during the entire
      study. At months 6 and 18, participants will be contacted to obtain insulin management
      information and will have HbA1c measures assessed at a local clinic or laboratory. Additional
      scheduled phone calls will occur in the month before the in-person study visits to request
      HbA1c and confirm body composition/Triple-Labeled Glucose Assessment scheduling and discuss
      use of CGM and activity tracker. Participants will be contacted in the event of insufficient
      CGM or AP system use. For Experimental Group, insufficient use is defined as <60% AP use over
      a 3-month period. For the Control Group, less than 1 month of CGM data over a 3-month period
      is considered insufficient. If participants do not meet minimum use criteria in 2 successive
      periods, the participant will be discontinued from the study.

      The investigators are targeting completion of 21 child/parent dyads in each of the two study
      arms.
    
  