
    
      Cardiovascular diseases are the predominant cause of death globally and in most low- and
      middle-income countries (LMICs). More than 70% of all global deaths are due to
      non-communicable diseases, almost half of them are caused by cardiovascular diseases.
      Diabetes mellitus as a major cardiovascular risk factor accounts for more than 1.5 million
      global deaths annually (almost 3% of all global deaths). In Bangladesh, according to WHO
      estimates, 30% of all deaths are due to cardiovascular diseases and 3% are due to diabetes. A
      recent study on more than 12,338 respondents revealed a 30.1% prevalence of hypertension and
      a 4.9% prevalence of diabetes among adults aged 35 years and above in Bangladesh.

      Due to a massive outbreak of violence against people of the Rohingya minority in the Rakhine
      state of Myanmar in late 2017 several hundred thousand Rohingya fled the country and sought a
      refuge in the Chittagong province in south-eastern Bangladesh. These seemingly organized and
      coordinated attacks have been preceded by massive discrimination and recurrent violence
      against the Rohingya minority for many decades. Presently, close to 1 million Rohingya
      refugees settle in the refugee camps in the Chittagong province close to the municipalities
      of Ukhia and Shamlapur.

      Scientific evidence on care of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in humanitarian emergencies
      is very limited. A recent systematic review identified only five scientific studies,
      published between 1980 and 2014 on non-communicable diseases in humanitarian crises. Although
      many humanitarian organizations from Bangladesh and from abroad organize and support the
      provision of health services within the refugee camps, systematic evidence on the health
      status of the Rohingya refugee population is scarce - this is particularly true for chronic
      and non-communicable diseases.

      As in the host community in Bangladesh, there will be a relevant burden of NCDs within the
      Rohingya refugee population. Furthermore, since the Rohingya have been discriminated for many
      years and access to health services was restricted for them, many of the diseased will be
      undiagnosed and untreated and a relevant number of individuals will suffer from long-term
      complications of untreated disease.

      Chittagong province is one of the poorest regions in Bangladesh. Access to primary health
      services in Bangladesh is limited for many people due to various barriers, affordability
      being a major reason. A recent observation conducted by Gonoshasthaya Kendra, a project
      partner in the here presented study, revealed that the distance between place of residence
      and the nearest health facility and transportation costs are a major obstacle for people in
      Shamlapur to seek medical care. Data from previous nationwide epidemiologic studies do not
      sufficiently consider socioeconomic gradients within the Bangladesh population and therefore
      do not provide substantial information on hypertension and diabetes disease burden in the
      Rohingya refugee population and the host communities around the refugee camps.

      The aim of this study is to systematically assess the burden of hypertension and diabetes
      mellitus within the Rohingya refugee population in the refugee camps in Bangladesh and in the
      host community in Chittagong province. This basic epidemiological information is essential
      for the planning, resource allocation and management of prevention and treatment strategies
      and programs for the respective populations. Considering the increasing relevance and burden
      of non-communicable and cardiovascular diseases particularly in low- and middle-income
      countries, a solid epidemiological data base is a mandatory prerequisite to address this
      global public health challenge. Therefore, this assessment will help to design and to
      introduce community-based intervention strategies aiming to improve the population health
      status and reduce the disease burden.
    
  