
    
      Detailed Study Description

      Purpose:

      There is strong evidence that patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy have high cardiovascular
      mortality, including high risk of sudden cardiac death. Sleep apnea is frequently present in
      patients after myocardial infarction/with ischemic cardiomyopathy (approximately in 50% of
      patients).

      Both central and obstructive sleep apnea are considered as independent risk factors of
      worsened prognosis in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF).
      However, there is no evidence from randomized trials yet providing evidence that sleep apnea
      is an independent risk factor leading to an increase in cardiovascular mortality, including
      increased risk of sudden cardiac arrhythmic death in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy.
      There are also no data from randomized trials assessing if treatment of sleep apnea by
      positive airway pressure therapy may improve cardiovascular outcomes in these patients,
      including reduced risk of sudden cardiac death.

      Rationale:

      ICD therapy decreases risk of sudden cardiac death in patients with HFrEF, including patients
      with ICM with left ventricular ejection fraction of <35%. Current ESC Guidelines for
      implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) therapy for primary prevention of sudden cardiac
      death in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy have high sensitivity and high positive
      predictive value. A limitation of current guidelines is low specificity and low negative
      predictive value. In real clinical practice, it means that less than 1/3 of patients with
      heart failure with reduced ejection fraction who get the ICD device for an indication of
      primary prevention of sudden cardiac death will receive appropriate ICD discharge. The
      remaining 2/3 of patients have no benefit from ICD implantation, and are exposed to risks of
      complications resulting from ICD implant, such as inappropriate ICD discharges, lead
      dislocation, or even life-threatening complications such as infectious endocarditis or
      myocardial perforation.

      Therefore, improvements of stratification criteria allowing better identification of those
      patients with ICM that will have real benefit from ICD therapy, and improvement of long-term
      outcomes and cost-benefit of ICD therapy, represent one of the major challenges of modern
      cardiology.

      Previous studies show that sleep apnea increases the risk of sudden cardiac death in the
      population. In other words, sleep apnea represents a treatable condition which is also a
      potential risk factor of sudden cardiac death. Some previously non-randomized studies showed
      that in patients with HFrEF, both obstructive and central sleep apnea may increase risk of
      sudden cardiac arrhythmic death. Contrary to these observations, recently released
      preliminary data from the SERVE-HF trial indicate that in patients with HFrEF, treatment of
      central sleep apnea by adaptive servo-ventilation therapy increases cardiovascular mortality,
      and responsible mechanisms might include increased risk of sudden cardiac death.

      There are several pathophysiological mechanisms by which both obstructive and central sleep
      apnea may increase risk of sudden cardiac arrhythmic death in ICM patients. Considering the
      high prevalence of sleep disordered breathing in patients with ICM, sleep apnea represents a
      modifiable risk factor, where proper treatment may decrease risk of sudden cardiac death
      and/or improve cardiovascular outcomes in ICM patients. However, randomized studies
      specifically addressing the role of sleep apnea in risk of sudden cardiac arrhythmic death in
      ICM patients are needed to clarify the existing controversy and provide information highly
      needed for routine clinical practice.

      Objective

      The ESCAPE - SCD Study will address following specific study questions:

        -  Is obstructive sleep apnea and/or central sleep apnea an independent risk factor of
           sudden cardiac death (SCD) in patients with ICM indicated for ICD/CRT-D implant based on
           current ESC Guidelines for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death?

        -  Can treatment of predominant (>50%) obstructive sleep apnea by appropriate Positive
           Airway Pressure (PAP) therapy decrease risk of sudden cardiac arrhythmic death in ICM
           patients?

        -  Can treatment of predominant (>50%) obstructive sleep apnea by appropriate PAP therapy
           improve cardiovascular outcomes in ICM patients indicated for ICD/CRT-D implant?

        -  Does obstructive sleep apnea represent a novel factor that may improve risk
           stratification of sudden cardiac death and advance identification of those patients that
           will benefit from ICD/CRT-D therapy?

      Study Design:

      Prospective, randomized, international multi-centric study.

      Study Population:

      900 patients with ICM indicated for ICD/CRT-D implant based on 2012 and 2013 ESC Guidelines
      for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death (see Section: "References") will be enrolled
      in this study. A sleep study will be performed in each of the subjects and based on results
      patients will be divided to 4 Groups.

      • No or Mild Sleep Apnea Group (Group 1): Patients with no or mild sleep apnea will continue
      with standard therapy (ICD/CRT-D implant + maximal medical therapy).

      Patients with moderate and severe predominant obstructive sleep apnea (AHI >15) will be
      randomized in 1:1 ratio to

        -  Obstructive Sleep Apnea - Control Group (Group 2) - patients with predominant
           obstructive sleep apnea that will receive standard therapy (ICD/CRT-D implant + maximal
           medical therapy), but no PAP therapy for sleep apnea treatment and to

        -  Obstructive Sleep Apnea - Active Group (Group 3) - patients with predominant obstructive
           sleep apnea that will receive standard therapy (ICD/CRT-D implant + maximal medical
           therapy), plus, as intervention, sleep apnea treatment by using PAP therapy.

        -  Central Sleep Apnea Group (Group 4) - patients with predominant central sleep apnea that
           will receive standard therapy (ICD/CRT-D implant + maximal medical therapy). Because the
           SERVE-HF Trial demonstrated a negative effect of predominantly central sleep apnea
           treatment on cardiovascular mortality in patients with HFrEF by using adaptive
           servo-ventilation therapy, patients in Group 4 will not receive any PAP therapy for
           treatment of sleep disordered breathing and will be followed.

      Distribution of Patient Population among Study Group:

      Based on data derived from our pilot study, approximately 60% of patients with ischemic
      cardiomyopathy indicated for ICD/CRT-D implant for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death
      have undiagnosed moderate or severe sleep apnea. Therefore, we expect the following
      distribution of patients among patients' groups: Group 1: n=400 patients; Group 2: n=200
      patients; Group 3: n=200, Group 4: n=100 patients.

      Primary and secondary goals:

      Primary goal:

        -  Assessment of sleep apnea and its treatment on risk of sudden cardiac arrhythmic death
           by assessing the number of appropriate ICD/CRT-D discharges for each of the groups

      Secondary goals:

        -  Assessment of the effect of sleep apnea and OSA treatment on cardiovascular mortality
           and morbidity by assessing MACE (Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events)

        -  Assessment of incidence of complications resulting from ICD/CRT-D therapy among study
           groups

        -  Assessment of sleep apnea as a novel factor that may improve risk stratification of
           sudden cardiac death and advance identification of those patients that will benefit from
           ICD/CRT-D therapy.

        -  Assessment of sleep apnea treatment on systolic and diastolic functions and neurohumoral
           profile

        -  Assessment of prevalence of sleep apnea and its severity among study population

      Eligibility

      Ages Eligible for Study: 18 Years and older Genders Eligible for Study: Both Accepts Healthy
      Volunteers: No

      Technologies used for sleep apnea treatment It is planned to use the Airsense 10 Autoset
      (AutoCPAP) and Aircurve 10 CS Pacewave (AutoASV) RESMED devices for sleep disordered
      breathing treatment in Group 3 with sleep apnea treatment telemonitoring option.

      Technologies used for detection of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias:

      Most advanced ICD/CRT-D technologies allowing telemonitoring detection of cardiac arrhythmias
      will be used in as many patients as possible who are enrolled into this study.

      Study Timeline:

        -  Study initiation: January 2016

        -  Patient enrollment: March 2016 - December 2017

        -  Average follow-up: 36 months

        -  End of follow-up: December 2019

        -  Data analysis: January-December 2021

        -  Estimated publication of final results: 2022

      Study Co-Principal Investigators (listed alphabetically): Assoc. Prof. Tomas Kara, MD, PhD,
      Prof. Virend K. Somers, MD, DPhil., Prof. Milos Taborsky, MD, PhD

      Study sponsors:

      Investigator Initiated Trial.

      Contacts and locations:

      Coordinating center:

      Department of Cardiovascular Diseases University Hospital Olomouc I.P. Pavlova 6 779 00
      Olomouc, Czech Republic Phone.: +420 58 588 3201 Fax: +420 58 588 2500

      Summary:

      This would be the very first randomized study assessing the effect of predominantly
      obstructive sleep apnea treatment on risk of sudden cardiac death and cardiovascular outcomes
      in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. The study will also address important questions
      related to improvement of selection of patients that may benefit from ICD/CRT-D therapy. We
      have solid evidence from our pilot data that addition of sleep disordered breathing screening
      and treatment may improve the selection of patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy that can
      benefit from ICD therapy, including improvement their long-term outcomes. Use of technologies
      for telemonitoring of efficiency of sleep disordered breathing treatment and occurrence of
      cardiac arrhythmias will increase the scientific strength of the study and will explore the
      benefit of use of telemonitoring technologies in daily clinical practice.
    
  