
    
      The LapBox is intended for use as a laparoscopic instrument port and tissue containment
      system that creates a working space allowing for visualization during power or manual
      morcellation procedure following a laparoscopic procedure for the excision of benign
      gynecologic tissue that is not suspected to contain malignancy Ten (10) adult female
      patients, scheduled for the laparoscopic gynecological procedure, with up to 700gr mass to be
      removed and with no suspicion of malignancy.

      Patients scheduled for elective laparoscopic hysterectomy, myomectomy or removal of an
      adnexal mass where either manual morcellation or power morcellation is needed for tissue will
      be enrolled. Each patient will be required to participate in 3 visits:

      Visit 1: Screening and Enrollment, as part of the pre-operative visit and confirmation of
      compliance. Such a visit can be more than 1 day.

      Visit 2: Laparoscopic organ removal procedure- morcellation utilizing LapBox containment
      system.

      Visit 3:up appointment up to 7 weeks (7 days) post-procedure.

      During visit 2 (laparoscopic organ removal procedure), the following steps will be performed:

        -  Following tissue harvest and prior to morcellation, a peritoneal wash sample will be
           obtained for a cytology evaluation.

        -  The LapBox will then be inserted to the patient abdomen through the abdominal wall and
           deployed.

        -  The harvested tissue will be inserted into the LapBox using standard technique.

        -  The LapBox opening will be extracted outside the abdomen.

        -  Depending on the type of morcellation (power or mechanical), the incision may be
           extended as needed.

        -  The appropriate type of port will be placed.

      Power morcellation:

        -  The morcellator will be inserted.

        -  The laparoscope will be placed inside the bag and provide visualization of the
           procedure. Alternatively, direct visualization may be utilized.

        -  The morcellator will be operated in a standardized fashion. Manual morcellation will be
           performed as per standard practice.

        -  The LapBox will be removed through the abdominal opening. A second peritoneal wash
           sample will be obtained for a cytology evaluation in order to compare pre and post
           morcellation findings.

      Following the procedure, tissue weight will be recorded, and leakage testing will be
      performed on used devices.
    
  