
    
      I Purpose: The purpose of this multi-centre study is to further assess the safety and
      efficacy of the proposed lysine restricted diet in confirmed ATQ deficient PDE patients.

      II Hypothesis: Restricting dietary lysine intake in infants from age 3 months or less with
      confirmed diagnosis of pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy due to Antiquitin (ATQ) deficiency will:
      reduce the accumulation of neurotoxic substratesα-aminoadipicsemialdehydeandits cyclic
      equivalent 1-piperideine-6-carboxylate;and will improve overall neurodevelopmental outcome at
      3 years of age by acting as an effective intervention into the complex pathophysiology of the
      condition.

      III Justification: We hope that participants have a much improved chance to avoid the same
      degree of developmental delay and associated problems. If this study demonstrates a
      significant improvement of normal development and proves to be safe to use this would provide
      a positive benefit to the child, the families involved as well as decreasing the burden on
      the health care system which currently must provide for life long care of these affected
      children.

      IV Objectives: To determine the safety and efficacy of the lysine restricted diet on numerous
      primary and secondary outcome measures as listed in the protocol. The primary objective of
      this study is to evaluate neurodevelopmental outcome based on neuropsychological assessments
      using Bayley-III.

      V Research Method:

        1. Recruitement - Infants and/or children ranging from less than 3 months up to 3 years of
           age who have been diagnosed with PDE and with confirmed ATQ deficiency will be recruited
           within the 3 participating TIDE clinics (Medical Genetics, Biochemical Diseases,
           Neurology). Families may choose to participate in the TEST group or CONTROL group if
           they do not wish to undergo the lysine restricted diet regimen or decline to participate
           altogether.

        2. Study visits - For participants in the TEST group, this will include a baseline visit
           and follow up visits at ages 3 months, 6 months then every 6 months until 3 years of
           age. For participants in the CONTROL group study visits include a baseline visit and 1
           follow up visit at age 3 years. Routine clinical care visits can be scheduled as per
           treating physician's discretion at shorter intervals if needed.

        3. Procedures: The following safety and efficacy measures will be performed at the
           specified study visits (Refer to table1 protocol or consent): medical history, vital
           signs, anthropometric measurements, Physical and Neurological exams, vision & hearing
           assessments, blood and urine samples tested for biomarkers, electroencephalogram,
           cognitive function test, ages and stages questionnaire, quality of life questionnaire,
           MRI, Cerebral Spinal fluid request only if lumbar puncture is being performed for
           clinical purposes.

        4. Study Outcomes: The following outcomes will be measured.

      Efficacy:

      Primary Outcomes

        -  Neurocognitive development at age 3 years defined by total developmental index measured
           using the Bayley Scales for Infant and Toddler Development, 3rd Edition (Bayley-III)

        -  Level of biochemical marker-α- aminoadipic semialdehyde (AASA) its cyclic equivalent P6C
           in plasma and urine Secondary Outcomes

        -  Seizure frequency: clinical and electrical (EEG)

        -  Quality of life through a HR-QOL questionnaire

        -  Neurological deficits through neuro exam

      Safety:

      Primary Outcomes

        -  Anthropometric measures

        -  Plasma lysine and branched chain amino acid levels Secondary Outcomes

        -  Global nutritional assessment with plasma levels for albumin, prealbumin, total protein,
           iron parameters, zinc, selenium, CBC, folic acid, vitamin B12

        -  Peripheral sensory neuropathy (relevant because the lysine restriction is expected to
           reduce chemical inactivation of pyridoxine, thus potentially increasing the risk of
           toxicity)

      VI Statistical Analysis:

      I. OVERALL STUDY DESIGN Structure: We will conduct a multicenter, open label,
      negative-controlled observational cohort study to assess the safety and the efficacy on
      neurodevelopmental outcome of early dietary lysine restriction as an adjunct to pyridoxine
      therapy for infants with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy resulting from ATQ deficiency.

      Treatment Exposure: Patients receiving a lysine restricted diet adjunct to pyridoxine therapy
      will be considered as participants in the 'exposure'/test group and patients on pyridoxine
      mono-therapy will be participants in the 'control' group. The ratio of test participants to
      controls in the study will be 1:2.

      Duration: All participants will be monitored for safety and neurodevelopmental outcome until
      the age of 3 years.

      Efficacy & Safety Analysis: Data will be summarized with descriptive statistics, frequency
      tabulations, and data listings. Analyses include comparison of treatment effect before and
      after diet restriction within each participant, and comparison between test and control
      groups. Analysis will be performed on intent-to-treat population including all enrolled
      participants. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate neurodevelopmental outcome
      based on neuropsychological assessments using Bayley-III. The evaluation comprises the
      following scales: Cognitive Scale, Language Composite Scale with Receptive and Expressive
      Language subscales, and Motor Composite Scale with Fine- and Gross-Motor subscales. A
      composite score of all the scales gives the total developmental index. For the composite
      score and each scale, a hypothesis test can be performed to compare test group and the
      control group. A 2-sided 95% confidence interval for the mean change in Treatment minus mean
      change in control groups will be calculated for the total developmental index and each
      individual scale of Bayley-III to evaluate any particular nonnegative quantity of clinical
      interest. Similar analysis using appropriate parametric (ANOVA, ANCOVA, Fishers exact test)
      and nonparametric tests (Wilcoxon rank sum test) will be done for all efficacy and safety
      outcomes. Severity and relationship to treatment of the adverse events will be summarized.
    
  