
    
      Introduction : Crohn's disease (CD) is an relapsing inflammatory bowel disease relatively
      frequent. Its prevalence is about 1 for 700 in France, affecting predominantly young adults.
      Its treatment is based on immunosuppressants that might be associated with potentially severe
      complications such as infection and cancers. Moreover, these treatments are expensive. The
      gut microbiota being involved in the disease pathogenesis, it can be considered as a
      potential therapeutic target.

      CD pathogenesis remains poorly understood but involves an inappropriate immune response
      toward an unbalanced gut microbiota (called dysbiosis) in predisposed hosts. The complete
      replacement of a dysbiotic microbiota by a "healthy" one is thus an attractive strategy.
      Fecal transplantation (FT) has been used with success for a long time in the context of
      Clostridium difficile.

      Hypothesis : Fecal transplantation allow the replacement of a dysbiotic microbiota by a "
      healthy " one with favorable impact on CD evolution.

      Primary endpoint : In CD patient with colonic or ileo-colonic involvement put in remission
      with corticosteroids, Evaluate if FT can modify a dysbiotic fecal microbiota to be closer of
      the one of a healthy donor.

      Methodology

      For the Receiver :

      Once corticoid-induced remission will be achieved, the patient will be included and
      randomised to receive either FT or sham transplantation during a colonoscopy. The patient
      will be evaluated at week 2, 6, 10, 14, 18 and 24. At week 6, a colonoscopy will be
      performed.

      For the Donor :

      Donors will be recruited by poster advertising. When a receiver will be included, 3 donors
      will be contacted to attend an inclusion visit including physical examination as well as
      blood and stool screening for pathogen. The 3 donors will then come the day of the FT to
      donate their stool.
    
  