
    
      Consecutive patients who are scheduled to undergo elective cardiac surgery in Dr. Siyami
      Ersek Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery Training and Research Hospital will be evaluated
      for enrollment. Those who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria will be invited to be study
      participants. Volunteers will constitute the study population. All participants will undergo
      routine preoperative risk assessment procedures of our institution, which include history,
      physical examination, blood chemistry, chest X-ray, echocardiogram, and spirometry. As part
      of this routine assessment, Fried scale (5-meter walk test, hand-grip strength, questioning
      of weight loss, short version of the Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression scale, and
      short version of the Minnesota Leisure Time Physical Activity questionnaire) will be applied
      to all participants. Demographics characteristics and clinical data will be observed and
      recorded. Participants will be divided into 3 groups according to Fried scale; frail,
      moderately frail, and not frail.

      In order to investigate the ability of Fried scale to predict cardiac operative mortality and
      morbidity, groups will be compared in terms of surgical mortality, renal failure, stroke,
      prolonged mechanical ventilation, deep sternal wound infections, re-operation, prolonged
      length of stay, and readmission rates.

      Power analysis was performed to estimate sample size using G*Power (v3.1.7) software. A total
      150 participants are needed in order to achieve an 80% (Beta=0.2) power at the 5%
      (Alpha=0.05) level of significance.

      Categorical data will be presented as frequency and percentage. Continuous variables will be
      presented as mean [±standard deviation] and median [interquartile range]. Categorical
      variables will be compared using chi-square and Fisher's exact tests. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test
      will be used to assess distribution of continuous variables. Continuous variables with a
      normal distribution will be compared using Student's t-test, and those with a non-normal
      distribution will be compared using Mann-Whitney U test.

      SPSS for Windows v.17.0 (SPSS Statistics Inc., Chicago, Ill., USA) will be used for all
      statistical analyses. A two-sided p value of <0.05 will be considered to be statistically
      significant.
    
  