
    
      This randomized clinical trial is designed to assess and compare efficacy of two treatment
      manuals for couples with sexual difficulties secondary to PC treatment: mindfulness-based
      therapy and CBT. A third arm, where couples receive no intervention will act as a control
      group. Those randomized to the "control" group will have the opportunity to be randomized to
      one of the treatment groups following their third and final questionnaire if they wish.

      Men and their partners will be invited to participate through the Vancouver Prostate Centre's
      Prostate Cancer Supportive Care Program (PCSC) at Vancouver General Hospital.

      Eligible couples will be randomized to either: 4 consecutive weeks of mindfulness-based
      therapy, CBT, or no intervention (4-6 couples in each treatment group at a time). All
      participants will complete an online questionnaire package to assess primary, secondary, and
      tertiary outcomes at the time of study enrollment or baseline (Time 1). All participants will
      be invited to complete a Time 2 questionnaire once approximately 6 weeks after they complete
      the Time 1 questionnaire (for couples randomized to the treatment arms, this will be
      immediately post-treatment). Finally, all participants will be invited to complete the Time 3
      follow up questionnaire 6 months after they complete the Time 2 (post-treatment)
      questionnaire.

      Endpoints will assess effects on intimacy and overall Quality of Life. Additional endpoints
      of other factors affecting improvement (i.e., moderators like personality and treatment
      adherence) will be assessed. The investigators predict improvements in both mindfulness-based
      and cognitive behavioural therapy treatments; moderators will provide insights into which
      participants benefit most from each treatment arm.

      Moreover, in order to improve understanding of the lived experience of patients who take part
      in the treatment groups or control arm, this study will invite all participants to take part
      in an exit interview after their Time 2 (post-treatment) questionnaire is completed. A
      research team member who was not a treatment facilitator will conduct the exit interviews.
      This information will then be transcribed and used for qualitative data analyses.
    
  