
    
      Objectives:

      Reinforcing properties of alcohol are in part mediated through endogenous opioids. Mesolimbic
      dopamine (DA) release is a key signal for drug reward, and endogenous opioids are thought to
      exert their effects by modulating the activity of this system. A functional mu-opioid
      receptor (OPRM1) A118G single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) alters the affinity of the
      mu-opioid receptor for its endogenous ligand, is in some studies associated with increased
      risk for alcohol and heroin addiction, and confers differential pain sensitivity and
      subjective responses to alcohol. This prompts the question whether the differential
      subjective response to alcohol observed as a function of the OPRM1 A118G genotype reflects
      differential activation of the mesolimbic DA release. The objective of this study is to
      examine the role of the A118G OPRM1 polymorphism for responses to a highly standardized
      intravenous alcohol challenge, with regard to psycho-physiological variables measured in the
      laboratory, and for brain dopamine release measured by 11C raclopride PET.

      Study Population:

      We will screen healthy participants from the general population to obtain samples of two
      groups of subjects: 1) persons homozygous for the major 118A allele (118AA genotype); 2)
      persons carrying one or two copies of the variant 118G allele (118AG or 118GG genotype,
      hereafter called 118GX).

      Design and Outcome Measures:

      We will compare the response of these groups to a standardized alcohol challenge using the
      procedure in place for NIAAA protocols 03-AA-0283 Influence of Age and Gender on Alcohol
      Metabolism and Acute Responses and 04-AA-0060 The Effect of Ethanol on Cerebral Blood Flow as
      Measured by Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging and the Development of Conditioned Response
      to Ethanol Administration . Participants will be given a standardized IV infusion of an
      alcohol solution infused to achieve and maintain a target blood alcohol level of 80 mg%. Pre
      and post infusion measures will be made in two areas: 1) subjective response as measured by
      standardized questionnaires, and 2) measures of physiologic response, to include saccadic eye
      movements and blood chemistries. We hypothesize that 118GX subjects will have significantly
      higher subjective response to alcohol challenge than 118AA subjects. We will then repeat the
      alcohol infusion procedure in all participants twice in the PET scanner, infusing alcohol or
      saline, and assess displacement of 11C raclopride, a positron emitter labeled ligand which
      binds preferentially to D2 receptors. We hypothesize that 118GX subjects will have more 11C
      raclopride displacement after alcohol infusion relative to placebo, indicating greater
      amounts of dopamine release.
    
  