
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To find genes that predispose to prostate cancer (using genetic linkage and other
           molecular biology techniques).

        -  To determine if genes that predispose to prostate cancer are associated with disease and
           treatment parameters.

        -  To determine if genes that predispose to prostate cancer are associated with
           environmental factors.

        -  To estimate the percentage of prostate cancer patients who have a positive family
           history of the disease.

        -  To estimate the relative risk of developing prostate cancer in a currently unaffected
           member of a prostate cancer family.

        -  To ascertain whether relatives of prostate cancer patients are at increased risk of
           developing cancers other than prostate cancer.

        -  To build up a large blood and tumor (both fresh and preserved) bank from patients with
           prostate cancer to identify prostate cancer predisposition gene(s), determine the
           prevalence and penetrance of prostate cancer predisposition genes in prostate cancer
           patients, correlate changes in prostate cancer predisposition gene(s) with disease and
           treatment parameters by matching with clinical data from clinical databases already held
           as part of the medical record on these patients, and correlate changes in prostate
           cancer predisposition gene(s) with environmental factors collected by questionnaire from
           these patients.

        -  To use the blood and tumor bank for marker studies (DNA, RNA, serum, plasma, protein,
           and other molecules) to define the role of these markers in disease prediction and
           progression.

        -  To develop microarrays from prostate cancers to determine their genetic profile and
           correlate this with prostate cancer genetic predisposition genes.

        -  To collect tissue from other unaffected and affected members of the family in cases
           where a genetic alteration is found, in order to ascertain whether this alteration is
           associated with disease risk.

        -  To collect tissue samples from unaffected family members who show an interest in taking
           part in the study.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assessed by a family history and epidemiology questionnaire and undergo
      a medical record review.

      Patients and relatives with prostate cancer may undergo blood sample collection for genetic
      analysis of prostate cancer predisposition genes and measurement of markers of associations
      with genetic changes associated with prostate cancer. Blood and tumor samples are stored for
      future studies.
    
  