
    
      Cerebral cavernous angioma (CA) is a capillary microangiopathy affecting more than a million
      Americans, predisposing them to a premature risk of brain hemorrhage. Fewer than 200,000
      cases who have suffered a recent symptomatic hemorrhage (SH) are most likely to re-bleed
      again with serious clinical sequelae, and are the primary focus of therapeutic development.
      Genetic mechanisms of CA have been extensively studied, and consequent signaling aberrations
      in the neurovascular unit. These include proliferative dysangiogenesis, blood-brain barrier
      hyperpermeability, inflammation and immune mediated processes, anticoagulant vascular domain,
      and gut microbiome-driven mechanisms. Plasma levels of molecules reflecting these mechanisms
      and measures of vascular permeability and hemorrhage leak on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      have been correlated with CA hemorrhage in pilot studies. It would be desirable to optimize
      these biomarkers to accurately diagnose CASH, to prognosticate the risk of future SH, and to
      monitor cases after a bleed and in response to therapy. This would influence clinical
      management, and select higher risk cases for clinical trials. Additional candidate biomarkers
      are emerging from ongoing mechanistic and differential transcriptome studies, which would be
      expected to further enhance the sensitivity and specificity of diagnosis and prediction of
      CASH. Weighed combinations of levels of plasma proteins and characteristic micro-ribonucleic
      acids (miRNA) may further strengthen biomarker associations. Plasma biomarkers may reflect
      (and potentially replace) more cumbersome and expensive imaging biomarkers for monitoring CA
      hemorrhage. We here assemble CA researchers and propose to deploy advanced statistical and
      computational biology approaches for the integration of novel candidate biomarkers. In
      Specific Aim 1 we assess these biomarkers in a large CA cohort to discover the best plasma
      biomarkers and validate them in sex, age and relevant clinical subgroups. In Specific Aim 2
      we compare changes in MRI measures of vascular permeability and hemorrhage with plasma
      biomarkers over time. In Specific Aim 3 we query the biomarkers in non-CA subjects, to
      identify potential confounders in the clinical context. This project integrates analytic and
      computational biology expertise to develop blood tests for better CASH diagnosis and
      prognosis. The project tests a novel integrational approach of biomarker development in a
      mechanistically defined cerebrovascular disease with a relevant context of use. This approach
      is applicable to other neurological diseases with similar pathobiologic features.
    
  