
    
      This clinical trial investigates the safety and the preliminary clinical benefit of the
      hemiverse shoulder prosthesis. Implantation of this newly developed hemi-prosthesis is
      intended for patients who do not qualify for a regular reverse or hemi-prosthesis due to
      severe medical conditions, poor bone stock or critical status of the rotator cuff. To
      evaluate the clinical condition of the patient a clinical examination with thorough control
      of the blood parameters (hemoglobin, leucocytes, platelets, infection parameters) and
      including constant score and the quick dash score will be performed before the operation. To
      evaluate the bone stock and the musculature a conventional radiological status and a computed
      tomography of the shoulder will be performed.

      Surgical procedure: A delto-pectoral approach is preferred. The incision starts immediately
      lateral to the coracoid tip and extends to the insertion of the deltoid on the Humerus. The
      subscapularis tendon is exposed and detached from the humerus. The humeral head is exposed
      and dislocated from the joint using an oscillating saw the humeral head is resected. The
      shaft is prepared to receive a regular humeral stem which is definitely implanted with 0°
      retroversion. A trial implant is inserted and reduced into the joint. Free mobility of the
      joint is tested and the stability of the implant documented. According to the trial implants
      the definite implant is assembled and implanted. After reduction of the implant the
      subscapularis tendon is reattached to the humerus using transosseous sutures. Regular closure
      of the incision is performed.

      After-care:

      Immediately post operatively a anteroposterior radiograph is performed. For the first two
      post-operative weeks the arm is immobilised in a sling and external rotation is allowed until
      0° and flexion until 90° in internal rotation. Thereafter gradual increase of active mobility
      is allowed until the weeks post operatively, when full load bearing of the arm is allowed.
      Regular followup visits include a constant score, quick dash-score and conventional
      radiographic status(anteroposterior lateral and axillary view) and are performed to be
      post-operative 3 months 6 months 1 year and 18 months post operatively.
    
  