
    
      A descending thoracic aneurysm is a bulge in the aorta. The aorta is a large blood vessel
      that carries blood away from your heart to organs in the rest of your body. Your aneurysm is
      caused by a weakening in the artery wall. If left untreated, this bulge may continue to grow
      larger and may ultimately rupture (break open) or extend in size to seriously affect other
      major arteries in the area. In this clinical study the Talent Thoracic Stent Graft will be
      placed inside your aorta to block the weakened part of the artery wall from the circulatory
      system.

      Medtronic Vascular submitted a Pre-Market Application (PMA P070007) to the FDA on February
      28, 2007, and received market approval for the Talent Stent Graft System on June 5, 2008. As
      a condition of approval, the FDA has requested a post-market trial. In collaboration with the
      FDA, Medtronic has designed a post-approval study to document the long-term performance of
      the Talent Stent Graft System under post market conditions.

      This study will examine the post-market performance of the Talent Thoracic Stent Graft
      System. This study is a prospective, non-randomized five-year trial. Originally, a total of
      451 subjects were going to be analyzed. That group consisted of 195 enrolled subjects from
      the VALOR Test Group of the Talent Thoracic PMA Submission, and 256 planned "de novo"
      subjects enrolled after the PMA approval. However, Medtronic discontinued manufacturing of
      the study device for US commercialization, and as a result, enrollment was terminated in May
      2014, when it was determined that no more proximal devices were available either in inventory
      or at the sites. A total of 349 subjects will be analyzed, based on 195 VALOR Test Group
      subjects and 154 "de novo" subjects.

      Update as of Aug 2017: Medtronic Vascular, Inc. discontinued manufacture of the Talent
      Thoracic Stet Graft System on 31-Jul-2012, and the final device expired in July 2014 (based
      on the two-year shelf life). Enrollment for De Novo subjects ended in May 2014, as there were
      no more proximal main devices available either in inventory or at the investigational sites.
      This resulted in a total of 349 subjects to be analyzed in this final report: the 195 VALOR
      subjects and 154 of the planned 256 De Novo subjects. Because of that, statistical results
      would have been inconclusive, so Medtronic decided to terminate the study and received FDA
      approval for early termination in April 2016.

      It is important to emphasize that THRIVE subjects will continue to be followed-up annually
      per standard of care and standard post-market surveillance program applies to them (e.g.
      device complaints will continue to be reported via the MDR (Medical Device Reporting)
      system.)
    
  