
    
      The development of portal hypertension is a vital event in the natural progression of
      cirrhosis and is associated with severe complications including gastroesophageal varices
      bleeding. Cirrhotic patients with hemorrhagic shock and/or liver failure caused by variceal
      bleeding face a mortality of 5-20%.

      Hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) is the recommended golden standard for portal
      pressure assessment globally with favorable consistency and repeatability. Reducing the HVPG
      to levels of 12mmHg or below is associated with protection of variceal hemorrhage. An HVPG>
      16mmHg indicates a higher risk of death and HVPG ≥ 20mmHg predicts failure to control
      bleeding, early rebleeding, and death during acute variceal hemorrhage.

      The management of portal hypertension has showed a trend of diversification with the
      development of medication, endoscopy, radiological intervention and liver transplantation.
      Although medication and endoscopic therapy have achieved preferable effects and are
      recommended as standard of care for the prevention of variceal rebleeding, patients with
      HVPG≥ 16mmHg still have a high risk of treatment failure and a high rate of rebleeding.
      Recent years, early TIPS is recommended as the first-line therapy for the prevention of
      rebleeding in cirrhotic patients with HVPG≥ 20mmHg. However, for those with HVPG values
      between 16 to 20mmHg, there is still lack of strong evidence to demonstrate the best practice
      for the management.

      With the rapid advancement of laparoscopic device and technique, the utility of laparoscopic
      splenectomy and pericardial devascularization showed less surgical trauma, bleeding and
      complications while retaining dependable effects compared to traditional open surgery,
      especially for portal hypertension with hypersplenism. In the study, the investigators aim to
      conduct a multicenter (Shunde Hospital of Southern Medical University, Xingtai People's
      Hospital, The Fifth Medical Center of Chinese PLA General Hospital, The First Hospital of
      Lanzhou University) randomized controlled trial to compare the safety and effectiveness of
      HVPG-guided (16 to 20mmHg) laparoscopic versus endoscopic therapy for variceal rebleeding in
      patients with portal hypertension.
    
  