
    
      Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) constitute an overall rare malignant entity comprising 1% of all
      cancers with a yearly incidence rate of 3.8 per 100.000 inhabitants. Therapy decisions are
      made using clinical and pathological determinants defined by the American Joint Committee on
      Cancer (AJCC). It involves the TNM staging system that classifies STS by their tumor size
      (measured as maximal diameter), pathological tumor grading defined by the French Fédération
      Nationale des Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer (FNCLCC) and the occurrence of nodal or
      distant metastases.

      For the guidance of therapy, the most important factor constitutes tumor grading. In
      "low-grade" sarcomas (G1), surgical resection is often sufficient for durable tumor control.
      In "high risk" STS, however, resection of the tumor is combined with radiotherapy improving
      locoregional control and eventually survival.

      Currently, invasive biopsies followed by pathological work-up are necessary to determine
      tumor grading. However, bioptic specimens are always restricted to small tumor subvolume.

      Medical imaging-based analyses constitutes an alternative tool to characterize tissue. Recent
      developments in quantitative image analysis and data science have led to the evolvement of
      "Radiomics". It is defined as an algorithm-based large-scale quantitative analysis of imaging
      features. It should be considered as a two-step process with (1) extraction of relevant
      imaging features, and (2) incorporating these features into a mathematical model to
      ultimately predict patient or tumor-specific outcomes. In previous scientific studies,
      radiomic models have been associated with survival, tumor progression, and molecular changes
      including genetic mutations or expression profiles as shown in multiple malignant entities.
      In addition, radiomic models were able to predict tumor grading e.g. for gliomas,
      meningiomas, hepatocellular carcinoma or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. In contrast to
      pathology, quantitative image analysis (radiomics) has the principal advantage of analyzing
      the whole tumor.

      In this study, the investigators are aiming to correlate radiomic features with tumor grading
      of STS. The ultimate goal is to develop a prediction model to non-invasively classify tumor
      grading. In a first step, the focus will be laid on differentiating "low-grade" and
      "high-grade" STS. In a second step, "high-grade" STS will be divided into G2 and G3 tumors.

      To this end, the investigators will retrospectively analyze a patient cohort of 138 patients
      (139 tumors) with known tumor grading and available pre-therapeutic MRI-scans. As secondary
      endpoint overall survival will be determined for all patients. An independent patient cohort
      from the University of Washington (139 patients) will be used for external validation of the
      developed models.
    
  