
    
      The NASA /JSC Behavioral Health and Performance (BHP) Element of Space Medicine Division ,
      Human Research Program (HRP) is supporting a ground-based directed research study to evaluate
      the effects of sleep medications (relative to placebo) on astronaut and other populations
      analogous to the astronaut population (e.g., Flight Controllers, Flight Directors, Flight
      Surgeons, medical residents and medical students on NASA rotation , and NASA/contractor
      employed University of Texas Medical Branch physician's) cognitive performance after an
      abrupt awakening. The second objective of the study is to develop a protocol to select a
      sleep medication and dose that minimally affects an individual 's cognitive performance upon
      awakening. Following completion of the study , it is the intent of the BHP Element to work
      with Space Medicine in the transition of the data and protocol as "best practices " for
      medical operations provided by the Clinical Services Branch in the Space Medicine Division at
      the NASA Johnson Space Center.

      The study aims to characterize the effects of the most commonly used sleep medications and
      dosages on performance after an unplanned awakening , while providing the foundation for
      future development of individualized protocols for sleep medication use during training and
      on-orbit for astronauts and analogous populations (e.g., Flight Controllers , Flight
      Directors , Flight Surgeons , medical residents and medical students on NASA rotation , and
      NASA/contractor employed University of Texas Medical Branch physician's). Findings from the
      study will also further inform BHP 's development of an education training program related to
      countermeasures for sleep loss, circadian desynchronization , fatigue, and work overload for
      astronauts as well as ground crews who work night shifts in support of missions. Results of
      the study will also inform the human system health and medical standards and requirements for
      future exploration missions.

      The study protocol was successfully pilot tested in the study titled Develop and Implement
      Operational Ground Testing Protocols to Individualize Astronaut Sleep Medication Efficacy and
      Individual Effects (Phase I) with N=7 subjects (6 NASA flight surgeons and 1 BHP Operations
      professional) as subjects from March through June , 2009. The pilot study results supported
      the scientific feasibility of conducting a randomized , blinded , placebo controlled study of
      sleep medication effects on alarm-based awakenings. Preliminary analysis from the pilot study
      indicated differences in performance upon abrupt awakening between the sleep medication and
      placebo conditions. Thus, the pilot data also supported the likelihood of new scientific and
      clinical insights from the Phase II studies with astronauts and the additional analogous
      populations (e.g., Flight Controllers, Flight Directors, Flight Surgeons, medical residents
      and medical students on NASA rotation, and NASA/contractor employed University of Texas
      Medical Branch physician's) .

      In the study titled Operational Ground Testing Protocol to Optimize Astronaut Sleep
      Medication Efficacy and Individual Effects (Phase 11), two randomized , blinded ,
      placebo-controlled , cross-over trials will be conducted. The hypnotic medication and the
      placebo will be indistinguishable by subjects. Experiment 1 will involve N=14 subjects
      randomized to placebo , 10 mg Zolpidem (Ambien) and 10 mg Zaleplon (Sonata) in
      counterbalanced order and will be awakened 90 min. post-placebo administration (half at 60
      min and half at 90 min). The latter will be done to maintain some degree of blinding relative
      to the participants knowledge of conditions and the staff working on the protocol. Zolpidem
      is the most commonly , and Zaleplon is the second most commonly , used sleep aid medication
      used in spaceflight. Females and those subjects who have had a previous adverse experience
      with 10 mg zolpidem will be placed into Experiment 2, which will involve N=20 subjects
      randomized to placebo , 5 mg zolpidem and 10 mg zaleplon. Data acquisition for both
      experiments will occur in the Astronaut Quarantine Facility ("AQF") at JSC. Experimental
      methods and cognitive outcomes will be the same as those used in the pilot investigation
      titled Develop and Implement Operational Ground Testing Protocols to Individualize Astronaut
      Sleep Medication Efficacy and Individual Effects (Phase I). Combined , Experiment 1 and 2
      will provide data on zaleplon 10 mg compared to placebo on a total of 34 subjects consisting
      of astronauts and other subjects considered analogous to the astronaut population (e.g.,
      Flight Controllers, Flight Directors , Flight Surgeons, medical residents and medical
      students on NASA rotation, and NASA/contractor employed University of Texas Medical Branch
      physician's) , which will provide the larger sample needed to identify those subjects who
      have cognitive performance deficits on abrupt awakening to the less sedating 10 mg zaleplon.

      This is an applied study and it is not feasible to include two or three doses of each drug in
      order to determine a dose-response curve based on each of the drugs pharmacodynamics.
      Literature has shown that zaleplon 10 mg will be less disruptive on performance at awakening
      than zolpidem 10 mg and that zaleplon 20 mg is likely to be comparable in effects to zolpidem
      10 mg. However , zaleplon 20 mg is not a commonly used dose in space, whereas zolpidem 10 mg
      and 5mg, and zaleplon 10 mg are used-hence the study will focus on these drugs and doses.
      More importantly , the goal of this study is not to determine whether these dose-by-drug
      comparisons are likely to yield the same average results in astronauts as has been found in
      the general population (e.g., Roehrs et a., 1994; Wesensten et al., 1996; Greenblatt et al.,
      1998; Hindmarch et al., 2001). Instead , we began by are focusing on individual astronaut
      vulnerability to hypnotic sedation on awakening , and having a limited number of astronauts
      who can realistically participate in the operational research was not realistic or conducive
      in completing the study. We needed to expand our astronaut population to include
      international astronauts and other populations deemed analogous to the astronaut population
      (e.g., Flight Controllers, Flight Directors , Flight Surgeons, medical residents and medical
      students on NASA rotation,and NASA/contractor employed University of Texas Medical Branch
      physician's) . We want to evaluate as many astronauts on these drugs and doses as possible ,
      and in a manner that permits comparisons between both drug type and dose; however , it became
      necessary to broaden our subject pool in order to reach the desired N. Thus Experiment 1 will
      evaluate 10 mg zolpidem for males and zaleplon 10 mg relative to placebo in N=14 astronauts
      and analogous subjects (e.g., Flight Controllers, Flight Directors, Flight Surgeons, medical
      residents and medical students on NASA rotation,and NASA/contractor employed University of
      Texas Medical Branch physician's). Experiment 2 will evaluate zolpidem 5 mg and zaleplon 10
      mg relative to placebo in N = 20 additional astronauts and other analogous subjects (e.g.,
      Flight Controllers , Flight Directors , Flight Surgeons, medical residents and medical
      students on NASA rotation,and NASA/contractor employed University of Texas Medical Branch
      physician's).
    
  