
    
      Purpose The preGallstep pilot trial is a pilot randomised clinical trial investigating two
      different surgical methods in patients with common bile duct stones: one-step laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy with common bile duct exploration (experimental intervention) versus two-step
      endoscopic retrograde cholangiography with stone extraction plus subsequent laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy (control intervention) for the removal of common bile duct stones.

      The investigators alternative hypothesis is that both patient safety, assessed by serious
      adverse events, as well as the number of procedures needed to obtain stone clearance are
      better in the one-step approach than in the control approach. However, based on updated
      systematic review of previously conducted randomised clinical trials (RCTs) the investigators
      are not able to say which procedure is preferable. Further analysis of these previous RTCs
      show they are very far from obtaining a confirmatory sample size, thus illustrating the need
      for larger multicenter trials.

      Prior to conducting a large pragmatic and confirmatory trial, the investigators propose this
      multicenter preGallstep pilot trial.

      The purpose of preGallstep is to assess the proportion of participants in the control group
      with complications in order to conduct more precise sample size estimation for a future
      pragmatic randomised clinical trial. Furthermore, the investigators want to assess the
      feasibility of implementing randomisation between different surgical techniques in a daily
      complex clinical setting.

      Background In the Nordic countries, 80 to 200 surgical removals of the gallbladder
      (cholecystectomies) per 100000 inhabitants are performed annually making it one of the most
      common surgical procedures. In Denmark, over 7500 cholecystectomies are performed every year.
      Cholecystectomy is most often performed due to symptomatic gallstones in the gallbladder.
      However, common bile duct gallstones (CBDS) are found in 3.4% to 18% of patients undergoing
      cholecystectomy, with highest proportions during acute surgery. However, the most efficient
      and safest procedure to remove CBDS has yet to be identified.

      A two-step approach including endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERC) with stone
      extraction and papillotomy with subsequent laparoscopic cholecystectomy has become the gold
      standard treatment for CBDS in Denmark. However, as the gallbladder is left in situ following
      successful clearance of CBDS there are high risks of symptom recurrence and gallstone
      complications.

      ERC is an advanced endoscopic procedure and multiple ERCs are required in as much as 59% of
      patients. Temporary stents are placed in patients with failed stone clearance during ERC.
      This delays stone extraction and requires repeat-ERC. Acute pancreatitis is a feared
      complication following ERC and is reported to occur in 4% of patients (range 2.6% to 18%).
      Acute pancreatitis causes high mortality and morbidity and is associated with low long-term
      quality of life. Other long-term complications of ERC papillotomy include recurrent bile duct
      stones, cholangitis, stenosis, and an unknown risk of malignant transformation.

      The most comprehensive study on gallstone disease included 34,200 unselected patients
      undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy and reported CBDS in 11.6% of which 16% were left
      untreated. In these 16%, one out of four patients experienced unfavourable outcomes such as
      complicated gallstone disease (pancreatitis, cholangitis, jaundice) or the need of ERC within
      90 days. All other treatment strategies to remove CBDS caused lower risk of adverse events
      when compared to leaving CBDS untreated.

      The treatment of CBDS is, therefore, recommended to include both clearance of CBDS and a
      cholecystectomy.

      This one-step approach including laparoscopic common bile duct exploration with
      gallstoneclearance (LCBDE) plus laparoscopic cholecystectomy is an emerging minimal-invasive
      approach for CBDS. The one-step LCBDE plus laparoscopic cholecystectomy approach seems to
      cause less postoperative pancreatitis although no significant associations have been
      published yet.

      A Cochrane review of five RCTs of the one-step versus the two-step approach with ERC first
      including 621 patients concluded that the two approaches were comparable regarding stone
      clearance, morbidity, and mortality. Newer RCTs have shown comparable stone clearance
      proportions and comparable occurrence of short-term postoperative complications and mortality
      between the two approaches.

      The most recently published meta-analyses find that LCBDE versus ERC is superior in terms of
      safety (perioperative complications, conversion rate to other procedure), CBDS clearance
      rate, hospital stay, operative time, in hospital costs, and stones recurrence. Trial
      Sequential Analysis of the two approaches has been performed but due to the small sample
      sizes available, they were unable to make final conclusions on patient safety or CBDS removal
      efficiency. In order to explore what sample size was needed to make a final conclusion on
      patient safety, Trial Sequential Analysis including all known RCTs has been performed. The
      outcome of interest was adverse events defined by short-term postoperative complications as
      defined by the single studies. Intention-to-treat data were extracted where possible,
      however, some studies excluded randomised patients without CBDS at intraoperative
      cholangiography or patients that did not complete the protocolled treatments. Most trials
      randomised patients with only a clinical suspicion of CBDS and only few RCTs randomised
      patients with CBDS proven by MRCP or EUL. Through meta-analysis, the total proportion of
      adverse events was found to be 16% (102/649) in the two-step approach. Based on Trial
      Sequential Analyses, with a relative risk reduction 20%, α at 0.05, β at 0.10, a diversity of
      0%, and when a two-sided test was used, the total sample size required was 5060 participants
      for adverse events. Previous trials already included 1302 participants and the trial
      sequential monitoring boundaries for superiority, inferiority, or futility have not been
      reached. The literature has, thereby, not yet identified the safest procedure or which
      treatment the patients prefer to remove CBDS. More research on patient safety, stone
      clearance, and patient-centred outcomes is needed.

      Methods Trial design The preGallstep pilot is an investigator-initiated multicentre
      randomised parallel group, clinical, pilot trial with blinded outcome assessment at 90 days.

      Randomisation Participants will be randomised at the allocation ratio 1:1. Web-based
      randomisation will be handled centrally at the Copenhagen Trial Unit (CTU) using a concealed
      computer-generated allocation sequence with a varying block size concealed from
      investigators. The allocation sequence will be stratified for trial site. A trial nurse will
      enroll and allocate participants.

      Participant timeline Both acute and non-acute patients may enter. The physician in charge
      will offer enrolment to eligible patients. After enrolment, the participant will be
      randomised to one of the two treatment approaches.

      Baseline data including quality of life survey will be established by the trial nurse.

      The patient will receive the trial intervention or control intervention no later than one
      week after randomisation. Follow-up for immediate complications within first 24 postoperative
      hours will be performed by the trial nurse (follow-up day 1).

      Blood samples including amylase will be drawn following the procedure. If no immediate
      complications occur, the patients will be discharged within 24 hours following the procedure.
      A 90-day clinical follow-up will be performed to assess outcomes. Registration of lost to
      follow-up and reasons will also be assessed here.

      Blinding Blinding of participants and surgeons is not possible. Most of the outcomes are
      dependent on physician assessment. To have blinded outcome assessment, the trial nurse who
      has not been part of the surgical team and who is blinded to treatment allocation will
      perform the follow-up visits. Outcome will be assessed by a blinded outcome committee of
      three experts not associated with the trial or the participating departments.

      Statistical plan and data analysis As this is a pilot trial, a formal sample size calculation
      is not necessary. A sample size of 150 participants is deemed feasible to include and
      randomised within 18 months, and it should be sufficient to base a formal size calculation on
      for the planning of a large pragmatic trial.

      Statistical analysis will be performed according to the intention-to-treat principle. All
      patient included in the trial have CBDS according to the inclusion criteria and according to
      the best diagnostic modalities used in the clinic today (see above) and, therefore, the
      intention-to-treat principle can be used without any post-randomisation exclusions as done in
      some previous studies. Thereby, all patients with spontaneously passed stones at
      intra-operative cholangiography, lost-to follow up at 90 days, or patients not undergoing the
      full two-step procedures will be included in the statistical analyses. Analyses of the
      primary outcome will be performed for differences between intervention and control group
      after 90 days of follow-up. Dichotomous outcomes will be analysed using logistic regression.
      Continuous outcomes will be analysed using linear regression or van Eltern test. Analyses
      will be adjusted for the stratification variable. Odds ratios or mean differences will be
      reported with 95% confidence intervals and P-values. As this is a pilot trial, any
      significant result can be due to random errors and lack of power. It is therefore purely
      hypothesis generating.

      Publications The investigators plan to publish a design article and an article describing the
      results of the preGallstep pilot trial. Furthermore, the results will be added to an updated
      meta-analysis. Authorship will be determined by the guidelines by the International Committee
      for Medical Journal Editors. Members of the trial steering committee as well as the principle
      investigator from each trial site will be invited as coauthors.

      Collaborations The preGallstep trial is in collaboration between five major surgical
      departments in Denmark.

      Investigators of each department have reached expert level of LC+LCBDE and have given consent
      of participation in the trial.

      Protocol development, randomisation, data management, and surveillance of the trial are in
      collaboration with the Copenhagen Trial Unit (CTU). CTU is a non-specialty oriented clinical
      intervention research unit consisting of experienced trialists, clinicians, epidemiologists,
      statisticians, information-technology engineers, and information specialists.

      Significance of the project There has not been a significant improvement to the treatment of
      bile stone disease since the introduction of laparoscopic surgery and ERC more than twenty
      years ago. Each year more than 750 new patients are diagnosed with CBDS in Denmark alone. ERC
      combined with LC is the treatment of choice but is affected by a high rate of severe
      complications and the risk of extended course of treatment.

      The investigators propose a new method of treatment that might significantly reduce risk of
      complications, number of treatments needed, cost to society and improve patient satisfaction
      and make a difference to hundreds of people in Denmark alone each year.

      Since this is a poorly researched area and large RCTs is needed it is important to make the
      necessary preparations by conducting a large pilot RCT
    
  