
    
      Obstructive sleep apnoea is highly prevalent, with the obesity epidemic increasing the
      problem. The best treatment for uncomplicated and moderate-severe OSA remains CPAP therapy.
      However, long-term adherence to treatment with CPAP is poor and there are few alternatives.
      Electrical stimulation of the dilator muscles of the upper airway has been shown to reduce
      nocturnal apnoeas significantly using an invasive approach, hypoglossal nerve stimulation, as
      well as by non-invasive transcutaneous stimulation. Although non-invasive transcutaneous
      stimulation may not be as effective as CPAP therapy in many OSA patients it could be an
      important option to treat some of the large number of patients who fail CPAP and might also
      be of use in those whose OSA is not judged sufficiently severe to warrant CPAP.

      The investigators propose a study to use a transcutaneous electrical stimulation device in
      selected patients with OSA who do not tolerate CPAP therapy following assessment of the upper
      airway. Participants will undergo a baseline sleep study (polysomnography). Following
      minimisation for gender (male/female) and OSA severity (mild/moderate-severe) they will be
      randomised into active treatment arm (transcutaneous electrical stimulation) or usual care
      (ongoing CPAP therapy). Patients will be treated over a period of 3-months in the community
      and the results will be compared against usual care, ongoing CPAP therapy. This study will
      help to prepare a definitive multi-centre randomized controlled trial using the non-invasive
      method of upper airway stimulation in OSA.

      The primary aim of this study is to assess efficacy and generate an accurate sample size
      estimation, test the subjective willingness of patients to use and objectively determined
      compliance with the treatment over a long period, as well as to specify the drop-out rate.
      The improvement in sleep apnoea will be the primary outcome measures. The symptomatic
      response, feasibility of the method, including compliance, comfort, adverse events, will be
      the secondary outcome measure. An ad-hoc analysis will be performed in the responder group
      (improvement in the apnoea-hypopnea index (AHI) by >50% from baseline OR improvement in the
      4% oxygen-desaturation index (ODI) >25% from baseline OR AHI/4%ODI <5/hour at follow up).
    
  