
    
      This randomized clinical trial alongside a cost-effectiveness analysis will include 48
      edentulous individuals who meet eligibility criteria. New maxillary and mandibular dentures
      will be fabricated for all participants following a standardized protocol. Then, participants
      will be randomized into one of the treatment groups: mandibular overdenture retained by two
      implants group or single-implant mandibular overdenture group. Each participant allocated to
      the single-implant mandibular overdenture group will then receive a Straumann® Standard Plus
      SLActive® regular neck implant (Straumann 0.33.051S/052S/053S Institute Straumann AG, Basel,
      Switzerland) in the mandibular midline, and the mandibular overdenture retained by two
      implants group will receive two implants of the same specification, in the interphoramen
      region. A healing abutment will be connected and the implant will be allowed to heal for
      approximately 3 weeks. Then, a 3.4mm retentive titanium anchor abutment (Straumann 048.439,
      Institute Straumann AG, Basel, Switzerland) will be connected and tightened to 35 N.cm with a
      torque wrench. The matrix will be incorporated to the denture using self-curing acrylic resin
      and the patient will be instructed to keep the upper and lower dentures firmly occluded in
      the habitual position until the final polymerization of the resin. Outcomes (satisfaction
      with the dentures and oral health-related quality of life) will be measured at baseline and
      at the 6- and 12-month follow-up. Direct costs related to therapies in both groups will be
      identified, measured and valuated for one year after treatment. Incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratios will be estimated and graphically presented on cost-effectiveness
      planes. Sensitivity analysis on the most important assumptions will be performed in order to
      assess the robustness of the model.
    
  