
    
      This study will examine (1) the utilization pattern in the use of FP transfusions, (2) the
      clinical determinants influencing physician's decision to transfuse and blood loss and (3)
      coagulation tests in individual cardiac surgery patients. Through greater understanding of
      the current use of FP in cardiovascular surgery, we can improve its utilization and reduce
      unnecessary and harmful exposure to blood products.

      Objectives: We will describe the incidence and clinical determinants of FP transfusions in
      cardiac surgery. Secondarily, we will evaluate the relationships between the utilization of
      FP transfusions and (1) blood loss and (2) coagulation test results.

      Methods: All FP transfusions given to cardiac surgery patients intra and postoperatively in
      the intensive care unit will be reviewed. At the time of the transfusion (intraop) or request
      (postop) for FP all physicians will complete a short questionnaire evaluating the clinical
      factors influencing their decision to transfuse. For a sample of postoperative patients with
      elevated an INR who are not transfused FP, we will have physicians complete a similar short
      questionnaire evaluating the same clinical factors. Charts of all cardiac surgery patients
      will be reviewed to capture baseline, intraoperative and postoperative data including
      demographics, transfusions, blood loss and laboratory results. Charts of patients with INR >
      1.2 and/or receiving FP will be reviewed in detail to collect baseline data, intraoperative
      data, and detailed post operative data including FP transfusions, other blood transfusions,
      blood loss, lab and coagulation results, and adverse transfusion reactions. Data will
      collected for duration of stay in intensive care.

      Outcomes: The primary outcomes are the (i) the proportion of patients transfused FP and the
      dose of FP transfused and (2) the importance the clinical determinants influencing the
      decision to transfuse FP. Secondary outcomes include measures of blood loss (mediastinal
      chest tube blood loss, change in hemoglobin and number of red blood cell transfusions),
      changes in coagulation tests results (INR, PTT), the frequency of adverse transfusion
      reactions, length of ICU and hospital stay, and mortality.

      Analysis: The primary analysis will be a descriptive analysis of FP transfusions and the
      clinical determinants influencing the decision to transfuse FP. A multivariable logistic
      regression analysis will be performed to examine the variables associated with FP utilization
      including the postoperative IN, hemoglobin, red cell transfusions and mediastinal chest tube
      loss in patients transfused FP. The correlation between the physician reported clinical
      determinants for FP transfusions and blood loss and coagulation test results will be examined
      by Spearman and Pearson correlations as appropriate , and multiple logistic regression. For
      the analysis of secondary outcomes, the mean change in blood loss and coagulation test
      results following FP transfusion will be calculated, and a multivariable regression analysis
      will be performed to examine the relationship between blood loss, FP transfusions and changes
      in the INR.
    
  