
    
      Introduction: Stress related disorders may lead to mental disorders as well as cardiovascular
      problems. They may also result in absenteeism and less productivity in companies. This
      protocol proposes a well-being program based on meditation and Positive Psychology principles
      such as human development, the improvement of virtues, quality of life and well-being. The
      investigators hypothesize that this program may promote well-being and reduce stress related
      problems in the participants. Objectives: To evaluate the efficacy of a well-being and
      quality of life program in a sample of managers who work in a company (Natura
      Inovação/Cosméticos ) and health care professionals who work in a hospital (Hospital
      Israelita Albert Einstein) as well as its implication in the work environment. Methods:Sixty
      participants from Natura Inovação/Cosméticos and 60 health professionals from Hospital
      Israelita Albert Einstein will be recruited. The participants will be randomized in two
      groups of 30 participants each one, half of them in the control group (GC) and the other half
      to the intervention group (GI). This is a cross-over study. After the first evaluation GI
      will participate in the Flourishing Program for 8 weeks and the GC will be a wait-list group
      in this period of time. After that, there is a second evaluation of the participants and the
      GC will receive the intervention (Flourishing Program). GI will not receive any intervention
      during this new period of 8 weeks. A final evaluation will happen after that. The
      participants will fill in questionnaires (to evaluate depression, anxiety, stress, positive
      and negative affects, sleep quality, self-compassion, mindfulness, virtues, values,
      happiness, psychological well-being) and will be clinically examined; their blood sample will
      be collected (for the dosage of health related biomarkers) and also saliva for cortisol
      measures. They will perform structural and functional neuroimaging exams (emotional and
      cognitive paradigms) and their physiological measures such as skin conductance will be
      recorded.
    
  