
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine transplant-related mortality, risk of relapse, and progression-free survival
           of patients with standard- or high-risk hematologic malignancies undergoing
           nonmyeloablative conditioning comprising fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and total-body
           irradiation followed by HLA-haploidentical allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.

        -  Determine donor hematopoietic chimerism in patients' peripheral blood at 30, 60, and 180
           days after transplantation.

        -  Determine hematologic and nonhematologic toxic effects of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Determine, when feasible, surface expression of HLA molecules and death receptors,
           sensitivity to cytotoxic lymphocytes, and expression of anti-apoptotic genes (e.g.,
           Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, X-IAP, and c-FLIP) in cancer cells from patients who relapse after
           treatment with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk of relapse
      (standard [defined as ≤ 30% risk] vs high [defined as ≥ 70% risk]).

        -  Nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes
           on days -6 to -2 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1-2 hours on days -6 and -5. Patients
           undergo total body irradiation on day -1.

        -  Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: Patients undergo donor bone marrow infusion on
           day 0.

        -  Post-transplantation therapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1-2 hours on
           days 3 and 4.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis: Beginning on day 5, patients receive oral
           mycophenolate mofetil 3 times daily until day 35 and tacrolimus IV (then changing to
           orally) twice daily until day 180.

      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression.

      After completion of study transplantation, patients are followed on days 30, 60, 100, and
      180; at 1 year; and then annually for 4 additional years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75-100 patients will be accrued for this study within 3-4
      years.
    
  