
    
      After hospitals are recruited they will be randomized to cohort and randomly assigned to
      treatment so that the hospital will receive either FFC-AC-EIT or EO. FFC-AC-EIT is
      implemented by a Research Nurse Facilitator working with the stakeholder team and unit
      champions for 10 hours weekly during months one and two and then for four hours weekly
      starting in month three for a total of 12 months. Timing of the intervention activities will
      be flexible based on the needs of the unit. The first meeting with the stakeholder team will
      be 1-2 hours and the remaining meetings will be approximately 30 minutes monthly to update
      the stakeholders on progress and any challenges associated with implementation of FFC-AC-EIT.
      The majority of the time on the unit by the Research Nurse Facilitator will be spent with the
      champions helping and assuring that they are engaging staff in function focused care
      activities via the four steps of FFC-AC-EIT. Once hospitals are randomized we will set up a
      time to meet with the identified contact to determine the stakeholder team members and
      champions and organize the first stakeholder team meeting. The first meeting will provide an
      overview of the implementation of Steps 1 to 4 [(1) Environment and Policy Assessments; (2)
      Education; (3) Establishing Patient Goals; and (4) Mentoring and Motivating of Staff,
      Patients and Families] and will address the unit challenges to implementing function focused
      care using a Brainstorming approach. In the first two months the Research Nurse Facilitator
      completes the environment and policy assessments with the champions and implements
      appropriate changes on the units and plans and provides staff education and makes available
      information for patients and families/ caregivers. The education reviews function focused
      care. Ongoing work between the champions and the Research Nurse Facilitator focuses on
      motivating staff and patients to work toward achievement of patient goals and established
      unit goals. The stakeholder team will continue to meet with the Research Nurse Facilitator
      monthly (approximately 30 minutes) over the 12-month intervention period to review progress
      and to help champions overcome any identified multilevel challenges. In addition to monthly
      visits, weekly emails containing motivational Tidbits will be sent to all stakeholder team
      members within the cohort. The Tidbits include such things as updates about benefits of
      engaging patients with ADRD in physical activity while hospitalized. To further facilitate
      implementation we will give each treatment site: 1) a 100 dollar gift certificate from Nasco
      (Nasco.com) to buy supplies for the unit to engage patients with ADRD in physical activities
      (e.g., age-appropriate weights; soft horseshoe toss game); 2) 1000 dollars at the end of the
      study for each champion to attend a conference and submit an abstract focused on optimizing
      function and physical activity of hospitalized older adults with ADRD. Education Only (EO)
      Control Intervention: Hospitals randomized to EO will be provided with an in-service for
      nursing staff on function focused care in patients with ADRD by an EO Research Nurse
      Facilitator using our developed PowerPoint presentations in 30-minute sessions as is
      currently done in usual practice.
    
  