
    
      Supported by multiple grans from the NIH, we have developed and performed preliminarily
      clinical studies on a suite of biophotonics techniques that promises to have unprecedented
      accuracy in risk- stratification of colonic neoplasia. The main goal for this study is to
      establish a Bioengineering Research Partnership (BRP) with the objective to refine and
      provide comprehensive, definitive multi-center validation of these novel methodologies for
      colorectal cancer (CRC) screening, thus providing a quantum leap in population screening.

      Colonoscopy has the potential of reducing colorectal cancer (CRC) occurrence by ~90% through
      the identification and interdiction of the precursor lesion, the adenomatous polyp. However,
      CRC remains the second leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States with an
      anticipated 153,760 new cases in 2007. The major reason why existing CRC screening strategy
      is not adequate is as follows:

      According to existing recommendations, every patient over the age of 50 is considered at risk
      for CRC and is a candidate for colonoscopic surveillance to be performed at least every 10
      years. However, screening the entire eligible population (>80 million Americans over age 50)
      through colonoscopy is practically impossible for a variety of reasons including expense (the
      financial burden on the health care would be ~$100B a year), patient reluctance, complication
      rate, and insufficient number of endoscopists. Indeed, currently only less than 20% of the
      population undergo colonoscopy. The potential solution to this could be risk-stratification.
      The lifetime incidence of colon polyps is ~20-30% and CRC is ~6%. Thus, instead of performing
      colonoscopy on the entire population, targeting the group at risk for developing neoplasia
      would allow the focusing of this finite endoscopic resource on subjects who will actually
      benefit from this invasive test. Current approaches at risk-stratification (e.g. flexible
      sigmoidoscopy, fecal occult blood test) are plagued by unacceptably poor sensitivity and
      positive predictive value. Thus, more accurate approaches are urgently needed to triage
      patients for colonoscopy. This test has to be considerably less expensive than colonoscopy (a
      colonoscopy costs ~$1,000-2,000), minimally invasive and performed by a primary care
      physician. (The strategy is analogous to the Pap-smear screening for cervical cancer: 50
      years ago, cervical cancer used to be the first major cause of cancer deaths in women. The
      incidence was reduced by more than 70%, from number 1 killer in women to number 13, by
      introduction of the Pap-smear as an initial screening test. Currently, no such initial
      screening test is available in case of CRC.)

      The proposed program is based on novel spectroscopic techniques developed by our
      multidisciplinary team, comprised of biomedical and electrical engineers,
      gastroenterologists, cancer biologists, and biostatisticians. Two techniques have been
      developed: low-coherence enhanced backscattering (LEBS) spectroscopy and four-dimensional
      elastic light scattering fingerprinting (ELF). Many screening techniques (e.g., flexible
      sigmoidoscopy) exploit the "field effect" of colon carcinogenesis, the proposition that the
      genetic/environmental milieu that results in a neoplastic lesion in one area of the colon
      should be detectable in uninvolved (i.e., colonoscopically normal-appearing) mucosa
      throughout the colon. Several lines of evidence suggest that nano/micro-architectural
      alterations are among the earliest pre-neoplastic markers of colon carcinogenesis.

      Our group was the first to explore the concept of the field effect for cancer screening by
      means of optical examination of colonoscopically and histologically normal rectal tissue. A
      key capability of ELF and LEBS is that they sense these changes in microscopically normal
      tissue at a distance from a precancerous lesion. This opens up a possibility to identifying
      patients harboring adenomas in the colon by assessment of histologically and colonoscopically
      normal-appearing rectal mucosa without the need for colonoscopy.

      We have completed successful animal and human studies showing that ELF and LEBS markers have
      superior performance to any existing markers of the field-effect of CRC. We have published
      the first demonstration that marked ELF/LEBS aberrations could be detected far earlier than
      any currently known markers of CRC including morphological (e.g. aberrant crypt foci,
      adenomas) or cellular (apoptosis, proliferation) markers. In our human studies, we
      demonstrated that the assessment of ELF/LEBS signatures in the endoscopically normal rectal
      mucosa (the most readily accessible colonic mucosa) accurately identified patients harboring
      neoplasia elsewhere in the colon. Indeed, the sensitivity of rectal ELF/LEBS was 100% for
      identifying the presence of adenomas elsewhere in the colon, far exceeding any previously
      described markers. This suggests that ELF/EBS could be exploited for CRC screening by means
      of a simple and inexpensive optical test without the need for either colonoscopy or bowel
      preparation.

      Based on our preliminary data, we hypothesize that ELF/LEBS will be able to identify subjects
      who do and do not harbor adenomas in the colon based on optical alterations in the rectal
      mucosa that will be assessed without the need for colonoscopy and bowel preparation.
    
  