
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if basiliximab inhibits the functional and numeric recovery of T-regulatory
           cells (Tregs) after therapeutic temozolomide (TMZ)-induced lymphopenia in the context of
           vaccinating adult patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) using
           PEPvIII-keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH).

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the safety of basiliximab in the context of vaccinating adult patients with
           newly diagnosed GBM using PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine during recovery from therapeutic
           TMZ-induced lymphopenia.

        -  To determine if basiliximab enhances the magnitude or character of PEPvIII-KLH-induced
           cellular or humoral immune responses, inhibits or enhances activation-induced cell
           death, or induces immunologic or clinical evidence of autoimmunity.

        -  To determine if basiliximab enhances the magnitude or character of PEPvIII-KLH-induced
           cellular or humoral immune responses, inhibits or enhances activation-induced cell
           death, or induces immunologic or clinical evidence of autoimmunity.

        -  To determine if basiliximab alters the phenotype (CD56-expression), cytokine secretion
           profile, or cytotoxicity of CD3-negative CD56-positive natural killer cells.

        -  To determine if basiliximab, in addition to vaccination, extend progression-free
           survival compared to historical cohorts.

        -  To characterize immunologic cell infiltrate in recurrent tumors and seek evidence of
           antigen escape outgrowth.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Leukapheresis: Patients undergo leukapheresis over 2-4 hours for immunologic monitoring.

        -  Concurrent standard adjuvant chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive external-beam
           radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, over 6-7 weeks (33 fractions) and concurrent
           temozolomide by mouth 7 days a week for up to 49 days beginning on the first day and
           continuing until the last day of radiotherapy.

        -  Temozolomide and PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine: Approximately 3 weeks after completion of
           radiotherapy, patients receive temozolomide by mouth on days 1-21, or on days 1-5
           depending on their treating neuro-oncologist, basiliximab IV over 30 minutes on day 21,
           and PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine intradermally on days 21, 35, and 49.

      Patients then receive a second course of temozolomide by mouth on days 1-21 or days 1-5,
      depending on their treating neuro-oncologist. Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 4
      weeks for 5 additional courses. Patients also receive PEP-3-KLH conjugate vaccine on day 21
      of each remaining temozolomide course. Patients then receive the vaccine monthly until
      disease progression.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for laboratory studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  