
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension is a common, chronic condition that contributes substantially to cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality and resource use. Despite the proven efficacy of pharmacologic
      therapy and lifestyle modification for treatment of hypertension and prevention of its
      complications, most adults with established hypertension are uncontrolled. Limited access to
      medical care and financial barriers to obtaining medications play an important role; however,
      even among patients who receive regular care, blood pressure control remains suboptimal.
      Patient non-adherence to recommended therapies and problems in physician management of
      patients with hypertension are critical contributors to poor quality of care and negative
      health outcomes of hypertension. Of particular concern is the disproportionately high
      prevalence and incidence of hypertension and its complications among African Americans and
      socioeconomically disadvantaged persons. Ethnic and social class disparities in patient
      adherence are frequently based on financial, logistical, environmental, and cultural barriers
      that, while not unique to ethnic minorities and the poor, have a greater impact on these
      populations. Patient and physician interventions were designed to address the specific needs
      of inner city ethnic minorities and persons living in poverty. The study used a
      patient-centered, culturally tailored, education and activation intervention with active
      follow-up delivered by a community health worker in the clinic. It also included a
      computerized, self-study communication skills training program delivered via an interactive
      CD-ROM, with tailored feedback to address physicians' individual communication skills needs.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study used a patient-centered, culturally tailored, education and activation intervention
      with active follow-up delivered by a community health worker in the clinic. It also included
      a computerized, self-study communication skills training program delivered via an interactive
      CD-ROM, with tailored feedback to address physicians' individual communication skills needs.
      Fifty physicians and 500 of their patients who had uncontrolled hypertension were recruited
      into a randomized controlled trial with a 2X2 factorial design. The 50 physicians were
      randomized to receive either a 2-hour CD-ROM based communication skills training or no
      training. Within each randomized physician, 10 patient-subjects were randomized to either
      minimal intervention or patient activation (community health worker visit and follow-up
      calls, plus photo novels and other mailed educational literature). Assessments of primary
      care appointment keeping, medication possession, medication taking, health status,
      satisfaction, and numerous other variables were made at baseline, 3 months, and 12 months.
    
  