
    
      In Europe approximately 5% of all acute medical admissions relate to heart failure and in the
      United States heart failure is responsible for almost 1 million hospitalizations annually.
      Almost three quarters of these admissions are unplanned and worsening heart failure is
      responsible for half of these admissions.

      The Acute Decompensated Heart Failure National Registry (ADHERE) showed that the hospital
      treatment of heart failure frequently does not follow published guidelines or conform to the
      Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) core performance
      measures, potentially contributing to the high morbidity, mortality and economic cost of this
      disorder. ADHERE findings also suggested that the wide variations in conformity may reflect
      differences in training, guideline familiarity, and implementation of tools and systems to
      ensure that recommended care is provided and documented. Consequently the development of
      educational and quality improvement programs has the potential to considerably reduce the
      current variability in care, enhance guideline adherence, and improve outcomes for patients.

      Clinical pathways has become a popular tool to achieve such goals. Clinical pathways are a
      methodology for the mutual decision making and organization of care for a well-defined group
      of patients during a well-defined period with the aim to enhance the quality of care by
      improving patient outcomes, promoting patient safety, increasing patient satisfaction, and
      optimizing the use of resources. They are also developed by multi-professional teams. Despite
      enthusiasm and diffusion, the widespread acceptance of clinical pathways remain questionable
      because very little prospective controlled data demonstrated their effectiveness.

      The Experimental Prospective Study on the Effectiveness and Efficiency of the Implementation
      of Clinical Pathways was designed in order to conduct a rigorous evaluation of a clinical
      pathway in hospital treatment of decompensated heart failure.
    
  