
    
      Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is the second most common liver cancer, and its
      incidence and mortality have been rising worldwide over the past two decades. Liver resection
      (LR) remains the only potentially curative treatment for ICC. However, the long-term outcome
      after LR is still dismal, and the 5-year survival after curative-intent resection was up to
      35%. Lymph node (LN) metastasis is found in about 40% of ICC patients and is known to be one
      of the most important adverse prognostic factors. Considering such circumstances, it is
      crucial to determine the validity of routine LN dissection for ICC during LR, but there is so
      far no definitive evidence about the use of this surgical procedure. Preoperative
      individualized LN status assessment is beneficial for clinical decision of LN dissection and
      stratifying patients who may benefit from preoperative neoadjuvant therapy. The conventional
      and qualitative radiological characteristics in abdominal computerized tomography (CT)
      exhibited limited accuracy for preoperative assessment of LN status. Radiomics, a novel
      approach in medical image analysis, involves high-throughput extraction of quantitative image
      features and then associates these features with clinical concerns. The radiomic approach has
      been employed into preoperative diagnosis and prediction of prognosis. We have proposed a
      nomogram, incorporating conventional clinico-radiological characteristics and novel radiomic
      features in CT scan, provided accurate LN metastasis prediction in ICC patients and may aid
      the treatment decision making.

      Neoadjuvant therapy refers to some treatments taken before surgery for newly treated tumor
      patients who have not found distant metastasis, including chemotherapy, radiotherapy,
      targeted therapy, etc., to reduce tumors, reduce tumor stages, and reduce postoperative
      recurrence rate, prolonging survival time. As suggested by the results from previous studies,
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy with oxaliplatin plus gemcitabine for locally advanced ICC may be an
      effective downstaging option, facilitating secondary resectability in patients with initially
      unresectable disease (53%, 39 in 74 patients received secondary resection). In addition, for
      selected patients with locally advanced ICC who showed pre-transplant disease stability on
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy could obtain 50% 5-year recurrence-free survival and 83.3% 5-year
      overall survival.

      These evidences suggest that neoadjuvant chemotherapy with GEMOX regimen may be an ideal
      modality for patients with resectable ICC with high possibility of LN metastasis to reduce
      potential risk of recurrence, which is worth more investigation.
    
  