
    
      This study is designed to collect long-term safety information on infliximab, from patients
      with COPD who participated in research studies using this drug. The primary COPD studies
      include C0168T54 (in the U.S.) and two small studies in Europe (EU0016 C0168X09 and EU0073
      C0168X57). All patients who had at least one dose of study drug in those studies are being
      asked to participate in this long-term safety follow-up study which will provide important
      information about the study drug. The long-term effect of the study drug on new cancers and
      survival will be evaluated from data collected over a 5-year period which begins from each
      patient's last safety visit in the primary study. Data for this study will be collected at
      study entry and twice yearly thereafter up to a maximum of 5 years from each patient's last
      safety visit in the primary study. The last safety visit in the primary study is defined as
      the last visit for each subject during which adverse events (AEs)s are recorded in the
      primary study.Twice yearly, all participating study sites will be reminded to complete the
      electronic charts for each participating patient. At study entry, the following will be
      performed: (1) Medical history and physical examination, including ear, nose, and throat
      (ENT) examination performed by a qualified physician; (2) Chest x-ray(posterior and lateral),
      unless performed within 3 months prior to enrollment and (3) CT (computer imaging) scan of
      the chest (spiral preferred), unless performed within 6 months prior to enrollment. In
      addition, data will be collected at study entry on the use of commercial infliximab or any
      other anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agent subsequent to the last safety visit in the
      primary study. At each patient's subsequent visit, data will be collected by either direct
      contact with the patient (office visit or telephone call), review of patient's medical
      records, contact with the patient's primary care physician or oncologist. At the final visit
      (5 years from each patient's last safety visit in the primary study), the following will be
      performed: (1) Medical history and physical examination, including ENT examination performed
      by a qualified physician; (2) Chest x-ray, unless performed within the previous 3 months, and
      (3) CT scan of the chest (spiral preferred), unless performed within the previous 6 months.

      The primary outcome of this study is Number of patients with each of the following safety
      events: malignancy or death. The secondary outcome of this study is the number of patients
      with malignancies by malignancy type (ie, Hodgkin's lymphoma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, head
      and neck cancers, lung cancer, other malignancies). No drug is provided
    
  