
    
      Latino youth have the highest prevalence of obesity as compared to Black or White youth, and
      are at high risk for adult obesity-related complications including cardiovascular disease.
      Moreover, Latino youth living in rural communities have an increased risk of adult obesity
      and mortality due to obesity-related chronic disease than Latinos living elsewhere. The
      investigators synthesized the prior childhood obesity intervention and tailored the evidence
      informed, theory-based, multi-family behavioral intervention, Adapting Diet and Action for
      Everyone (ADAPT), to the acculturation status, language, and national origin of the target
      population - obese, school-aged (8-12 years old) Latino youth and their parents living in
      rural areas. However, because the role of parent stress on obesity has not been adequately
      addressed in interventions aimed at reducing obesity in Latino youth, it is argued that
      mindfulness parent stress reduction strategies may be a key component to improving eating and
      physical activity (PA) behaviors in both children and their parents. This study proposes a
      refinement and optimization of the original ADAPT obesity intervention protocol to include
      mindfulness parent stress reduction strategies (now ADAPT+) and feasibility assessment of
      ADAPT+ implementation.

      Aim 1: Refinement of ADAPT+ (ADAPT + mindfulness parent stress reduction) intervention
      through a one group pilot. Aim 1A and Aim 1B were focus groups with promotoras from the
      target communities and parents. The intervention manual was refined based on the qualitative
      feedback. Aim 1C (reported in Clinical Trials) pilots the revised intervention manual with
      one parent-child cohort. Data collected at Aim 1C will be used to finalize and optimize a
      culturally acceptable ADAPT+ to be further evaluated in Aim 2.

      Aim 2: Feasibility and Acceptability trial. A randomized trial testing feasibility of ADAPT+
      vs. Enhanced Usual Care (EUC) conducted in two rural communities. It is anticipated that
      compared to EUC, ADAPT+ dyads will have a lower attrition rate and will report greater
      satisfaction. The investigators also explore whether the eating, PA and stress indices are
      sensitive to the intervention.
    
  