
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1990, there was increased recognition that obstructive sleep apnea occurs commonly and may
      lead to serious adverse cardiopulmonary and psychoneurologic health effects. In subjects with
      numerous and prolonged apneas, nocturnal hypoxemia and disrupted sleep may lead to pulmonary
      hypertension, cor pulmonale, and excessive daytime sleepiness. Systemic hypertension is more
      prevalent in subjects with obstructive sleep apnea than in the general population. The health
      consequences of less severe disease have not been extensively studied in the context of
      general population studies. However, snoring, a symptom related to sleep apnea, may double
      the risk of ischemic heart disease. The prevalence of systemic hypertension is higher in
      snorers than in nonsnorers, a finding potentially of considerable public health concern. An
      increased number of deaths due to cardiovascular disease in elderly subjects with disordered
      breathing during sleep also has been demonstrated.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study is cross-sectional and longitudinal in design. Index cases were identified through
      the Rhode Island Hospital Sleep Laboratory and controls through local industry. During home
      visits, questionnaire data on symptoms, medical history, and exposures were collected and the
      following measurements made: blood pressure, height, weight, and spirometry. Structural
      assessment of the upper airway was made by a brief physical examination, and facial structure
      was documented with a lateral photograph. Airflow, chest wall movement, oxygen saturation,
      and heart rate during sleep were recorded with an ambulatory monitoring device. Observations
      in the field were confirmed and extended with laboratory studies on a sample of families who
      demonstrated the greatest and the least concordance for sleep-related respiratory
      disturbances. These subjects had a more detailed assessment of upper airway structure with
      cephalometry and posterior rhinometry, assessment of ventilatory control with responses to
      chemical and resistive loading, and assessment of sleep staging with in-hospital
      polysomnography. Familial correlations with and without adjustment for specific risk factors
      were computed. These analyses allowed: a determination of the risk of development of sleep
      apnea due to familial factors; an improved understanding of the influences of genetic and
      acquired risk factors and their interactions on the development of sleep apnea: and
      characterization of a generally healthy population at increased risk for sleep apnea that
      were studied subsequently both longitudinally in natural history studies and with molecular
      genetic markers in pedigree studies.

      The study was renewed in FY 1996. The cohort was expanded by the addition of 85 families
      identified through an affected proband, leading to a total of 300 families. These new cohort
      members were characterized in the fashion similar to that previously used. Follow-up was
      conducted on those initially recruited for apnea levels, blood pressure, body fat
      distribution, cranial facial dimensions, pulmonary function, and other factors of interest.
      For 450 of the individuals, follow-up extended through nine years. A nested case-control
      study was also conducted that included 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and
      echocardiography. A principal analytic tool was variance component modeling.

      The study was renewed in FY 2001 through March, 2005. Further studies will be conducted in
      the cohort of 2,200 who had previously undergone overnight sleep studies. A total of 700
      cohort members from families with sleep apnea, most of whom had a genome scan performed, will
      undergo additional physiological and biochemical measurements and longitudinal follow-up to
      derive detailed phenotypic characterization of sleep apnea and related cardiovascular disease
      risk factors and subclinical disease. Newly available technology will be used to quantify
      specific and sensitive indices of obstructive breathing parameters and sleep fragmentation.
      Subjects will also undergo a biochemical profile and evaluations of vascular functions,
      including assessment of novel cardiovascular disease risk factors that may be related to
      sleep apnea based on common genes or their role as indices of sleep apnea disease severity.
    
  