
    
      The primary therapy of colorectal cancer is surgical resection, but more than half of all
      colorectal cancer patients eventually die of metastatic disease. Although the introduction of
      new anticancer agents with efficacy in metastatic colorectal cancer, e.g.: oxaliplatin and
      irinotecan, and the targeted agents cetuximab and bevacizumab has changed therapeutic
      nihilism, chemotherapy alone has failed to cure these patients.

      It is estimated that 15-20 % of colorectal cancer patients present with synchronous liver
      metastases and approximately 50% of the patients with colorectal tumors will develop liver
      metastases at some point during the course of their disease. In almost one third of the
      cases, the liver was shown at autopsy to be the only site of cancer spread. This is in
      accordance with the 20% - 45 % five-year survival obtained with surgical resection of hepatic
      metastases.

      Previous studies have not shown a clear benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy after metastasectomy
      of liver metastases. However, most of these studies have been performed with 5-fluorouracil
      with or without other older cytostatic drugs. Since new effective agents have been developed
      (e.g.: capecitabine, oxaliplatin and bevacizumab), adjuvant combination treatment with these
      agents might be more effective. These drugs have proven activity as first line palliative
      treatment of recurrent metastases. This raises the question if this new effective treatment
      is of value as an adjuvant treatment after metastasectomy.

      As mentioned before, a two-arm EORTC study: neoadjuvant and adjuvant FOLFOX vs no
      chemotherapy in resectable liver metastases of colorectal cancer is almost completed
      (Nordlinger et al). It is expected that this study will show a 10% 3 year DFS benefit in
      favour of th treatment arm. Definitive data of this trial will be released at the end of
      2006, and will most probably lead to adjuvant treatment post metastasectomy as a standard of
      care. In the HEPATCIA trial we anticipate on this by using adjuvant XELOX as the control arm.

      As mentioned earlier, the 3-year disease free survival in patients post metastasectomy of
      liver metastases is approximately 25%. There is no data available on the effectivity of the
      XELOX regimen as adjuvant treatment after metastasectomy of colorectal cancer metastases. The
      EORTC study was designed to demonstrate a 10% improvement in 3y DFS. Assuming that this study
      is positive, 3 year DFS would be 35% in the control arm (XELOX post liver resection).

      Since bevacizumab inhibits angiogenesis, which is required for growth of metastases, this
      drug may be valuable in the adjuvant setting. Several studies investigate the value of this
      drug in combination with fluoropyrimidines as an adjuvant regimen after resection of primary
      colorectal cancers. However, at this moment there is no mature data available of these
      studies. Therefore, we assume an increase in 3-year disease free survival of 10%, to 45% in
      the XELOX and bevacizumab treatment arm.

      This study will therefore evaluate patients with resectable liver metastasis without
      extra-hepatic disease, investigating whether the capecitabine, oxaliplatin and bevacizumab
      regimen is superior to capecitabine and oxaliplatin alone applied as adjuvant treatment, in
      order to extent disease free and overall survival.
    
  