
    
      Congenital heart disease, or corrected heart disease requires regular, specialized follow-up
      throughout the life of these patients. Among the recommended examinations, cardiac MRI is the
      reference for functionnal ventricles assessment (volume/systolic function), particularly for
      the right ventricle.

      Among these pathologies, the tetralogy of Fallot is indicative of the increasing importance
      of cardiac MRI. In this disease, strong parameters has been identifies for the follow to
      prevent right ventricle dysfunction and ventricular arrhythmias. They rely on right ventricle
      volumes and on the pulmonary artery regurgitation, both using cardiac MRI.

      However, this imaging modality imposes constraints such as a long acquisition times (30 to 40
      min) or the need to hold apneas, which may render the procedure uncomfortable, even more in
      the case of very young patients.

      The idea of exploring a new imaging modality is therefore based on the willingness to offer a
      faster and more comfortable examination. 4D Flow MRI could enable conventionnal parameters,
      detection of both normal and abnormal right heart flow patterns, and may allow comprehensive
      analysis of post-surgically altered geometries and hemodynamics.

      4D Flow MRI cardiac imaging is :

        -  A single and faster acquisition (8 to 15 minutes) that cardiac MRI.

        -  A free breathing acquisition Imaging modality.

        -  A quite-isotropic assessment.

        -  A technically simple exam (a single sequence requiring low competence).

        -  And offers unlimited post processing.

      The investigators hypothesize that 4D MRI is non-inferior to 2D MRI in patients with
      corrected tetralogy of Fallot, for the evaluation of conventional cardiac evaluation
      parameters: ventricular volume, ventricular systolic function, and regurgitation of the
      pulmonary pathway.

      The investigators hypothesize that 4D MRI is superior to 2D MRI in patients with corrected
      tetralogy of Fallot, as ti allows to identifying new predictors of ventricular dysfunction
      such as intravenous extracardiac turbulent / laminar flow character, preferential
      orientation, flow distribution and trans-tricuspid diastolic flow.
    
  