
    
      The treatment of patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in general practice is
      usually symptom-oriented and does not necessarily involve a proactive approach. Instead, PTSD
      is often not verbalized, and patients are treated symptomatically or referred to specialists
      / psychologists, often associated with long waiting times.

      We are conducting this trial to investigate a short, narrative exposure therapy (NET) adapted
      for the use by general practitioners (GPs) in patients with PTSD symptoms after intensive
      care treatment. NET is the only method that has proved to be successful in PTSD patients,
      even when used by paramedics, nurses or local counselors, and is therefore also suitable for
      physicians without extensive psychological training The aim of our study is 1) to examine the
      feasibility and safety of a NET-oriented therapy in primary care, and 2) to examine the
      effects of the NET-oriented therapy in comparison to standard care by collecting results 6
      and 12 months after diagnosis.

      The intervention is being investigated in a randomized controlled, observer-blinded
      multicenter study with two arms. 340 patients (and their GPs) are included in 6 locations
      throughout Germany.

      Three months after discharge from intensive care unit, the diagnosis of PTSD symptoms in
      participants is verified by the GP and patients are randomly assigned to either treatment
      group or the control group.

      In the treatment group, the GPs receive training in executing narrative exposure therapy by
      specialized psychologists. The doctors of this group will hold three 45-minute therapy
      sessions with their patient within 6 weeks. During the first session a list of the most
      intense events - both positive and negative - is drawn up in the life of the patient on the
      basis of a life line, with the stay at the intensive care unit being one of these events.
      During the second session the experience in the intensive care unit will be discussed in
      detail, led by the GP. During the third session, another event from the patient's life is
      dealt with in the same manner. This way, the different components (cognitions, emotions, body
      reactions, context information) can be reconnected and classified into the patient's own
      biography. Between therapy sessions, the GP and the psychologist will schedule a conversation
      for support and supervision of the GP during the therapy. In order to monitor the patient's
      safety and compliance, standardized telephone calls between the patient and the GP's practice
      are regularly carried out every 2-3 weeks in between the therapies sessions and up to the
      first data collection after 6 months (T1).

      In the control group, the GPs receive training in treatment of PTSD according to guidelines.
      In this group, there are also three consultations between GP and patient. However, the
      content of these consultations is based on the patient's symptoms. This group thus receives
      the standard therapy which is customary in practice.

      The data necessary for the evaluation of the intervention is collected 6 and 12 months after
      the first GP appointment, during which the diagnosis was verified.
    
  