
    
      Background:

        -  Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is an indolent B-cell leukemia comprising 2% of all leukemias,
           or approximately 1900 new cases per year in the US.

        -  BRAF V600E mutation is very common in classic HCL.

        -  HCL variant (HCLv) is wild type for BRAF and is more aggressive compared to classic HCL
           due to its lower response and shorter duration of response to standard purine analog
           chemotherapy. The median survival is only ~6 years compared to >25 years for classic
           HCL.

        -  CD25+ classic-appearing HCL-cells that express unmutated IGHV4-34+ immunoglobulin
           rearrangement, are wild-type for BRAF, and confer a poor prognosis when treated with
           standard purine analog chemotherapy.

        -  While BRAF and MEK combination inhibition is making an impact in the treatment of BRAF
           V600E mutated HCL, this treatment is not applicable for patients with BRAF-WT HCL/HCLv.
           Furthermore, with poor survival outcomes in this patient population, lack of targeted
           therapy constitutes a clear unmet need.

        -  Recently, several BRAF WT HCL/HCLv patients have received MEK inhibitors by
           compassionate use and have had lifesaving partial to complete remission, however the
           response has not been assessed systematically in clinical trials.

        -  Binimetinib (also known as MEK162) is an orally bioavailable, selective and potent
           mitogenactivated protein (MAP) kinase kinase (MEK1 and MEK2) inhibitor, which is
           approved for use in combination with encorafenib for the treatment of patients with
           BRAF-mutant melanoma

        -  We have described MAP2K1 (MEK) mutations which may drive the aggressive clinical
           behavior of BRAF WT HCL/HCLv patients, but MEK inhibition may be clinically useful even
           in these patients without known MAP2K1 (MEK) mutations.

      Objective:

      -To determine the overall response rate (ORR) to binimetinib, in patients with BRAF WT HCL
      and HCLv.

      Eligibility:

        -  BRAF WT HCL or HCLv with at least 1 prior purine analog treatment

        -  Need for treatment as evidenced by any one of the following: ANC <1 x10^3/mcL, Hgb
           <10g/dL, Platelet count <100 x10^3/mcL, leukemia cell count >5 x10^3/mcL, symptomatic
           splenomegaly, enlarging HCL mass > 2cm in short axis.

        -  Greater than or equal to 18 years of age

        -  No uncontrolled infection, cardiopulmonary dysfunction, or secondary malignancy
           requiring treatment.

        -  No chemotherapy, immunotherapy, investigational agent or radiotherapy within 4 weeks
           prior to the start of study treatment.

      Design:

        -  Single arm phase 2 trial to determine ORR in patients with relapsed/refractory BRAF WT
           HCL and HCLv.

        -  2-phase minimax design will be used to rule out an unacceptable 10% in favor of an
           improved 25% ORR.

        -  Initially 16 evaluable patients will be enrolled. If 2 or more achieve a major response,
           then accrual will continue to a total of 31 evaluable patients.

        -  Binimetinib will be given at a dose of 45mg BID for as long as patients can continue
           dosing chronically without significant toxicity.
    
  