
    
      Adverse drug events are very common after hospitalization and are due to a variety of
      factors, including misunderstanding of the correct medication regimen and non-adherence with
      that regimen. The goals of this study are to implement and evaluate a novel "smart pillbox"
      using health information technology (HIT) to minimize discrepancies in prescribed regimens
      and improve adherence after hospital discharge. To the investigators' knowledge this type of
      technology has not been studied in the transitions setting, where there are unique challenges
      but also tremendous opportunities to engage patients, caregivers, and providers in medication
      safety and to improve care.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Implement a smart pillbox intervention for patients discharged from the hospital to the
           community

           a. Hypothesis 1: a smart pillbox can be successfully implemented in the transitions
           setting, including engagement of patients, caregivers, and providers in electronically
           available medication adherence reports

        2. Evaluate the effects of the intervention on post-discharge medication discrepancies,
           medication adherence, and chronic disease management

             1. Hypothesis 2a: a smart pillbox intervention will decrease medication discrepancies
                and increase medication adherence in the 6 months after hospital discharge

             2. Hypothesis 2b: among patients with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and
                hyperlipidemia, a smart pillbox intervention will improve routinely collected
                measures of disease control

        3. Determine barriers and facilitators of implementation of the intervention

      To achieve these aims, the investigators will conduct a cluster-randomized controlled trial.
      This research design will allow for rigorous measurement of medication safety outcomes while
      minimizing contamination and facilitating education of providers within each practice in the
      access and use of medication adherence reports created by the smart pillbox and available as
      a link within the Epic electronic health record (EHR).

      This is a Pilot and Feasibility Study focused on several areas, most notably Implementation
      and Outcomes, although it also evaluates Use (e.g., differences in use and efficacy among
      in-network providers with access to adherence reports within the EHR and out-of-network
      providers who do not have access), and Measurement (i.e., a measure of real-time medication
      adherence that is automatically created by the HIT intervention). The study will generate new
      knowledge about the benefits of this type of intervention on medication safety and will pave
      the way for future studies to more precisely quantify the benefits on downstream patient
      outcomes.
    
  