
    
      Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare and aggressive extranodal
      Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. Induction treatment of PCNSL in most reported single-arm or randomized
      trials includes high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX)-based therapy, temozolomide, with or without
      cytarabine and the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab. A better combination remains undefined.
      Treatment is associated with considerable morbidity and disease recurrences with a 5-year
      survival of approximately 40%.

      The BTK inhibitor ibrutinib has shown antitumor activity in patients with recurrent or
      refractory PCNSL. However, tumor responses to single-agent ibrutinib in CNS lymphoma are
      often incomplete or transient. Efficacy and safety of ibrutinib in combination with cytotoxic
      agents are worth to be discovered. Grommes et al.have shown ibrutinib in combination with
      methotrexate and rituximab are safe and shows promising activity in recurrent/refractory CNS
      lymphoma. In comparison to their prior study with single-agent ibrutinib, the radiographic
      response of r/r PCNSL was higher with the ibrutinib/HD-MTX/rituximab combination regimen and
      PFS was longer with the combination therapy. The study has shown that ibrutinib combined with
      chemotherapy were superior to ibrutinib single agent and overcome the transient effect of
      ibrutinib in relapsed PCNSL. However, there are some limitations in interpreting Grommes'
      study results, especially the heterogeneous patient population with inclusion of both PCNSL
      and SCNSL. Most recently, the role of rituximab in PCNSL has become clearly. In the HOVON
      105/ALLG NHL 24 study, the addition of rituximab to a methotrexate-based regimen did not
      demonstrate a significant benefit on clinical outcome. We therefore initiate this study aim
      to evaluate the activity and safety of ibrutinib in combination with Methotrexate and
      temozolomide (MIT regimen) in newly diagnosed PCNSL patients.
    
  