
    
      Constipation is often defined as the absence of a bowel movement for 3 consecutive days. The
      incidence of constipation in critically ill patients is estimated to be 50-80%. Constipation
      in the ICU is associated with various undesirable clinical outcomes, including: increased
      rate of infections, prolonged duration of mechanical ventilation, greater hospital length of
      stay, worsening of organ dysfunction, and even higher mortality.

      Typical first-line agents for the management of ICU constipation include stool softeners
      (e.g. docusate) and bowel stimulants (e.g. senna glycol or bisacodyl), and these are often
      used prophylactically in critically ill patients. However, a significant proportion of
      patients require additional therapy to promote laxation , the most common being osmotic
      agents such as propylene glycol or lactulose. Often, multiple doses of osmotic agents over
      several days are required to achieve acceptable laxation rates during critical illness. As
      such, this has prompted the need for targeted therapy to improve constipation in the ICU.

      Among major risk factors for constipation in the ICU are the lack of bowel stimulation via
      nutrition and exposure to high doses of continuous opioids . Indeed, clinical data suggests
      that early enteral nutrition promotes laxation in ICU patients. And recently,
      methylnaltrexone, a peripherally acting μ-opioid receptor antagonist, has shown promising
      results in its ability to reverse opioid-induced constipation. However, methylnaltrexone is
      delivered via subcutaneous injection and its absorption is likely to be variable in
      critically ill patients who often receive aggressive fluid resuscitation and have significant
      peripheral edema. The US Food and Drug Administration recently approved the use of naloxegol,
      a μ-opioid receptor antagonist available in tablet form, for the management of opioid-induced
      constipation in non-cancer chronic pain patients.
    
  