
    
      Clinical question: Is there among patients with functional constipation increased percentage
      of children with Benign Hypermobility Joint Syndrome, compared with a population of healthy
      children? In discussion we would like to determine whether the excessive laxity of connective
      tissue can promote the development of functional constipation in children.

      Description of the study:

        1. Anamnesis and physical examination of the patient

        2. The consent of the parents and the patient (if > 15 years) to participate in the study

        3. Determining whether the patient meets the criteria for inclusion in the study

        4. The exclusion of patients meeting the exclusion criteria for the study - on the basis of
           anamnesis and physical examination (including neurological) and diagnostic tests
           (biochemical and electrolyte TSH -, Na, K, Ca, P, Mg), if indicated

        5. In patients classified to the study, the degree of laxity of the connective tissue will
           be assessed in the basis of modified Beighton scale

        6. In the control group - patients without constipation in an interview - the degree of
           laxity of the connective tissue will be assessed in the basis of modified Beighton scale

        7. Evaluation of the results.

      Rome III Criteria Functional Constipation

      Diagnostic criteria must include one month in children up to 4 years of age and two months in
      older children(with insufficient criteria for diagnosis of IBS) of at least two of the
      following:

        1. Two or fewer defecations per week

        2. At least one episode/week of incontinence after the acquisition of toileting skills

        3. History of excessive stool retention

        4. History of painful or hard bowel movements

        5. Presence of a large fecal mass in the rectum

        6. History of large diameter stools which may obstruct the toilet Accompanying symptoms may
           include irritability, decreased appetite, and/or early satiety. The accompanying
           symptoms disappear immediately following passage of a large stool.

      Modified Beighton scale Hypermobility of joints indicates ≥ 4 points out of 9 possible.

      The Beighton score is measured by adding 1 point for each of the following:

        1. Placing flat hands on the floor with straight legs

        2. Left knee bending backward (>10 °)

        3. Right knee bending backward (>10 °)

        4. Left elbow bending backward (>10 °)

        5. Right elbow bending backward (>10 °)

        6. Left thumb touching the forearm

        7. Right thumb touching the forearm

        8. Left little finger bending backward (>90 °)

        9. Right little finger bending backward (>90 °)
    
  