
    
      Methods The study will be approved by the Internal Review Board and Ethics Committee of the
      Salvatore Maugeri Foundation, Institute of Care and Scientific Research Rehabilitation of
      Tradate and Lumezzane, Italy and Malcantonese Hospital, Castelrotto, Switzerland. The
      procedures will be performed between September 2016 to September 2018.

      Study design A team of experts, (1 pulmonologist, 1 bioengineer, 4 physiotherapists, 1
      psychologist and 1 psychometrist) elaborated the instruments and defined the instructions to
      administer the MaPAct to self-evaluate the physical activity during daily life. This phase
      distinguishes three steps.

      Subjects A total of 195 in-hospital patients (15 in a first step, 50 in a second step and 130
      in the third) with diagnosis of COPD, will be enrolled. Will be excluded from the study all
      the patients that were hospitalized in the 30 days before admission, patients with
      degenerative neuromuscular disease, subjects with motor disabilities limiting ambulation,
      subjects with memory or comprehension problems, with dementia, Parkinson disease, and
      subjects that do not give their consent to the participation to the study. All subjects
      receive a consent informed.

      Step 1 A focus group of 15 patients will be arranged and patients will be asked to fill in
      the preliminary version of the questionnaire and to offer their impression. In this pilot
      step patients will be also asked to discuss on the relevance for the study population and
      comprehensiveness of the items describing them generically as 'clear' or 'unclear',
      "appropriate" or "not appropriate" to themselves (16-17), the aim being to achieve consensus
      for each item. Where items were described as "not appropriate" or "unclear", participants
      should explain their reasons. Some items should be removed at this stage, or reworded if
      necessary. The objective was to include all items judged to be relevant to COPD patients.
      These items will form the Item Set.

      Step 2 The patient-perceived comprehensibility will be tested on a sample of 50 patients.
      Patients will be asked to rank their perceived comprehensibility of the questionnaire on a
      4-point Likert scale, between 0 and 3 (0 =Easy, 1 =Quite easy, 2 = Quite difficult, and 3 =
      Difficult). Some items should be removed at this stage, or reworded if necessary.

      Step 3 The definitive version of MaPAct will be administered to a sample of 130 patients to
      evaluate the psychometric properties of MaPAct.

      A complete Rasch analysis will be performed, along with an evaluation of internal consistency
      and test-retest reliability in a sub-sample of subjects.

      Finally, since skeletal muscle weakness, reduced exercise capacity, slow gait and reduced
      physical activity levels are well-known systemic effects in COPD, in order to estimate MaPAct
      criterion validity with COPD status, the correlations between MaPAct with Global Initiative
      for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) stage (18), hospital admissions or exacerbations
      as defined by the GOLD and symptoms as derived by mMRC and CAT scales will be evaluated.

      Time for completing the MaPAct will be also assessed. In order to provide an estimate of the
      reliability of the MaPAct to describe objective physical activity, in a sub group of 30
      patients a metabolic holter (SenseWear armband - 48 hours) will be used to measure daily
      calories, number of steps and Metabolic Equivalents (METS) that will be correlated with the
      MapAct.

      Timeline On day 1 of the study, all the COPD patients will perform medical evaluation
      (medical history, physical examination and history of COPD exacerbations within 12 month),
      pulmonary function tests, blood gas analysis and MaPAct. On the subsequent day, while 40
      consecutive patients will complete again MaPAct (+ 24 h) for intrarater variability
      determination, all subjects will perform a 6-minute walking test (6MWT) and evaluate
      perceived exertion (CR-10; modified Borg Scale; 19). In all subjects modified Medical
      Research Council- (mMRC Dyspnea Index; 20, 21), and COPD Assessment Test (CAT, 22) will be
      carried on.

      The GOLD spirometric classification will be used to determine the severity of the disease:
      mild COPD, forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) ≥80% predicted; moderate COPD,
      50%≤FEV1<80% predicted; and severe-to-very severe COPD, FEV1<50% predicted.

      Statistical analysis Internal consistency

      The internal consistency of the MaPAct will be assessed by calculating:

        1. Cronbach's coefficient alpha: the closer this is to 1.0 the greater the internal
           consistency of the items in the scale. An alpha of 0.8 is a reasonable goal. Rules of
           thumb are: "Alpha > 0.9 Excellent; > 0.8 Good; > 0.7 Acceptable" (23);

        2. Item-remainder correlation through the Spearman's rank correlation (ρ) coefficient to
           examine the correlations between each item and the sum of the remaining items, omitting
           that item from the total: a Spearman coefficient ρ > 0.40 will be considered as the
           minimum value for satisfactory item-to-total correlation (24).

      Reproducibility Reliability coefficient will be estimated with intraclass correlation
      coefficient (ICC). Expecting to obtain ICC values of about .90, with a 95% confidence
      interval (CI) of .20, at least 32 subjects are required (25).

      Rasch Analysis For Rasch analysis, a sample size of more than 100 persons will estimate item
      difficulty with an alpha of 0.05 within ± 0.5 logits (26).

      The steps of analysis will be as follows:

        1. Rating scale diagnostic. We will investigate whether the rating scale is being used in
           the expected manner. We evaluated the response categories as suggested by Linacre (27).

        2. Validity, assessed by evaluating the goodness of fit of the real data to the modelled
           data, to test if there were items that do not fit the model expectations. We will
           consider mean-square (MnSq) > 0.7 and < 1.3 as an indicator of acceptable fit (28).
           Items outside this range will be considered underacting (MnSq > 1.3, suggesting the
           presence of unexpectedly high variability), or overfitting (MnSq < 0.7, indicating a too
           predictable pattern).

        3. Reliability, evaluated in terms of separation, defined as the ratio of the person (or
           item) "true" standard deviation to the error standard deviation (29). Item separation is
           used to verify the item hierarchy and reflects the number of "strata" of measures that
           are statistically discernible. A separation of 2.0 is considered good and sufficient to
           allow stratification into 3 groups (30). A related index is the reliability of these
           separation indexes, which provides the degree of confidence that can be placed in the
           reproducibility of these estimates; the value of the coefficient varies from 0 to 1
           (values > 0.80 are considered good, and > 0.90 excellent) (31).

        4. Principal component analysis (PCA) on the standardized residuals will be used to
           investigate:

      4.1. The dimensionality of the scale. In this case "unidimensionality" assumes that, after
      the removal of the trait that the scale intended to measure (the "Rasch factor"), the
      residuals will be uncorrelated and normally distributed (i.e. there are no principal
      components). The following criteria will be used to determine whether additional factors are
      likely to be present in the residuals: at least 50% of the variance explained by the Rasch
      factor, eigenvalue of the first contrast smaller than 3, and variance explained by each
      contrast smaller than 5%.

      4.2. The local independence of items. High correlation (> 0.30) of residuals for 2 items
      indicates that they may not be locally independent or that there is a subsidiary dimension in
      the measurement that is not accounted for by the main Rasch dimension (32).

      Criterion validity Spearman's rank correlation (ρ) coefficient will be used to examine the
      correlations between the MaPAct and the COPD status as indicated by GOLD stage, CAT and mMRC
      scores. The effect size for the correlation is expected medium to high (r ~ 0.4). In order to
      detect departure from the hypothesis (i.e. small effect size, r <= .2), the sample size
      required is 130 subjects (alpha = 0.05, beta = 0.8, one sided test).

      Comparison with Objective Physical Activity

      Spearman's rank correlation (ρ) coefficient will be used to examine the correlations between
      the MaPAct and the daily calories, number of steps and METS as measured with the metabolic
      holter:
    
  