
    
      Human feet must bear the entire weight of the body. Feet have fat pads on their plantar
      surface that act as shock absorbers between the skin and bone. However, repetitive mechanical
      stress throughout a person's lifetime leads to gradual atrophy of these fat pads. In addition
      to this age-related degeneration, fat pad atrophy can be caused by other mechanisms such as
      abnormal foot mechanics, steroid use, and collagen vascular disease. Regardless of the cause,
      many patients with plantar fat pad atrophy experience considerable pain and loss of function.

      Previous studies have negatively correlated plantar soft tissue thickness with plantar
      pressure, with the loss of plantar fat being a fundamental mechanism associated with
      pressure-related foot disorders. Increased pressure from fat pad atrophy is commonly managed
      with padded socks, insoles, and shoe modification. However, these extrinsic strategies are
      totally dependent on patient compliance, and devices must be replaced as soon as they begin
      to break down. Another treatment option includes silicone injections into the plantar aspect
      of the foot. In one study, patients receiving silicone treatment experienced increased
      plantar tissue thickness and decreased plantar pressure, but these cushioning properties
      decreased over time and the need for additional booster injections was ultimately suggested.
      Furthermore, silicone has been known to migrate away from the injection site and has been
      found in the inguinal lymph nodes of patients.

      A different strategy that is gaining momentum is autologous fat grafting to the foot. Taking
      a patient's own tissue, often from the abdomen or thigh, and transplanting it to areas of
      plantar fat pad atrophy may reduce pressure in a more natural and permanent manner. Only one
      study to date has been published on autologous fat grafting to the foot, but the patients
      were receiving concurrent surgical procedures with their fat grafting and the results were
      reported subjectively by the patients.

      In this study, the investigators hypothesize that there is a difference in plantar tissue
      thickness, plantar pressure, and pain score in patients diagnosed with plantar fat pad
      atrophy compared to healthy, foot-type matched controls. Results will be measured objectively
      using ultrasound for tissue thickness, optical pedobarograph for plantar pressure, and
      Manchester foot pain and disability index (MFPDI) for pain score. Furthermore, the
      investigators predict that these results will help establish criteria for fad pad atrophy
      diagnosis in the clinic as well as determine which patients would receive greatest benefit
      from fat grafting to the foot.
    
  