
    
      Background

      Intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy (IPTp) with sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) is
      recommended for malaria prevention in HIV-uninfected women but it is contraindicated in those
      HIV-infected on cotrimoxazole prophylaxis (CTXp) due to potential adverse effects. A recent
      trial showed that an effective antimalarial added to CTXp and long-lasting insecticide
      treated nets (LLITNs) in HIV-infected pregnant women improves malaria prevention and maternal
      health. However, the antimalarial used -mefloquine- was not well tolerated and it was
      associated with an increase in HIV viral load at delivery and a two-fold increased risk of
      MTCT-HIV. These findings highlight the need to find alternative drugs with better
      tolerability and safety profile to prevent malaria in this vulnerable group and to further
      study the pharmacological interactions between antimalarials and antiretrovirals (ARVs).

      Dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHA-PPQ), because of its long half-life and good tolerability
      has been shown to improve antimalarial protection in HIV-uninfected pregnant women,
      constituting the most promising candidate for IPTp in HIV-infected pregnant women. However,
      there is limited information on the pharmacokinetics of DHA-PPQ with concomitant use of ARV
      drugs and CTX, particularly in pregnant women.

      Objectives

        1. To evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of DHA-PPQ as IPTp for malaria
           prevention in HIV-infected pregnant women receiving daily CTXp and ARV drugs

        2. To assess the effect of DHA-PPQ as IPTp on mother to child transmission of HIV

        3. To study the effects of DHA-PPQ on the pharmacokinetics of clinically relevant doses of
           ARV drugs used for prevention of MTCT and treatment of HIV infection

        4. To evaluate the effectiveness of CTXp in clearing malaria parasites in HIV-infected
           pregnant women

      Methods

      The trial has been designed as a randomized double blind placebo-controlled superiority trial
      to evaluate the safety and efficacy of DHA-PPQ as IPTp in HIV-infected pregnant women taking
      daily CTXp and ARV drugs. The trial sites are located in Central and South Eastern
      sub-Saharan Africa (Gabon and Mozambique), where HIV prevalence among pregnant women ranges
      from 6 to 29%.

      Based on previous estimations at the study sites and assuming a prevalence of peripheral
      parasitaemia at delivery of 7.5% with CTXp, it is estimated that 298 women per arm will be
      required to detect with 80% power a significant (p<0.05) decrease of 5% or more in the
      prevalence of peripheral parasitaemia in the CTXp+IPTp-DHA-PPQ group. In order to allow for
      10% losses to follow up, it is calculated that 332 women/study arm will need to be recruited
      (total n=664). Furthermore, assuming a 5% MTCT-HIV in the control group, this sample size
      will have an 80% power to detect at the 5% level of significance, 2.2 times difference in the
      risk of MTCT-HIV.

      The trial will have two study arms; HIV-infected pregnant women participating in the trial
      will be randomized to receive either:

        1. Monthly doses of IPTp-DHA-PPQ over three days plus daily ARVs and cotrimoxazole
           prophylaxis

        2. Monthly doses of IPTp-placebo over three days plus daily ARVs and cotrimoxazole
           prophylaxis

      Women will receive ARV therapy according to national guidelines and their infants will be
      followed until one year of age to evaluate the impact of DHA-PPQ on MTCT-HIV.

      Participants will be asked to visit the ANC monthly and to deliver at the study health
      facilities. Adherence to CTX prophylaxis and ARV therapy, as well as use of the LLITNs use
      will be assessed monthly at the scheduled antenatal care (ANC) clinic visits.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK) sub-study The possibility for a PK interaction between DHA-PPQ and ARV
      drugs will be assessed in a sub-sample of participants (n=200).
    
  