
    
      There are many ways that use of a MSU might prove valuable in stroke patients, but we will
      focus on acute ischemic stroke (AIS) and treatment with IV tissue plasminogen activator (tPA)
      within 4.5 hours of symptom onset since that is the most evidence based effective emergency
      treatment for the most prevalent stroke diagnosis. We hypothesize that the MSU pathway will
      result in an overall shift towards earlier evaluation and treatment, particularly into the
      first hour after symptom onset, leading to substantially better outcome. We also hypothesize
      that as a result of improved clinical outcomes resulting from earlier treatment, the costs of
      a MSU program will be offset by a reduction in the costs of long term stroke care and
      increase in quality adjusted life years, thereby supporting more widespread use of this
      technology. To make MSU deployment more practical, we will confirm that a Vascular
      Neurologist (VN) on board the MSU can be replaced by a remote VN connected to the MSU by
      telemedicine (TM) thereby reducing manpower requirements and costs.

      The successful completion of this project will provide data on important outcomes and costs
      associated with the use of MSU vs SM in the United States (U.S.) that will help determine the
      value of integrating MSUs into the pre-hospital environment in this country. Successfully
      addressing our three Specific Aims (time saved/ complications encountered, utility of TM, and
      cost effectiveness) will provide critical information that will be needed to determine if and
      how a subsequent more definitive study should be conducted. We anticipate that emanating from
      this exploratory study would be a larger multicenter trial carried out in both urban and
      rural U.S. pre-hospital environments, with treatment orchestrated via TM, and having
      sufficient power to determine a difference in long term outcome and costs between patients
      managed on the two pathways, following a study design that will be tested in this exploratory
      trial. The present study, therefore, is the necessary first step in a process which may
      dramatically modify the way that acute stroke patients are managed in the U.S.
    
  