
    
      BACKGROUND: No previous research appears to have investigated the role of dopamine (DA) D1 or
      D2 receptors in psychostimulant reinforcement in pathological gamblers. Effects of
      haloperidol vs. placebo will reveal the role of D2 and the effects of fluphenazine vs.
      haloperidol will reveal the role of D1 in this process.

      OBJECTIVE: This study will begin to define the neurochemistry of Pathological Gambling by
      examining the roles of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in gambling reinforcement and
      psychostimulant reinforcement, and exploring genetic predictors of response to DA probes in
      Pathological Gambling subjects (subjects) and healthy controls.

      METHODS: A double-blind, placebo controlled, counterbalanced between-within design will be
      employed. Each participant will attend 4 sessions with a minimum of 1 week between sessions
      to ensure drug washout. Responses to the slot machine will be assessed in sessions 1 and 2
      (Phase I), and responses to amphetamine will be assessed in sessions 3 and 4 (Phase II). A
      second capsule (dummy) will be administered at expected peak levels for each antagonist on
      sessions 1 and 2 to standardize the procedure across sessions.

      Subjective reinforcement self-report scales will be administered at key intervals throughout
      the study.

      HYPOTHESIS: It is hypothesized that haloperidol (3-mg) will increase priming (Desire to
      Gamble, Gambling word salience) and pleasurable effects (e.g., Enjoyment/Liking) induced by
      playing a slot machine in Pathological Gambling subjects (N = 40). If gambling and stimulant
      reinforcement are mediated by common mechanisms, haloperidol will also increase priming and
      pleasurable effects of amphetamine (20-mg) in Pathological Gambling subjects.

      If D1 mediates effects of haloperidol, the mixed D1-D2 antagonist, fluphenazine
      (fluphenazine; 3-mg) will decrease or not alter responses to the slot machine and amphetamine
      in Pathological Gambling subjects. If D2 deficits are linked with gambling pathology,
      haloperidol will not affect slot machine or amphetamine reinforcement in controls (N= 40).

      If D1 deficits are linked with gambling pathology, fluphenazine will increase gambling and
      amphetamine reinforcement in controls, by mitigating undue D1 activation in subjects with
      high baseline D1 function. If D1 or D2 genes contribute to gambling or amphetamine
      reinforcement, genotype will predict responses to the manipulations.
    
  