
    
      A vaccine will be made of tumor protein taken from your plasma (liquid part of the blood) and
      KLH (a protein designed to increase the immune response of the vaccine). By vaccinating your
      brother or sister with protein made from the tumor, researchers hope to increase the
      antitumor effect of the stem cells. KLH is used to help the immune response.

      Study Treatment Schedule:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you and your brother or sister
      will receive a vaccine with KLH. This research involves various steps. In Step 1, a large
      sample of your plasma will be collected through a vein using a blood separator device. This
      plasma will be sent to the MD Anderson GMP lab to prepare the vaccine. It takes about 3
      months to create your myeloma-specific vaccine. It takes about 3 months to prepare enough
      vaccine for the next phases of the study.

      In Step 2, your brother or sister will receive the vaccine with KLH as an injection under the
      skin 8 weeks, 6 weeks, and 2 weeks before collection of his/her lymphocytes (immune fighting
      cells). After each injection, your brother or sister will receive an injection of a
      medication called GM-CSF that helps the body's response to the vaccine. GM-CSF is given under
      the skin near the site of the vaccination every day for 4 days, starting the day of the
      vaccination.

      In Step 3, your brother or sister will have apheresis. During apheresis, their blood is
      passed through a "cell separator" and the lymphocytes (immune fighting cells) are collected.
      A portion of these cells will be given to you on this day. You will get these cells through a
      vein while the remainder is stored and frozen for research and/or use later on if you fail to
      respond to the first infusion.

      In Step 4, you will receive the vaccine with KLH. It will be given under the skin immediately
      after you get the infusion of donor cells, and again 4 and 8 weeks after the lymphocyte
      infusion. After each vaccine, you will receive an injection of a medication called
      sargramostim (GM-CSF) that helps the body's response to the vaccine. GM-CSF is given under
      the skin near the site of the vaccination every day for 4 days, starting the day of the
      vaccination.

      If after 6 months you are not responding to the vaccine, you will be allowed to receive 3
      additional vaccines, as long as you did not develop graft versus host disease or any other
      serious side effects to the first vaccine. The vaccines and follow-up schedule is exactly
      like the first.

      Study Visits:

      Within 10 days before you receive the infusion of your donor's cells and within 72 hours
      before each vaccine injection, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be checked for possible reactions to your treatment, including
           graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Infused donor cells may react against your body.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had since the first vaccine
           injection.

        -  Blood (about 6-12 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney
           and liver function, as well as the status of your immune system. Part of the blood will
           be used to test for CMV, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, HIV, HTLV, syphilis, West Nile virus,
           sickle cell anemia, and Chagas disease. Part of the blood collection will also be used
           for a pregnancy test for females who are able to have children. To continue to receive
           infusions of your donor's cells, the pregnancy test must be negative.

        -  You will have x-rays or bone marrow aspirates and biopsies to assess the response of
           your disease.

      These visits will require 1 day of your time.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      Once a month during Months 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after your last vaccine, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be checked for possible reactions to your treatment, including GVHD.

        -  Blood (about 6-12 teaspoons) will be drawn to check your kidney and liver, function as
           well as the status of your immune system. Part of the blood collection will also be used
           for a pregnancy test for females who are able to have children. To continue to receive
           infusions of your donor's cells, the pregnancy test must be negative.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspiration. It may be repeated more often, if
           your doctor thinks it is needed.

      If you are not able to return to MD Anderson, your study doctor may agree to allow you to
      have these tests and procedures at your local doctor's office. Your local doctor will need to
      send the results to research staff at MD Anderson.

      Once a year, starting 2 years after you receive the last infusion of your donor's cells, you
      will be contacted by phone to check on your health status.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You will be considered off study after 5 years. You will be taken off study at any time if
      lymphocytes cannot be collected, not enough lymphocytes can be collected, your doctor thinks
      it is needed, the recipient is not able to receive the vaccine, the study doctor thinks it is
      in your best interest, you need a treatment that is not allowed while on this study, you are
      unable to keep appointments, or you have intolerable side effects.

      This is an investigational study. The myeloma-specific vaccine is not FDA approved or
      commercially available, and it has been authorized for use in research only. Up to 10
      patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  