
    
      The prognosis of high-risk neuroblastoma (NB) after conventional chemoradiotherapy is very
      poor. Therefore, a strategy using high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell
      transplantation (HDCT/auto-SCT) has been explored to improve the prognosis of patients with
      high-risk NB. The results of randomized trials comparing HDCT/auto-SCT with chemotherapy
      alone showed a better event-free survival (EFS) in the auto-SCT arm than in the continuous
      chemotherapy arm. However, the overall EFS was still unsatisfactory. In this context,
      investigators have examined the efficacy of double or triple tandem auto-SCT to further
      improve the outcome of high-risk NB patients. George et al. carried out a single arm trial of
      tandem auto-SCT as consolidation therapy, and reported improved long-term survival (5-year
      progression-free survival 47%) with acceptable toxicity. Kletzel et al. also conducted a
      single arm trial of triple tandem auto-SCT and reported improved survival (3-year EFS 57%).
      Investigators in the present study also carried out tandem auto-SCT as consolidation therapy,
      and reported improved long-term survival (5-year progression-free survival 62%) with
      acceptable toxicity. However, unfortunately, tumor relapses in many patients even after
      tandem auto-SCT.

      The major cause of treatment failure following auto-SCT remains relapse of the underlying
      disease. Additional chemotherapy after relapse in these patients have been ineffective, and
      therefore, new treatment strategies are warranted. In this context, allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation (allo-SCT) has been tried as salvage treatment in patients with NB who have
      failed a prior auto-SCT. Allo-SCT would theoretically be preferable in term of relapse-free
      survival because this has an antitumor effect due to a graft versus tumor (GVT) effect which
      is absent in auto-SCT. The graft versus leukemia (GVL) effect represents a widely accepted
      major component of allo-SCT, and there is emerging evidence also for a GVT effect in solid
      tumor. GVT effect was also demonstrated in patient with advanced NB who received HLA
      haplo-identical allo-SCT.

      Generally, allo-SCT carries a lower risk of relapse, However, it has a much higher early
      treatment-related mortality (TRM) compared to auto-SCT. TRM rate in allo-SCT is especially
      high in patients who have failed a prior auto-SCT. The 1-year TRM rate following a
      conventional (ie myeloablative) allo-SCT in adult recipients of a prior auto-SCT has been
      reported as high as 50-85%. In children, transplantation-related toxicity was also one of the
      major obstacles in conventional allo-SCT because they had been already heavily treated prior
      to allo-SCT. Therefore, this salvage strategy has showed a limited success in the majority of
      children with relapsed NB who have failed a prior single or tandem auto-SCT, although
      allo-SCT is supposed to be the only curative treatment in patients. Only a small proportion
      of these patients have the opportunity to successfully undergo this treatment.

      In recent years, several groups of investigators have developed non-myeloablative
      reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen, which lead to engraftment of donor lymphoid and
      hematopoietic stem cells without the extra-hematopoietic toxicities of traditional
      myeloablative transplantations while conserving the GVL or GVT effect after transplantation.
      This reduced toxicity may make these RIC regimens especially suitable for patients with
      high-risk of TRM, in particular recipients of second or third transplantation.
    
  