
    
      Stroke Self-Management: Effect on Function and Stroke Quality of Life Anticipated Impacts on
      Participant's Healthcare: This planned evaluation of the investigators' stroke
      self-management program may improve the patient's healthcare by establishing an
      evidence-based program for which VA case managers may implement to improve patient
      self-management and the health-related quality of life of stroke survivors. This program
      produced standardized manuals for case managers and stroke survivors that may be used in the
      field, in the patient medical care home and via telehealth.

      Project Background: Stroke is prevalent and associated with increased morbidity and
      mortality. Stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability in the US. Within the VA,
      approximately 60,000 patients had a primary outpatient encounter for stroke during fiscal
      year 2010 (FY10). Data from the Office of Quality and Performance (OQP) Stroke Special Study
      demonstrate that more than 5,000 Veterans were admitted to a VA facility for acute ischemic
      stroke in FY07 and another 5000 Veterans with a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or
      mini-stroke, were admitted in a VA facility or received care at an urgent clinic or emergency
      department in VA. The total VA cost of stroke treatment was almost $315 million in FY05, with
      a cost per patient of over $18,000. Stroke/TIA survivors are at elevated risk for future
      vascular events and yet, there are no systematic post stroke programs offered widely in VA
      designed to reduce this risk and increase stroke specific quality of life in Veterans. The
      investigators recently developed and pilot tested a stroke self-management program that
      adapted the Stanford Chronic Disease program for stroke.

      Project Objectives: The objectives of this project were to: 1. Conduct a randomized trial
      comparing stroke survivors randomly assigned to receive a stroke self-management program on
      patient functioning, stroke self-management, and stroke specific quality of life compared to
      stroke survivors assigned to usual care; and 2. Conduct a summative evaluation among VA
      clinical providers, patients with stroke and their caregivers to understand the barriers and
      facilitators of implementing the stroke self-management program.

      Project Methods: To accomplish these aims, the investigators employed mixed methods. For the
      first aim, the investigators conducted a randomized controlled trial comparing subjects
      randomly assigned to the stroke self-management intervention to subjects randomly assigned to
      usual care. Subjects from both groups were assessed at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months. We
      delivered the stroke self-management program over 6 months (12 weeks biweekly sessions
      followed by 12 weeks of bimonthly telephone and group support sessions). Usual care
      participants received written stroke risk factor materials. The primary outcomes were stroke
      specific quality of life and the secondary outcomes were stroke self-management,
      self-efficacy, functioning, and post stroke depression. We are evaluating clinical risk
      factor management after stroke.
    
  