
    
      The randomization ratio is 1:1:1:1 for vaccine: vedolizumab: combination: placebo in one of 3
      schedules.

      The study contains a phase I component in order to evaluate the local and systemic
      reactogenicity following the first administration of products in the first 12 participants.
      The phase I will consist of a slow enrolment of the first 12 participants who will be
      randomised at a maximum rate of 1 per week for 4 weeks, then 2 per week for 4 weeks before
      increasing to 4 or more per week. The IDMC will review of cumulative adverse event data
      through to and including the first safety visit in the 12th participant and their
      recommendation will be sought with regard to expanding recruitment.

      The phase II component will assess the effectiveness and safety of the three experimental
      strategies upon viral control following analytic treatment interruption (ATI). The phase II
      component is divided into two stages, an interim efficacy stage and a final efficacy stage.
      There will be a pause in enrolment after 88 participants have been enrolled. A planned
      interim review by the IDMC at the end of the first stage will provide an opportunity to
      modify the design of subsequent stages or the recruitment strategy.

      Screening will take place during the 6 weeks prior to randomisation. Eligible participants
      will be enrolled at week 0 and randomised to vaccine, vedolizumab, the combination of vaccine
      and vedolizumab or matched placebos. Participants and study staff will be aware of the
      schedule the participant is randomised to, with a third allocated to injections, a third to
      infusions and a third to the combination of injections and infusions. Only staff authorised
      to prepare the products will know who is randomised to active product or placebo within each
      schedule in a ratio of 3:1 respectively.

      The vaccine regimen will start at week 0 and the vedolizumab regimen at week 2, each with
      matched placebo.

      Participants will continue on cART during the first 24 weeks covering the vaccination period
      and 5 of 6 vedolizumab/placebo infusions.

      Treatment will then be interrupted and resumed when the viral load is confirmed to have
      rebounded to ≥10,000 copies/ml, or the CD4 falls to ≤350 cells/mm3, or there is evidence of
      disease progression, or they have completed 24 weeks of treatment interruption.
    
  