
    
      It is generally accepted that transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can induce
      change in cortical excitability and thus modulate brain plasticity in human brain. tDCS has
      been used in neurorehabilitation to benefit ischemic stroke patients at different stage of
      stroke especially subacute or chronic phase with positive and safety reports. While, in acute
      phase, there is few evidences regarding to the effect of tDCS.

      After unilateral stroke, the excitability of affected hemisphere is decreased, an increase in
      the excitability of unaffected hemisphere and an abnormally high interhemispheric inhibition
      (IHI) drive from intact to lesioned hemisphere have been demonstrated. Prevent the abnormal
      IHI and thus increase the excitability of the affected hemisphere in the early phase would be
      a beneficial for stroke rehabilitation.

      Based on the polarity-specific effects, anodal tDCS increases cortical excitability and
      cathodal tDCS decreases cortical excitability. Dual-tDCS is a technique applying two
      electrodes over both cerebral hemispheres at the same time) to i) restore excitability in the
      ipsilesional hemisphere: anode over the ipsilesional hemisphere ii) to down regulate
      excitability of the contralesional hemisphere and rebalance IHI.

      The mechanism underlying cortical excitability changes after tDCS is still elusive. However,
      one of possible mechanism indicating a change in cortical activity is the subsequent
      variation in hemodynamic response. Different methods have been developed for cerebral
      hemodynamic evaluations i.e. cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV). Transcranial color-coded
      duplex ultrasonography (TCCD) has been used to measure CBFV through the major intracranial
      vessels through relatively thin bone windows. It is a non-invasive, relatively inexpensive,
      safe and portable allowing bedside monitoring of CBFV that is convenience in the intensive
      care setting.

      The aim of the present study is to investigate hemodynamic response and motor performance
      following dual-tDCS 5-sessions over the primary motor cortex (M1) since 5 consecutive days
      for tDCS appeared to be safe to use in acute stroke and has been shown to induce motor
      recovery in other phases of stroke The hypothesis of the present study is that dual-tDCS
      applied before conventional physical therapy, would induce better motor performance and
      induce changes in CBFV at immediate after of 5-sessions and at follow up at 1 month compared
      to sham.
    
  