
    
      Breast cancer is classified as pregnancy-associated if it is diagnosed during pregnancy or
      within one year of delivery . About 3% of all breast cancers are diagnosed during pregnancy .
      The average age at diagnosis for patients with PABC is 32-38 years .A painless mass is
      palpated by the patient in 90% of reported cases .The incidence of breast cancer is the same
      in pregnant women as nonpregnant women in the general population.

      Breast cancer is the most common malignancy affecting women world wide. More than one million
      cases diagnosed annually. One in ten of all new cancers diagnosed worldwide each year is a
      cancer of the female breast, and it is the most common cancer in women in both developing and
      developed areas. It is also the principal cause of death from cancer among women globally.
      Similar applied to Saudi Arabia. More over, cancer registry suggested an increase in
      incidence over the years with median age of 67 years old. The same applied for other Arab
      regions. Recently, women in Arab regions postpone their first pregnancy which may increase
      the risk for pregnancy associated breast cancer.

      The physiologic changes that take place in the breast during pregnancy can contribute to a
      delay in the diagnosis of PABC. In preparation for lactation, a women's breast size will
      nearly double in size and weight. The influence of estrogen and progesterone cause an
      increase in blood flow and fat, resulting in an increase in the size of milk-producing
      glands. Some women may begin to leak colostrum by 25 weeks gestation. Irritation of the
      breast ducts caused by rapid tissue growth may cause a bloody discharge, which usually is a
      benign condition. The areola also may increase in size and become darker in color. In
      addition, Montgomery tubercles, small nodules surrounding the areola, will produce a fluid to
      lubricate and cleanse the nipple in preparation for nursing.

      Breast cancer associated with pregnancy presents to the clinician with particular challenges
      at diagnosis and management level. The diagnosis may be delayed and difficult owing to the
      physiological changes within the breast and limitations on investigations. Moreover once a
      diagnosis has been confirmed and staging completed, options for treatment will be influenced
      by the need to give optimal treatment to the mother whilst minimizing risks to the fetus. The
      particular challenges faced both in the initial diagnosis and management of women with
      pregnancy-associated breast cancer will be assessed in this study.

      Recent studies suggest that, when matched for age and stage, the prognosis of
      pregnancy-associated breast cancer is comparable to non-pregnancy-associated breast cancer.
      However, the risk for breast cancer recurrence associated with subsequent pregnancies in this
      population is not clear. Although there is data showing no increase in the risk of recurrence
      for women who become pregnant after breast cancer treatment, pregnancy-associated breast
      cancer may be a distinct clinical category where subsequent pregnancies after treatment may
      confer an increased risk of recurrent disease9.

      There is a lack of controlled data concerning the management of pregnancy-associated breast
      cancer, both locally and globally.

      Investigators plan in this study to assess and document the clinical presentation, diagnosis,
      treatment, prognostic factors, and routine clinical management of pregnant ladies diagnosed
      with breast cancer in Saudi Arabia. Data base through data collection on all information
      related to breast cancer patients with pregnancy will be performed across detailed interview
      and chart review at all specialized clinic in the National Guard. All patients seen within
      the coming 5 years will be enrolled in this study.

      Investigators are interested to explore the clinical and pathological characteristics of
      breast cancer with pregnancy, maternal age at the time of diagnosis of breast cancer during
      pregnancy, median gestational age at diagnosis, the level of the tumor differentiation
      patients present with, during pregnancy, and the hormonal-receptor status. Investigators plan
      to collect prospective quality research databases that could provide further important
      information concerning this condition and serve in both short- and long-term sequelae in
      mother and fetus.
    
  