
    
      Purpose:

      The purpose of this pilot study is to demonstrate that controlled delivery of remifentanil
      and propofol is clinically feasible and to collect a sample of clinical data to optimise the
      control functions. That is,

      to demonstrate that the iControl remifentanil-propofol control system (iControl-RP) can be
      used to provide safe and effective administration of anesthesia (while maintaining the
      requirement for intervention by the anaesthesiologist when necessary) to collect a sample of
      clinical data that will allow the ECEM engineers to optimise the parameters of the
      iControl-RP control system

      Justification:

      Closed-loop control provides an opportunity to deliver anesthetic drugs at variable rate that
      is personalized to the individual patient. This suggests that it may provide greater
      hemodynamic and respiratory stability, more stable depth of anesthesia, the ability to
      predict recovery and to administer a lower total dose of drug.

      Much development work is still required to mesh closed-loop control technology with
      anesthetic practice. The results of this initial study will feed into a subsequent larger
      study wherein the clinical, operational and economic benefits of closed-loop control of
      anesthesia will be submitted to a controlled trial.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this pilot study is to demonstrate the feasibility of closed-loop
      control of the delivery of both propofol and remifentanil using DOH feedback from the
      NeuroSENSE and show that it is a safe and effective mechanism for the administration of
      anesthesia and analgesia in adult patients undergoing routine elective surgical procedures.
      The secondary objective of this pilot study is to collect a sample of clinical data to
      optimise the tuning parameters for this system.

      Research Method:

      A pilot two-phase study will be undertaken in a group of adult patients under the direct and
      immediate supervision of an experienced anesthesiologist:

      Phase 1: tuning controller parameters Propofol infusion will be closed-loop controlled;
      remifentanil will run as a target-controlled infusion (TCI); this system is comparable to the
      system evaluated in adult patients at the Hôpital Foch, Franc. The goal of this phase is to
      collect data to validate the mid-ranging controller design, which is based on
      population-based PKPD models.

      Phase 2: evaluating controller performance The mid-ranging control system will be evaluated;
      both propofol and remifentanil infusion rates will be closed-loop controlled.

      In both phases, cases will be selected from among patients who would be receiving propofol
      and remifentanil as the anesthetic agents for the planned procedure.

      Research procedures will be similar in the two study phases. The anesthesiologist will
      closely monitor the patient as per routine practice and have the ability, at any time, to
      modify the anesthetic/analgesic drugs being administered. That is, he/she will be able to
      adjust the target DOH effect; adjust the target effect site concentration for remifentanil;
      immediately switch to manual control of either infusion; administer a bolus dose or
      immediately stop the infusion of either drug.

      Investigational device iControl-RP has been developed for this study by the ECEM group at UBC
      headed by Prof. Dumont. iControl-RP is a control system developed for automatic closed-loop
      drug delivery in anesthesia. In this study remifentanil will be used as the fast actuator
      (control of analgesia) and propofol will be use as the slow actuator (control of hypnosis).
      Remifentanil is used to counteract disturbances in the measured DOH related to insufficient
      analgesia and propofol is used to maintain a stable baseline DOH. iControl-RP is connected to
      the NeuroSENSE, 2 infusion pumps for separately-controlled propofol and remifentanil
      administration, and the operating room (OR) patient monitor. It has a user interface, which
      displays the WAVCNS, infusion rates and effect site concentrations for both propofol and
      remifentanil. The user interface allows the anesthesiologist to set the target WAVCNS, to
      switch between modes of operation (manual, TCI, closed-loop) and set manual infusion rates or
      target effect-site concentrations for either drug, as required.

      The system has been extensively tested in the laboratory for usability, reliability and
      repeatability. The vital signs collected from the OR patient monitor provide information for
      safety alerts.

      Health Canada Investigational approval is being sought and will be received before
      commencement of study.

      How the system works iControl-RP controls the infusion rates of a propofol infusion pump
      (Alaris TIVA) and a remifentanil infusion pump (Graseby 3400). The system allows either drug
      infusion to be operated in any of 3 modes: closed-loop control, which relies on WAVCNS
      feedback from the NeuroSENSE; TCI, which is based on PKPD models; and manual, which requires
      a weight-based dose setting (.e.g in mcg/kg/min).
    
  