
    
      Research Objectives

      In order to foster and cultivate aspiration and promote resilience in Singapore, stories of
      life and strength should be discovered and embraced. Through the reflective and expressive
      strength of arts, this proposed pilot study - Project ARTISAN: fostering Aspiration &
      Resilience Through Intergenerational Storytelling & Art-based Narratives - aspires to empower
      both seniors and youths through intergenerational storytelling and art making to achieve the
      following objectives:

        1. Empowerment: This research will develop and evaluate a novel, cultural-specific ARTISAN
           intergenerational arts programme with the aim to enhance youths' and seniors' sense life
           meaning, resilience and wellbeing, leading to greater social cohesion and national
           identity.

        2. Engagement: In the ARTISAN exhibition that showcases the creations generated from the
           study, the investigators aim to engage families and friends of study participants, as
           well as members of the public in gaining a renewed understanding towards Singaporean
           youths and seniors.

        3. Social change: Through the development of ARTISAN, the investigators aim to create a
           platform for intergeneration interaction and knowledge exchange, encouraging the
           cultivation of positive public social dialogue and change.

        4. Sustainability: Findings generated from this study will serve as the empirical
           foundation for a future Population Health study that aspires toward large-scale
           implementation of Project ARTISAN in greater community, which can in turn benefit more
           participants from different walks of life.

      Methodology

      This pilot study adopts a Participatory Action Research (PAR) approach to develop a novel
      ARTISAN intergenerational arts programme that aims to promote life meaning, resilience and
      wellbeing, as well as to enhance social support and national identity, among the older and
      younger generations Singapore. Utilizing a wait-list Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT)
      design, pre, post, and follow-up data will be collected and analysis to evaluate programme
      effectiveness in achieving the stated objectives. Finally, a feasibility assessment will be
      carried out to investigate programme acceptability and suitability for local population.
      Ethical approval will be obtained from Nanyang Technological University's Institutional
      Review Board. Informed consent will also be sought from the participants to ensure
      confidentiality, beneficence and non-maleficence.

      Sampling. Two groups of research participants will be involved in this study: (a) 30
      community dwelling seniors aged 60 and above; and (b) 30 youths aged 18 - 35.

      Procedures. Participants from each age group will be paired up to form one-to-one
      senior-youth dyads that will remain intact for the full project duration upon successful
      recruitment and informed consent, each dyads will then be randomized into 4 groups comprising
      7-8 dyads each, with 2 intervention groups and 2 wait-list control group. Wellbeing and
      self-concept assessments will be conducted for all groups at baseline (T1), thereafter the
      intervention groups will undergo a 5-weeks 15-hour ARTISAN intergenerational arts programme
      that integrates curated museum visits, facilitated storytelling, creative art-making, and
      reflective writing for exploring and sharing life narratives on heritage, adversity,
      strengths and unity, with the aim to foster aspirations, resilience, wellbeing and social
      cohesion. Upon completion of programme among the intervention group, all 4 groups will be
      assessed again (T2), and thereafter, the wait-listed controlled group will received the same
      5-week 15-hour programme. At the end of all intervention components, a final exit assessment
      will be conducted on all groups (T3). A public art exhibition will also be held at the end of
      the programme to reach out to friends and relatives of the participants, as well as the
      members of the public. If possible, the art pieces will be permanently showcased within the
      community. During the art exhibition, exhibition viewers will be encouraged to respond and
      reflect upon the artworks.

      To assess the implementation and delivery of the ARTISAN intergenerational arts programme in
      community settings, time needed to organize and conduct the intervention sessions, deviations
      from the intervention protocol and uncompleted interventions and the reasons; as well as the
      programme leaders' perceptions of competence as a result of training, will be recorded.
      Programme leaders will also record their experiences of delivering the intervention, their
      observations of participants' responses during and after the intervention, as well as any
      difficult or deviant cases. Finally, a randomly selected 24 study participants will be
      invited to participate in 4 feasibility focus groups after completion of the pilot study (2
      groups for 12 seniors and 2 groups for 12 youths). The purpose of these focus groups is to
      explore and elicit the lived experiences of participants going through Project ARTISAN,
      allowing space for them to share their thoughts, feelings and personal meaning and benefits
      of the programme, as well as to elicit their views on the inner workings of the programme so
      as to offer feedbacks for programme enhancement. All focus group sessions will be recorded,
      transcribed verbatim and analyzed using thematic framework analysis.

      Significance and Uniqueness of Research

      Project ARTISAN utilizes the methods of participatory action research in identifying the
      needs, raising the voices, and illuminating the lives of both seniors and youths in Singapore
      who are increasingly faced with the challenges of social isolation and decreasing mental
      health. Through an unique integrative approach that examines the interplay between curated
      art space, art content and art facilitation, it further aspires to develop a structured
      intervention protocol for enhancing participants' aspirations, resilience, personhood and
      nationhood, one that can be adopted and implemented widely across all art, education, health
      and social care settings in the local context. In sum, this first-of-its-kind study fills a
      critical gap in knowledge and practice between the intersection of arts, health and culture,
      while fostering community engagement for enhancing societal wellbeing and social cohesion.
    
  