
    
      The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to assess the efficacy of a brief version
      of webSTAIR (BPS webSTAIR) supported by peers compared to a waitlist condition (WL). Brief
      peer supported (BPS) webSTAIR is a 6-modulen web-based transdiagnostic program that provides
      skills training in emotion regulation; participants in this condition will be able to contact
      a Veteran peer trained in the program to obtain general support plus guidance about program
      use and application of skills.

      An 11-module version of webSTAIR with therapist coaching (Ortigo & Cloitre, 2018) has
      provided pilot data that the program is effective in reducing symptoms of posttraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD) and depression as well as improving emotion regulation and work and
      social adjustment. Pilot data indicate that initial gains are made in the first 6 sessions.
      In addition, qualitative interviews with Veterans who have completed the program indicate
      high satisfaction with these modules. This study will assess whether a shorter version of the
      treatment (6 rather than 11 modules) and with peer rather than professional coaching will be
      effective compared to a waitlist condition. The BPS webSTAIR program was developed with the
      aim of providing a treatment for trauma-related symptoms that is effective, brief, engaging
      and likely to be completed by the user. The reduction of the number of modules creates a
      briefer treatment than the investigators current web-based program. In addition, data
      indicated that integrating Veteran peers into mental health programs leads to better
      engagement and greater retention (Koenig et al., 2016), providing the rationale for including
      Veteran peers rather than therapists (e.g., psychologists, social workers). Given the absence
      of findings that a brief, peer-supported version of webSTAIR provides improvement in the
      above symptoms, the research team followed recommendations for the development and testing of
      psychotherapies and used a waitlist control as an initial test of efficacy.

      The aim is to establish the efficacy of BPS webSTAIR in improving symptoms of PTSD and
      depression, emotion regulation problems and work and social adjustment compared to a Waitlist
      Control.

      Hypothesis 1a: Compared to WL, BPS webSTAIR will provide greater improvement in PTSD symptoms
      as measured by the PCL5 (primary outcome) and depression as measured by the PHQ-8 (secondary
      outcome). Assessments will be made at pre-treatment, post-treatment, and 8-week follow-up for
      webSTAIR participants and pre and post-treatment (or 10 weeks from randomization) for WL.

      Hypothesis 1b: Compared to WL, BPS webSTAIR will provide greater improvement in emotion
      regulation as measured by the DERS-16 and overall functioning as measured by the work and
      social adjustment scale (WSAS) (secondary outcomes). Assessments will be made at
      pre-treatment, post-treatment and 8-week follow-up for webSTAIR participants and pre and
      post-treatment (or 10 weeks after randomization) for WL.

      It is anticipated by the researchers that Veterans and other individuals with symptoms of
      PTSD and depression could potentially benefit in several ways by participating in this study.
      These benefits may include reduced symptoms of depression and PTSD and improved emotion
      regulation and work and social adjustment.

      This is a two-condition randomized controlled trial comparing BPS webSTAIR to WL.
      Participants will be enrolled in a 2:1 ratio (BPS webSTAIR vs. WL). Participants will be
      recruited from among users of the Vets Prevail website. A special effort will be made to
      enroll women Veterans via relevant ads on Facebook and other social media. Vets Prevail is
      responsible for enrolling 300 Veterans (200 into webSTAIR, 100 into WL). As noted in the
      study contract, enrollment is defined as the number of participants who have been accepted
      into the study and randomized into a treatment condition. Vets Prevail is responsible for
      recruiting and screening veterans and alerting NCPTSD RA to make phone contact with Veteran
      at all relevant assessment periods (baseline, post-tx and follow-up). The NCPTSD RA will
      facilitate completion of verbal informed consent, describe program including goal of
      completing program in 10 weeks answer questions about the study and motivate engagement in
      the program. The NCPTSD RA will then read through the baseline questions and document the
      answers. The RA will also inquire about veteran's interest in doing an extra phone interview
      (CAPS-5) and complete it on the phone during the same call if they are interested. At the end
      of the call, the RA will recommend to the Veteran that they enter the Welcome Module and
      provide guidance to them at that time if they are ready to begin program.

      In regards to the interview, every quarter, every other participant will be provided with an
      option to participate in the CAPS-5 until 8 individuals have agreed to the assessment that
      quarter. The total number of CAPS-5 collected is expected to be 32 or approximately 10% of
      study participants.

      Individuals accepted into the study will either be provided with access to BPS webSTAIR or
      placed on waitlist. Participants in BPS webSTAIR will complete a posttreatment assessment and
      2-month follow-up. Participants in the WL condition will complete a second assessment at 10th
      week, conclude their involvement in the study and be offered the Vets Prevail coping program.

      In the BPS webSTAIR condition, participants will first complete a welcome module to orient
      them to the program. After randomization, participants will have 10 weeks to complete the 6
      modules. Every time the Veteran logs on they will have the opportunity to engage with a
      Veteran peer for support through the web program. Contacts can last for up to an hour.
      Veterans will receive a series of automated reminders and engagement emails that the Vets
      Prevail program sends at various points in the program.

      The equivalence of the treatment conditions on baseline variables demographics and
      psychological variables) will be assessed and controlled (if necessary) in the final
      analyses. Other preliminary analyses will include examination of distributional properties of
      the measures. Transformations will be used to improve distributions when necessary. Missing
      data patterns (from missed assessments and from dropout) will be examined and compared
      between conditions. Mixed Effects Models (MEMs) will be used to evaluate differences between
      the two treatments over time with time as a main effect and treatment-by-time as an
      interaction term. Participants will be random.
    
  