
    
      RATIONALE. HIV infection results in alterations to the intestinal tract, even in clinically
      healthy patients. Changes may include pronounced CD4 T-cell loss, enteric nerve and smooth
      muscle degeneration, abnormal enterocyte morphology, altered gene expression patterns,
      increased intestinal permeability, and decreased absorptive capacity. Recently it was found
      that HIV infection may also result in abnormal low-level leakage of lipopolysaccharide (LPS,
      a gram-negative bacterial product) from the gut into the circulation which promotes systemic
      immune activation. As immune activation is a strong positive correlate of HIV disease
      progression, it may be very important to develop effective means to improve intestinal
      barrier function in HIV infection. Evidence also exists that uninfected individuals of
      African descent may have higher intestinal permeability than uninfected Caucasians,
      suggesting that intestinal dysfunction in the event of HIV infection could differ between the
      two races. With regard to gender, women have been shown to display more pronounced
      inflammatory responses to LPS compared to men. Intriguing research outside the HIV field
      using animal models of compromised gut barrier function and also using human subjects with
      trauma- or disease-associated intestinal leakage has shown that oral administration of
      certain probiotic bacteria can 1) Reduce bacterial translocation, 2) Reduce bacterial
      infections, 3) Decrease inflammatory cytokines, and 4) Improve survival. Thus, probiotics
      could offer important benefits to HIV infected patients by improving intestinal function and
      reducing subsequent microbial translocation and immune activation. These benefits may vary by
      race.

      OBJECTIVE. To determine the effect of an oral synbiotic supplement (Synbiotic 2000) on plasma
      LPS levels, systemic immune activation, and blood CD4 count in HIV infected women.

      HYPOTHESIS. Oral treatment of HIV+ patients with this synbiotic supplement will improve
      intestinal barrier function, decrease the translocation of LPS into the circulation, and
      result in reduced systemic immune activation and improved CD4 count.

      EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN. 30 HIV+ female subjects will be randomized to test supplement or placebo
      and undergo a baseline blood draw to establish initial values for plasma LPS, immune
      activation markers, and blood CD4 count. Following daily ingestion of the test supplement or
      placebo for 4 weeks, subjects will undergo a second blood draw for measurement of the same
      factors. Subjects will also provide a stool specimen at the beginning and end of the 4 week
      period.
    
  