
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Upper tract urothelial carcinomas (UTUC) are relatively uncommon compared to bladder cancer
      and account for only 5-10% of urothelial carcinomas, with an estimated annual incidence in
      Western countries of ~2 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. In 17% of cases, concurrent bladder
      cancer is present. Recurrence in the bladder after management of UTUC occurs in 22-47% of
      UTUC patients, compared with 2-6% in the contralateral upper tract. At our institution, we
      reported that 30.8% of UTUC patients developed intravesical recurrence, which was in line
      with the global trend.

      Generally speaking, the field cancerization hypothesis and intraluminal seeding are currently
      the two main concepts to explain multifocality of urothelial cancer and the recurrent bladder
      tumor. Independent multiclonal tumor development after carcinogenic exposure of the entire
      urothelial and intraluminal implantation followed by clonally induced single progenitor cell
      evolution are the mechanisms suggested. While the two mechanisms could co-exist, the
      intraluminal seeding hypothesis is becoming more prevalent with the emergence of more
      evidence from molecular studies. Thus postoperative intravesical chemotherapy could
      potentially remove the implantation cell and prevent recurrence. While intravesical
      instillation is widely used to prevent recurrence after transurethral resection for primary
      bladder tumors, there is still no consensus on the prophylactic capability of intravesical
      chemotherapy in preventing bladder recurrence after nephroureterctomy for UTUC. According to
      a previous prospective, multicentre, randomised clinical trial, a single postoperative dose
      of intravesical mitomycin C appears to reduce the risk of a bladder tumour within the first
      year following nephroureterectomy for UTUCs.

      AIM OF THE WORK This clinical trial is designed to evaluate the efficacy of single immediate
      intravesical chemotherapy instillation in the prevention of bladder recurrence after
      nephroureterectomy for UTUCs.
    
  