
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS Smoking remains the leading cause of preventable death in the U.S. Current
      first line treatments leave approximately 70% of tobacco dependent individuals unsuccessful
      in their attempt to quit. Specifically, only 5-30% of those who initiate treatment, including
      intensive first-line interventions, are able to maintain abstinence for one or more years.
      The inability to quit despite motivation to do so is thought to result, in part, from
      self-control failure and can be understood within the framework of dual process models of
      addiction. Dual process models view vulnerability to tobacco dependence as the relative
      balance between automatic impulses and control processes orchestrated through the interplay
      of multiple executive function. Working memory (WM) is an executive function associated with
      updating information to solve immediate problems, and achieve current goals. WM is a key
      cognitive process underlying the regulatory control component of dual process models and is
      involved in the initiation, maintenance, and relapse stages of tobacco dependence. Most
      notably, deficits in WM performance and activation in associated brain regions predict time
      to relapse and strong WM has been shown to reduce the effect of craving on the ability to
      resist smoking. Given this relationship, individuals with tobacco dependence are likely to
      benefit from interventions that strengthen WM. Recently, several studies have demonstrated
      that increasing WM capacity through WM training (WMT) is associated with positive outcomes in
      several populations with substance use or impulse control disorders. Specifically, studies
      have demonstrated that WMT is associated with decreased: delay discounting in substance
      users, weight re-gain after a weight loss program, and alcohol use in heavy drinkers.

      A second emerging innovation in the treatment of addictions is repetitive Transcranial
      Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS), a procedure which sends magnetic pulses through the scalp to
      stimulate neuronal tissue resulting in observed changes in neuronal plasticity and striatal
      dopamine. rTMS has now demonstrated positive effects in several substance use disorders
      including nicotine, alcohol, and stimulant dependence. This procedure has been shown to be
      effective in reducing smoking urges in abstinent as well as satiated smokers and to reduce
      cigarette consumption. While promising results for this treatment have been demonstrated, the
      size and durability of the therapeutic effect may be limited. Additionally, the mechanism by
      which rTMS exerts positive effects on smoking outcomes is unknown. Recently it has been
      posited that changes in WM performance resulting from rTMS may be the key pathway to its
      observed effects on smoking related outcomes, and furthermore that WMT administered in close
      temporal precedence to rTMS may result in an additive or supra-additive effect in treating
      addictive processes. However, these hypotheses have not been tested to date despite their
      importance for understanding and improving the clinical impact of these emerging therapeutic
      modalities for treating addictive behaviors. Interventions with the ability to effectively
      target self-control processes fill in a critical gap in currently available treatment
      options.

      The primary objective of the proposed study is to evaluate the potential for improved effects
      and examine mediating pathways of WMT in combination with rTMS on a laboratory based smoking
      task and neuropsychological measures of WM performance. These aims will be examined in a
      sample of tobacco dependent adults (N=130) utilizing a 2x2 factorial design including four
      groups (WMT+rTMS, sham WMT+rTMS, WMT+sham TMS, and sham WMT+sham rTMS) capable of isolating
      independent and combined effects of WMT and rTMS. The study will include a baseline
      laboratory assessment, 10 WMT sessions over two weeks, followed by 10 days of WMT immediately
      preceding and following brain stimulation sessions (10 Hz rTMS, 2000 pulses per session,
      applied to left DLPFC). Neurocognitive and psychological mediators will be assessed between
      baseline and final laboratory assessment. Lastly, a follow-up assessment will occur one-month
      after the final laboratory visit. The proposed study will test the following Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To test the potential for improved effects of combining WMT with rTMS on smoking
      behaviors as compared to the independent effects of either condition alone. Hypothesis:
      Single active conditions (WMT+sham rTMS and sham WMT+rTMS) will result in significant
      increases in time to lapse on an analogue task as compared to the double sham condition (sham
      WMT+sham rTMS), and the WMT+rTMS condition will result in significant increases in time to
      lapse as compared to the single active conditions.

      Aim 2: To test the potential for improved effects of combining WMT with rTMS on WM
      performance.

      Hypothesis: WMT + rTMS will result in significant increases in WM performance as compared to
      all other conditions, including the additive increases in conditions outlined in Aim 1.

      Aim 3: To test mediating pathways of the effects rTMS on smoking behaviors including changes
      in craving, mood, and WM performance. Hypothesis: The direct effect of rTMS on smoking
      outcomes will be mediated by gains in WM performance, and this effect will be largest in the
      WMT+rTMS condition.
    
  