
    
      In 1995 Henrik Kehlet described the concept of fast track surgery after colectomy. It
      consisted of a multimodal and multidisciplinary approach that aimed at controlling the
      surgical stress response and at mitigating its consequences. Subsequently postoperative
      recovery is improved and accelerated, which allows a median hospital stay of 2-days after
      laparoscopic colectomy. The concept of fast track surgery progressively evolved into enhanced
      recovery programme (ERP). The acceleration of postoperative recovery and the reduction in the
      duration of hospitalisation are not associated with an increased incidence of surgical
      complications nor a greater rate of unplanned hospital readmission, but rather result in less
      medical complications. The economic benefits are obvious.

      The elderly present specific physical, metabolic and socio-environmental characteristics that
      should be considered in case of surgery. Age has been shown to be an independent prognostic
      factor for postoperative morbidity after colorectal surgery, but this was reported before the
      development of ERP. Indeed implementation of ERP significantly reduces the rate of
      postoperative complications, even in the elderly. Increased risk of postoperative morbidity
      in elderly as compared to younger patients is nevertheless commonly admitted. Moreover
      adherence of elderly with the items of ERP is usually considered inferior than that of
      younger patients. Adaptation of ERP to the specificities of elderly is sometimes advocated.
      All these explain the reluctance of many practitioners to propose ERP in older patients.
      However recent meta-analyses suggest that implementation of ERP is feasible and efficient in
      these patients. The retrospective analysis of our first 100 patients introduced in our audit
      database revealed even similar length of hospital stay for elderly and younger patients.

      The investigators therefore compared the length of hospital stay in the elderly and the
      younger patients and tested the hypothesis of non-inferiority for elderly patients as
      compared to younger patients. This is a retrospective analysis of 270 consecutive patients
      scheduled for colorectal surgery, all managed with the same ERP protocol, and prospectively
      introduced in our audit database.
    
  