
    
      Low-cost, molecular human papillomavirus (HPV) testing may offer a more robust alternative to
      Pap smears and visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA) for cervical cancer screening of
      underserved women. Two low-cost molecular tests for human papillomavirus (HPV) have been
      developed: 1) AVantage HPV E6 Test (Arbor Vita Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA, USA) ( HPV E6 Test
      ) detects E6 oncoproteins from HPV16, 18, and 45 and 2) careHPV (Qiagen, Gaithersburg, MD,
      USA) detects the DNA for a pool of 14 carcinogenic HPV genotypes. The HPV E6 Test will be
      ready for the first clinical evaluations in 2010. The HPV E6 Test works like an ELISA in
      strip format such that it takes less than two hours to run and may provide point-of-care
      (diagnostic testing at or near the site of patient care) testing. careHPV, a batch HPV DNA
      test that takes 2.5 hours to perform, has already been developed and is currently being used
      in demonstration projects. The results to date for careHPV are promising. As our primary
      objective, we wish to evaluate both tests, and to evaluate the best low-cost triage
      strategies for careHPV-positive results in areas of high prevalence of carcinogenic HPV DNA.
      A study of 7,500 women, ages 25-65 years, identified from an age- and region-stratified
      sample of women living in rural China will be conducted. All women will be screened at
      enrollment, and a high-risk subgroup at the one-year follow-up, by the following tests: HPV
      E6 Test, careHPV, and visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA). Women will also be screened
      at enrollment, and a high-risk subgroup at the one-year follow-up, using the digene HC2 HPV
      DNA Test TM ( HC2 ) (formerly known as Hybrid Capture 2)(Qiagen), the first U.S. Food and
      Drug Administration-approved HPV test and the gold standard for clinical HPV testing. At both
      time points, all screen-positive women will be evaluated by colposcopy using a rigorous
      diagnostic protocol. A random sample of screen negatives will undergo colposcopy but will
      only undergo biopsies if there is visual evidence of cervical epithelial abnormalities.
      careHPV-positive specimens will be tested for most carcinogenic HPV genotypes, HPV16, HPV18,
      and HPV45 using careHPV16/18/45. This triage test utilizes the same test platform as careHPV
      but screens only for those 3 carcinogenic HPV genotypes. The primary goals are 1) to evaluate
      the clinical performance of careHPV, the HPV E6 Test, and VIA for detection of cervical
      precancer and cancer and 2) to determine the positive predictive values of VIA, the HPV E6
      Test, and HPV16/18/45 detection by careHPV16/18/45 for cervical precancer and cancer among
      careHPV-positive women.
    
  