
    
      Sepsis remains a common entity in critical care patients with remarkable mortality.
      Microcirculatory dysfunction plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of sepsis and organ
      dysfunction. The main causal mechanisms are vasoactive substances such as nitric oxide and
      endothelin, destroyed endothelial surfaces and microvascular occlusion by activated
      coagulation and leucocytes. Furthermore there is some knowledge from vasooclussive testing
      (VOT) based on near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and assessing the proportion of perfused
      vessels determined with orthogonal polarization spectral and sidestream darkfield imaging
      techniques (SDF) that impaired microcirculation is associated with organ dysfunction and
      increased mortality. Despite these well-recognised evidence previous trails proving therapy
      guidance with microcirculatory parameters failed in demonstrating optimised outcome . Recent
      guidelines still recommend fluid therapy based on central venous pressure, mean arterial
      pressure, urine output and or blood lactate concentration. But especially the parameter
      central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2) seems to be not unproblematic. Retrospective data
      analysis found higher mortality rates if ScvO2 is elevated.

      In the present study patients with sepsis, severe sepsis and septic shock will be evaluated
      on day 1 and day 4 and a follow up will be performed on day 180.

      Additional to clinical parameters of organ function, infection markers, global parameters of
      tissue hypoxia will be captured by measurements of adenosine and whose metabolites.

      Macrocirculatory cardiovascular function delivered by transpulmonary thermodilution technique
      will be assessed and local tissue perfusion and oxygen uptake will be measured with a
      transcutaneous laser-doppler spectrophotometry system in VOT.

      The aim of this study is to check:

        1. Is microcirculatory oxygen uptake a prognostic value in sepsis?

        2. Is it correlated with biomarkers of hypoxia?

        3. Are high levels of ScvO2 caused by microcirculatory impairments or by hyperdynamic
           macrocirculation?
    
  