
    
      Pilot Study: Eligible participants will undergo a full consent process and a brief interview
      to assess demographics. Participants' counselors will be asked to audio-record up to 3
      therapy sessions which will subsequently be rated for adherence to CMBT procedures.

      Main Study: Eligible participants will undergo a full consent process followed by an in-depth
      interview, with a research assistant. Following an intake assessment, participants will be
      randomly assigned to one of the three intervention groups. Randomization also will be
      balanced based on gender to ensure an equitable distribution of men and women in each
      condition. The research assistant will give the treatment referrals and will introduce the
      participant to his/her therapist as appropriate.

      Treatment will be provided by clinicians at the Windsor Regional Problem Gambling Services.

        -  Treatment as usual (TAU) - Therapists will be instructed to conduct therapy as they
           normally would with PGs entering treatment.

        -  Cognitive motivational behaviour therapy (CMBT) Therapy will consist of 12 60-minute
           individual counselling sessions. The cognitive-behavioural portion of the intervention
           is targeted at addressing gambling-related cognitive distortions (e.g., the idea that
           the gambler can control random events). Motivational interviewing techniques are
           included to address participant ambivalence about his/her gambling.

      Approximately 8 therapists will provide treatment (4 CMBT and 4 TAU, randomly assigned using
      flip of a coin.) The therapists enrolled in CMBT will be trained for the study. TAU
      therapists will be offered training in CMBT once study recruitment goals have been met (thus,
      eventually all therapists will receive training in CMBT). Prior to providing treatment,
      therapists selected to administer CMBT will receive intensive training in administration of
      this approach. The therapists will be selected from the professional staff of the Windsor
      Regional Hospital's Problem Gambling Services.

      -Waitlist control condition (WLC) - WLC participants will wait 12-weeks to begin treatment.

      At that point, participants will be randomly assigned to receive TAU or CMBT and will proceed
      through the same study phase (i.e., treatment and follow-up).

      Participants will undergo assessments at intake, post-treatment, 6- and 12-months.
    
  