
    
      Protocol IAB-CD8-201 is a Phase II, Open Label, Multi-Dose Study of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C (CD8 PET
      Tracer) for Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT) in Patients with Advanced or Metastatic
      Melanoma, Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, Renal Cell Carcinoma, Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the
      Head and Neck Selected to Receive Standard-of-Care Immunotherapy as Single Agent or in
      Combination. This study will evaluate the safety of repeat doses of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C, assess
      and quantify any detectable changes in ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C uptake from Baseline to
      post-Treatment, establish the relationship of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C uptake in tumors with CD8+ TIL
      density, biodistribution, evaluate the variance in participants' gene expression pre- and
      post-Treatment, evaluate the correlation of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C uptake with clinical response by
      RECIST (Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors) version 1.1/iRECIST and evaluate the
      correlation of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C uptake with immune infiltrates and other molecular biomarkers
      (CD4, CD8, PD-1 and PD-L1) expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      The investigational imaging agent to be administered in this study will be ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C
      with whole body PET/CT imaging acquired within 1 week prior to the onset of immunotherapy and
      4-5 weeks after start of immunotherapy. Approximately 84 participants are planned to be
      enrolled in this clinical study.

      Participants should expect to have Conventional CT Chest, Abdomen and Pelvis (including Neck
      for SCCHN subjects) or MRI or whole body 18-FDG-PET scan will be performed within 45 days
      prior to 1st infusion of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C (CD8 PET Tracer); PET/CT scans at 24±3 hours after
      each infusion of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C; and fresh tumor biopsy (1 to 3 core biopsies) will be
      performed at Baseline (-28 to -7 days prior to 1st infusion of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C and within 2
      weeks after 2nd infusion of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C and its associated PET/CT scan. Archival tumor
      biopsy tissues obtained within 2 months prior to 1st infusion of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C (CD8 PET
      Tracer) may be submitted in place of Baseline fresh biopsy, with approval from the Sponsor.

      In addition, anti-drug antibody (ADA) blood samples will be collected at the following time
      points: at Baseline, prior to receiving the 2nd infusion of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C, and at
      End-of-Study safety follow-up visit.

      At each study visit, participants will be questioned concerning any new medications or
      changes in current medications including over-the-counter and topical medications.

      The safety monitoring practices employed by this protocol are adequate to protect the
      participants' safety and should detect all Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs). The
      safety follow-up (4-6 weeks after the last dose of ⁸⁹Zr-Df-IAB22M2C) and the extended
      follow-up (up to 18 months after start of cancer treatment) to collect Standard of Care (SOC)
      imaging only were also established.

      A participant who completes Visit 9 will be considered to have completed the study. All
      participants have the right to withdraw at their own request at any point during the study
      without prejudice. Although participants do not need to give a reason for requesting
      withdrawal from the trial, the Investigator should make a reasonable effort to ascertain the
      reason(s), while fully respecting the participant's rights.

      A Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) will be developed and approved before the database is
      locked. The SAP will present the detailed statistical methodology to be used in analyzing the
      efficacy and tabulating the safety data from this trial. All inferential statistical analyses
      will be based on a two-sided test with a Type I error rate of 0.05. The primary analysis of
      the primary and secondary outcome measures will be conducted using the Per Protocol (PP)
      population. Analyses of safety outcomes will be conducted using the safety population.
      Adverse events will be coded using the most recent version of MedDRA. TEAEs will be
      summarized by treatment group and by stage in the study, System Organ Class, and preferred
      term. In addition, all the data from physical examination, 12 Lead Electrocardiogram (ECG)
      and vital signs will also be descriptively summarized. The final statistical analysis of data
      will be performed after all clinical monitoring has been completed, all data queries have
      been resolved, and all data have been verified (Quality Control checked) prior to formal
      database lock. The Sponsor will authorize the final database lock.

      For quality control and quality assurance purpose, the Sponsor's designated monitor will
      visit the center(s) during the study as well as maintain frequent telephone and written
      communication to maintain current personal knowledge of the progress of a study. The
      Investigator will permit the Sponsor to monitor the study as frequently as is deemed
      necessary and provide access to medical records to ensure that data are being recorded
      adequately, that data are verifiable and that protocol adherence is satisfactory. The
      Investigator will permit representatives of the Sponsor and/or designated Contract Research
      Organization (CRO) to inspect all Case Report Forms (CRFs) and corresponding study
      participant original medical records (source documents) at regular intervals throughout the
      study. Site inspections serve to verify strict adherence to the protocol and the accuracy of
      the data being entered on the CRFs, in accordance with federal regulations. A Monitoring Log
      will be maintained at each study site that the monitor will sign, date, and state the type of
      visit.
    
  