
    
      Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation may cure or ameliorate illnesses of many types;
      however the toxicity of the procedure limits its broad applicability. Hematologic
      malignancies of all types have shown responses. Those with marrow failure, such as aplasia,
      and hemoglobinopathies have further shown responses in multiple trials as well. Even patients
      with certain solid tumors, such as breast, renal cell, and melanoma have shown partial or
      complete responses to allogeneic therapy. The limiting effect of the historical methods of
      aggressive induction for allogeneic therapy were extremely toxic, requiring limiting those
      offered allogeneic therapy to the healthiest of the ill patients. Work over the last decade
      has shown that less toxic agents targeting the immune system effectively allowed engraftment
      with less effects on the patient's liver, lungs, and other vital organs. We and others have
      completed multiple trials showing the effective use of these less toxic, non-myeloablative,
      regimens for allogeneic therapy. Trials with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide at standard
      doses (patients are not ablated and recover blood counts in 2 weeks) allow for 80% of
      patients to engraft donor cells. Some groups have added low doses of radiation to this
      combination, with 80-100% allogeneic engraftment. The lessened toxicity of this approach has
      been confirmed in multiple studies, including our own data with the specific schema in this
      treatment plan reviewed below. Phase I results with this combination: Our group has combined
      the above combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide with the antibody CAMPATH 1H. This
      antibody is given to the patient to purge the immune system and prevent rejection. It also
      purges the T cells in the donated stem cells to minimize graft versus host disease (GVHD).
      This approach has been proven successful in multiple trials using standard more toxic
      ablative procedures. Our approach over the last 3 years has been very successful using this
      antibody with the less toxic non-myeloablative procedure and our trials have completed. We
      have presented our preliminary results, with data on long term follow up for outcomes being
      collected. We have shown that 100% of patients with a malignancy or marrow failure treated
      with this regimen in our early phase trial engrafted donor cells. There was only an 8% severe
      GVHD risk, though the risk for infection remains high with a risk of fungal and viral
      infection about 5% each. Despite working with older, more infirmed patients, only 3/40
      patients died within the first 100 days from therapy. Similar approaches on matched unrelated
      donors have been reported by other groups as well. As the phase I feasibility trial is
      complete and the outcomes encouraging, this protocol will follow the same general treatment
      plan and allow further information to be gained for long term follow up of subjects treated
      with this approach.
    
  