
    
      Within last decade, aging of the population and coexistence of multiple comorbidities
      influenced a risk of patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) 10,11.
      Furthermore, a steady decline in ST elevation ACS incidence and increase in non-ST elevation
      acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) has been observed 10,12,13, associated with poorer long
      term prognosis 14,15. This is related to the complexity of coronary artery disease in
      patients with NSTE-ACS, as nearly half of them have multivessel disease (MVD) 15. The optimal
      revascularization strategy in this group of patients remains unknown. Due to clinical
      presentation in most of cases early or delayed invasive strategy is preferred by both
      American and European guidelines 16,17, however the method of revascularization is not
      specified. Due to high surgical risk presentation, immediate stenting of the culprit lesion
      and delayed complete percutaneous revascularization is becoming a common practice. On the
      other hand, basing on the anatomical criteria coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) should
      be the standard of care 18. Very few reports addressed so far the problem of optimal
      revascularization strategy in patients presenting with MVD and NSTE-ACS. A hypothesis of a
      positive outcome can be derived from some previous studies comparing PCI and CABG in which
      most of patients enrolled presented with NSTE-ACS 7-9,19, including our experience.

      Aim and hypothesis:

      Hence, the purpose of this study will be to compare contemporary coronary angioplasty with
      coronary artery bypass grafting in a prospective, clinical, multicenter, randomized trial.
      The hypothesis of this study is the non-inferiority of PCI compared to CABG in terms of the
      primary composite endpoint (death, myocardial infarction, stroke).

      Method:

      Patients with multivessel coronary artery disease, left main and acute coronary syndrome
      without ST segment elevation, qualified for early invasive treatment, with a Syntax Score
      below 33, and in whom the invasive cardiologist and cardiac surgeon will recognize both PCI
      and CABG as possible to achieve complete revascularization will be enrolled to the study. In
      the case of centers without the Cardiac Surgery Department, "Heart Team" consultations will
      take place via videoconference, and records of coronarography and echocardiography will be
      shared via the TeleDICOM system. The main exclusion criteria will be the qualification for
      conservative treatment, surgery other than CABG due to structural heart defect, ST segment
      elevation myocardial infarction, stable coronary artery disease, immediate need for PCI.
      After fulfilling the inclusion criteria and lack of exclusion criteria, the patient will be
      randomized in a 1: 1 ratio to either PCI or CABG. The PCI procedure will be performed after
      assessing the hemodynamic significance of all lesions with vFFR, FFR or iFR or using the
      latest generation drug eluting stents, and the implantation will be optimized based on
      intravascular imaging. CABG procedures will be performed based on the experience of the
      respective center, including the OPCAB technique, and the internal mammary artery will be
      used in each case. The primary endpoint of the study will be all cause death, myocardial
      infarction, and stroke in one-year follow-up. To prove the assumed hypothesis of the study,
      with the test power of 80% alpha error 5% and the percentage of lost to follow-up at the
      level of 5%, the study should include 500 patients in each group. Secondary endpoints will be
      ischemia driven revascularization, left ventricular ejection fraction, major and minor
      bleeding incidence, new onset of atrial fibrillation, de novo heart failure, unscheduled
      re-hospitalization, quality of life, and cost effectiveness. After the hospitalization,
      patients will be subjected to strict secondary prevention principles, including cardiac and
      cardiac surgery rehabilitation, and will undergo four specialistic follow-up visits with
      cardiac echo and stress tests at selected time points.

      Anticipated outcomes:

      In the case of positive results of the study, the efficacy and safety of PCI in the studied
      group of patients will be confirmed. This will contribute to the creation of a new guidelines
      in a given area, translating into faster and easier access to rapid invasive treatment. It
      will also facilitate the decision-making process in centers without cardiac surgery.
    
  