
    
      This is a ten week study. The child will be randomized to one of two treatment groups.
      Assignment is chosen by chance (like flipping a coin). The two treatment groups are T-ABA
      (Targeted Applied Behavior Analysis) with parent training and T-ABA with parent training and
      individual child sessions. For both groups, study procedures will be the same except the
      T-ABA with parent training and individual child sessions group will receive eight one-to-one
      Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) individual therapy sessions during the course of the study.
      Participants in the T-ABA with parent training group will be offered eight one-to-one ABA
      individual therapy sessions at the conclusion of the study.

      During the child's participation in this study families are asked to not make any changes to
      his or her current neuropsychiatric medications or therapy for two weeks before the study
      begins and during his or her ten week participation. Medication changes may include
      increasing or decreasing the dose you receive, changing the time of day the child takes
      medication, starting a new medication, or discontinuing a current medication. Therapy the
      child receives may include speech, OT, PT, counseling, play therapy, music therapy, social
      skills training, special education services, socialization, recreational sports, or
      nutritional interventions. Therapy changes may include increasing or decreasing how often the
      child receives therapy, changing who the child receives therapy from, beginning a new therapy
      or discontinuing a current therapy.

      The child will be asked to complete assessments before the start of the study. The child will
      complete a language assessment and an eye tracking task that will measure his or her
      attention to different pictures and videos. Families will complete questionnaires that
      examine the child's medical and family history as well as his or her current symptoms,
      functioning, and quality of life and families will be given a language collection device.
      This is like a recorder that will record every time the family or the child talks. Families
      will place the language collection device in the pocket of the child's clothing and it will
      record the language environment for two days. Families will return the language collection
      device to us. To help us better understand your child's medical condition, we will access the
      child's medical records to collect any previous evaluations and diagnoses.

      During weeks 1 through 4, families will attend a parent training group. Each group will be
      1.5 hours long and will focus on topics such as discrete trial teaching (breaking skills into
      small components in order to teach new information to the child), natural environment
      teaching (using the environment to increase the child's motivation to communicate), assessing
      and treating challenging behavior, using visual supports and teaching everyday living
      activities such as drinking from a cup or washing hands. During these groups families will
      have the opportunity to view examples and practice using the skills discussed.

      During week 5, families will attend a parent training group. Families and their children will
      also be observed and videotaped by study staff for 10 minutes during which they will be asked
      to use the techniques you learned during the parent group. The video tape will be kept in the
      child's study file and will only be viewed by study staff as part of the research study.
      Families will also complete questionnaires that examine the child's medical and family
      history as well as his or her current symptoms, functioning, and quality of life and will be
      given a language collection device (like a tape recorder). They will place the language
      collection device in the pocket of the child's clothing and it will record his or her
      language and language environment for 2 days. They will return the language collection device
      to us.

      During weeks 6 through 9 families and their children will attend a one-hour weekly
      parent-therapist session with a study staff member. They will practice using the techniques
      from the parent group with their child and the study staff member will provide them with
      coaching and feedback. Families can also bring along specific questions they have.

      During week 10, families will attend a parent-therapist session. Families and their children
      will also be observed and videotaped by study staff for 10 minutes during which they will
      practice using the techniques from the parent group with their child. They will also complete
      questionnaires that examine the child's current symptoms, functioning, and quality of life
      and they will be given a language collection device. They will place the language collection
      device in the pocket of the child's clothing and it will record his or her language and
      language environment for 2 days. Families will return the language collection device to us.
      The child will also complete testing with a study staff. Testing will measure the child's
      language and attention to pictures and videos during an eye tracking task.

      Ten weeks after the study is complete, families and their children will complete the same
      assessment procedures that were completed during week 10 in order to measure any changes that
      occurred after the end of the study.

      If a family is in the T-ABA with parent training and individual child sessions group, the
      child will also receive one-to-one ABA therapy sessions during weeks 1 through 4 and 6
      through 9. During the one-to-one ABA therapy sessions the child may work with the therapist
      on skills such as making eye contact when his or her name is called, playing with toys,
      asking for favorite foods or activities using words or gestures, making choices, taking turns
      or responding to one-step commands. Study staff will work with families to select programming
      to be completed with their child during these sessions.

      If a family is in the T-ABA with parent training group, they will be asked if they'd like to
      schedule eight one-to-one ABA therapy sessions at the conclusion of the study (after
      follow-up assessments have been collected).

      Families will receive assessment results in a brief report provided after testing is
      completed at visits 1, 5, 10 and follow up.
    
  