
    
      Eighty six million U.S. adults have prediabetes, and up to 75% of them will eventually
      develop diabetes. Landmark clinical trials have established that intensive lifestyle
      interventions (ILI) and metformin are safe and effective treatments to prevent or delay
      diabetes in adults with prediabetes and overweight/obesity. Despite being included in expert
      clinical guidelines, these treatments are rarely used and few studies have explored how to
      promote their uptake in practice. One possible approach for increasing adoption of ILI and
      metformin in primary care includes clinical decision support (CDS), which uses electronic
      systems to create tailored recommendations for evidence-based clinical care. While a large
      body of evidence demonstrates that CDS can improve the delivery of other recommended
      preventive services, this approach has not been definitively studied for ILI and metformin.
      The investigators plan to address this critical knowledge gap by developing and evaluating
      the Prevent Diabetes Mellitus Clinical Decision Support (PreDM CDS) intervention for
      community health center patients with prediabetes and overweight/obesity. This novel CDS
      engages primary care providers and clinical staff to deliver intervention components.

      By accomplishing the following specific aims, this definitive study will test the potential
      for CDS to promote diabetes prevention and weight loss efforts in primary care. In Aim 1,
      study investigators will develop the proposed intervention by translating narrative
      guidelines about ILI and metformin into CDS, while incorporating extensive feedback from
      users. Aim 2 is a pragmatic cluster randomized trial, including 6 large community health
      center sites, which will examine the effectiveness of the PreDM CDS at inducing weight loss
      and improving other cardiometabolic markers. Aim 3 is a mixed-methods evaluation of the PreDM
      CDS, exploring its reach, adoption, implementation, maintenance, and cost. Study
      investigators hypothesize that the proposed PreDM CDS will increase patient's adoption of ILI
      and metformin, producing weight loss and improvements in other cardiometabolic markers. The
      resulting data, and an implementation toolkit created by the study team, will support the
      widespread dissemination of the PreDM CDS if found to be effective in the proposed study.
    
  