
    
      Study type Interventional Description of intervention(s) / exposure The intervention group
      will be instructed to include the Copenhagen adduction exercise into their warm up before
      training session (3 times per week) during one season (6 months).

      Group sessions will be administered by an exercise physiologist and/ or athletic trainer and/
      or soccer coaches and/ or strength and conditioning specialists and/ or physiotherapist.

      Session attendance checklists will be used to assess or monitor adherence to the
      intervention.

      The Copenhagen adduction exercise is a body-weight exercise which mainly works the groin and
      hip adductor. It has a large eccentric component, meaning the muscles are working whilst
      lengthening.

      The Copenhagen Adduction exercise is a simple isolated eccentric partner exercise and doesn't
      require special equipment and can be performed as a warm up activity on the pitch.

      The Copenhagen Adduction exercise requires a partner who will hold the player's upper leg in
      an extended position nearly at the hip level of the partner, with one hand supporting the
      knee and the other upholding the ankle. Meanwhile, the player will lie on one side and
      support the body with the forearm on the ground and the top arm being placed along the body.
      Then, the player will elevate the trunk from the floor and raise the lower leg in a straight
      line. The player will repeat this for 3 seconds until the feet touch each other. This will be
      followed by slightly lowering the body just to the ground for 3 seconds until it touches the
      level of the foot.

      It must be performed on both limbs. It is crucial to note that the most accurate performance
      of the exercise must avoid trunk bending. In terms of the training form, the frequency is
      three-two sessions per week while the repetition varies according to the different levels of
      the players ranging from 3-12 times in one-two sets.

      Prevention Comparator / control treatment The control group will practice their usual warm
      up. Usual warm up is defined as any basic exercises performed before a performance or
      practice to prepare the muscles for vigorous actions.
    
  