
    
      This institutional process had been validated by senior management and staff representative
      bodies. It was based on voluntary work, anonymity, the confidential aspect of the employees'
      analyses with the establishment of a follow-up and an individual counselling organized by the
      Occupational Health Service (SST) team and a team of COVID-19 Serology referents appointed to
      carry out and coordinate this process. Among the 3,600 GhPSJ employees, 3,062 (85%) samples
      were taken (and 404 employees from partner establishments in the hospital complex) for an
      initial serology test between April, 20th and May,15th and a second test one month later (M1)
      between May 18th and June 12th. The purpose of this second sampling was to get rid of the
      fear of another infection that might have occurred on the date of the first serology, and to
      observe the evolution between the two samples at the end of the epidemic phase.

      The first results identified 310 people (231 from the HPSJ site and 56 from the HML site)
      (10.1%) with a positive serology for SARS CoV-2. However, it was observed that the people
      infected by the COVID-19, had highly variable IgG antibody titers and these titers changed
      unexpectedly. In fact, the majority of cases (89%) showed a drop in antibody titers as early
      as the first month and 20 of them (6.4%) even showed a negativation based on the index of
      quantitative ELISAs performed.

      After only 5 months of hindsight in the face of this new pandemic, there are a few robust and
      specific data on the immune response following the COVID-19 and its involvement in the
      clinical impact on infected patients. In addition to the epidemiological interest and
      potential protection, the use of the immune response is an important therapeutic issue that
      is currently being evaluated, whether for passive immunization or primary prevention, with
      highly anticipated prospects for vaccination of populations.

      It should be noted that the severely infected patients present characteristics unique to
      COVID-19 that are rarely seen in other respiratory viral infections, such as severe
      lymphopenia and eosinopenia, pneumonia and extensive lung damage, cytokine storm leading to
      acute respiratory distress syndrome and multisystem failure, and numerous atypical
      presentations (ENT, digestive, mucocutaneous, etc.). A high viral load at the time of first
      infection and/or repeated exposures to the virus, particularly for healthcare professionals,
      may be an important factor in the evolution of the disease (severe clinical forms, delayed
      clinical signs and particular serological kinetics).

      In this context, the team in charge of coordinating the institutional project, in connection
      with the Occupational Health Service (SST) which followed all the personnel exposed during
      the epidemic period, wishes to propose to the GhPSJ personnel who desires a longitudinal
      follow-up as part of a research approach aimed at describing the kinetics of the antibodies
      produced following a COVID-19 infection and a medical follow-up including a
      self-questionnaire and a consultation specifically targeting the delayed clinical
      presentations after COVID-19 accompanied by a longitudinal serological follow-up over a
      longer period.
    
  