
    
      This will be a Phase 2 non-controlled clinical trial performed on patients with infrabony
      defects to test whether the employment of CUSA for treating periodontal patients:

        1. Provides benefits in terms of a PPD reduction and CAL gain

        2. Is comfortable for patients and operators; and is free from adverse events

      All subjects included in the study will be consecutive periodontal patients attending a
      private clinic in Settimo Milanese (Milan, Italy) who will be treated by two operators with
      similar experience in non surgical produce who performed a specific training for CUSA on a
      periodontal model.

      The clinical procedure will be always performed in a single session. Before intervention, all
      cases will receive local anaesthesia with 1:100.000 mepivacaine.

      All residual pockets ≥ 5 mm will be treated with

        1. Ultrasonic debridement: to minimize trauma to the soft tissues, the investigators used
           piezo-electric devices with specific thin and delicate tips (E.M.S. Electro Medi- cal
           Systems S.A. Chemin de la Vuarpillière, 31 1260, Lyon Swizerland).

        2. Flapless treatment: according to the anatomy of the osseous sites, the sonotrode
           (Sonocare 300 by Söring GmbH, Justus-von-Liebig-Ring 2 -25451 Quickborn Germany) will be
           inserted both intrasulcularly and trans gingivally (smallest tip is 0,8 mm);
           intrasulcularly in the cases of three wall defects, and trans gingivally in cases of one
           to two wall defects . The stack of piezo-electric quartzes transforms the electrical
           energy from the generator into a longitudinal, mechanical vibration of the sonotrode
           tip. When the tip of the sonotrode approaches the tissue, the ultrasonic energy, as a
           result of the high force of acceleration and cavitation effect, separates cells from the
           conglomerate of tissues (fragmentation). The fragmented tissue can be aspirated as a
           semiliquid substance through the sonotrode hole, freeing the defect from the formation
           of a stable blood clot.

           The end point will be achieving a condition in which the infrabony defect is free from
           the granulation tissue.

        3. After CUSA treatment, to stimulate the formation of a stable blood clot, the use of any
           sub gingival rinses will be avoided.

      No medications will be prescribed advising the patients to use painkillers (NSAIDs) if they
      experience postoperative pain.

      Subjects will be reviewed at 7 days, 15 days, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months. These sessions
      will include supra-gingival professional mechanical plaque removal (PMPR) through the use of
      erythritol powder plus 14 μm (AIR-FLOW® MASTER -EMS).

      Clinical measurements of the defects and X-ray with bite block will be taken at baseline and
      3 and 6 months.

      Outcomes :

        -  Pocket Closure proportion (PPD < 5 mm);

        -  Probing depth (PPD) reduction;

        -  CAL gain; and

        -  Gingival recession.

        -  Comfort and acceptability of the patient during and after the procedure, as measured by
           interviews, use of painkillers in the following three days and the visual analogue scale
           (VAS) after one week

        -  Comfort and convenience of the operator during the procedure, as measured by interviews
           at the end of the procedure; and adverse events

      Continuous variables will be expressed as the mean ± standard deviation (SD). Dichotomous
      data will be expressed as a percentage. The comparison between baseline and 6 months after
      flapless treatment will be performed by applying a Wilcoxon signed ranked test.
    
  