
    
      This will be a multicenter, randomized (1:1) controlled trial with an experimental and
      control group. The control group will be treated as the clinician wishes and will be given a
      bracelet to wear during treatment. The experimental group will be treated as the clinician
      wishes as well as given a bracelet and a journal with the following instructions:

      The goal of this bracelet is to help you recognize your verbal complaints, which we believe
      may be related to your pain. We are asking that you wear it and follow these rules:

        1. Place the bracelet on either wrist. Please identify in the journal which wrist you have
           placed it on and the date.

        2. If you verbally complain about Anything, including your pain, switch it to the other
           wrist, identify the date, wrist switched to, and complaint. Internal complaints and
           thoughts are allowed.

        3. Indicate if this complaint made you feel better, worse or the same.

      We want you to attempt to limit your complaints through altering your wording to express a
      way in which you could make your situation better. For example, instead of saying "it is way
      too cold outside" say, "I could have worn more clothes today and I would be less cold".

      Participating clinicians will complete a power-point educational session in which they will
      be trained on the randomization process, the rules of the bracelet and goals of this study. A
      short education piece on central sensitization will also be provided. Each clinician will
      consent that they have successfully completed this and understand all aspects of
      participation. We will also require the clinician to complete a short questionnaire that will
      ask the following questions:

        1. What is your highest degree of education?

        2. Do you have any board certifications or specializations?

        3. What type of setting do you treat?

        4. How many years have you been a treating clinician?

      The clinician will also complete the Pain Attitudes and Beliefs Scale for Physiotherapists
      (PABS-PT) which is a self-reported measure that discriminates between a biomedical and a
      biopsychosocial orientation of therapists with regard to low back pain management. The
      PABS-PT is available in several languages (e.g. English, German, Dutch, Brazilian-Portuguese)
      and appears to generate reliable and valid data (Ostelo et al., 2003; Laekeman et al., 2008;
      Magalhães et al., 2011; Mutsaers et al., 2012).

      The treating clinician will take pain measurements on the visual analogue scale and pain
      catastrophizing on the pain catastrophizing scale at week 1, week 4, week 12 and 6-months.
      The subjects may be discharged when the clinician feels they have successfully achieved goals
      or have reached plateau. We anticipate discharge to be an average 4-6 weeks after beginning
      treatment. We are asking that they continue to track progress until 6 months post-enrollment.
      The clinician will also ask the patient to rate their global rating of change using the GROC
      scale at discharge. A detailed registration of the type of interventions the clinicians apply
      will be submitted to the researchers (including the number of treatment sessions) but there
      is no restriction on how the clinician treats the patient. In addition, we will ask each
      participant to list the drugs which they are taking (including changes while they are a
      participant) and any other non-PT interventions they undergo (ie. surgery, injections, etc).
      This will be crucial for estimating the 'real' treatment effect of the experimental
      intervention.

      Concealed allocation will be performed by using a computer-generated randomized table of
      numbers created prior to the study. Individual, sequentially numbered index cards with the
      random assigned numbers would then be prepared. These would be folded and placed in sealed
      opaque envelopes which each participant would choose. A researcher will then provide a
      bracelet with or without instructions, depending on group allocation.

      The subjects will not be compensated in any way monetarily. The patient will benefit from the
      study in having satisfaction of providing to the pool of physical therapy research.

      Each subject will be verbally explained the study as well as provided a consent form for an
      agreement of participation. The consent form will highlight the potential risks and benefits
      of participation. The subject will sign the consent form and this will be filed within the
      physical therapy facility in which the study is being completed. In addition we will ask the
      patient that a demographic questionnaire is filled out at baseline that includes the
      questions:

        1. When did your current episode of back pain begin?

        2. How many episodes of back pain have you experienced in your lifetime?

        3. What is your age?

        4. What is your nationality?

        5. What is your gender?

        6. What is your education level?

        7. Do you expect your back pain will ever resolve?

      There are no inherent risks from participation in this study.

      The subjects will be a convenience sample who volunteers to participate after being screened
      by a Physical Therapist. The Physical Therapist would verbally explain the study as well as
      obtain consent through the attached informed consent forms.
    
  