
    
      As a part of routine care, pregnant women without known diabetes undergo screening and
      testing for gestational diabetes either with a two-hour glucose tolerance testing or a
      one-hour glucose challenge test followed by a three-hour glucose tolerance test in the event
      of failure of the one-hour test.

      Women who have been given the diagnosis of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) by failing
      this diabetes testing and who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria shall be approached
      and offered enrollment in the study. Women with known type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)
      (pre-gestational diabetes) and women diagnosed elsewhere with GDM who meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be offered enrollment when they establish prenatal care. Patients who
      consent to participate in the study shall be randomized to either the intervention or the
      contact control group. For randomization purposes, an equal number of notecards will be made
      for the two groups. These will all be placed in sealed envelopes and shuffled. At the time of
      patient inclusion, an envelope will be selected by the consenting practitioner. If a patient
      declines receiving text messages but consents to have her medical record reviewed for
      adherence to her diabetes care regimen and glycemic control, she will be enrolled in the
      standard of care control group. A baseline hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is obtained.

      Patients in all groups shall receive initial diabetes education and started on an
      individualized diabetic diet regimen. Patients with GDM who develop a requirement for either
      oral medication or insulin will remain in the same group to which they were initially
      randomized. An HbA1c level is obtained every one to three months during pregnancy as well as
      near the time of delivery.

      Patients in the intervention group will receive reminders based on their individual disease
      treatment. A text message shall be sent one day (12 to 36 hours) before appointments to
      remind about the appointment and with instructions to bring glucose and food records to the
      appointment. If medication changes are made at the appointment, the patient will receive a
      text message reminder the day after her appointment to reinforce the regimen. Postpartum
      patients who had GDM will receive a text message reminder to complete their glucose tolerance
      test. A reminder will be sent at 2 weeks postpartum followed by a reminder at 6 weeks and 10
      weeks postpartum if the testing is not completed. Women with T2DM will be reminded to bring
      glucose and food records to their postpartum visits. Participants will be contacted through
      Google Voice which is a Google system requiring a secure login and password.

      Patients in the contact control group will be enrolled in the text4baby program with
      assistance from a healthcare provider. As the study will conclude upon the patient's
      postpartum visit, she will be offered the option of discontinuing messages, which otherwise
      would continue through the infant's first year of life.

      Hospitalizations Patient hospitalization for diabetic control shall be recorded for data
      collection. Patients in the intervention group will not be contacted during their
      hospitalization. If medicine adjustments are made during their hospitalization, a reminder
      text message with the new regimen shall be sent the day after discharge. Contact will then
      resume by the above stated schedule. If a patient is hospitalized temporarily for a reason
      other than diabetes, contact will resume upon discharge. If the patient is hospitalized for
      the remainder of the pregnancy, the patient will be removed from the study. Triage visits
      will not be followed.

      Delivery Delivery details will be abstracted from patient charts and shall include
      gestational age at delivery, fetal weight, vaginal versus cesarean delivery, incidence of
      shoulder dystocia, APGAR scores, and umbilical cord blood gases. The newborn chart shall be
      reviewed for the number of days spent in the neonatal intensive care unit, incidence of
      hypoglycemia and whether IV dextrose was required, and need for ventilator support or
      surfactant administration.

      Maternal Complications Incidence of postpartum wound infections or dehiscence shall be
      collected.

      Postpartum The postpartum glucose tolerance tests of women who had GDM will be reviewed to
      determine her glucose tolerance status.

      Questionnaires/Surveys The participating patients will be asked to complete a survey upon
      entry into the study to identify barriers to their healthcare and their baseline knowledge of
      diabetes. A survey at the completion of their study (the postpartum visit or later) will be
      requested to evaluate patient perspectives on the study, their pregnancy and any perceived
      benefit from participation. The postpartum survey will be either completed at a postpartum
      visit, mailed to subjects, completed on line or subjects will be contacted by phone to
      complete the survey. If subjects do not return for a postpartum visit or do not complete the
      survey at that visit, three attempts will be made to contact subject for completion of the
      departure survey.

      For participants who did not sign a version of the consent form that allowed for completion
      of the departure survey over the phone or online:

      If their participation is ongoing, they will be approached at one of their visits and asked
      to review and sign an updated version of the consent form.

      For subjects who have completed the pregnancy portion of their participation in the study but
      who did not complete a departure survey:

      Subjects will be contacted over the phone to obtain permission to allow completion of this
      survey over the phone, by mail or online. A phone script will be used to contact patients. If
      subjects cannot be reached by phone, a letter will be sent to their home address. A maximum
      of three phone attempts will be made to contact subject.
    
  