
    
      METHODOLOGY Type of Study It is a study of the experimental type with equivalent control
      groups.

      Sample A convenience sample will consist of approximately 60 patients seropositive for HIV /
      AIDS, in use of ART. Patients will be invited between routine visits in the clinic at the
      Special Unit for Treatment of Infectious Diseases (UETDI) of the Hospital of the Ribeirão
      Preto Medical School, University of São Paulo (USP HCFMRP-). They will be invited to
      participate voluntarily, provided that (initially) are considered eligible to participate in
      the study, later confirmed by medical clearance to practice physical exercises.

      Place of conducting the survey:

      The study will be conducted in the Orientation and Education Center of Adult and Elderly
      (House 5) of the Ribeirão Preto School of Nursing, University of São Paulo (EERP / USP) and
      UETDI HCFMRP-USP.

      Lipodystrophy Syndrome (SL) The diagnosis for SL will be determined by clinical examination
      upon patients' reports of fat loss in the limbs, buttocks and face, with or without fat
      accumulation in the trunk, waist, breasts - gynecomastia (men) and cervical back, clinically
      confirmed by a trained professional as previously described.

      Data Collection

      Before the study began a medical history will be performed to determine factors that are
      relevant to the study and pre- and post-training, the procedures to be performed involve a
      number of steps involving:

        -  Determination Ankle Brachial Index (ABI);

        -  Body Composition (DC): a regional and total body analysis by examining DXA HCFMRP-USP;

        -  Anthropometric measurements (weight, height, skinfold thickness, perimeters and bone
           diameters);

        -  biochemical tests - to evaluate the immunological and metabolic parameters;

        -  Food Recall.

      Index Ankle / Brachial (ITB) The ABI is calculated by the ratio of systolic blood pressure
      (SBP) of the posterior tibial artery or dorsalis pedis artery with higher SBP brachial or
      radial artery (calculated on both hemisphere). With the patient positioned supine for
      implementation of these measures. The PAS in both regions will be determined by means of
      aneroid sphygmomanometer brand "Premium®" and Doppler Vascular Portable - DV 600, brand
      "Martec Med®."

      Body Composition The CC at the molecular levelwill be determined by scanning Total Body and
      Regional by DXA (Hologic®, QDR4500W software, version 11.2 QDR), being determined: bone
      mineral content (BMC), mass fat (MG) MG percentage (% BF) and lean soft tissue (TMM). The
      portion for each of these components will consider five regional sites: upper (Sup), lower
      (Inf), appendicular (Ape, Sup + Inf), trunk (Tro) and total (Tot). Prior to the DXA
      participants will be asked to empty the bladder and will wear one hospital gown. During the
      examination they should be positioned centrally supine on the scanner table, with
      outstretched legs and háluces contact; the upper body must remain extended along the trunk
      and hands should not be in contact with the trunk and it is important that patients stay
      still during the procedure.

      Whereas BMC is measured by DXA bone ash of bone mass (MO) full, or approximately 95.82%, the
      total amount is corrected by multiplying by 1.0436 BMC. As it should be noted that although
      there are significant differences in the estimated BMC between DXA commercial systems, this
      aspect is a minimum impact on the estimate of the multicomponent CC.

      Subsequently for overall changes of fat, bone and muscle tissue will be performed at
      processing level 2 DC components (molecular) to level 4 (organ / tissue) according to the
      proposed by in muscle tissue for bone tissue and into the adipose tissue, as shown in Table
      1:

      Table 1 - Equations of transforming the molecular level DC components to the level organ /
      tissue.

      Magazine mass Model (kg) Skeletal Muscle TMM appendage (kg) x *1,19-1,65 Bone 1.85 x MO
      Adipose Tissue 1.18 x Fat Mass Body mass determined by DXA will be used for future
      comparisons. 3.5.3 Evaluation anthropometric Body weight and height will be determined by an
      electronic scale with stadiometer brand "Welmy®" featuring reading scales accurate to
      readings of 0.1 kg and 0.5 cm for body weight and height, respectively. Skinfolds, perimeters
      and bone diameters are determined by caliper, anthropometric tape and caliper with 0.1 mm
      reading accuracy, 0.1 cm and 0.1 mm, respectively, of the brand "Sanny Medical®".

      All anthropometric measurements will be carried out according to literature recommendations.

      Biochemical tests A blood sample will be collected during routine consultations for Metabolic
      and Immune analysis Viral Load Laboratory - Serology Sector HCFMRP-USP. The concentrations of
      total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides, low density lipoproteins (LDL), high density
      lipoprotein (HDL), insulin and fasting blood glucose are determined by an enzymatic method
      using the kit Wiener Lab.®. For immune responses to viral load level, when the detectable HIV
      RNA is> 48 cópias.mL-1. Is determined by Real Time Abbott method using the kit Siemens -
      Versant® HIV-1 3.0 RNA and DNA Analyzer System 340® apparatus; and CD4 + and CD8 count by
      flow cytometry, using Multitest® kit and Facs Calibur® cytometer (Becton Dickinson - San Jose
      CA).

      To analyze the insulin resistance in patients, will use the homeostasis index model
      assessment - resistence insulin (HOMA-IR), calculated by fasting glucose formula (mmol / l =
      mg / dl ÷ 18) x fasting insulin (U / ml) / 22.5. The anthropometric assessment, determination
      of ABI and the examination of DXA will take place at HC-FMRP / USP, in a single session, at
      least assessors trained for each role. Laboratory tests will be performed at HC-FMRP / USP,
      in the morning, with all patients fasted for eight hours, the same skilled professionals
      during routine outpatient follow-up in UETDI HCFMRP-USP.

      Protocols Strength Training (TF) Overview of Protocol

      Patients will be divided into three groups, and the TF groups will be formed through the
      sample mirroring through the power levels:

        -  G1 - TFOV (n≈12; intensity of TF: 30% of 1RM). The vascular occlusion pressure members
           is determined individually in posterior tibial arteries and brachial or radial (computed
           in both hemisphere) through vascular Doppler - DV 600, the mark "Martec Med", the
           patient being positioned in supine and using restrictive cuffs restriction of blood flow
           to the brand "Missouri®" (Lower limb: 170X900 mm; Upper limb: 70X730 mm - driving
           cuffs).

        -  G2 - TFT (n≈12; TF intensity: 80% of 1RM; no vascular occlusion), and;

        -  G3 - Subject untrained, control group (n≈12). Individuals of G1 and G2 will undergo 12
           weeks of TF, totaling 36 sessions, with weekly frequency of three times, the first two
           weeks of adaptation to TF.

      Before each training session will be held the measurement of blood pressure (BP), heart rate
      (HR) and oxygen saturation in the blood (SpO2), using stethoscope and an aneroid
      sphygmomanometer brand "Premium®" cardiofrequency brand " Polar FT7® "and digital oximeter
      brand" Oximeter® ". In the absence of vital signs against indicative, begins the training
      protocol.

      Exercises of the following: 10 minutes of heating, with the completion of five minutes on a
      stationary bike and a set of 15 repetitions of each exercise with heating for approximately
      50% of 1RM. Thirty minutes of exercise: elbow extension in the pulley (triceps); Barbell
      curls (biceps); Unilateral knee flexion (hamstring) on the flexor standing; Knee extension
      (quadriceps) on the extensor chair, using the exercise machine station such as "Athletic
      2000® Extreme" (Full Station), brand "Atletic Way®" (Porto Alegre - RS) (intensity variation
      2, 5 270 kg in the independent columns); five minutes with cooling muscle relaxation.

      Intensity and Volume The exercises will be distributed in two consecutive phases: Phase and
      Specific Adaptation Phase

      Adaptation of phase (composed of six sessions for both groups):

        -  For groups 1 and 2, will be offered five training sessions with three sets of 12 to 15
           repetitions and intensity of 50% of maximal work capacity (1RM), certain pre indirectly
           Adapting Stage by means of the maximum repetition test (RMs). At this stage, the concern
           is with respect to learning movement and speed of execution (two-second intervals for
           the concentric phase and two seconds for the eccentric phase). To proper adaptation of
           the patient to exercise.

        -  In the 6th training session will be given again the intensity of 1RM through the RMs
           test (Brzycki, 1993), to see change in the maximum force during the adaptation phase and
           determining the training intensity for Specific Phase. This procedure will be repeated
           at the 15th session of the specific period to adjust the intensity and the 30th session
           to verify the change of the maximum force at the end of the intervention period.

      Specific phase (consisting of 30 sessions for both groups):

        -  G1: the first week (three sessions) will be three sets of 10 repetitions for adaptation
           occlusion pressure, and in the other three sessions of repetitions until concentric
           failure, with the two-second intervals for the concentric phase and two seconds for the
           eccentric phase, with 30% of 1RM and intermittent vascular occlusion members (occlusion
           used only during the course of the series, being released blood flow during breaks ).
           Will be provided one-minute intervals between sets and exercises (with the exception of
           the interval between the exercises of upper and lower; being provided at present a
           three-minute break for removal and installation of restrictive cuffs).

        -  G2: will be three series of repetitions to the concentric failure, with cadence of
           movement and intervals similar to the G1. The intensity will be 80% of 1RM without
           occlusion.

        -  The G3 not attend the TF, but will be considered as a control group, taking part only of
           the pre and post intervention assessments.

      In order to increase security for both types of training, HR and BP patients will be
      monitored throughout the training session period (between exercises and series). The FC will
      be monitored by a heart rate monitor brand "Polar FT7® placed before the training session and
      the PA by a stethoscope and an aneroid sphygmomanometer brand" Premium® "that will be placed
      at the end of each series. As the PA will be given between 20 and 30 seconds after completion
      of the last rep. Before any physiological disorder or complaint, the training will be stopped
      and the necessary precautions and measures will be taken.

      Statistical Analysis An exploratory analysis will be used to check the behavior of the data
      by normality test (Shapiro-Wilks) to indicate the statistical analysis of the study
      variables. The values (central tendency) descriptive of the morphological, metabolic and
      immunological characteristics will be presented in the periods (pre- and post-intervention),
      variance between groups and their significance levels. ANOVA (or Friedman test) to two
      factors will be used for comparisons between groups and moments (pre and post) concerned. All
      analyzes will be performed using the SPSS 17.0 software, assuming prior statistical
      significance of p <0.05.
    
  