
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in each of the 2 experimental arms (Arms A and B) to
      control (Arm C).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for Arm C versus each of Arms A and B.

      II. To evaluate best objective response rates per RECIST 1.1 for Arm C versus each of Arms A
      and B.

      III. To estimate toxicity within each of the treatment arms via the Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) criteria.

      IV. To compare outcomes between Arms A and B. V. To compare outcomes by treatment arm within
      subgroups defined by a cutpoint of PD-L1 expression at >= 50%.

      BIOMARKER OBJECTIVE:

      I. To collect and bank tissue and blood for future research studies, including potential
      development of a prognostic and predictive signature for MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in
      combination with chemotherapy versus MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) alone.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Within 6 weeks of disease progression, patients receive pemetrexed IV over 10
      minutes and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
      to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then may
      receive pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21
      days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within
      6 weeks of disease progression, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes, pemetrexed
      IV over 10 minutes, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients then receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes and pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes on
      day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years for pembrolizumab in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity and until to disease progression for pemetrexed.

      ARM C: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes, pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes, and
      carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive
      pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes and pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat
      every 21 days for up to 2 years for pembrolizumab in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity and until to disease progression for pemetrexed.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.
    
  