
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival of women with HER2/neu-positive metastatic
           breast cancer treated with taxane-based chemotherapy in combination with lapatinib
           ditosylate or trastuzumab (Herceptin®).

      Secondary

        -  To compare the overall survival.

        -  To compare the time to CNS metastases at the time of first progression.

        -  To compare the incidence rates of CNS metastases at the time of progression.

        -  To compare the overall objective response rate (complete or partial response), time to
           response, and duration of response in patients with measurable disease at baseline.

        -  To compare the clinical benefit response rate.

        -  To compare the adverse event profile.

        -  To compare the quality of life.

        -  To compare clinical outcomes using biomarker changes in biological samples.

        -  To compare health economics, including healthcare utilization and health utilities.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior
      neoadjuvant/adjuvant anti-HER2/neu-targeted therapy (yes vs no), prior neoadjuvant/adjuvant
      taxane chemotherapy (yes vs no), planned taxane therapy (paclitaxel vs docetaxel), and liver
      metastasis (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive either paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15; treatment with
           paclitaxel repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Alternatively, patients may receive docetaxel IV on day 1;
           treatment with docetaxel repeats every 3 weeks for 8 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients on docetaxel also receive filgrastim
           (G-CSF) according to institutional standard. All patients receive oral lapatinib
           ditosylate once daily during taxane treatment and continue after completion of taxane
           treatment, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15 and trastuzumab (Herceptin®)
           IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Alternatively, patients may
           receive docetaxel IV and trastuzumab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 8
           courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion
           of taxane chemotherapy and trastuzumab, all patients receive trastuzumab alone IV once
           every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue samples are analyzed for ER, PgR, EGFR, CK5/6, Ki67,
      and other molecular biomarkers by tissue microarray and immunohistochemistry.

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30 and a Trial Specific
      Checklist) at baseline, every 12 weeks for 96 weeks, and then every 24 weeks until disease
      progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks post treatment, and
      then every 12 weeks thereafter (counting from the beginning of study therapy).
    
  