
    
      Pregnant women with estimated fetal weight (EFW) < 10th centile between 36+0 and 37+6 weeks
      of gestation (WG) will receive complete ultrasonographic assessment consisting of
      feto-placental Doppler, amniotic fluid measurement and biophysical profile assessment. The
      cases not meeting any exclusion criteria will be offered to participate in this trial. After
      giving their informed consent a blood sample will be drawn in all of them and they will
      undergo randomization into two arms.

        1. Intervention arm: In women allocated to the intervention group, the soluble fms-like
           tyrosine kinase/placental growth factor (sFlt-1/PlGF) result will be revealed to the
           investigators that will act according to the results of sFlt/PlGF:

             -  Fetuses with sFlt-1/PlGF ≥38, elective delivery will be recommended at ≥37 weeks.

             -  Fetuses with sFlt-1/PlGF <38, weekly follow up will be recommended until delivery
                (at ≥40 weeks).

        2. Control arm: In women allocated to the control group, the sFlt-1/PlGF result will be
           blinded to caregivers. Routine Doppler-based clinical care will be used to counsel
           women. Following the Doppler classification:

             -  Fetuses with EFW below the 3rd centile or below the 10th centile accompanied by any
                impaired fetoplacental Doppler, elective delivery will be recommended at at ≥37
                weeks.

             -  Fetuses with EFW above the 3rd centile without any fetoplacental Doppler
                abnormality, elective delivery will be recommended at at ≥40 weeks.

      In both arms, fetuses will receive weekly follow-up from randomization to delivery consisting
      on feto-placental Doppler sFlt-1/PlGF and CTG. If any of the following is present at any
      time, earlier delivery will be recommended:

        -  sFlt-1/PlGF ≥38 (only in the intervention group),

        -  absent or reverse end-diastolic flow at the umbilical artery Doppler or DV PI>95th
           centile

        -  non-reassuring CTG

        -  preeclampsia

        -  diminished fetal movements

        -  biophysical profile ≤ 6 or oligohydramnios (deepest pocket <2 cm).
    
  