
    
      The PORT study is a randomized, open-label, controlled trial using assessor blinding and
      intention-to-treat analysis. To date, no high-quality study has prospectively examined the
      impact of post-operative CR in the Chinese population undergoing cardiac surgery. Thus, the
      PORT trial has been designed to address a cardiac rehabilitation study in line with the
      actual situation in China. The investigators have used the Standard Protocol Items:
      Recommendations for Intervention Trials (SPIRIT) guidelines in reporting this clinical trial.

      Eligible patients are invited by a nurse or a medical doctor to a short consultation on the
      second or third day after surgery, including distribution of written participant information.
      Patients needing time to consider trial participation 3 days before surgery. At enrolment, on
      average 3 to 5 days before surgery, baseline data are collected. The CPET and 6-minute walk
      test are performed as close to discharge as possible, using standard guidelines. In case of
      postoperative complications after enrolment, such as pericardial exudate and atrial
      fibrillation, the patient's case will be handled individually, and the intervention will be
      postponed according to recovery status. Participation in the trial will never delay usual
      medical follow-up. After collection of baseline data, central randomization is conducted by
      telephoning the Copenhagen Trial Unit. The randomization is stratified for age (<60y,
      60-75y，≥75y); left ventricular ejection fraction (<30%, 30%-50%, >50%); eGFR
      (>60ml/min/1.73m2, 30-59ml/min/1.73m2, <30ml/min/1.73m2). Randomization is conducted
      according to a computer-generated allocation sequence with a varying block size, concealed
      from the investigators to avoid selection bias. Thus, neither investigators and patients nor
      relatives can influence to which group the patients are allocated. Personal information about
      potential and enrolled patients will be collected electronically and shared in a database
      accessible only within the project group for those responsible for patient inclusion, in
      order to protect confidentiality before, during and after the trial.

      The investigators are performing a randomized trial stating that the mean in the intervention
      and the control groups are the same as a power of 95%, and a type I error probability of 5%.
      The investigators are assuming the data mentioned above function well with less than 10%
      percent of lost data mostly from follow-up. The inclusion of 500 participants is needed in
      the experimental intervention group, and 500 in the control group (a total of 1000
      participants) to be able to reject the null hypothesis The trial will randomly allocate1000
      patients, 1:1 intervention to control group, using central randomization, and blinded outcome
      assessment and statistical analyses. The intervention consists of 48 weeks of physical
      exercise, and a psycho-educational intervention comprising five consultations, intervention
      versus treatment as usual, with blinded outcome assessment.
    
  