
    
      The systemic vasculitides are a group of uncommon but important diseases whose prognosis has
      improved dramatically with the use of immunosuppressive therapy. However, long-term morbidity
      from recurrent disease flares, low-grade grumbling disease and/or accumulating damage from
      previous disease activity or drug therapy now characterise the long-term outlook for patients
      with vasculitis. There remains major controversy, and incompatibility between the
      ANCA-associated vasculitides: granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's), microscopic
      polyangiitis, and Churg Strauss Syndrome, as well as polyarteritis nodosa in the current
      classification criteria and disease definitions. Importantly, there are no diagnostic
      criteria for any of the primary systemic vasculitides.

      We propose to improve existing classification criteria for the primary systemic vasculitides.
      As a starting point will include the following diseases: granulomatosis with polyangiitis
      (Wegener's) (GPA), microscopic polyangiitis (MPA), Churg Strauss syndrome (CSS),
      polyarteritis nodosa (PAN), giant cell arteritis (GCA) and Takayasu arteritis (TAK).

      We propose to develop and validate classification and diagnostic criteria for primary
      systemic vasculitis using the guidelines suggested by the Classification and Response
      Criteria Subcommittee of the American College of Rheumatology Committee on Quality Measures.
      For all patients, a detailed medical history, physical examination, laboratory tests
      (including ANCA), radiology (including angiography), biopsy results, treatment, Birmingham
      Vasculitis Activity Score (BVAS)version 3, Vasculitis Damage Index (VDI), will be collected.
      The exact list of items to be recorded will be determined by the expert panel at the start of
      the study.

      Classification criteria

      We will study a minimum of 100 patients (new and existing patients) prospectively within each
      currently defined disease category (GPA, CSS, MPA, PAN, GCA, TAK) for the development of the
      classification criteria. We anticipate the need to recruit 130 patients to account for
      misdiagnosis and dropout to achieve the target of 100 with the confirmed reference diagnosis.
      This will include patients that have vasculitis which are assumed to be related to ANCA but
      do not fulfil the current definitions of any of the diseases, and patients with large vessel
      vasculitis which do not fulfil current definition for GCA or TAK. Therefore new categories of
      disease may be created as part of this process and some of the current disease categories may
      be changed to include or exclude certain patients.

      The other diseases will be the controls. The same minimum number of patients will be used to
      validate the criteria. The 1st 100 patients with a formal reference diagnosis that are
      recruited for each disease will be used for development of the classification criteria; the
      next 100 consecutive patients recruited with a confirmed reference diagnosis for each disease
      will be used to validate the criteria. Again we anticipate the need to recruit 130 patients
      to account for misdiagnosis and dropout to achieve the 100 target. The majority of cases
      included will be the same as that used for the development of the diagnostic criteria.

      In the absence of an established gold standard, we propose to develop a reference standard.
      Clinical vignettes using clustering of clinical features and investigations will be
      constructed from actual cases by the steering group. An expert panel will then be asked to
      classify each vignette. Hypothetical changes will then be made to components of each clinical
      vignette and the expert panel will be asked to re classify the case. This process will be
      repeated multiple times in an attempt to determine what key clinical feature influence the
      expert panel to change the diagnosis. Using this data driven process, a construct of
      important clinical features for each disease will be determined by the expert panel. Using
      this new construct, patients will be classified by the expert panel. This will form the
      reference standard against which the new criteria will be tested.

      Diagnostic Criteria

      We propose to develop and validate diagnostic criteria for primary systemic vasculitis. Based
      on current disease categories we will include GPA, MPA, CSS, PAN, GCA and TAK (but this may
      change depending on whether new categories are created or existing categories merged as part
      of the classification criteria component). For the development of diagnostic criteria, we
      will study a minimum of 100 patients (will require approx 130 patients to allow for dropout
      and misdiagnosis) for each disease category. Assuming 6 disease categories, the majority of
      these 780 patients will have already been identified from the classification criteria
      component of the study and will be re used for the development and validation of diagnostic
      criteria. However, for the diagnostic criteria to be clinically relevant we will only include
      patients that are seen at the time of 1st presentation, therefore not all the 780 patients
      recruited for the classification criteria section of the study will be suitable, and we will
      need to recruit additional new patients for each of the types of vasculitis being studied.

      We will use a minimum of 400 context specific controls (patients that don't have vasculitis)
      for AAV and PAN that will cover the spectrum of different disease presentations and severity.
      In addition, we will recruit a minimum of 100 context specific controls for GCA and a similar
      number for TAK. Different control populations are needed for AAV, GCA and TAK as they have
      significantly different clinical presentations. In a similar manner to cases, we will recruit
      30% more patients than the minimum required to account for misdiagnosis and drop out. The
      same minimum number of cases and controls will be needed to validate the criteria. The first
      half of the patients recruited would be used to develop the criteria, and the 2nd half to
      validate the criteria. We will allow inclusion of patients from previously studied
      prospective cohorts that meet all the appropriate inclusion / exclusion criteria and have had
      all the appropriate clinical information and mandatory investigation (to be defined later)
      recorded at time of their first presentation. This is to facilitate the recruitment of
      sufficient patients with PAN, CSS and TAK which are rare conditions.

      Statistical analysis

      We will follow the ACR recommended statistical methods for creating the classification
      criteria. Patients will have been classified into the different types of vasculitis according
      to the proposed EULAR/ACR schema by the expert panel or as a vasculitis mimic. The outcomes
      of interest are binary variables indicating whether or not a patient has been classified as
      having a particular type of vasculitis, such as GPA, MPA, etc. For each outcome,
      multivariable logistic regression modeling will be used to identify predictors of outcome
      based on the list of potential predictor variables described earlier. We will also explore
      the use of Classification And Regression Tree (CART) analysis. This is a tree-building
      technique ideally suited to the generation of clinical decision rules. Unlike conventional
      regression methods, patients are partitioned ("split") into different groups based on an
      exhaustive search of all possible predictor variables. The advantage of CART analysis over
      conventional methods is that it is non-parametric, so no assumptions are made about the
      underlying distribution of predictor variables. CART can handle many hundreds of possible
      predictor variables and can uncover complex interactions between predictors which may be
      difficult or impossible to uncover using traditional multivariate techniques that can suffer
      from model over fitting. In addition, clinicians generally do not think in terms of
      probability but rather in terms of categories, such as low versus high risk. Clinical
      decision rules generated using CART analysis are more likely to make clinical sense, and
      hence more likely to be followed in clinical practice.

      Once the best items are identified, the expert panel will decide on the best short list of
      items to be included in each criteria and also choose the most appropriate decision tree.
      This will provide the best content validity.

      The statistical methods to be used for diagnostic criteria will be very similar to that used
      for the classification criteria. The binary outcome for analysis is whether the person is a
      case or control (without vasculitis). We repeat the analyses for each of each type of
      vasculitis e.g. WG versus controls, then CSS versus controls etc
    
  