
    
      The primary objectives of the study are as follows:

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of SAIT301.

        -  To determine the MTD of SAIT301 and the dose level of SAIT301 where dose limiting
           toxicity (DLT) is observed in subjects with advanced solid tumors or define recommended
           Phase II dose (RP2D) as an alternative to establishing the MTD.

      Methodology: This first in man study will consist of 2 stages. Stage 1 will be a dose
      escalation study with a 3 + 3 design and will evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK profile,
      biomarkers, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of ascending doses of SAIT301 in subjects
      with c-MET + advanced solid tumors and define the MTD (or recommended Phase II dose [RP2D])
      of SAIT301. If the PK trough levels exceed the minimum acceptable trough level for SAIT301
      (25 μg/mL), the Safety Review Committee (SRC) may elect to terminate further dose escalation
      and declare a recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) and schedule as an alternative to establishing
      the MTD. In Stage 2 the MTD (or RP2D) defined in Stage 1 will be administered to additional
      subjects with selected diagnoses, 15 subjects per selected diagnosis, to further evaluate the
      safety and PK profile, and any evidence of anti tumor activity of SAIT301 in these
      populations. The tumor types to be included in Stage 2 will be defined in a protocol
      amendment at a time close to study execution based on information available at that time.

      The treatment period will consist of 21-day cycles. On Day 1 of each cycle, SAIT301 will be
      administered as an intravenous (IV) infusion.

      For dose level 1, the first subject will receive an IV infusion of SAIT301 on Cycle 1 Day 1
      and will be followed for 21 days (Cycle 1).

      If the first subject at dose level 1 experiences a DLT during Cycle 1, 1 additional subject
      will be enrolled and will receive dose level 1, which is 50% of dose level 1. If this subject
      at dose level -1 does not experience a DLT during Cycle 1, 2 more subjects will be enrolled
      at dose level -1.

      If the first subject at dose level 1 does not experience a DLT during Cycle 1, the second and
      third subjects will receive SAIT301 at dose level 1 and will be followed for 21 days (Cycle
      1). At the discretion of the SRC, if the first 3 subjects at dose level 1 do not experience a
      DLT during Cycle 1, dose level 2 may be administered in the next cohort. If one of these
      subjects experiences a DLT, the cohort will be expanded and evaluated as described below.

      For dose level 2 and each subsequent dose level, 3 subjects will receive SAIT301 on Day 1 of
      Cycle 1 and will be followed for 21 days (Cycle 1). If none of the 3 subjects experience a
      DLT, the next dose level can be administered in the next cohort. If 1 or more of the first 3
      subjects experience a DLT, 3 more subjects will receive the same dose level. Dose escalation
      will continue until at least 2 subjects in a cohort of 3 to 6 subjects experience a DLT
      (i.e., ≥33% of subjects with a DLT at that dose level). Considering the possibility of
      relatively low efficacy, each subjects of dose level 1 and 2 can be administered with higher
      dose level after their first administration. This individual dose escalation can be
      determined by Investigators when safety data of the higher dose level are available.

      For both Stage 1 and 2, subjects will continue to receive the assigned dose level of SAIT301
      until unacceptable toxicity, documented progression of disease, another criterion for
      discontinuation is met, or until 4 cycles have been completed.

      Subjects without evidence of tumor progression after 4 cycles may continue on SAIT301
      treatment if there is no evidence of tumor progression for a further 4 cycles (Cycles 5 to
      8). Subjects without evidence of tumor progression at the completion of Cycle 8 will be
      eligible for a follow-on protocol.

      Subjects who experience a DLT will be discontinued from further treatment. At the completion
      of the dose escalation stage, the SRC may for Stage 2 alter the dosing interval between
      cycles based on emerging PK data from lower SAIT301 dose levels.
    
  