
    
      Mitral valve regurgitation (MR) is the second most common valvular heart disease encountered
      in adults. Furthermore, atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia seen
      in clinical practice. Overall, 70% of the patients with severe MR are associated with AF
      independent from etiopathogenesis of MR. AF is clinically divided into three subgroups; 1)
      paroxysmal AF, occurs as episodes and ends spontaneously, 2) persistent AF, episodes
      terminate only with medical or electrical cardioversion, and 3) permanent AF, current medical
      treatments and electrical cardioversion does not restore a normal sinus rhythm. Despite
      intensive electrophysiological studies, the molecular mechanisms and pathways of AF are still
      not fully elucidated.

      Apoptosis which has distinctive morphological and biochemical characteristics is genetically
      regulated, active programmed cell death process. It is known that cardiac morphogenesis
      restore from apoptosis. In addition, apoptosis has an important role in several
      cardiovascular system pathologies. It has been shown that atrial apoptosis causes numerous
      arrhythmias including AF. Likewise, in the pilot study which has been performed by our study
      group, AF is associated with apoptosis by immunohistochemical and DNA fragmentation analysis
      methods.

      The aim of this project is to determine the morphological criteria of apoptosis in atrial
      tissues of patients with AF by using electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Moreover,
      we will investigate the transcriptional profile of AF associated genes by oligonucleotide
      microarray method. The gene expression profiles of patients with AF and degenerative MR will
      be compared with the atrial tissue samples from the patients with degenerative MR who
      preserve normal sinus rhythm which will serve as controls. In summary the apoptotic pathways
      would be analyzed at transcriptomic and genomic level. Besides, the pathways that may
      interfere AF pathophysiology would also be evaluated. The expression profiles of the genes
      primarily verified by quantitative real time RT-PCR will be further confirmed by translation
      of end-result proteins determined with Western blot technique. Thus, brand-new clues about
      physiology of fibrillating atrial cells would be achieved.

      Keywords: Atrial fibrillation, apoptosis, oligonucleotide microarray
    
  