
    
      The implantation of cardiac devices has been one of the common standard procedures in the
      cardiac clinical practice.

      Pacemakers are implanted for patients with symptomatic bradyarrhythmias. Implantable
      cardioverter-defibrillators are implanted in order to avoid sudden cardiac death (SCD) in
      high risk patients such as after myocardial infarction and reduced ejection fraction.

      Cardiac resynchronization therapy was introduced to improve the prognosis in patients with
      reduced EF and left bundle branch block. This therapy demonstrated the efficacy in severe
      heart failure patients.

      Recently a new implantable device has been developed also to improve the prognosis of
      patients with severe heart failure refractory to the maximal therapies at present. This
      barostimulator activates the baro-reflex and results in higher parasympathetic activity and
      better outcome in those patients, in whom the sympathetic function is overactivated.

      In patients with cryptogenic stroke or syncope, the implantable loop recorder enables us to
      monitor the cardiac rhythm continuously for 3 years. With this device, the occult arrhythmias
      can be revealed and lead patients to the adequate therapy.

      Above mentioned device therapies have been developed since 1960s, and the technologies in
      this field are still progressively developing. To catch up these advancements, the quality
      management including the efficacy, safety aspects and the prognosis of the patients should be
      carefully monitored.

      The aim of the present study is, therefore, to demonstrate the efficacy and the safety of
      standard device implantation procedures. The patient specific and procedural factors are
      evaluated to test if those factors predict the prognosis of the patients. These
      identifications will eventually result in the improvement of future patients' care.

      The data of patients who underwent device implantation since 2011 and those who undergo
      device implantation till 2019 will be collected, including the basic demographic data,
      comorbidities, results of laboratory and functional tests. In the latter patients, the
      peri-procedural data and post-procedural data are also prospectively collected.

      The present study is essentially an observational study. The inclusion in this study does not
      affect the decision of device implantation itself. The post-procedural therapies, such as
      medications and device therapies are not due to this registry affected.

      As a sub-project in this registry, biomarkers and thyroid hormone are evaluated to
      investigate the predictable value of those indices.
    
  