
    
      Insulin resistance is highly prevalent with advancing age. Metformin is an insulin sensitizer
      and is currently being extensively investigated for its potential anti-aging effect. However,
      only very limited information is available on metformin effect on brain, which is a major
      organ affected by aging. With appropriate experimental design, the investigators are
      attempting to understand the mechanism of metformin treatment on the physiology of the brain
      as well as cognitive effects. These studies may uncover relationships that could be favorably
      manipulated to decrease health risks associated with insulin sensitivity and the effect on
      the brain.

      The study results may lead to a breakthrough in providing either definitive data or
      sufficiently strong preliminary data regarding metformin's effect on elderly people with
      insulin resistance, on whether the drug enhances brain mitochondrial function in conjunction
      with improvement of brain functional network and cognitive function.

      The overall hypothesis is that metformin administration to elderly people with insulin
      resistance enhances brain mitochondrial function in conjunction with improvement of brain
      function. To test this hypothesis, the investigators will address the following Specific
      Aims:

        1. Determine whether 40 weeks of metformin administration in elderly people (> 65 years)
           with insulin resistance enhances brain mitochondrial ATP production. The investigators
           will measure brain ATP production by 31P-MRS.

        2. Determine the effect of 40 weeks of metformin administration in elderly people (> 65
           years) with insulin resistance on blood flow and functional network in different areas
           of brain. As a secondary outcome, the investigators will measure structural changes in
           white and grey matter areas of brain to determine whether metformin has any effect on
           brain structure.

        3. Determine the effect of 40 weeks of metformin administration in elderly people (> 65
           years) with insulin resistance on cognitive function. The investigators will utilize the
           computerized NIH Toolbox to measure cognitive outcomes.

      The investigators will also associate outcomes from our specific aims with improvements in
      whole-body insulin sensitivity and skeletal muscle mitochondrial function.

      The investigators propose to complete 40 weeks of study in 40 elderly (> 65 years)
      participants with fasting glucose between 100 to 140 mg/dl and abdominal girth of >102 cm in
      men and > 88 cm in women. All participants will be those who are not oral hypoglycemic agents
      including metformin. In this double-blind placebo trial, the investigators will randomly
      assign the participants to placebo or metformin in an escalated dose to reach a maximum of
      2500 mg per day.
    
  