
    
      Hypothesis: an aerobic physical exercise program for at least 3 months, in subjects with
      hemato-oncological diseases that initiate chemotherapy, is effective in preventing systolic
      dysfunction of the left ventricle at the end of chemotherapy and one year.

      It is a double-blind, randomized controlled trial. Blinded for the subject, evaluating
      echocardiographic, and treating hematologist.

      Blocked randomization method stratified by sex: the randomization sequence will be software
      generated and centralized by an investigator independent from assistant physicians and
      echocardiographic evaluator.

      To calculate N sample the investigators took a 15% variation of longitudinal left ventricular
      strain ( clinically significant criteria). The mean and standard deviation of the healthy
      Uruguayan population was taken from an own study (19.6 ± 1.7%); considering alpha error 0.05
      and power 80%, a sample of 16 in each group is required to find significant results. An
      additional 20% was added for possible "drop outs" resulting in a sample size of 19
      subjects/group (N total 38).

      The intervention is a 3 months aerobic exercise program compared with a 3 months flexibility
      exercise program.

      The main outcome is the myocardial longitudinal strain variation. Secondary outcomes are
      related to systolic and diastolic cardiac function, quality of life, cardiac and oncological
      outcomes, and evaluation of adherence.

      Statistical analysis: Qualitative variables will be expressed in absolute and relative
      frequency. Continuous variables will be resumed as mean and standard deviation or median and
      interquartile interval regarding normal distribution. Parametric or non- parametric tests of
      the association will be used regarding test of normality of each continuous outcome and
      Chi-squared test for the association of qualitative variables. Survival analysis will be made
      with Kaplan Meier curves and long rank test.

      The project is registered in Uruguayan interventional trial registration (Ministery of Public
      Health) with the number 812559.
    
  