
    
      Preoperative anxiety is a common problem. It has long been known that surgical operations,
      unconsciousness, the risks of the operation itself, and the pain to be encountered in the
      future can cause a considerable amount of anxiety. Anxiety is associated with an uncertain
      psychological distress, and may vary to minor disturbances to extreme stress. Depending on
      the severity of the anxiety, preoperative anxiety can affect how well the patient understands
      the information about the surgery. In addition, stress factors such as interleukins released
      in the body in anxiety may negatively affect both surgical and post-surgical periods. We want
      to help patients improve their satisfaction by reducing their anxiety levels and ensure they
      have a better surgical experience. In addition, anxiety can also prevent active participation
      in the treatment of the patient during postoperative recovery. Sedatives and other anxiolytic
      agents may be prescribed to prevent this condition. However, these methods can have side
      effects. The physical and psychological effects of essential oils and traditional medicine
      practices as aromatherapy has been used for a long time and has potency to reduce using
      sedatives. Lavender oil is a fragrance that many of us have experienced in growing up at home
      and is also popular today. The lavender plant belongs to the Labitae family and has been used
      for centuries in dried or essential oil form. Lavender obtained from flower heads and leaves
      with vapor distillation. Traditionally, this oil is believed to be beneficial for
      antibacterial, antifungal, muscle relaxant, sedative, antidepressant effects and for burn and
      insect bites. Nowadays it is used for aromatherapy and antibacterial and pleasant fragrance
      material which is used in soaps and cosmetic products. This oil has also been specifically
      investigated and is an essential oil scientifically shown to reduce patient anxiety before
      various surgeries. However, the anxiolytic effect of this essential oil has not been
      investigated for orthognatic surgery patients and there is very few studies investigating
      different concentrations.

      The aim of our study is to investigate whether the different concentration of lavender oil
      diffused in the preoperative environment of orthognathic surgery patients reduces
      preoperative anxiety.
    
  