
    
      The two most common stabilization procedures for patients with recurrent patellar instability
      are reconstruction of the medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL) and medialization of the
      tibial tuberosity. MPFL reconstruction has been growing in popularity, due in large part to
      the technical demands of tibial tuberosity realignment and concerns related to bone healing
      across the osteotomy. In cases of severe trochlear dysplasia and/or a dramatically
      lateralized tibial tuberosity, an MPFL graft tensioned according to current standards may not
      provide sufficient resistance to limit lateral patellar tracking that causes continued
      instability. Increasing graft tension could overload medial patellofemoral cartilage. The
      proposed study is based on the hypothesis that the ability of MPFL reconstruction to
      effectively limit lateral patellar maltracking decreases as trochlear dysplasia and the
      lateral position of the tibial tuberosity increase. Computational dynamic simulation of knee
      function will be performed to establish anatomical standards for which tibial tuberosity
      medicalization is more likely than MPFL reconstruction to limit patellar maltracking without
      overloading patellofemoral cartilage. The first specific aim is to computationally replicate
      lateral patellar maltracking and pressure applied to cartilage during function for patients
      being treated for patellar instability. Multibody dynamics knee models representing patients
      being treated for recurrent patellar instability will be based on 3D reconstructions from MRI
      scans. The modeling technique treats the bones and cartilage surfaces as rigid bodies with
      Hertzian contact determining contact forces and guiding joint motion. Discrete element
      analysis techniques will be used to characterize contact pressure patterns based on overlap
      of cartilage surfaces. Models will be individually validated by comparing output to in vivo
      data. The source of the in vivo data will be computational reconstruction of in vivo function
      based on motions performed by the patients who provide the imaging data for model
      development. The second specific aim will be to computationally characterize the influence of
      surgical stabilization on knee function for individual patients. MPFL reconstruction and
      tibial tuberosity medialization, each with variations in surgical parameters, will be
      simulated. The actual surgical procedures performed on the patients will be simulated, with
      the influence on lateral tracking compared to in vivo results to validate the representation
      of the surgical procedures. The third specific aim will be to compare surgical options as a
      function of patellofemoral anatomy. Variations in patellar tracking and pressure applied to
      cartilage will be compared between MPFL reconstruction and tuberosity medialization. In
      addition, techniques to parametrically alter trochlear dysplasia and tuberosity
      lateralization within the models will be developed. Simulations will be performed while
      varying anatomy to set ranges over which each surgical option can limit patellar maltracking
      without elevating contact pressures. The modeling system will be available for future studies
      addressing additional surgical options and anatomical parameters related to patellar
      instability.
    
  