
    
      Pediatric cardiomyopathy is a heterogeneous disease with high morbidity and mortality in
      which children often present with fulminant disease leading to death or transplant. Highly
      sensitive and specific cardiac biomarkers or panels of biomarkers, representing different
      pathologic mechanisms or pathways, are the least invasive (a particularly important
      consideration in children) and most-cost-effective approach to the early detection of cardiac
      dysfunction. The long-term goal of this project is to identify such biomarkers in children
      with cardiomyopathy. These findings could represent a major advance in determining the most
      appropriate evidence-based clinical care for these children, including when to consider heart
      transplantation.

      The specific aims of this study are:

        1. To determine the ability of established and novel cardiac biomarkers to predict short-
           and long-term outcomes in children with newly diagnosed (incident) dilated
           cardiomyopathy (DCM)

        2. To assess the clinical utility of cardiac biomarkers of collagen metabolism in
           determining the presence of myocardial fibrosis, as established by cardiac MRI (cMRI),
           and left ventricular (LV) diastolic dysfunction, as established by echocardiography in
           both newly diagnosed and existing cases of idiopathic and familial hypertrophic
           cardiomyopathy (HCM) in children.

        3. To determine whether longitudinal changes in cardiac biomarkers are associated with
           worsening heart failure (HF) class in clinically stable children with dilated or
           hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This study will determine the importance of serological
           biomarkers, in conjunction with cardiac imaging, in the early identification of heart
           disease before cardiac remodeling and functional impairment have become irreversible in
           a pediatric population.

      This is a 5-year prospective study of up to 480 children with either primary dilated or
      hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The study will have three components: 1) clinical data
      collection by chart review, 2) biospecimen collection and testing, and 3) centralized review
      and measurement of echocardiograms and cMRIs.
    
  