
    
      Cancer is the leading cause of death in the US and breast cancer is the second most common
      cancer among women in our country. Older women (women 60 and older) presently account for
      nearly half of all new cases of breast cancer. With the "graying of America" and advances in
      treatment for breast cancer, the absolute number of older women undergoing breast cancer
      treatment and surviving their disease will almost double by the year 2030. Systemic hormonal
      and non-hormonal chemotherapy is credited with improvements in survival, and rates of use of
      these modalities have increased substantially over the past two decades. Preliminary work has
      found that older women are interested in chemotherapy even for small returns in survival
      extension. However, cognitive impairment has been demonstrated in most studies of breast
      cancer systemic treatments, but virtually all of this research has been conducted in younger
      populations. Since aging itself is associated with cognitive declines, it seems very likely
      that older women are particularly vulnerable to the adverse cognitive effects of systemic
      therapy; our preliminary work strongly suggests that this is the case, but this has never
      been empirically tested.

      This study will be the first large-scale, prospective, controlled investigation to evaluate
      cognitive changes in older cancer patients and it will provide the basis for the next
      generation of mechanistic, treatment and intervention studies. These will be important since
      data from younger patients cannot be directly translated into the older population.
      Investigators will use the vulnerability model of cancer survivorship to prospectively
      describe the magnitude of systemic therapy effects on cognition in older (age >60 years)
      breast cancer patients over a 60 month period, test associations between cognition and
      quality of life (QOL) and evaluate whether APOE and COMT polymorphisms, inflammatory
      biomarkers and physical activity moderate cognitive outcomes.

      To achieve these objectives, investigators have assembled a multi-disciplinary team of
      oncologists, geriatricians, neurologists, neuro- and cognitive psychologists, behavioral
      scientists and consumers from Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center (LCCC), Memorial
      Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), Moffitt Cancer Center, City of Hope National Medical
      Center (COH), Hackensack University Medical Center (HUMC), Indiana University (IU), Boston
      University (BU), University of California (UCLA), University of South Florida (USF) and their
      satellites, will work together to prospectively enroll 425 newly diagnosed older breast
      cancer cases from LCCC, MSKCC, Moffitt, COH, HUMC, IU and tertiary referral centers with high
      volumes. An equal number of non-cancer friend controls will be recruited. Friend controls
      were chosen since they will be similar to patients in most ways except for exposure to cancer
      and its treatments and they should be motivated to participate. If friends are not available,
      controls matched to cases on age, education, race, and area (DC/NY/FL/CA/NJ/IU) will be
      recruited from the community.

      Investigators will administer baseline neuropsychological testing prior to any systemic
      treatment (or at enrollment for controls), survey women about subjective cognitive function,
      psychosocial factors, QOL and activities of daily living (IADLS). Investigators will abstract
      clinical data from medical records. Investigators will obtain blood or saliva to test for
      APOE and COMT polymorphisms at enrollment; these results will not be provided to participants
      since this is considered a research test). Subjects have the option to provide blood for
      biomarker research and for biobanking. Subjects also have the option of participating in
      physical activity monitoring for one week. Subjects will also have the option to participate
      in neuroimaging. Investigators conduct follow-up interviews and repeat the neuropsychological
      testing and optional neuroimaging 12 months after baseline assessment; this time point
      corresponds to 3-6 months post-treatment among women who receive chemotherapy. Our primary
      cognitive outcome will be change in summary score on tests in the Attention, Working Memory,
      and Psychomotor Speed Domain. In secondary analyses, investigators examine changes in scores
      on 4 additional domains to assess broader cognitive function and examine questions of
      differential impact: Language; Executive Functioning; Learning and Memory; Visual-spatial.

      Data from this study will guide future interventions to better select older women for whom
      the benefits of systemic therapy outweigh the harms and to develop approaches to mitigate
      negative consequences of systemic treatment when it is indicated, improving the quality of
      care for the growing population of older breast cancer patients.
    
  