
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS

      Dietary intake of exogenous antioxidants has been shown to have only a modest impact on
      asthma inception and control. Our work has demonstrated that endogenous antioxidant enzyme
      concentrations are a far stronger predictor of asthma inception compared with dietary
      antioxidant intake and/or serum antioxidant concentrations. This is likely because we
      regulate oxidative stress to a greater extent, not by exogenous intake, but by antioxidant
      enzymes. The milk thistle plant extract, silymarin, has been shown to be an inducer of the
      endogenous antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase and catalase. As reactive oxygen species
      have been implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma and, in atopic asthmatics, endogenous
      superoxide dismutase (SOD) enzyme levels are known to decrease, this supports that increasing
      SOD levels, either by induction of endogenous SOD or replacing a failed endogenous SOD enzyme
      system with a mimetic of the endogenous enzyme, would be beneficial and protective. We
      hypothesize that administration of silymarin, an inducer of antioxidant enzymes, to subjects
      with atopic asthma will increase antioxidant enzyme concentrations, decrease markers of
      oxidative stress, decrease indirect measures of airway inflammation that have been correlated
      with clinical outcomes (exhaled nitric oxide, eNO), and thus improve lung function and
      symptom scores in participants with asthma. To test this hypothesis we will conduct a
      randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled cross-over pilot investigation of an inducer of
      endogenous antioxidant enzymes, silymarin, in asthma. No clinical trial has tested either
      silymarin, or any inducer of antioxidant enzymes in patients with asthma. We therefore aim to
      determine whether this novel treatment is effective, and if both inflammatory and clinical
      endpoints are improved with treatment.

      Specific questions related to modification of endogenous antioxidant enzymes in prevalent
      asthma that this investigation aims to address are whether induction of antioxidant enzymes
      can alter inflammatory markers in asthma that are known to be linked with clinical endpoints,
      lung function and oxidant stress. Measurements of antioxidant enzymes will be made in blood
      samples prior to and following administration of silymarin; measures of systemic oxidative
      stress will be made in urine samples using an assay for isoprostanes, considered the most
      accurate marker of oxidative stress currently available; measures of airway inflammation will
      be measured using exhaled NO, and lung function testing and symptom control will be assessed
      as clinical measures of disease control.

      Aim #1: To confirm that oral administration of silymarin in subjects with atopic asthma
      increases endogenous antioxidant enzymes. We hypothesize that silymarin will increase levels
      of antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase activity, catalase activity, and glutathione
      peroxidase activity in subjects with atopic asthma. To test this hypothesis, we will first
      conduct a dose escalation study to determine optimal dosing, dose effect, and washout on
      airway inflammation, followed by a randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled cross-over
      pilot investigation of supplementation with silymarin in subjects with atopic asthma with
      measurements of antioxidant enzyme activity pre-, during and at the completion of both active
      supplementation and placebo arms of the study.

      Aim #2: To determine whether oral administration of silymarin to subjects with atopic asthma
      alters indirect measures of airway inflammation and systemic oxidative stress. We hypothesize
      that silymarin will decrease airway inflammation and measures of systemic oxidative stress.
      To test this we will assess indirect measures of airway inflammation, including exhaled
      nitric oxide and nitric oxide related products, and measures of systemic oxidant stress,
      urinary isoprostanes pre-, during and at the end of supplementation in the study subjects
      enrolled in this clinical trial.

      Aim #3: To determine whether oral administration of silymarin to subjects with atopic asthma
      improves asthma morbidity, daily symptoms, disease control, disease exacerbations, and
      spirometry. We hypothesize that silymarin will improve asthma control and decrease morbidity.
      Although not powered for these outcomes, to test this hypothesis we will assess and evaluate
      the trends and magnitude of the effect of silymarin on asthma control, spirometry and disease
      exacerbations in the above study subjects.

      Aim #4: To determine feasibility, acceptance of randomization, adherence to therapy,
      acceptance of drug delivery and dosing, ability to maintain blinding, and clinical effect
      size. The intent of this aim is to optimize the overall protocol design and procedures for a
      future larger study.
    
  