
    
      The investigators have randomized 33 antenatal clinics in Stockholm to the intervention
      (receiving information about Mindfetalness) and 30 to routine care. The randomization was
      performed in blocks according to varying yearly volumes of pregnant women and socio-economic
      residential area. Three small clinics, with a total of 85 women listed in 2015, were not
      randomized. Another four clinics, receiving referrals of women with need for specialized
      care, were not randomized either. The recruitment is restricted to the 63 randomized clinics.
      In a pilot study in one antenatal clinic, the intervention has been tested among 102 women. A
      run-in period will start at high-volume antenatal clinics 1 September 2016, one month before
      the investigators start to register the women that will be observed for pregnancy outcome.
      All information, including that of possible effect-modifying and possible confounding
      factors, will be fetched from population-based registers and linked by the personal identify
      number unique for each resident in Sweden. The Swedish Medical Birth Register, Obstetrix, the
      Swedish Educational Register, the Prescribed Drug Register and the National Patient Register
      provide the information. By this design, and the analyses according to the intention-to treat
      principle, attrition and differential misclassification of outcome becomes negligible.
      Non-differential misclassification of the predictor (Mindfetalness or no Mindfetalness) will
      be substantial, diluting the effect estimates. This dilution may be compensated by the large
      size of the trial. Since the unit of randomization is the antenatal clinics residual
      confounding is an issue. The investigators will have, however, information on important
      possible confounding factors, including educational level, age, parity, body mass index,
      country of birth, diabetes mellitus before the pregnancy, certain other pre-pregnancy
      diseases, previous stillbirth, gestational diabetes mellitus and preeclampsia.

      An article describing the study protocol has been published. A pilot study testing
      complicance of mindfetalness has been published. Data concerning outcome (all recruited women
      are followed from gestational week 32+0 until delivery) will be exported from the pregnancy
      register during October 2018.
    
  