
    
      Phase 1 Screening and Baseline Assessment in Clinic Patients will be recruited by their
      physician upon diagnosis and immediately after the Penn State Surgical Oncology team presents
      then with the surgical treatment option. The patient must be able to identify an adult
      caregiver. The caregiver must be someone who is willing to participate in the study for the
      intervention period.

      Once enrolled by the research assistant, the participant will complete an intake
      questionnaire to capture demographic information. The participant will then be given a tablet
      computer, training on how to use it to complete the questionnaires at the beginning and end
      of each day, an activity monitor with materials for securing it, and training on how/where to
      affix it on the leg.

      In this study, we will use educational materials delivered at the initial enrollment session
      and in daily "facts of the day" presented electronically to heighten awareness of (1) the
      risks of insufficient physical activity and excessive sedentary behavior, and (2) the
      expected beneficial outcomes of increased physical activity and reduced sedentary behavior.
      These messages should are designed to increase intentions to engage in physical activity and
      to limit sedentary behavior (motivational phase). Although intentions are necessary for
      behavior change, a recent review of experimental evidence indicates that they are not
      sufficient. In the volitional phase, people translate those intentions into action by
      developing actions plans that specify when/where/how they will act (e.g., after lunch I will
      go on a 30 min walk around my neighborhood) and coping plans that specify how they will
      overcome anticipated barriers to desired behavior (e.g., if it rains after lunch, I will go
      to the mall to walk for 30 min). Repeated planning of this nature is the basis for breaking
      existing behavioral habits and forming newer (and hopefully more adaptive) ones. We have
      already developed an electronic daily planning tool that can be used at the beginning of each
      day to form action and coping plans for the target behaviors in this intervention. In the
      first two months of this project, we will tailor this existing planning tool for the target
      population by drawing from existing and emerging research on strategies for and barriers to
      health behaviors among cancer patients.

      The control group will not receive the educational or daily planning components of the
      motivational intervention. They will, however, engage in self-monitoring by virtue of wearing
      activity monitors and using tablet computers to provide self-report data on their physical
      activity and sedentary behavior.

      After the patient's surgery while staying at the Penn State Hershey Medical Center, the study
      coordinator will provide the caregiver with behavioral goals to help the patient recover from
      his/her surgery, and additional information about how the caregiver can support the patient's
      behavior change efforts.

      Phase 2: Intervention Period

      For the duration of the study, participant will:

        -  Complete beginning-and end -of-day questionnaires on the tablet computer. The beginning
           of day questionnaire will evaluate the patient's intentions and plans for daily physical
           activity. The end of day questionnaire will evaluate actual physical activity completed
           daily as well as the patient's physical, emotional, and social well-being.

        -  Wear and activity monitor

      For participants in the experimental group the research assistant will also:

        -  Deliver the educational intervention for patients and caregivers during their first
           visit after they have signed the consent forms.

        -  Train patients how to use the daily planning tool prior to the beginning -of- day prior
           to the beginning-of-day questionnaires.

      The theoretical basis for our intervention draws from both social-cognitive theory (i.e.,
      Health Action Process Approach [HAPA]) and self-determination theory. The Health Action
      Process Approach differentiates between motivational and volitional phases of action control.
      In the motivational phase, people form intentions or goals for their behavior based on
      factors such as risk awareness and outcome expectations. In this study, we will use
      educational materials delivered at the initial enrollment session and in daily "facts of the
      day" presented electronically to heighten awareness of (1) the risks of insufficient physical
      activity and excessive sedentary behavior, and (2) the expected beneficial outcomes of
      increased physical activity and reduced sedentary behavior. These messages should are
      designed to increase intentions to engage in physical activity and to limit sedentary
      behavior (motivational phase). Although intentions are necessary for behavior change, a
      recent review of experimental evidence indicates that they are not sufficient. In the
      volitional phase, people translate those intentions into action by developing actions plans
      that specify when/where/how they will act (e.g., after lunch I will go on a 30 min walk
      around my neighborhood) and coping plans that specify how they will overcome anticipated
      barriers to desired behavior (e.g., if it rains after lunch, I will go to the mall to walk
      for 30 min). Repeated planning of this nature is the basis for breaking existing behavioral
      habits and forming newer (and hopefully more adaptive) ones. We have already developed an
      electronic daily planning tool that can be used at the beginning of each day to form action
      and coping plans for the target behaviors in this intervention. In the first two months of
      this project, we will tailor this existing planning tool for the target population by drawing
      from existing and emerging research on strategies for and barriers to health behaviors among
      cancer patients.

      Self-determination theory posits that social factors, such as family relationships, can also
      influence motivation. Our recent work using experience sampling methodology and accelerometry
      has shown that spouses' autonomy support for patient physical activity and the spouse's level
      of physical activity were associated with patients' greater daily moderate physical activity
      and steps taken Individuals whose family members or health care providers show autonomy
      support for increasing physical activity and decreasing sedentary behavior are more likely to
      make those changes for reasons that come from within themselves and are freely chosen.
      Because close family members influence the emotional and physical well-being of patients,
      their inclusion in behavioral interventions is logical and has the potential to boost the
      effects of those interventions. In this study, caregivers will be educated about the
      importance of autonomy support in behavior change and strategies for supporting their
      partner's autonomy around physical activity and sedentary behavior change across the stages
      of treatment. This education will be delivered by the nurse coordinator at the initial
      education session following enrollment.

      Collectively, these three components of patient education, daily planning, and caregiver
      education were assembled to strengthen intentions for desired health behaviors (motivational
      phase of behavior change), to increase the likelihood that such intentions will translate
      into action (volitional phase of behavior change), and to provide social resources that
      support behavior change in both of those phases.

      The control group will not receive the educational or daily planning components of the
      motivational intervention. They will, however, engage in self-monitoring by virtue of wearing
      activity monitors and using tablet computers to provide self-report data on their physical
      activity and sedentary behavior.

      During the intervention period the study coordinator will also contact the patient via phone
      weekly to ask questions related to the patients safety including questions about frequency of
      falls mild/moderate/severe, chest pain, dizziness, musculoskeletal soreness or pain, and
      changes in swelling.

      Phase 3: Follow-Up Telephone Call

      The research assistant will call the participant 30, 60, and 90 days after surgery to assess
      the frequency of hospital readmission or emergency room visits since being discharged.

      Phase 4: Follow- Up Questionnaire

      21 days after discharge form the hospital, participants and caregivers will complete a brief
      questionnaire that we will mail to them with a self-addressed stamped envelope.
    
  