
    
      The IVRS is a special telephone system that calls patients and asks questions about symptoms.
      The system can record and report severe symptoms to a patient's doctor by e-mail, fax, or
      pager. All patients are encouraged to report and discuss any severe symptoms to your treating
      clinicians.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Participants in one group will complete symptom surveys on the IVRS.
      Participants in the other group will complete symptom surveys on the IVRS, and (in addition)
      a report of severe symptoms will be sent to their doctor or nurse.

      All participants will initially be asked to complete 2 surveys (before surgery) that will ask
      about any symptoms you may be having and your general quality of life. It will take about 10
      minutes to complete both surveys. You will also be asked to provide some demographic
      information, such as your age, gender, employment status, and ethnicity.

      Before you are discharged from the hospital (after your surgery), a member of the study staff
      will visit you and teach you how to use the IVRS system, and you will then continue
      participation according to your assigned group.

      After you are discharged from the hospital, the system will be set up to call you (all
      participants) twice a week until 1 month after your surgery. It will be automated to ask you
      to rate 14 types of symptoms (such as pain, fatigue, nausea, sleep disturbance and 6 other
      items, such as how your symptoms interfere with your day-to-day activity, mood, and enjoyment
      of life) on a scale from 0 to 10. Zero (0) means that the symptom is not present, and 10
      means that you are experiencing the symptom at its worst. The call should last from 3-5
      minutes. For participants in the other group, a symptom report will also be sent to your
      doctor or nurse.

      One month after surgery, you will have a phone call from a member of the research staff.
      During this phone call, you will be asked to provide additional information about the
      symptoms you experienced and how you managed them.This phone call will last about 20 minutes.
      If you are not able to be reached by research staff the first time you are called, you will
      be called again at another time between the 5th and 6th week after your surgery.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Up to 130 patients (65 in each group) will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  