
    
      This study is conducted at the inpatient wards of National Cheng Kung University Hospital, a
      tertiary health care center in Tainan, Taiwan. All participants give written informed consent
      before enrollment. Each enrolled patient receives an 80 mg loading dose of intravenous
      esomeprazole (Nexium®, AstraZeneca AB, Södertälje, Sweden) immediately after achieving
      haemostasis by gastroscopy. Patients then receive a 3-day continuous high-dose (8 mg/h)
      esomeprazole infusion and then receive 40 mg oral esomeprazole twice daily for 11 days and
      once daily for following 98 days. The total duration of intravenous and oral esomeprazole is
      16 weeks. After gastroscopy to confirm enrollment eligibility and ulcer healed, all patients
      are assessed using the Rockall risk scoring system at the primary endoscopy. Patients with
      Rockall scores ≥ 6 are randomized into the double-dose (D) group or the single-dose (S) group
      following simple randomization procedures with a 1:1 allocation ratio according to the result
      by the investigator who draw an envelope from a large box of sealed envelopes each containing
      a written code designating the D group or the S group. Patients in the D group and S groups
      receive 20 mg oral esomeprazole twice daily or once daily for 36 weeks, respectively. The
      cohort control group includes patients from a previous study who had peptic ulcer bleeding
      and Rockall scores ≥ 6 but who did not receive esomeprazole or other proton pump inhibitors
      after 16-week proton pump inhibitor treatment.

      One investigator generates the random allocation sequence and enrolls the participants and a
      different investigator assigns participants to interventions. The endoscopists and staff who
      check hemoglobin levels, hemodynamic status, melena, hematochezia or the aspirates through a
      nasogastric tube are blinded to the study group allocation. All enrolled patients are
      included in the intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis, but patients who are lost to follow-up,
      discontinued intervention because of adverse events, have a protocol violation or die are
      excluded from the per-protocol (PP) analysis of the primary endpoint.

      The range of co-morbidities evaluated by the Rockall scores include disseminated malignant
      diseases, liver disease (liver cirrhosis, Child-Pugh A, B, or C), renal disease (end-stage
      renal disease, chronic kidney disease or acute kidney injury with estimated glomerular
      filtration rates <30 ml/min [a score of 3 for co-morbidity], or between 30 ml/min and 60
      ml/min [a score of 2 for co-morbidity]), heart disease (congestive heart failure, New York
      Heart Association Function I to IV or coronary artery disease). Other serious co-morbidities
      include lung disease (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary tuberculosis,
      pneumonia or empyema), rheumatoid arthritis, sepsis, new onset cerebrovascular accident or
      recent history of any major surgery (on the thorax, abdomen, central nervous system, long
      bones or spinal bones) requiring general anesthesia within 14 days before bleeding.

      The estimated rebleeding rate within 12 months in the cohort control group is about 13.4%
      based on the previous study. The investigators want to be able to detect a difference between
      the cohort control group and the D group, in which the rebleeding rate is proposed to be
      2.5%, equal to patients with H. pylori ulcers after eradication. With a two-side α value of
      0.05 and power of 80% (β=0.20), the total number of patients required in each group is 96.
      The investigators use a nominal 0.05 rate of the p value. Data related to baseline
      characteristics and end points are evaluated using the Student t test, Pearson's χ2 test or
      Fisher's exact test and the Mann-Whitney U test. In the survival analysis, the log-rank test
      is used to compare the Kaplan-Meier curves among the three study groups. All tests are
      two-tailed and p values of less than 0.05 indicate significant differences.
    
  