
    
      Patients who have cancer of the bone marrow (leukemia) or lymph gland (lymphomas) are being
      asked to take part in this study. This study uses a new chemotherapy regimen and matched
      volunteer stem cell transplant to treat patients with cancers of this kind.

      High dose chemotherapy, followed by a transplant of stem cells collected from either bone
      marrow (BMT) or peripheral blood of an HLA (tissue type) matched unrelated donor, offers a
      potential cure for several serious blood diseases including acute and chronic leukemia,
      myelodysplastic syndrome and lymphoma.

      However, the success of allogeneic (unrelated volunteer matched donor) transplant is limited
      by treatment related illness, death, and relapse in patients with refractory (resistant)
      disease and/or advanced age (older than 40 years).

      Patients being sought for this study do not have an HLA-matched relative to donate stem cell;
      however, through The National Marrow Donor Program or International Registries, an
      HLA-matched unrelated donor has been found to donate stem cells. Preliminary data shows that
      the outcome is comparable between bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cell
      transplantations, and donor preference will determine which type of cells the patient
      receives.

      To carry out an unrelated transplant, a normal person with similar HLA type must be available
      to donate cells. The patient must be prepared to accept the donor cells by decreasing the
      body's immune systems. In addition, the malignant (cancerous) cells must be destroyed to
      allow growth and repopulation of healthy donor cells. This is usually done by giving total
      body irradiation and chemotherapy, which is associated with severe side effects in patients
      over age 40.

      In other studies, it has been found that treating the patient with two anticancer drugs,
      Busulfan and Cyclophosphamide, without total body irradiation, is safe and sufficiently
      immunosuppressive. High dose Busulfan and Cyclophosphamide are frequently used in combination
      prior to matched related bone marrow transplant in case of acute leukemia, myelodysplastic
      syndrome (MDS), Hodgkin's disease (HD), and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Fludarabine
      (another anticancer drug) suppresses the immune system and has strong anticancer effect
      against chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Researchers are
      studying a new chemotherapy regimen that includes fludarabine, along with busulfan and
      cyclophosphamide, to provide more immunosuppression and anti-cancer effect without increasing
      the chemotherapy related toxicity in patients with CML, acute leukemia and MDS, CLL, NHL, and
      HD.

      The purposes of this study are: 1) to decrease the side effects due to the chemotherapy used
      to treat the bone marrow; and 2) to increase the number of tumor cells killed. There will be
      up to 55 patients enrolled in this study at Emory University. The expected duration of each
      subject's participation in this study will be for two years.
    
  