
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether vitamin E every other day reduces the risk of developing prostate
           cancer in older healthy male physicians.

        -  To determine whether daily vitamin C and/or a multivitamin reduces the risk of total
           cancer in these participants.

        -  To determine whether vitamin E every other day, vitamin C daily, or a multivitamin daily
           reduces the risk of major cardiovascular events in these participants.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether vitamin E and/or multivitamins reduce the risk of developing total
           cancer, colon cancer, and colon polyps in these participants.

        -  To determine whether vitamin E, vitamin C, or multivitamins reduce the risk of
           myocardial infarction and stroke in these participants.

        -  To determine whether vitamin E, vitamin C, or multivitamins reduce the risk of
           age-related macular degeneration or cataract in these participants.

        -  To determine whether vitamin E, vitamin C, or multivitamins reduce the risk of early
           cognitive decline in participants aged 65 and over.

      The Physicians' Health Study II was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, factorial
      trial that began in 1997 and ended in 2011. It was designed to test four supplements -- (1)
      alternate-day vitamin E (400 international units of synthetic alpha-tocopherol) or its
      placebo; (2) daily vitamin C (500 mg synthetic ascorbic acid) or its placebo; (3) a daily
      multivitamin (Centrum Silver) or its placebo; and (4) alternate-day beta carotene (50 mg
      Lurotin) or its placebo -- in the prevention of cancer, cardiovascular disease, eye disease,
      and early cognitive decline among 14,641 male physicians aged 50 years or older. Participants
      were randomly assigned in a 2x2x2x2 factorial trial to receive combinations of the four
      active supplements or their placebos. Pills and/or packaging were provided by BASF
      Corporation, Pfizer (formerly Wyeth, American Home Products, and Lederle), and DSM
      Nutritional Products (formerly Roche Vitamins).

      The beta-carotene component was discontinued on March 8, 2003; the vitamin E and vitamin C
      components ended as scheduled on August 31, 2007; and the multivitamin component ended on
      June 1, 2011.
    
  