
    
      We currently perform both spiral enteroscopy (SE) and single balloon enteroscopy (SBE) in
      Johns Hopkins Hospital. The decision as to which procedure to use is determined by the
      endoscopist performing the procedure, with currently approximately 60% being performed with
      SE and 40% performed with SBE. We wish to perform a prospective, randomised trial, to assess
      the differences between these two procedures. The question of what differences there are
      between these two techniques, in terms of depth of insertion, diagnostic and therapeutic
      yields, time required for the procedure and the sedation requirements, are important
      questions to answer, and depending on the results, would affect the investigators approach to
      patients with small bowel disease.

      The small bowel is poorly suited to standard endoscopy techniques due to its anatomical
      differences from the colon and the upper gastrointestinal tract. The small bowel has an
      average length of 6.7 m, with a free mesentery that resists standard "push to advance"
      endoscopy techniques. New developments in overtubes, which are placed over an enteroscope,
      have revolutionized the investigators ability to deeply intubate the small bowel. The first
      of these new techniques to be described was double balloon enteroscopy (DBE) (Fujinon, Wayne,
      NJ) in 2001. The next development was single balloon enteroscopy (SBE) (Olympus America,
      Center Valley PA), an iteration of DBE that simply forgoes the second balloon at the tip of
      the endoscope, and also allows for deep enteroscopy which has been available in the United
      States since 2007. Spiral enteroscopy (SE) was introduced soon after SBE in 2007, and
      consists of a spiral overtube (Spirus Medical Inc., Stoughton, Massachusetts, USA) which
      pleats the small bowel onto the enteroscope.

      DBE has the largest amount of published data, with more than 1370 patients and 2591
      examinations. Data regarding the efficacy of SBE and SE are more limited than DBE. SBE and SE
      have only been available in the United States since 2007, and therefore have less published
      data than DBE. There are two published series of SBE, with several more publications in
      abstract form. A total of 362 cases have been reported, with diagnostic yields ranging
      between 30% to 76%, with therapeutic intervention performed in up to 55%. There are 6 reports
      of SE procedures, with one large series of 1750 cases documenting side effects of SE. The
      overall diagnostic yield ranged from 24% to 51% with similar treatment success rates. SBE has
      been compared with DBE in patients with suspected small bowel disease in three studies
      reported in abstract form. SE has been compared with push enteroscopy and DBE, however there
      have been no studies comparing SBE and SE.

      The risks associated with augmented enteroscopy (DBE, SBE, SE) are similar to those
      associated with routine endoscopy and include sedation-related complications, aspiration
      pneumonia, and respiratory infections. In addition, there have been complications
      specifically related to augmented enteroscopy. Abdominal discomfort can occur due to trapped
      gas. DBE has been associated with intestinal cramping in 2% to 20% of patients. The use of
      CO2, which the investigators routinely use in Johns Hopkins, decreases post procedure
      abdominal cramping. Minor small bowel contusion can occur. The incidence of gastrointestinal
      haemorrhage does not seem to be increased in augmented enteroscopy compared with standard
      endoscopic procedures. Pancreatitis occurred in 6 (0.2%) of cases reported in a multicenter
      United States study of DBE. There have been no reports of pancreatitis associated with SBE or
      SE enteroscopy. Intestinal perforation is a rare but serious event. Perforation has been
      reported in 5 (0.2%) of 2591 DBE examinations. In SBE, one perforation was reported in a
      series of 37 patients, with a case report of a perforation in a patients with jejuna
      ulceration from metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown primary. A mucosal tear, requiring
      endoscopic clip esophageal or gastric perforation, severe bleeding requiring transfusion,
      cardio-pulmonary arrests or deaths. There were 7 (0.4%) severe complications. Six were small
      bowel perforations (0.34%).

      In Johns Hopkins there has been one perforation using SBE and one using SE one of which
      occurred in a patient with small bowel Crohns disease (SBE) and the other in a patient with
      altered anatomy (SE) (personal communication Dr PI Okolo). This latter group of patients are
      known to be at increased risk of perforation during endoscopic procedures and will be
      excluded from this study. There have had no other serious complication associated with either
      SE or SBE enteroscopy. All of the individuals who will participate in this study are already
      scheduled to have an augmented enteroscopy. Therefore, there is no additional risk incurred
      by the patient by participating in this study, over and above the risk of an augmented
      enteroscopy which is part of the routine clinical care for these patients.
    
  