
    
      Emerging evidence demonstrates that mental health literacy is a critical avenue for primary
      prevention of mental disorders as it increases awareness and recognition, decreases stigma,
      and encourages help-seeking. The largest mental health literacy study was conducted in
      Scandinavia and found that the combination of two lectures, three hours of role-play and an
      informational booklet reduced suicidal ideation and attempts after one year by approximately
      half in a cohort of more than 2,000 teenagers. The mental health literacy curriculum was the
      only intervention that was significantly better than a control group. The intervention has
      been piloted in more than 2,000 students in Ontario. The intervention is a 'literature study'
      taught over approximately 3 months in which a class reads the book and learns how distress
      and depression can manifest. The investigators have conducted two studies - a simple before
      and after design with 78 participants and a controlled trial with 200 participants who
      received the intervention and 230 wait list controls. Both indicated an intervention effect
      on suicide scores as well as improvements on a scale of symptoms of borderline personality
      disorder (e.g. emotional dysregulation), and depression and anxiety scores). These early
      findings suggest that this intervention may be a unique way of preventing suicidal ideation
      and attempts, and improving the mental health of youth across Canada and beyond.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine whether the Harry Potter-based cognitive
      behavioural therapy curriculum diminishes suicidality (ideation and attempts) in students who
      receive it.

      The primary hypothesis is that students receiving the curriculum will have a clinically and
      statistically significant reduction in rates (≥50%) on a composite measure of a)
      self-reported suicidal ideation, and b) self-reported suicide attempts.

      Furthermore, the secondary objectives for the study are:

        1. To determine whether the Harry Potter-based cognitive behavioural therapy curriculum
           decreases depression and anxiety symptoms and improves wellbeing immediately following
           the curriculum and approximately 6 months later.

        2. To determine student and teacher satisfaction with the Harry Potter-based cognitive
           behavioural therapy curriculum

        3. To create a website which achieves sufficient youth and teacher acceptability and 'youth
           friendliness' for widespread implementation

      The secondary hypotheses are as follows:

        1. Students receiving the curriculum will have a clinically and statistically significant
           reduction (≥50%) in their presentation to emergency services for self-harm/suicide
           attempts according to Ontario health administrative data (held in the Institute for
           Clinical Evaluative Services (ICES) repository). This is only applicable to research
           participants in Ontario.

        2. Students receiving the curriculum will have clinically meaningful, significantly lower
           scores (≥25%) on validated instruments for youth depression and anxiety (the Revised
           Children's Anxiety and Depression Scale - RCADS), and wellbeing (the Life Problems
           Inventory - LPI) immediately after receiving it. Moreover, students will report a
           significant improvement (≥25%) on the Coping Scale for Children and Youth (CSCY)
           questionnaire.

        3. Students in the first cohort (students who receive the curriculum in the fall semester)
           will have clinically meaningful, significantly lower scores (≥25%) on validated
           instruments for youth depression and anxiety (the Revised Children's Anxiety and
           Depression Scale - RCADS) and wellbeing (the Life Problems Inventory - LPI; Coping Scale
           for Children and Youth - CSCY) than the second cohort (students who receive the
           curriculum in the winter semester) at the mid-year point, but the two groups will not
           differ statistically at year end (i.e. the second cohort will catch up to the first).

        4. There will be no significant difference between mid-year and year-end measures for the
           first cohort (i.e., gains will persist at approximately 6 months).

        5. Student and teacher scores will both be high (mean ≥6 on 7-point Likert scales) on
           satisfaction questionnaires asking the degree to which they think they/their students
           benefited from the intervention, enjoyed the intervention, and would recommend it to
           others.

        6. Student focus group data will reflect that students have experienced a qualitative
           improvement in wellbeing, knowledge of mental disorders and resilience following the
           curriculum.

        7. Teacher interview data will reflect that teachers found the curriculum easy to implement
           and useful for imparting both mental health and general literacy to their students.

        8. Students and teachers receiving the curriculum will achieve a mean score of ≥4 per
           question on a 5-point Likert-based questionnaire assessing acceptability and
           satisfaction as well as positive qualitative feedback.
    
  