
    
      1. Objective 1.1.Primary Objective To estimate the prevalence of clinical diagnosed
           familial hypercholesterolemia, as well as the clinical characteristics and current
           treatment, with applying China recent issued FH screening protocol in pilot outpatient
           department of China.

           1.2.Secondary Objective To describe parameters related to clinical management of
           diagnosed FH, including patient demographics and characteristics, LDL-C and triglyceride
           concentrations, use of lipid modifying therapies, and outcomes over time.

           1.3.Exploratory To describe how China FH screening protocol fits in the practice when
           compared with DLCN.

           To explore the multi-disciplinary practical pattern of FH patient management

        2. Endpoint(s)/Outcome(s) Assessment 2.1.Endpoint(s) 2.1.1.Primary Endpoint The screening
           out rate of clinical diagnosed familial hypercholesterolemia, with applying China recent
           issued FH screening protocol in subjects with LDL-C>4.65mmol/L if statin naïve or
           LDL-C>3.7mmol/L if on statin treatment in pilot outpatient department of China.

           The clinical characteristics of clinical diagnosed FH patients(including HoFH and HeFH),
           including: demography, medical history, family history, sign and symptoms, lab testing
           and cardiovascular imagine result.

           The pharmaceutical therapy for clinical diagnosed FH patients (including HoFH and HeFH),
           including the type of medication, proportion for each medication, dosage and treatment
           duration.

           2.1.2.Secondary Endpoint LDL-C level during the follow up period The pharmaceutical
           therapy for clinical diagnosed FH patients (including HoFH and HeFH), including the type
           of medication, proportion for each medication, dosage and treatment duration during the
           follow up period.

           Achievement of 2016 China guideline defined target LDL-C levels; <2.6mmol/L (high risk),
           <1.8mmol/L (very high risk) Incidence of cardiovascular event (CV death, all-cause
           mortality, non-fatal MI, non-fatal stroke).

           2.1.3Exploratory Endpoint The difference of FH screening out rate between China criteria
           and DLCN. 2.2.Study Parameters 2.2.1.Baseline Data Collection Demography
           data:Age,Gender, Personal history:Premature CHD history of the subject (male: <55yrs,
           female: <65yrs),Premature PAD or cerebral vascular disease of the subject (male: <55yrs,
           female: <65yrs),Smoking, Medical history:PAD,DM,Hypertension,Heart
           Failure,Stroke,MI,CABG/PTCA/PCI,CKD Family history:Premature CHD within 2nd grade
           relatives (1st grade relatives, male: <55yrs, female: <60yrs; 2nd grade relatives, male:
           <50yrs, female: <55yrs),FH diagnosis within 2nd grade relatives Physical
           exam:Height,Weight,BMI,Corneal Arcus,Xanthoma,Achilles tender thickness Lab:LDL-C,HDL-C
           ,TC,TG,Lp(a),ALT,AST,CK,Glucose,Creatinine,Urea nitrogen,Inflammatory biomarker,
           including hs CRP ECG Cardiovascular imagine:CAG(optional),Myocardial radionuclide
           imaging (optional),UCG(annually),Carotid plaques measure(annually) Lipid modification
           therapy:Statin(type, dosage),Non-Statin(type, dosage) Apheresis 2.2.2Study Follow Up
           Period Data Collection Lab:LDL-C,HDL-C,TC,TG,Lp(a),ALT,AST,CK,Glucose,Creatinine,Urea
           nitrogen Inflammatory biomarker, including hs CRP Cardiovascular
           imagine:CAG(optional),Myocardial radionuclide imaging (optional),UCG(annually),Carotid
           plaques(annually) Lipid modification therapy:Statin(type, dosage),Non-Statin(type,
           dosage) Apheresis; Achievement of 2016 China guideline defined target LDL-C levels;
           <2.6mmol/L (high risk), <1.8mmol/L (very high risk); Incidence of cardiovascular event
           (CV death, all-cause mortality, non-fatal MI, non-fatal stroke).

        3. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS 3.1.Statistical Inference No formal hypothesis will be tested in
           this study. This study will estimate the prevalence of Familial Hypercholesterolemia and
           the related 95% confidence interval in the China outpatient population in pilot
           hospitals.

           3.2.Sample Size Considerations Based on initial feasibility analyses,revealed an
           approximate annual patient population in cardiology outpatients is
           1,000pts/month(50pts/day*20days) with lipid profile measured to be screened. It is
           estimated that about 3000 patients out of cardiology department will measure their lipid
           profile in the clinical laboratory, the working days for the outpatient department is
           defined as 10mon, then total patients number in the outpatient will be about
           4000pts/mon/center*10mon=40,000/center/yr. The prevalence of suspected patients based on
           LDL-C level is 0.47%, then 188 clinical diagnosed patients/center/year to be transited
           to the follow up period. Based on the planned site number of 6, total patient to be
           enrolled to this study will be 1128. Based on the prevalence of HoFH is near
           1/160,000~1/300,000, it is estimated that 1~2 HoFH patients will be identified from this
           patient population.

           3.3.Planned Analyses All summaries of the data will be descriptive in nature. For
           categorical variables (including the primary outcome measure), the frequency and
           percentage, with 95% confidence interval, will be given. Summary statistics for
           continuous variables will include the number of subjects, mean, median, standard
           deviation or standard error, 25th percentile (Q1), 75th percentile (Q3), minimum, and
           maximum. The outcomes over time data will be evaluated using time to event analyses/Cox
           proportional hazards models. All planned analyses will be descriptive. SAS version 9.2
           (or a newer version) will be used for all Data Management and Statistical Analyses.

           3.3.1.Description of Study Enrollment All subjects enrolled into the study who meet the
           inclusion criteria will be included in the full analysis set and will be included in all
           summaries and analyses.

           3.3.2.Description of Subject/Patient Characteristics Clinical characteristics of
           subjects in the study will be summarized. Measurements such as age will be based on the
           status at the start of the observation period for the subject, and clinical
           characteristics such as CV events will be captured throughout the 3.3.3.Primary Analysis
           Primary Objective

           -To estimate the screen out rate of clinical diagnosed familial hypercholesterolemia in
           outpatient department of China.

           Prevalence: Prevalence of suspected FH will be estimated using the patients' data who
           visited the outpatients department in pilot hospitals and with measurable LDL-C data and
           validated by China criteria and DNCL respectively. Prevalence will be reported annually
           for the years 2017-2019.

           -To describe parameters related to clinical management of diagnosed FH, including
           patient demographics and characteristics, LDL-C and triglyceride concentrations, use of
           lipid modifying therapies, and outcomes over time.

           Patient demographics: Analyses of prevalence will be estimated for the following
           demographic characteristics: age, gender, and region.

           Patient clinical characteristics: The proportion of patients, calculated as percentage
           of patients, for each of the following: BMI (obese/not obese), diabetes, CKD,
           hypertension, any CVD history / number of CV events, smoking status (current /
           previous). These will be measured both at baseline (time of FH diagnosis).

           Current use of lipid-modifying therapies over time: Proportion of patients using LMT.
           Analyses by type, dose and frequency will analysis with description statistical method.

           Secondary Objective

             -  LDL-C concentrations over time. The LDL-C level will be follow up to the end of
                study.

             -  Use of lipid-modifying therapies over time。 Proportion of patients using LMT.
                Analyses by type, dose and frequency, and the proportion of patients on a
                high-intensity statin regime and with high LDL-C will be performed.

             -  Proportion of patients within and at distance from 2016 China guideline's LDL-C
                target.

           This will be calculated as the percentage of patients within 2016 China guideline LDL-C
           target (<2.6 mmol/L, <1.8 mmol/L). LDL-C measurements will be followed up to the end of
           study.

           -Incidence of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events The proportion of patients
           having a fatal or non-fatal cardiovascular event will be calculated. Since there may be
           competing risks with fatal / non-fatal events, analyses will be performed separately,
           and in combination. All events occurring from date of enrollment of the study onwards
           will be included.

           3.3.4.General Considerations The first primary objective and all secondary objectives
           will be addressed through descriptive statistics. The CV outcome will be evaluated using
           time to event analyses.

           3.3.5.Missing or Incomplete Data and Lost to Follow-up There are two types of data in
           this study. For different data types, we will apply different methods to handle missing
           data.

           For Medical records abstraction:

           The missing age values will be imputed as the overall median to avoid case-wise
           deletions. For some of the patients, certain physiological indicators were not measured
           during hospitalization. These variables will be treated as a specific "unmeasured"
           subgroup with clinical significance because not measured is not equal to "missing" and
           may influence the outcomes. If we fit these variables as continuous in the models, we
           could only arbitrarily consider these "unmeasured" as missing value as inappropriate.
           Imputation also has limitations. Thus, to keep the models consistent with the features
           of data, we will transform certain continuous variables into categorical ones, created
           dummy variables accordingly, and including a specific category to indicate unmeasured.

           For Baseline and follow-up questionnaires:

           Site investigators completed the questionnaires in an electronic data capture program on
           a tablet computer (which allows real-time logic checks to ensure the accuracy and
           completeness of data). All questions were required to be answered, except those that
           were not applicable. There were options of "refuse to answer" and "don't know" for each
           question.

        4. SAFETY DATA COLLECTION, RECORDING, AND REPORTING Due to the non-interventional nature of
           this study, no pro-active safety data collection will take place. Only spontaneously
           mentioned safety events and in-hospital clinical events will be collected in this study,
           and reported follow by local regulation.
    
  