
    
      This is a Phase 2, open label study of the safety of IV Ribavirin treatment in individuals
      with HFRS admitted to the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, Germany. The study will also
      monitor the morbidity and mortality of subjects with HFRS who are treated with IV Ribavirin.
      The study population will include all subjects with a probable or suspected clinical
      diagnosis of HFRS and meet entry criteria with a 7 day course of IV Ribavirin and a 28-60 day
      follow up period after the first dose of Ribavirin. In addition to treatment with Ribavirin,
      all subjects will be given standard supportive and symptomatic care as determined by the
      clinical judgment of the Principal Investigator, attending physicians or consultants who
      manage the subject's care at LRMC. Up to 50 subjects could potentially be enrolled in a five
      year time period with an expected accrual of 0-5 subjects per year. Specific
      inclusion/exclusion/relative exclusion criteria are a part of the protocol. Safety procedures
      required during 7 days of treatment include continuous cardiac monitoring, daily lab work,
      physical exams and vital signs.

      Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) is caused by viruses in the genus Hantavirus of
      the family Bunyaviridae. There are four known Hantaviruses that cause HFRS: Hantaan, Seoul,
      Puumala, and Dobrava viruses. Hantaan virus is a spherical, enveloped virus and has been
      designated the prototype for the Hantavirus genus family Bunyaviridae (Schmaljohn, 1983).
      Serologic, morphologic, and biochemical studies have established that this virus is related
      to Puumala virus, Seoul virus, and other Hantaviruses (Schmaljohn, 1985). HFRS is acquired by
      contact with chronically infected rodent hosts, most commonly from inhalation of infected
      rodent excreta (urine, saliva, and feces) but also reported from rodent bites. In Europe,
      HFRS is caused mainly by Puumala and Dobrava viruses, with Puumala virus responsible for most
      cases. Puumala virus, the cause of nephropathia epidemica (NE) in Scandinavia (also France,
      Germany, Belgium, Scotland, and Italy), is transmitted by Clethrionomys glareolus (mole)
      [HFRS manual Niklasson]. HFRS from Puumala virus is associated with a mortality rate of
      <0.5%. Oliguria is reported in 40% of cases, and severe renal insufficiency is generally
      observed in 3 to 9% cases [HFRS manual Lahdevirta]. However, a report from HFRS due to
      Puumala virus in Germany was associated with severe renal disease necessitating dialysis in
      4/15 (26% cases) [Rasche et al, 2004)].

      Dobrava virus, the cause of a severe form of HFRS mainly in the Balkan Peninsula (Hungary,
      Bulgaria, Albania, the former Yugoslavia, and Greece) but also in Russia in areas west of the
      Ural Mountains, is transmitted by the rodent host Apodemus flavicollis (yellow-necked field
      mouse), and associated with a mortality rate of 5%-35% {HFRS manual Tatjana; HFRS manual
      Tkachenko]. Less data is available on Dobrava virus, but the morbidity and mortality is
      expected to be similar to HFRS caused by Hantaan virus, or perhaps more severe. In one study
      of HFRS in Greece felt to be secondary to Dobrava virus, 37% cases required dialysis and 15%
      cases resulted in death (Antoniadis et al, 1989).

      Disease from Dobrava virus has a similar severity and presentation as disease from Hantaan
      virus. However, HFRS from Puumala has a lower death rate and dialysis rate and the risk of IV
      Ribavirin in treatment for HFRS, in particular, must be measured against the benefit of
      treatment. The decision to start IND IV Ribavirin will be based on whether the HFRS is likely
      to be Dobrava virus versus Puumala virus based on epidemiological data of past or ongoing
      outbreaks of HFRS in that geographical area. Observation with supportive care without the use
      of IND IV Ribavirin is the generally recommended medical management of HFRS from Puumala
      virus due to the lower morbidity and mortality associated with HFRS from Puumala virus.

      While most cases in HFRS in Europe will be from Puumala and Dobrava viruses, the experience
      with IV ribavirin has been mainly with HFRS caused by Hantaan and Seoul viruses in Southeast
      Asia. All hantaviruses have in vitro sensitivity to IV ribavirin. The data for IV ribavirin
      for HFRS caused by hantaviruses in Europe is based on the experience with HFRS from Hantaan
      and Seoul viruses.

      Ribavirin is licensed in the United States in aerosol form for the treatment of severe lower
      respiratory tract infection in children and in the oral formulation in combination with
      recombinant interferon alpha for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection. The
      intravenous formulation of ribavirin is not licensed in the U.S. IV Ribavirin for the
      treatment of HFRS is used under IND 16,666.
    
  