
    
      The foundation of COPD therapy is to combine inhaled therapy to optimize benefits as it was
      done several years ago by associating short-acting β2-agonists and muscarinic antagonist. The
      recent availability of once-daily LABA/LAMA fixed combination products makes this therapeutic
      strategy even more appealing and appears as a promising treatment option in COPD. One
      relevant question regarding these new LABA/LAMA combinations is whether they provide superior
      benefits compared to a single agent. Once-daily LABA/LAMA fixed combinations consistently
      improves lung function compared to monotherapy. The key question is whether they provide
      superior efficacy to monotherapy on patient's oriented clinical outcomes, beyond lung
      function improvement. In regards, once-daily LABA/LAMA fixed combinations can reduce
      exacerbation rate and perception of dyspnea, further to what can be obtained with the
      monocomponents. Once-daily LABA/LAMA fixed combinations also improve exercise tolerance
      compared to placebo but whether they provide additional benefit over monotherapy is
      uncertain.

      Dyspnea is the most troublesome symptom in COPD and it is felt that the main mechanism
      through which bronchodilators improve exercise tolerance is by reducing dyspnea. As such,
      dyspnea measurement appears a valid surrogate of exercise tolerance. One advantage of dyspnea
      measurement over the measurement of exercise endurance is that it does not require a maximal
      effort. In this regard, it may be a less noisy outcome than exercise duration. Dyspnea can be
      quantified during the 6-min walking test but pre and post-intervention comparisons are made
      difficult since the walking speed and thus the exercise stimulus is not controlled during the
      test. Another strategy to evaluate the effects of interventions on exertional dyspnea is to
      compare dyspnea at isotime while controlling the walking or cycling speed during the
      endurance shuttle walking test or the constant rate cycling test. One limitation of this
      approach is that pre and post intervention dyspnea measurement is not always obtained at the
      same time point since the duration of the test is variable. To overcome this problem, linear
      interpolation can be used to estimate of dyspnea. However, this approach is not as robust as
      when a "real" dyspnea score is directly obtained from the patients.

      To circumvent these difficulties, the investigators have recently developed a strong and
      simple exercise methodology whose primary objective is to assess exertional dyspnea in
      patients with COPD: the 3-min constant rate shuttle walking test. During this test, which is
      a modification of the endurance shuttle walking test, patients are asked to walk around two
      cones set-up in a flat corridor and separated by 10m. An audio signal is used to impose the
      walking speed and the test ends at a fixed duration of 3 minutes or until symptoms become
      intolerable. At pre-specified time point during the test, and at the end of the test (3 min),
      patients are asked to score their perception of dyspnea on a Borg scale. The feasibility and
      reproducibility of this test in providing a standardized physical stimulus and a measurable
      level of dyspnea in patients with moderate to severe COPD has been reported. In one study,
      the investigators also confirmed the responsiveness of this test to bronchodilation,
      reporting statistically and clinically significant reduction in Borg dyspnea score with
      ipratropium bromide compared to placebo.

      Methodology:

      The study will require 7 visits; the run-in and familiarization phase (visits #1-3), the
      treatment A phase (visits #4-5), and the treatment B phase (visits #6-7).

      The first visit will be used to review the inclusion criteria and to obtain consent. A
      spirometry will be obtained. Patient on tiotropium or glycopyrronium will be switched to open
      label ipratropium (see allowed medication). Visit #2 will include pulmonary function testing
      including spirometry, lung volumes and diffusion capacity measurements. A maximal incremental
      shuttle walking test, the COPD assessment test (CAT) and the MRC scale will be also be
      completed. Patients will then be familiarized with the 3-min constant rate shuttle walking
      test. During Visit #3, patients will perform two 3-min constant rate shuttle walking test
      which will serve to determine dyspnea at baseline. The investigators will aim for a dyspnea
      Borg Score > 3, the rationale being that it is important to obtain a significant dyspnea
      signal considering that the objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of
      bronchodilation to improve dyspnea. Patients in whom it will not be possible to achieve this
      level of dyspnea at the end of the 3- min constant rate shuttle walking test will be excluded
      for further study participation.

      Patients will then enter the cross-over study design during which they will receive one of
      the two study treatments: indacaterol 110 µg/Glycopyrronium 50 µg (Ultibro®) once a day or
      Tiotropium 18 µg (Spiriva®) once a day. The treatment period will be three weeks. There will
      be a 2-week washout period between the two treatment phases. Total study duration will thus
      be 11 weeks.

      Visit #4 and visit #6 will be the baseline visits for each treatment period (except for
      dyspnea after the 3-min constant rate shuttle walking test which will be determined at Visit
      #3). Participants will perform spirometry, lung volume measurements before and 1h 20 min
      after receiving the study medication. Two 3-min constant rate shuttle walking tests will be
      performed 2h 25 min after dosing, starting with the one performed and completed at the
      highest speed at V3. This time schedule was chosen based on previous studies in this field.
      Dyspnea will be assessed with the baseline dyspnea index (BDI) and health status will be
      evaluated by the COPD Assessment Test (CAT).

      The same procedures will be repeated at the end of each 3-week study treatment (Visits #5 and
      #7) the only difference being that chronic dyspnea will be assessed with the transitional
      dyspnea index (TDI).

      Allowed medication There will be a 3-week run-in period during which patients on will receive
      open label ipratropium (Atrovent® MDI 20µg/ puff, 4 puffs QID) and prn salbutamol (Ventolin®
      MDI 100µg/puff, 2 puffs every 3-4 hours PRN). Ipratropium will be allowed only during the
      run-in and washout periods. Ipratropium will be stopped twelve hours before study visits
      (Visit # 3, 4, and 6).

      Salbutamol on prn basis will allow throughout the study except that it will be stopped 6
      hours prior to Visit #3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. Long-acting 2-agonist will be prohibited after Visit
      #1 and throughout study duration. Inhaled corticosteroids will be allowed at the same dosage
      as before the study. PDE4 inhibitors and leukotriene antagonists will also be allowed.

      Blinding Patient and study staff will be blinded to the treatment administration during the 2
      study periods. Treatments will consisted, for one treatment period of active Ultibro® once a
      day and placebo Spiriva® handihaler, and for the other period of placebo Ultibro® once a day
      and active Spiriva® handihaler. Active medication and placebo will be of identical appearance
      and the order of study medication will be randomized. Pre-package envelopes containing equal
      quantities of inhaler combination will be numbered and kept in a secure place (pharmacy of
      the hospital or the research site). At the end of the study data collection the blind code
      will be opened after having completed the primary data analysis.

      Randomization stratified by site will occur at Visit #4 and will be centralized using a
      computerized system and pre-packaged study medication.

      Evaluation criteria:

      Primary endpoint will be the difference in Borg dyspnea score after the 3-min constant rate
      shuttle walking test after 3 weeks of treatment between indacaterol 110µg/Glycopyrronium 50µg
      (Ultibro®) versus Tiotropium 18µg (Spiriva®) alone. Secondary endpoints will be the
      difference in Borg dyspnea score after the 3-min constant rate shuttle walking test after 3
      weeks of treatment between indacaterol 110µg/Glycopyrronium 50µg (Ultibro®) versus baseline
      value (Visit #3) and between Tiotropium 18µg (Spiriva®) alone versus baseline value (Visit
      #3). The dyspnea response after the first dose of therapy will also be assessed. The
      between-treatment differences in the improvement of pulmonary function (FEV1 and inspiratory
      capacity), TDI and CAT scores from baseline (V4) to end of treatment period (V5 and V7) will
      also be evaluated.

      Assessment and procedures

      Pulmonary function testing. Spirometry, lung volumes and diffusion capacity will be measured
      according to routine techniques.

      Maximal incremental shuttle walk. As originally described by Singh and colleagues, the
      incremental shuttle walk will be performed in an enclosed corridor on a flat 10-m-long
      course. The course will be identified by two cones, each positioned 0.5 m from either end to
      allow patients to walk in circle and thereby avoid the need for abrupt changes in direction.
      Patients will walk at a predetermined rhythm, as dictated by an audio signal played from a
      CD. Walking speed will initially be set at 0.50 m/sec and will be increased by 0.17 m/sec
      every minute until the patient reaches maximal capacity. Since the effects of encouragement
      on walking performance have been demonstrated, no encouragement will be given to patients
      throughout the test. The final measure will be distance walked, expressed in meters.

      3-min constant rate shuttle walking test. This test consists in one bout of three minutes of
      walking at the initial walking speed of 4.0 km/h. Thirty minutes after this first bout of
      walking, a second test will be performed at a walking speed of either 6.0 or 2.5 km/h. The
      second walking speed will be determined by the ability to carry through the test at 4.0 km/h.
      If a patient cannot complete the first test, then the second speed will be stepped down to
      2.5 km/h. If a patient is able to carry though the first test, then the second walking speed
      will be raised to 6.0 km/h. Patients will be asked to perform two tests at two different
      speeds in order to determine, amongst the 3 different walking speeds, the highest speed that
      can be sustained for the entire 3 minutes. In doing so, our objective is to induce a level of
      dyspnea that is sufficiently high to be amenable to therapy. These walking speeds are
      selected based on our previous work19 showing that these were sufficiently demanding to
      induce measurable levels of dyspnea and that most moderate to severe patients with COPD are
      able to complete the test for the desired duration. Patients will be directed to follow the
      audio signal for the entire 3 minutes of the test or until they became symptom limited. They
      will be instructed to walk around the two cones set-up in the hospital hallway pacing their
      walk in a way not to wait at the cones for the following audio signal.

      Cardiac and ventilatory measures. During each exercise test, cardiac and ventilatory
      parameters will be measured using a commercially available exercise circuit. Dyspnea will be
      assessed using a 10-point modified Borg scale that will be positioned at one extremity of the
      course.
    
  