
    
      Introduction Stroke is one of the leading causes of long-term disability in western countries
      (Donan et al. 2008). Stroke survivors are often deconditioned and predisposed to a sedentary
      lifestyle that limits performance of activities of daily living, increases the risk for
      falls, and may contribute to a heightened risk for recurrent stroke and cardiovascular
      disease (Ivey et al. 2005). There is good evidence of the effectiveness of regular physical
      activity (PA) in the primary and secondary prevention of several chronic diseases e.g.
      stroke, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, colon cancer, breast cancer, hypertension, obesity
      and osteoporosis (Warburton et al. 2006). Walking may be one of the most accessible forms of
      exercise in the stroke population. STARFISH is a mobile phone application designed to
      encourage the user to become more physically active. Phase 1 of the project will involve the
      development of the current STARFISH to ensure it is fit for purpose for people following
      stroke. This will be done in collaboration with stroke survivors and their family if
      necessary. The study will investigate if using STARFISH for 6 weeks can increase physical
      activity and if the programme has the potential to improve health and well being in people
      following stroke, including those with residual, physical, sensory and visual impairment.

      Description of STARFISH The current version of STARFISH is a smartphone-based programme
      designed as a behavioural change intervention to encourage the user to become more physically
      active. The sensors within a standard smartphone record the number of steps taken per day by
      the individual. Each person is represented by a fish within a fish tank which the participant
      can see on their mobile phone display. When the participant is active their fish blows
      bubbles and swims faster and, as the participant reaches their target number of steps per
      day, their fish's fins and tail grow.

      Aims and Objectives The overall aims are to adapt STARFISH for use in stroke survivors and to
      undertake a feasibility study to evaluate the acceptability and potential effectiveness of
      STARFISH in this group.

      The objectives are:

        1. To use a participatory co-design approach to develop the STARFISH software and
           interfaces to ensure that STARFISH is fit for purpose for use by people with stroke.

        2. To explore the likely effectiveness of STARFISH in increasing levels of PA in people
           post stroke.

        3. To explore the likely acceptability of STARFISH by people post stroke.

        4. To provide sufficient data on effect sizes of STARFISH on outcomes related to amount of
           physical activity undertaken, quality of life, general well-being and fatigue, walking
           speed, and metabolic health biomarkers (BMI, blood pressure, lipid profile, resting
           heart rate) to undertake power calculations to establish the sample size required for a
           fully powered, randomised controlled study.

      Design & Methods Design Following MRC guidance, the proposed mobile phone application
      development and pilot evaluation comprises a 2-phase (sequential) mixed-methods programme of
      research.

      Phase 1 will involve the development of the current STARFISH mobile phone application. This
      will involve participatory co-design of the application to ensure suitability for stroke
      survivors.

      Phase 2 will involve piloting the revised STARFISH application with participants to assess
      the feasibility to recruit the target populations, potential to support participants to
      become more physically active, improve health behaviours and deliver physical and mental
      health benefits . The Phase 2 findings will inform a decision on whether to proceed to larger
      scale evaluation.

      Methods Up to 6 stroke survivors attending Western Infirmary physiotherapy outpatient clinic
      will be recruited to the phase 1 of the study. Another 24 patients with mild to moderate
      stroke-related walking dysfunction and who have had a single stroke will be recruited through
      Chest Heart &Stroke affiliated groups. Potential patients will be given verbal and written
      information about the study by the research team member. Patients who are willing to take
      part in the study will be advised to telephone the researcher via the contact details on the
      Participant Information Sheet. Thereafter, if the participant is willing to participate in
      the study a suitable date/time for the assessment will be arranged by telephone, and then
      confirmed by letter.

      Phase 1. An initial co-design session of up to six people with stroke will be undertaken to
      elicit their views on the current STARFISH application and how this should be adapted to meet
      their needs. For example, the fish may require to be larger to allow stroke survivors to see
      them or for those with physical impairments of their upper limb voice activated commands may
      be beneficial. The software will require more modelling work to sense the different gait
      patterns of people with stroke and thus ensure accurate counting of steps. Thereafter, the
      STARFISH application will be refined and prototype user trial (for up to 3 weeks) will be
      undertaken. Another co-design session will be then organised to evaluate the changes and
      final revision of the application.

      Phase 2. Participants will have an initial visit to the Clinical Research Facility (CRF)
      where the study will be explained and they will be given a mobile phone and asked to carry
      the phone for seven days to establish their normal level of PA. They will return to the CRF
      at the end of the seven day period for baseline measures (see below) and for agreed activity
      targets to be set. They will then be randomised to either the intervention (n=12) or control
      group (n=12). The intervention group will follow the STARFISH programme for six weeks. After
      three weeks the group will be invited to return to the CRF to informally discuss progress and
      for PA targets to be reviewed and amended as necessary. During the intervention period
      participants will be given contact numbers of the research assistant to call if they
      experience any problems. Control participants will carry the phone for six weeks, to allow
      recording of their levels of physical activity. Control participants will not have access to
      their daily step nor will they have access to the STARFISH app. All participants will return
      to the CRF after six weeks for final measures to be taken. All participants will then be
      given their daily activity results in a form of short report. A summative focus group will be
      undertaken to establish the views of the participants on areas of technical feasibility
      including accessibility, ease of use and effectiveness of the system.

      Participants:

      Phase 1. Up to six people with stroke, who will not be participating in the phase 2 of the
      study, will be involved in the development/co-design stage.

      Phase 2. Twenty four adults with mild to moderate stroke-related walking dysfunction and who
      have had a single stroke will be randomised to the intervention (n=12) or control group
      (n=12). The randomisation process will be carried out using sealed opaque envelopes
      containing participant's unique numbers. All participants will be provided with a standard
      smartphone. Control participants will carry the phone for six weeks but without STARFISFH.

      STARFISH is undertaken in groups of four and each member of the group is represented by a
      fish within the tank, each fish is distinguishable by colour as belonging to a specific
      individual thus each participant gets feedback on the activity level of each member of the
      group, in real time, via the visual representation of the fish in the fish tank. Different
      goals can be set for different individuals in the group, along with goals for the whole
      group. The study has been designed around a framework based on Control Theory, a technique
      known to be successful for behavioural change, which includes: goal setting, action planning,
      self-monitoring, reviews of goals and providing feedback on performance; social support is
      likely to act by influencing all of these.

      Data collection

      Data will be collected as follow:

      Demographic:

      Age, sex, height, weight, BMI

      Disease specific:

      Resting heart rate, blood pressure, Blood analysis; blood lipids, LFTs, CRP, HBA1c The
      Ten-Meter Walking Test (10 MWT) assesses walking speed (m/sec) over a 10m distance, measured
      by research assistant.

      Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) is a self reported questionnaire which evaluates the impact of
      fatigue. It contains 9 statements scored on a 1 to 7 scale. A total score of less than 36
      suggests that patient may not be suffering from fatigue. A total score of 36 or more suggests
      that patient may need further evaluation by a physician.

      Instrumental Activities of Daily Living Scale contains 8 items to assess more complex
      activities (termed "instrumental activities of daily living") necessary for functioning in
      community settings. The higher the score, the greater the person's abilities. The research
      assistant will examine the scale.

      Stroke Specific Quality of Life Scale (SS-QOL) is a self-report questionnaire consisting of
      49 items in the 12 domains of energy, family roles, language, mobility, mood, personality,
      self-care, social roles, thinking, upper extremity (UE) function, vision, and
      work/productivity. The domains are scored separately, and a total score is also provided.
      Higher scores indicate better functioning.

      Psychological General Well-Being (PGWB) Index. A measure of self-representations of
      intrapersonal affective or emotional states reflecting a sense of subjective well-being or
      distress consists of 22 items that measure components of psychological well-being such as
      anxiety, positive well-being, self-control, depression, general health and vitality. Scores
      range from 0 to 110 and higher scores suggest better well-being. The PGWB index is
      self-administered.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to summarise all variables. Where appropriate,
      comparisons between patients and controls will use Students t-test or UMann-Whitney analyses
      for parametric and non-parametric distributions respectively.
    
  