
    
      Neurodegeneration of the optic nerve and associated ganglion cell death in glaucoma leads to
      several well-characterized losses in visual function, most notably progressive peripheral
      visual field loss. Several recent studies have characterized significant visual function
      deficits in glaucoma patients that may be more sensitive indicators of disease than classical
      visual field loss, including compromised contrast sensitivity (CS), increased disability
      glare (DG) and protracted dark adaptation (DA).

      Given the available evidence, it appears that visual function, if assessed carefully, is a
      reliable indicator of ocular health and/or disease state. It follows that an improvement in
      visual function would be indicative of an improvement in ocular health. Although improvement
      of visual function is not typically seen in ocular disease, there is recent evidence to
      suggest that visual performance and associated progression of ocular disease may actually be
      modifiable via nutritional strategies and dietary modification in age-related macular
      degeneration (AMD). Because some of the compromised visual performance experienced in
      glaucoma is associated with increased ocular inflammation, local anti-inflammatory action may
      improve visual performance in glaucoma patients. Given their exceptional anti-inflammatory
      activity and potential for rich deposition in the retina, the macular carotenoids lutein (L),
      zeaxanthin (Z), and mesozeaxanthin (MZ) may hold promise for this strategy. Indeed, a recent
      cross-sectional study of the relationship between macular carotenoid level and visual
      performance in glaucoma patients found that those patients with low levels were significantly
      more likely to experience problems with glare - and were also more likely to have greater
      ganglion cell loss.

      L and Z are diet-derived, yellow-orange colored carotenoids obtained primarily from
      leafy-green vegetables. L and Z are not synthesized by the body, and therefore must be
      obtained via dietary means; those who have diets rich in leafy greens, or supplement with
      sufficient L and Z tend to maintain and accumulate higher blood and tissue concentrations.
      One of the conspicuous features of L and Z is their specific accumulation in the macular
      retina, where they can reach extremely high concentrations - values as high as 1.50 log
      optical density near the foveal center are not uncommon; it is also not uncommon to see
      concentrations in the fovea that exceed 10,000 times that seen in the blood. Once deposited
      in the retina, some of the L is converted to a stereoisomeric form of zeaxanthin, called
      mesozeaxanthin (MZ). Although rare, MZ has been shown to exist in nature, and indeed in the
      human food chain - its presence has been recently verified in salmon, trout, and sardine
      skin, and also trout flesh. Importantly, MZ has been shown to be readily deposited in the
      retina when taken in supplement form. The accumulation of these three carotenoids in the
      macula yields a yellowish-orange coloration, classically known to ophthalmologists as the
      "macula lutea" ("yellow spot"). Today, this collective pigmentation is commonly referred to
      as macular pigment (MP), with concentrations typically expressed in terms of optical density
      (MPOD). Xanthophyll carotenoids such as L, Z, and MZ are especially potent antioxidants. Via
      a process called triplet excitation transfer, L, Z, and MZ can regenerate to repeatedly
      "quench" the energy of singlet oxygen. This makes them capable of long-term accumulation in
      target tissues such as the retina, where, in the absence of excessive oxidative or
      inflammatory stress (e.g. smoking, or systemic disease such as diabetes), they are resistant
      to turnover, and can provide continuous protection against oxidation and inflammation.

      Another critical function of the macular carotenoids involves their optical properties within
      the eye. Visual discomfort in glare, disability glare, and photostress recovery time are all
      significantly improved with higher MPOD status. CS has also been found in several
      laboratories (for both normal and clinical populations) to be related to / enhanced by
      augmentation of MPOD. Dark adaptation speed, absolute scotopic thresholds, and mesopic
      contrast sensitivity have also been found to be impacted positively by MPOD.

      A high concentration of macular carotenoids (i.e. high MPOD) is therefore advantageous in at
      least three ways: 1) Protection from oxidation and inflammation, 2) Filtration of potentially
      actinic high-energy short-wavelength light, and 3) Improvement of visual performance (via
      pre-receptoral screening of short-wave light and neurophysiological enhancement).

      For baseline measures, the proposed study has the potential to determine cross-sectional
      relationships between MPOD, visual performance, and disease severity in glaucoma. Given the
      recent data, significant relationships are plausible - and if the investigators determine
      these kinds of relationships, standard of care for glaucoma patients could be changed to
      include improved patient education regarding nutrition. Additionally, visual function testing
      (to include CS, DA, and DG testing) may be instituted for glaucoma suspects and established
      glaucoma patients. If the investigators are able to show an acute effect of improvement in
      visual performance, it could lead to larger trials that may yield extremely important data
      with regard to management of glaucoma. Given the predicted exponential increase in worldwide
      glaucoma prevalence (76 million in 2020 to 111.8 million in 2040), strategies that may
      promote good visual function in glaucoma would be hugely significant.
    
  