
    
      The primary aims of this feasibility study are as follows:

      Aim 1: Finalize ACTION training curriculum; develop manuals; field test .

        -  Work with implementation intentions research expert and a military consultant to develop
           a training task gradation schema which informs the identification and modification of
           existing implementation intentions training tasks so that they have military face
           validity.

        -  Finalize the adherence support methods and other training worksheets and materials.

        -  Field test training tasks and adherence support methods on small cohort of civilians
           with mTBI-sc from CKRC to assure feasibility.

        -  Finalize ACTION sequence training manuals; assure intra-rater and inter-rater
           reliability for scoring quality of implementation intentions statements.

      Aim 2: Evaluate ACTION sequence training instructional methods (the extent to which SM with
      mTBI-sc are able to learn to establish IF-THEN statements that have the potential to trigger
      automatic enactment of goal-actions and the extent to which SM with mTBI-sc report the
      training experience as satisfactory and beneficial).

        -  Enroll up to 28 participants in the study (SM with mTBI-sc who are referred to MSI at
           TBIC-FC).

        -  Evaluate whether or not participants can correctly craft implementation intentions by
           using a rubric to score implementation intentions developed by participants during
           clinic sessions and during home practice; administer participation satisfaction survey
           at posttest.

      Aim 3: Test the efficacy of ACTION sequence training by evaluating the extent to which
      training 1) improves SM's with mTBI-sc ability to perform a complex test of executive
      function (e.g. Hotel Test) and 2) advances progress towards self-identified goals in daily
      life (via Canadian Occupational Performance measure [COPM] and Goal Attainment Scaling [GAS])
      as compared to a control condition. Additionally, determine level of adherence to completing
      daily homework practice ans assigned prospective memory tasks.

        -  Collect pre-post data on the Hotel Test, COPM, GAS on all participants.

        -  Collect data on completion of homework assignments

        -  Collect data on completion of prospective memory tasks
    
  