
    
      Despite the substantial work in cardiovascular pharmacogenomics published over the past
      decade, a fundamental gap remains in understanding whether the genomic diversity of Caribbean
      Hispanics accounts for high inter-individual variability of clinical outcomes to preventive
      dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with clopidogrel. Caribbean Hispanics are disproportionately
      affected by cardio-metabolic disorders, but with a limited expectation of benefits from
      existing genomic-based algorithms. The investigators will focus on clopidogrel to develop
      urgently-needed genomic-driven prescription guidelines for this population. To this purpose,
      the investigators will implement a treatment algorithm to guide DAPT in Caribbean Hispanics
      and will create a repository of genomic DNAs and fully annotated clinical and genomic
      datasets from Caribbean Hispanics with cardiovascular diseases. This proposal will also take
      a novel approach to definitively assess the admixture component and is also highly practical
      for the development of a clinical decision support (CDS) tool. The investigators will test
      the following hypothesis: There are unknown genetic variants that uniquely contribute to
      clopidogrel responsiveness in Caribbean Hispanics to such extent that a developed CDS tool
      that incorporates personal ethno-specific genotypes and ex vivo pharmacodynamics (PD) testing
      will help enable more precise recommendations for optimizing medical outcomes to antiplatelet
      therapy in this population. To test this hypothesis we will work with the following aim: To
      implement a treatment algorithm based on ex vivo PD and genetic test results to guide DAPT in
      Caribbean Hispanics.

      This clinical study will be conducted over 2-3 years in 250 naive cardiovascular patients to
      be treated with DAPT for secondary prevention of thromboembolic events (i.e., to be compared
      to another set of 250 clopidogrel-treated patients from a matched non-concurrent
      standard-of-care cohort). It is expected that this study advances the adoption of a Precision
      Medicine (PM) paradigm for the benefit of Hispanic patients. The richer genetic variance in
      Latinos is likely to contribute substantially to variability in response to drug treatments,
      a component that will be missed by traditional studies within homogeneous populations. This
      addressable oversight is of great concern since it will tend to exacerbate the healthcare
      disparity already experienced by Hispanic populations in the US. Hispanics have been largely
      excluded from Precision Medicine initiatives, which increase dramatically the disparities in
      translating benefits from new findings in pharmacogenomics to this medically underserved
      population, exacerbating the existing inequity in healthcare services. Accordingly, the
      proposed research will expand the current understanding of the pharmacogenomics of
      Clopidogrel. Advancing knowledge in the under-investigated area of pharmacogenetics in
      minority populations will generate results that apply to personalize DAPT in the wider
      population as it moves, inevitably, toward increasing heterogeneity through admixed genomes.
    
  