
    
      The protocol will be applied to a blinded randomized controlled study. Patients who fit the
      inclusion criteria and have consented to the trial, will be randomized to receive a single
      injection of BMAC with PRP or local anesthetic with cortisone.

      Pre-Injection Procedures:

      Patients will receive a clinical evaluation where they will complete the HHS, the WOMAC
      score, the VR-12 form, VAS score, and the two functional assessment tests to assess pain and
      function prior to the injection. The two functional assessments will be performed by the
      blinded researcher. Following the evaluation, the patients will receive an intra-articular
      hip injection.

      Injection Procedures:

      Control group: In the second group of patients, an intraarticular injection of 1cm3 with 80mg
      of methylprednisolone combined with 3cm3 of 0.25% bupivacaine will be performed in the same
      manner with the first group.

      Experimental group: In the first group, patients will be placed on an office procedure under
      local anesthesia. The investigators will harvest 60 cm3 of bone marrow from posterior iliac
      crest and centrifuged obtaining approximately 3 cm3 of autologous bone marrow-mesenchymal
      stem cells concentrate. At the same time, 60cm3 of peripheral blood will be taken and
      centrifugated once, to obtain approximately 3 cm3 of PRP. After activation of platelet rich
      plasma cells they will be mixed in one syringe with the concentrated BMaC and both will be
      injected in the hip joint under ultrasound. In all cases four samples of 0.2cm3 will be
      collected, one with patient's whole blood, one with the PRPs final mixture, one with whole
      bone marrow aspirate, and one with the BMaCs final mixture, and will be sent to the NSHA
      Hematology Laboratory for cell quantification. The leukocyte counts and differential
      (neutrophils, monocytes, lymphocytes, eosinophils and basophils) as well as thrombocyte
      counts in all samples will be determined using Automated Hematology Analyzer (Sysmex).
      Percentages of mature and immature leukocytes in the bone marrow aspirate and BMaC samples
      will be determined by standard morphologic examination using slides prepared with the
      Wright's stain. CD34+ stem cell enumeration in the bone marrow aspirate sample and BMaC will
      be performed by flow cytometry (Canto II Analyser).The concentration factor of PRP will be
      calculated from the quotient of the thrombocyte count in whole blood and in PRP.
      Additionally, IGF-I, VEGF, TGF-b, bFGF, HGF and PDGF will be quantified in serum or plasma
      and in PRP using commercially available ELISA kits (QuantikineH, ELISA KITS, R&D Systems,
      USA).

      Post-Injection Procedures:

      Clinic visits will occur at 6, 12, 24, and 48 weeks post-injection to perform clinical
      evaluations with outcome measures of the patients. All collected data will be statistically
      analyzed to check the effect of BMAC and PRP intraarticular hip injections in young patients
      with early OA. The investigators will also document the activity level of all participants
      (type of sport or activity participated in and the intensity and volume of participation) and
      correlate it with the outcomes.
    
  