
    
      Subjects and Methods

      Ethical committee approval was obtained for the original trial, and patients were asked to
      sign an informed consent form (in accordance with Institutional guidelines and to the
      Declaration of Helsinki) before treatment and for further follow-up examinations. The
      registration information for this clinical trial is available to the public through the
      National Institute of Health database.

      The surgical procedure was done under topical anesthesia. Two Intacs segments of 0.45-mm
      thickness were inserted so as to embrace the steepest keratoconus meridian, according to the
      topographic image, aiming at maximal flattening.

      The corneal thickness was measured intraoperatively at the incision site and peripherally in
      the cornea along the ring placement markings with ultrasonic pachymetry (Sonogage, Cleveland,
      Ohio, USA). Using a diamond knife, set at 70% of the thinnest corneal measurement, a 0.9-mm
      radial incision was formed, and corneal pockets were created using two Sinskey hooks and a
      Suarez spreader. Two corneal tunnels were then formed using clockwise and counterclockwise
      dissectors under suction created by a vacuum-centering guide. The two polymethyl methacrylate
      (PMMA) segments (0.45-mm thickness) were implanted in the respective corneal tunnels,
      maintaining a space of approximately 2.0-mm between their ends and 1.5 mm between the
      opposite edge of each segment and the edge of the incision. The incision site was sutured
      using a single 10/0 nylon stitch.

      Postoperative evaluation Postoperatively, all eyes received antibiotic/steroid combination
      eye drops 4 times per day for 2 weeks. In addition, all patients were instructed to use
      preservative-free artificial tears frequently. The sutures were removed 2 weeks after
      surgery.

      Group differences for continuous variables were tested using the paired Student t tests. The
      change in manifest refraction (spherical equivalent) (MRSE) and topographic k values and
      topographic astigmatism were plotted over time to determine long-term stability, and the
      difference as a function of time was analyzed using paired 2-tailed t tests (at time
      intervals of preoperative to 1 month, 1 to 3 months, 3 to 6 months, 6 to 12 months, and every
      year of follow up period). Results are presented as means + standard deviation [SD]. A P
      value less than .05 was regarded as statistically significant.
    
  