
    
      This project supports a 9-year follow-up of 650 children and their families who were enrolled
      in a randomized trial of prenatal and infancy home visiting by paraprofessionals and by
      nurses; participating families were assigned to control, paraprofessional-, or nurse-visited
      conditions. Earlier phases of assessment found significant benefits for nurse- and
      paraprofessional-visited families and children, although the nurse effects tended to be
      larger. The current phase of follow-up is designed to determine whether the effects of the
      nurse and paraprofessional programs endure and grow through the child age 9.5.

      The project is organized around seven questions:

        1. Do the programs of nurse and paraprofessional home-visiting produce enduring effects on:
           a) mothers' life-course; b) qualities of care parents provide to their children; c)
           children's early-onset behavior problems; d) children's incoherence and
           aggression/destruction in response to story stems; e) children's executive, language,
           and intellectual functioning and school achievement?

        2. To what extent are the beneficial effects of the programs on parental care-giving and
           children's development concentrated on those born to mothers with few psychological
           resources?

        3. To what extent are the benefits of the programs on mothers and children equivalent for
           Mexican- Americans and European-Americans?

        4. To what extent are the effects of the programs on antisocial behavior concentrated on
           boys? 5. To what extent are program effects moderated by school and neighborhood
           contexts?

      6. To what extent are the effects of the programs on children's development explained by
      impacts of the programs on women's prenatal smoking, maternal life-course, qualities of
      parental caregiving, and children's earlier language development, executive functioning, and
      emotional regulation? 7. To what extent are the initial costs of the programs recovered in
      reduced expenditures for other government services during the first nine years of the first
      child's life?
    
  