
    
      In Denmark there are about 1000 new cases of head and neck cancer every year. The number is
      increasing. The treatment for head and neck cancer is either surgery or radiotherapy
      treatment or a combination of these modalities. Radiotherapy treatment for head and neck
      cancer often causes severe late term side effects.

      Radiotherapy induced damage of the skin, lymphatic system, cartilage and bone often leads to
      symptoms such as trismus, lymphoedema, decreased range of motion of the mouth, neck and
      tongue, difficulty in using the mimic muscles, difficulty in swallowing and pain. The
      severity of late side effects due to radiotherapy treatment for head and neck cancer often
      leaves the patients with a poor quality of life rating.

      Effects of physiotherapy interventions are scarcely investigated. Only few studies describe
      the effect of physiotherapy treatment. The studies are difficult to compare because of
      insufficiently described physiotherapy intervention, or variation of onset and extent of
      physiotherapy intervention plus variation in study populations. No studies have described the
      long term effects of physiotherapy intervention. There is no national or international
      consensus for the physiotherapy treatment for patients undergoing treatment for head and neck
      cancer.

      Primary hypothesis:

      Decreased mouth opening in patients suffering from c.cavi oris and c.oropharynges undergoing
      radiotherapy treatment, can be reduced by an early physiotherapy effort compared with the
      present circumstances.

      Secondary hypothesis:

      The extent of late side effects from radiotherapy treatment for head and neck cancer can be
      reduced by an early and individually adjusted physiotherapy treatment.

      Guided physiotherapy training/treatment can have a positive effect on patients self estimated
      symptom extent and health related quality af life.

      The hypothesis of this study is built on studies of literature and clinical experience from
      treatment of late side effects on patients suffering from breast cancer and uterus cancer,
      who also suffer from lymphoedema and fibrosis due to radiotherapy.
    
  