
    
      According to Nussbaum et al., 24-45% of cancer patients develop cerebral metastases during
      their disease. Brain metastases are generally associated with a poor prognosis and high
      morbidity2. Published median survival rates after WBRT are between 2 and 7 months3. Standard
      of care in multiple BM is WBRT delivered as total dose of 30 Gy in 10 fractions, leading to
      modest palliation with a median survival of 3 to 5 months 4-6. Prognostic factors include the
      RPA-classification, performance status, response to steroids and evidence of systemic
      disease3,6.

      Unfortunately, intracerebral recurrence happens 7-9. For example, in the cohort of Meyners et
      al. (2010) on WBRT in relatively radio-resistant tumours, median time to recurrence was 4.5
      months and the local control rates at 6 and 12 months after radiotherapy were 37% and 15%,
      respectively10. Furthermore, the treatment of intracerebral recurrence after previous WBRT is
      challenging. In case of ≤ 3 recurrent BM, surgery or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) are
      options. One other option, especially in case of >3 recurrent BM is repeated WBRT. In this
      setting, one of the first reports on repeated WBRT was published by Cooper et al. in 199011.
      The authors reported on repeated WBRT (n=52) consisting of a total dose of 25 Gy in 10
      fractions. Response to re-irradiation was seen in about 40% of the patients. Furthermore, the
      patients improved by at least one level in their neurologic function status. Survival after
      second therapy averaged 5 months. In the report by Wong et al. (1996) median dose of
      retreatment (n=86) was 20 Gy12. Resolution of symptoms was achieved in 27% of patients,
      partial improvement in 43% and no improvement or worsening of symptoms was seen in 29% of
      patients. The majority of patients had no significant toxicity in consequence of
      re-irradiation. Five patients had radiographic abnormalities of their brain consistent with
      radiation-related changes. One patient had symptoms of dementia that was thought to be caused
      by radiotherapy. Sadikov et al. (2007) reported on 72 patients who underwent repeated WBRT
      for recurrent or progressive BM13. The median survival after re-irradiation was 4.1 months.
      One patient was reported having memory impairment and pituitary insufficiency after 5 months
      of progression-free survival.

      In the report by Mayer et al. on re-irradiation tolerance of the human brain (this analysis
      was focused on recurrent glioma), the authors concluded that radiation-induced brain tissue
      necrosis is likely to occur at normalized tolerance doses of cumulative > 100 Gy14.

      The recent QUARTZ trial investigated the efficacy of WBRT vs. OSC in patients with non-small
      cell lung cancer and low performance status. The results suggest that WBRT, even in the
      primary situation, offers no substantial benefit to most patients with brain metastases from
      NSCLC in terms of improved survival, overall quality of life, or reduction of steroid use in
      this cohort15.

      In the present trial, the primary endpoint (time to WHO PS deterioration to more than 3) as
      well as the secondary endpoints QoL, overall survival, radiation-induced toxicity and
      functional independence assessed by the Barthel Index of Activities of Daily Living (ADL) in
      patients previously treated with WBRT requiring repeated WBRT for intracerebral tumour
      progression will be evaluated.
    
  