
    
      This study be a randomized double-blinded feasibility study to improve the rates of wound
      complications post-C/S in women with a BMI >40. It will be conducted out of a single tertiary
      care centre in London, Ontario. The women will be randomized to one of two treatment groups,
      either Kerlix AMD gauze or Kerlix plain gauze (Kendall, Covidien AG, Mansfield MA). This
      randomization will be performed by validated computer based randomization software
      (www.sealedenvelope.com). The patients, staff and physicians will be blinded to the assigned
      groups. After consenting to the study, at the time of their C/S, participants will be
      assigned a sealed envelope which will contain their assigned group. All patients with a BMI
      >40 who qualify for the study that are seen in the outpatient clinics at our centre will be
      approached about their participation in the study. Patients that meet the study criteria who
      are seen for the first time after being admitted to the labor and delivery ward will be
      consented for the study, and if they do not require a C/S, then this consent will be
      disregarded. Participants who have a planned C/S will also be randomized to receive treatment
      with either AMD or plain gauze for three days prior to their C/S. This requires placement of
      a piece of gauze, randomly assigned, under the pannus in the area of the anticipated
      incision. This gauze is to be changed daily for three days prior to the booked C/S. These
      patients will continue to receive the same gauze they were assigned to post-operatively. As
      part of routine care peri-operatively, all patients receive 3g of Ancef 15-60 min prior to
      skin incision (Ayres-de-Campos), and their skin is prepped with 2% chlorohexidine (Lee I)
      (2%, Laboratoire Atlas Inc, Montreal, QC) . The subcutaneous layer will be closed at the end
      of the case using absorbable sutures (Chelmow). The skin will be closed with a running
      absorbable suture in the subcuticular layer (Clay). At the end of the C/S, all patients will
      have their respective gauze placed over their incision, with a Tegaderm (3M Healthcare, St.
      Paul, MN) or pressure dressing placed on top. This outer occlusive dressing will be removed
      poat-operative day )POD) 1, unless it becomes saturated before then. Their gauze will be
      replaced daily, or more frequently if it becomes saturated. The incisions will be inspected
      daily by a physician while they are in hospital. The Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) Nosocomial Infections Surveillance (NNIS) system criteria will be used to
      diagnose wound infections. They will be discharged home with enough gauze for daily dressing
      changes for two weeks, as well as an information sheet outlining signs and symptoms to be
      aware of, or reasons to return to hospital. Their incision will be inspected by a physician
      at one, two and six weeks post-operatively. If at any point over the duration of the study
      they develop signs or symptoms of infection or any other complications, they will be
      investigated and treated accordingly. This may involve taking a picture of the wound to track
      whether or not cellulitis or infection is spreading or tracking; this will always be with
      your explicit consent and to track wound progression. At six weeks they will also complete a
      qualitative survey investigating their subjective experience with the gauze and the protocol.
      A cost analysis will also be performed. All data will be collected using data collection
      sheets. The newest version of Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) Statistical
      analysis software will be used to conduct data analysis, using formulas such as student
      t-test for continuous data and chi-squared for nominal data.
    
  