
    
      Study design Between October 2004 and December 2006, ovulatory women undergoing infertility
      treatment were asked to participate in this RCT subject to the following inclusion criteria:
      maternal age below 36 years, need for ICSI and having motile sperm (sperm parameters: more
      than 1 x 106 sperm cells/ml) and both partners having a normal karyotype. Following written
      informed consent, eligible couples were randomly assigned to ICSI followed by blastocyst
      transfer either with or without PGS on the eight-cell stage embryo. Randomization was
      performed at the outpatient clinic, and each patient could be included only once. The consent
      form mentioned that patients allocated to PGS group would agree to donate embryos for
      research if these were chromosomally abnormal or unsuitable for transfer or cryopreservation.
      The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the University Hospital. The patients were
      aware of the treatment allocation and were informed at the moment of transfer concerning the
      chromosomal abnormalities observed and about the morphological quality of the embryos.

      Ovarian stimulation, oocyte retrieval and embryo culture Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation
      was carried out in an antagonist protocol using recombinant FSH combined with a GnRH
      antagonist (ganirelix, Orgalutran, NV Organon) (Kolibianakis et al., 2004) or an agonist
      protocol, using GnRH analogues for pituitary desensitisation (buserilin, Suprefact; Hoechst,
      Frankfurt, Germany), combined with human menopausal gonadotrophins (hMG)(Menopur, Ferring
      Pharmaceuticals A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark) or recombinant FSH (Puregon, NV Organon, Oss, The
      Netherlands)(Van de Velde et al., 1998). Final oocyte maturation was induced by the
      administration of 10,000 IU of HCG. Transvaginal ultrasound-guided oocyte retrieval was
      scheduled 36 h after HCG administration. ICSI was used to fertilize the oocytes. Sperm
      preparation, in vitro fertilization, intracytoplasmic sperm injection procedures and embryo
      culture were carried out as described by Van Landuyt et al. (2005).

      Assessment of fertilization and embryo evaluation Fertilization was assessed as the number of
      2PN zygotes per COC retrieved. Embryo evaluation was performed on days 2 and 3 by recording
      number of blastomeres and percentage of fragmentation. Grade A embryos were defined as
      embryos without anucleate fragments. Grade B embryos had blastomeres of equal or unequal
      sizes, with a maximum of 20 % of the volume of the embryo filled with anucleate fragments. In
      grade C embryos, anucleate fragments were present in 20-50 % of the volume of the embryo.
      Grade D embryos had more than 50% of the volume of the embryo filled with anucleate
      fragments. The embryos were evaluated daily until day 5. On day 5, the embryos were
      classified into arrested embryos showing no signs of compaction on day 5, compacting embryos
      (C1-C2), early blastocysts (Bl1-Bl2) and expanding blastocysts (Bl3-Bl7) according to the
      classification proposed by Gardner and Schoolcraft (1999). Embryos were considered for
      transfer at day 5 only from the compacting stage on. In both groups, supernumerary embryos
      were cryopreserved on day 5 or 6.

      Embryo biopsy Embryos of grade A, B or C with at least five blastomeres were biopsied (Joris
      et al., 2003) in the morning of day 3 after ICSI. These selection criteria to decide whether
      an embryo was suitable for biopsy were the same as those used to decide whether an embryo was
      transferable on day 3 in the regular ICSI programme without PGD. Before biopsy of one
      blastomere, the blastomeres were checked for the presence of nuclei. If consequently no
      nuclear material was found during fixation, a second blastomere was removed. Embryo biopsy
      was carried out in HEPES-buffered medium under oil using laser technology (Fertilase) as was
      earlier described in detail (Staessen et al., 2004).

      Spreading of the interphase nuclei and FISH procedure Using a mouth pipette, the individual
      blastomeres were first rinsed in medium and then transferred to a 1 µl droplet of 0.01 N HCl/
      0.1% Tween 20 solution (Coonen et al., 1994) on a Superfrost Plus glass slide (Kindler GmbH,
      Freiburg, Germany). A two-round FISH procedure was performed allowing us to detect the
      chromosomes X, Y, 13, 18, 21 (round 1) and 16, 22 (round 2) as was previously described in
      detail (Staessen et al., 2004).

      FISH scoring criteria The specific FISH signals detected in a given blastomere were
      interpreted as follows: (i) a blastomere was considered to be diploid when the two gonosomes
      and two chromosome 13-, 16-, 18-, 21- and 22 specific signals were present; (ii) a blastomere
      was considered to be haploid, triploid or tetraploid when respectively one, three or four
      signals for the investigated chromosomes were present; (iii) a blastomere was considered to
      be aneuploid when an extra (trisomic) or missing (monosomic) signal for one chromosome was
      observed, in the presence of two signals for the remaining chromosomes analysed; (iv) a
      blastomere was considered as combined abnormal when it was neither diploid nor haploid,
      triploid, tetraploid or aneuploid. After FISH analysis, only embryos found to be
      chromosomally normal in the corresponding biopsied blastomere were transferred on day 5. FISH
      analysis was performed by experienced cytogeneticists trained in cytogenetics and FISH
      analysis. The results of the first and second round were analysed by two observers using a
      Zeiss Axioplan 2 fluorescence microscope.

      Embryo transfer In the PGS group the transfer was performed on day 5 if at least one
      compacting embryo or early blastocyst was obtained from the embryos found to be genetically
      normal. In the control group the transfer was also performed if at least one compacting
      embryo or early blastocyst was obtained on day 5; 4 embryo transfers were performed on day 3.

      Pregnancy A biochemical pregnancy was defined as two consecutive positive rising (> 15IU/ml)
      serum hCG levels. A preclinical miscarriage was defined as two consecutive positive rising (>
      15IU/ml) serum hCG levels, but no FHB at least 6 weeks post embryo transfer. A clinical
      pregnancy was defined as an intrauterine gestational sac with positive foetal heart activity
      seen at ultrasonography performed at least 6 weeks post-embryo transfer. A miscarriage was
      defined as a pregnancy loss before 20 weeks of gestation. The live birth delivery rate was
      defined as the number of live birth deliveries expressed per 100 initiated cycles, aspiration
      cycles or embryo transfer cycles (Zeghers-Hochschild et al., 2006).

      Endpoint The primary outcome was live birth delivery rate. Statistical analysis Analysis was
      performed according to the intention to treat. For descriptive statistics, we used means±SD.
      Continuous variables were analyzed by the t-test for independent samples. Categorical
      variables were analyzed by chi-square test. All tests were two-sided, and a P value of less
      than 0.05 was considered to indicate statistical significance. Using group sequential
      methods, we calculated that the enrolment of 447 patients in each group would give the study
      a statistical power of 80% to detect an absolute difference of 10% in the delivery rate
      between the groups at an alpha level of 0.05 with the use of a two-sided z-test.
    
  