
    
      RECRUITMENT PHASE: A qualified physiotherapist will check patient lists daily with the aim of
      identifying suitable candidates for the study.

      The patients will be enrolled from January 2020 till june 2021 and they will be stratified
      individually and randomized by a dedicated software (https://www.randomizer.org/) into two
      groups:

        -  Experimental group - Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) patients in nocturnal
           Non Invasive Ventilation (NIV) underwent to respiratory rehabilitation with Humidified
           High Flow Nasal Cannula (HHFNC) with / without Oxygen Therapy (O2), according to medical
           prescription;

        -  Control group - patients in nocturnal NIV underwent to respiratory rehabilitation
           without HFNC with / without O2, according to medical prescription.

      Before randomization, individual clinical inclusion and exclusion criteria will be taken into
      account in relation to the ability of each patient to tolerate the administration of the high
      flow ventilation program foreseen by the study.

      RUN IN PHASE: After the assessment, each patient will perform a training session prior to the
      cycle ergometer, during which the subject will work on the workload and the established flow.
      The intensity of the workload will be 60-80% of the Wmax, calculated with the Hill's formula:

      Wmax = ( 0.122 x 6MWD) + (72, 683 x Height) - 117.109

      (where 6MWD is the distance walked on the 6-minute walk test, and the patient's height must
      be expressed in meters).

      NIV and HHFNC will be administered through VEMO 150 (EOVE SA. 64000 Pau - France), a device
      with which it is possible setting up to 4 different ventilation programs. The High Flow can
      be delivered, as a continuous flow through the humidified nasal cannulas, up to 60 L / min
      with or without additional oxygen therapy according to medical prescription. The patients of
      the experimental group will be trained with the most adequate continuous flow, in a range
      between 20 and 60 L/min, according to the maximum flow supported by the patient.

      FOLLOW UP PHASE: Outpatient rehabilitation will be performed in 3 cycles, each cycle in
      40-minute sessions, 3 times a week. Each session starts with the cycle ergometer with a
      5-minute warm-up to an intensity of 0 watts, continues with a 30-minute resistance training
      phase at a continuous target intensity (60-80% Wmax), then a warm-down of 5 minutes at an
      intensity of 0 watts.

      The rehabilitation will be followed by a three-month washout period, for 3 cycles.

      MEASUREMENTS: We have identified four periods to evaluate gas exchange, Forced expiratory
      volume in one second (FEV1) and respiratory muscle strength, dyspnea, exercise capacity, the
      presence of obstructive/central sleep apnea, prediction of mortality, activities of daily
      life, the impact of the disease and the quality of life.

      These four periods are:

        -  T0: baseline;

        -  T1: at the end of the first rehabilitation cycle;

        -  T2: at the end of the second rehabilitation cycle;

        -  T3: at the end of the third rehabilitation cycle.

      At the beginning of the study, demographics and clinical characteristics of eligible study
      participants will be collected.

      Patients will be evaluated for:

        -  Blood gas analysis (BGA) in T0, T1, T2, T3;

        -  Spirometry: Forced Vital Capacity (FVC), FEV1 and FEV1/FEVC% in T0, T3;

        -  Questionnaire of the British Medical Research Council (MRC) modified, in T0, T1, T2, T3;

        -  Basic / Transition Dyspnea Index (BDI / TDI), in T0, T1, T2, T3;

        -  6 Minute Walking Distance (6MWD) with / without oxygen therapy, according to the medical
           prescription during the effort, in T0, T1, T2, T3;

        -  COPD Assessment Test (CAT) in T0, T1, T2, T3;

        -  Night time Polygraph to detect apnea/hypopnea, in T0, T3 ;

        -  BODE INDEX (where BODE means body mass index, obstruction of air flow, dyspnoea and
           exercise capacity), in order to estimate the probability of survival, in T0, T1, T2, T3;

        -  Saint George Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) to investigate the quality of life in T0
           and T3;

        -  Evaluation of the perception of muscle fatigue and dyspnea (Borg RPE) and Visual
           Analogue Scale (VAS) each session.

      During training, and the run-in phase, the physiotherapist will take note of FiO2 and of the
      dyspnea at the beginning and end of the session through VAS / BORG and again when the patient
      will be evaluated in 6MWD).
    
  