
    
      1. Study design Pospective, multi-center, randomized, open trial

        2. Study Objective To investigate the efficacy and safety of switching from ticagrelor to
           clopidogrel in stabilized patients with AMI with no adverse events during the first
           month after an index PCI

        3. Study Drug Test drug: Clopidogrel Control drug: Ticagrelor

        4. Study Disease Acute myocardial infarction: ST-segment elevation MI (STEMI) and
           non-ST-segment elevation MI (NSTEMI)

        5. Study Population 2590 (loss to follow-up: 10 %) -Test group: 1295 -Control group: 1295

        6. SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATIONS

           The present study is designed to show non-inferiority for the treatment group with
           aspirin plus clopidogrel versus the control group with aspirin plus ticagrelor. The
           sample size is based on the combined occurrence rate of ischaemic and bleeding events
           between 1 and 12 months after AMI. According to the PLATO investigators, the event rate
           of the primary efficacy endpoint including CV death, MI or stroke was 5.28% in the
           ticagrelor group and 6.60% in the clopidogrel group between 1 and 12 months after the
           index event1. There were no reported data on the bleeding event rate associated with
           ticagrelor from 1 to 12 months after AMI, especially the BARC bleeding rate at the time
           of the present study design. Therefore, we assumed the event rate of BARC 2, 3 or 5
           bleeding from the event rates of non-coronary artery bypass graft (CABG)-related PLATO
           major or minor bleeding because the content of BARC 2, 3 or 5 bleeding was conceptually
           quite similar with non-CABG-related PLATO major or minor bleeding. With regard to the
           assumption of the bleeding rate from 1 to 12 months after the index PCI, we calculated
           the expected bleeding rate using a proportional equation under the assumption that the
           occurrence ratio of non-CABG-related major bleeding of the first 30 days to that of
           after 30 days and the ratio of non- CABG-related major or minor bleeding of the first 30
           days to that of after 30 days could be equal. Thus, for the event rate of BARC 2, 3 or 5
           bleeding associated with ticagrelor from 1 to 12 months after AMI, the event rate was
           assumed from the event rates of non-CABG-related PLATO major or minor bleeding during a
           year of ticagrelor therapy (8.7%) and non-CABG-related major bleeding of the first 30
           days (2.47%) and after 30 days (2.17%) in the PLATO trial. For the event rate of BARC 2,
           3 or 5 bleeding associated with clopidogrel from 1 to 12 months after AMI, the event
           rate was assumed from the event rates of non- CABG-related PLATO major or minor bleeding
           during a year of clopidogrel therapy (7.0%) and non-CABG-related major bleeding of the
           first 30 days (2.21%) and after 30 days (1.65%) in the clopidogrel group of the PLATO
           trial7. After applying a proportional equation, we estimated that the BARC 2, 3 or 5
           bleeding would be 4.07% in the ticagrelor group and 2.99% in the clopidogrel group.
           Thus, the expected event rate of the primary endpoint from 1 to 12 months after the
           index PCI was 9.35% (ischaemic event of 5.28% + bleeding event of 4.07%) in the
           ticagrelor group and 9.59% (ischaemic event of 6.6% + bleeding event of 2.99%) in the
           clopidogrel group. We chose the non-inferiority margin in accordance with clinical
           judgement and other relevant studies with a non-inferiority design for the present study
           design. The non-inferiority margin of two contemporary trials of antiplatelet treatment
           after PCI that were available up to that time was equivalent to a 40% increase in the
           expected event rate16,17. The steering committee decided that the non-inferiority margin
           in our study should be less than a 40% increase compared to the expected event rate of
           the control group. After considering clinically acceptable relevance and the feasibility
           of study recruitment, we finally selected the non-inferiority margin of 3.0%, which was
           equivalent to a 32% increase in the expected event rate. Sample size calculations (PASS
           13; NCSS, LLC, Kaysville, UT, USA) were initially performed based on a one-sided α of
           0.025 and a power of 80%. To achieve these goals, a total of 2,230 patients was needed.
           After considering a follow-up loss rate of 10%, there should be at least 1,644 per group
           and a total of 3,288 patients. However, while the study was actively underway, the
           government policy on investigator-initiated trials (ITTs) changed: it was decided not to
           allow national health insurance to charge for the medical care costs of participating
           patients in ITTs. Soon after, the government was forced to permit the application of
           national health insurance to ITTs on the condition that researchers should obtain
           approval for their studies by the head of the Health Insurance Review and Assessment
           service. However, during this turmoil, researchers' willingness to register patients had
           been compromised, and they could not register patients as planned within the period.
           Thus, the steering committee held an emergency meeting with data and safety monitoring
           board (DSMB) members and independent statisticians and decided to recalculate the sample
           size for the timely completion of the trial. In recalculating the sample size, we
           adopted a one-sided α of 0.05 instead of 0.025. According to the CONSORT statement of
           non-inferiority and equivalence in trials18, a one-sided α of 0.05 was acceptable for
           the non-inferiority clinical trials. Moreover, in the large-scale TROPICAL-ACS (Testing
           Responsiveness to Platelet Inhibition Chronic Antiplatelet Treatment for ACS) trial (one
           of the famous CV drug trials similar to the TALOS-AMI trial), the researchers adopted a
           one-sided α of 0.05 for the sample size calculation4. Furthermore, of 110 CV
           non-inferiority trials published in JAMA, The Lancet or the New England Journal of
           Medicine from 1990 to 2016, a one-sided α was 0.05 in 66 trials19. Based on this
           external harsh environment and a review of the sample size calculation in previous
           large-scale randomised trials published in high-impact journals, we recalculated the
           sample size by using a one-sided α of 0.05, a power of 80% and a follow-up loss rate of
           10%. As such, the sample size was reduced from 3,288 to 2,590 (1,295 patients in each
           group)

        7. Study Design

      1) Screening period

      To conduct screening AMI patients based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria who (1) have been
      treated with ticagrelor+aspirin for at least 30±7 days after an index PCI, (2) received full
      explanation of the study details, (3) given informed consent To randomize eligible subjects
      within 30±7 days after AMI undergoing PCI with newer generation DES, and receiving aspirin
      and ticagrelor to the treatment and control groups in a 1:1 ratio.

      2)Treatment period

      Enrolled patients receive clopidogrel 75mg + aspirin 100 mg (treatment group) or ticagrelor
      90mg bid +aspirin 100mg treatment (control group) for 11 months (post-AMI 1 month to 12
      months) and evaluation safety and efficacy by conducting physical examination, checking vital
      sign, and collecting adverse events at post-PCI 3M, 6M, 12M visits.

      Labboratory and imaging tests, which undergo according to the medical judgment of each
      investigator during the study period, are collected by reviewing medical records or EMR.

      8. Randomization

        1. Subject Assignment and Randomization

           Randomization will be performed to ensure the scientific validity of the clinical test.
           This will maximize the comparability of the test and control group and eliminate the
           subjectivity of the researchers in subject group assignment. Before PCI, a 250-325mg
           loading dose of aspirin is given to patients who are naïve to treatment and all patients
           receive a loading dose of ticagrelor 180mg. Discharge medication consists of aspirin
           100mg once and ticagrelor 90mg twice per day. All patients receive treatment with
           aspirin plus ticagrelor for 1 month after the index PCI (screening period). At 30 ±
           7days after index PCI, eligible patients were randomly assigned either to the 1) aspirin
           100 mg plus clopidogrel 75mg daily (treatment group) or 2) aspirin 100 mg plus
           ticagrelor 90mg twice daily (control group) in a 1:1 ratio. Randomization will occur
           centrally. To randomize a patient, the investigative site will enter the subject into
           the designated electronic system and obtain the treatment assignment (clopidogrel +
           aspirin or ticagrelor + aspirin) in a 1:1 ratio. At 1 month visit after AMI, eligible
           subjects were assigned to each treatment group following an access to the interactive
           web-based response system (IWRS, Medical Excellence Inc., Seoul, Korea) by the
           investigator or designee. Randomization sequence was created by an independent
           statistician using SAS 9.3 (SAS Institute Inc. Cary, NC, USA) statistical software and
           was stratified by study center and type of AMI (STEMI or NSTEMI) and with a 1:1
           allocation using hidden random block size.

        2. Dosage and Method Test (Clopidogrel): 75mg oral administration, once a day Control
           (Ticagrelor): 1 tablet (90mg) oral administration, twice a day

        3. Switching protocol (ticagrelor to clopidogrel) In the control treatment group, when
           switching from ticagrelor to clopidogrel, patients take a 75mg clopidogrel without
           loading dose at the time of the next scheduled dose after the final dose of ticagrelor
           (eg, ≈12 hours from last dose of ticagrelor). The steering committee decided this
           switching strategy of no loading dose based on the concept that our study population
           would be at stable status at the time point of randomization (30 days after index PCI).
           The data safety and monitoring board (DSMB) approved this switching strategy on the
           condition that initial 100 enrolled patients in the treatment group should be monitored
           daily during first 7days for the occurrence of adverse clinical events by telephone
           interviews. Thereafter, DSMB reviewed the clinical data of the initial 100 patients in
           the treatment group and recommended continuation of the study according to the original
           protocol. After randomization, patients continue the same medication for 11 months
           according to their group allocation (treatment period, Figure 1). Patients are evaluated
           at 3 (2 months after randomization), 6 (5 months after randomization), and 12 (11months
           after randomization) months after index PCI and monitored for the occurrence of the
           clinical events.

      9. Statistical Analysis

      1. Efficacy Test Variable Analysis

        1. Primary endpoint analysis Efficacy Test The non-inferiority test between 1 and 12 months
           after AMI will be based on the Kaplan-Meier estimates. A 95% two-sided confidence
           interval will be computed for the difference event rate (clopidogrel + aspirin) - event
           rate (ticagrelor + aspirin). The clopidogrel group will be judged as non-inferior to the
           ticagrelor if the upper confidence limit is less than the predetermined non-inferiority
           margin of 3% (absolute risk difference).

           The hypothesis of non-inferiority test will be based on the difference of proportions.
           Let rT denote the true event proportion in the test arm (clopidogrel + aspirin) between
           1 and 12 months, and rC denote the true event proportion in the control arm (ticagrelor
           + aspirin) between 1 and 12 months. The hypotheses are H0: rT - rC≥Δ HA: rT - rC<Δ
           TheΔis the non-inferiority margin, and is taken to be 0.03. The test will be performed
           as a one-sided test at alpha=0.05.

           The null hypothesis shall be rejected at alpha=0.05 if the one-sided p-value is less
           than 0.05. When this occurs, the upper limit of the two-sided 95% confidence interval
           will be less than 3%.

           If the non-inferiority analysis passed the acceptance criterion, a superiority analysis
           will be performed. Statistical superiority is achieved when the upper limit of the
           two-sided 95% confidence interval of the risk difference is less than 0%. The type I
           error for this analysis is protected by the non-inferiority analysis, and no alpha
           adjustment would be appropriate

           Subgroup analyses will be performed by the primary endpoint categorized by type of AMI
           (STEMI vs NSTEMI), Subgroup analyses will be performed by the primary endpoint
           categorized by Type of AMI (STEMI vs NTEMI), Gender, Age (>=75 vs <75), Diabetes, LVEF
           (>=40% vs <40%), eGFR (>=60 vs <60), type of implanted stents (Xience vs Resolute vs
           Synergy stents), Bleeding risk according to the ARC criteria (high vs low bleeding
           risk), CYP2C19 loss-of-function carrier status (carrier vs non-carrier).

           The primary analysis population for primary and secondary endpoints will be the
           Intention-to-Treat (ITT) population. The primary endpoint analysis will also be
           performed on the Per Protocol (PP) population as subsequent analysis.

           A primary endpoint analysis stratified by the institutions as a sensitivity analysis.
           Strata will be divided by the accrual number of institution based on quartiles.

           Implement noninferiority validation based on the tolerance limit after collecting
           cumulative occurrence rate of MACCE (CV death, MI, stroke) + BARC bleeding (type 2, 3,
           or 5) post 1M-1Y PCI and checking 95% confidence interval of [Ticagrelor occurrence rate
           - Clopidogrel occurrence rate]. If the upper value of the 95% confidence interval is
           less than 3% of the noninferiority tolerance limit, Clopidogrel is perceived noninferior
           to Tricagrelor. Present the cumulative limit method, Kaplan-Meier curve and conduct
           log-rank test to check the difference between two groups.

        2. Main Secondary Endpoint Analyses

      The secondary endpoints will be composed of two families. The first family consists of the
      composite endpoint of MACCE (CV death, MI, stroke) plus BARC bleeding (type 2, 3, or 5). The
      second family will consist of MACCE plus BARC bleeding (type3, or 5), MACCE, and BARC
      bleeding (type 2, 3, or 5). The endpoints from the second family will be tested
      hierarchically, thereby maintaining the study-wise alpha level. These secondary endpoints
      will only be tested if both the primary composite endpoint and BARC bleeding are significant
      at non-inferiority analysis, and superiority analysis. Composite endpoint of MACCE plus BARC
      bleeding (type 3, or 5) will be tested first, and only if this is significant, the composite
      endpoint of MACCE only will be tested afterwards. BARC bleeding (type 2, 3, or 5) will be
      tested only if both of the above endpoints are tested significant.

      10. Analysis Population

        1. The Intent to Treat (ITT) Population

           The ITT population is defined as all randomized patients at 1 month after AMI,
           regardless of their adherence with the entry criteria, regardless of treatment they
           actually received, and regardless of subsequent withdrawal from treatment or deviation
           from the protocol19. Only some specific reasons that might cause an exclusion of a
           patient from the ITT population:

           No treatment was applied at all No data are available after randomization

        2. The Per Protocol (PP) Population

           The PP population is the subset of ITT population consisting of all patients who receive
           and retain the treatment during 12 months after PCI19. Some specific reasons that might
           cause an exclusion of a patient from the PP population:

           Violation of entry criteria including inclusion and exclusion criteria Withdrawal of
           consent Concomitant treatment of oral anticoagulant agent (vitamin-K antagonists or
           novel oral anticoagulants such as dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, or edoxaban) during
           the study period Poor compliance -Conversion from ticagrelor + aspirin to clopidogrel +
           aspirin during RCT procedure and vice versa

             -  Discontinuation of test or control drugs for 7 days or longer

        3. * In the cases of withdrawal of consent, concomitant treatment of oral anticoagulation
           agent and poor compliance, their data will be used for statistical analyses until such
           events occur.

      11. Final enrollment number

      The initially planned enrollment number of patients was 2,590, however, the actual number of
      registered patient was larger than this, which was 2,697. The randomization of the current
      trial was performed using interactive web-based response system and patients were
      competitively enrolled in 32 institutions. Despite the competitive registration among
      participating institutions, the random system did not have a lock on it, resulting in a
      registration of 107 more patients than initially planned number. When DSMB closely monitored
      the status of additionally registered subjects, its members agreed that there were no safety
      issues to them and they got an approval of IRB for using the data of additionally registered
      patients for the statistical analyses.
    
  