
    
      This study has two distinct aims. In aim 1, data will be collected across four days:

      Day 1: Participants complete baseline screening including a test of cognition (Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment), clinical tests of sensory and motor function (Fugl-Meyer Assessment,
      two-point discrimination, vibration sensation) and a robotic test of proprioception (Arm
      Movement Detection Test).

      Day 2: Participants will have their more affected hand wrapped around a robot handle. They
      will either perform reaching-type movements or hold the handle still if it attempts to make
      small movements. During these tasks, participants will receive vibrotactile feedback on the
      other arm which will provide information about hand position and/or hand speed to guide the
      movements.

      Day 3: Participants will perform the holding-still task from the previous day while also
      performing a grip task. They will be cued to lightly squeeze and then relax their grip in the
      more affected hand while they are holding the handle as still as possible. During this time,
      they will be provided vibrotactile feedback to help them maintain hand position.

      Day 4: Participants will perform the same task as the previous day. In this experiment, the
      vibrotactile feedback will be provided to the opposite arm, opposite thigh or on the same
      (grasping) arm.

      In aim 2, data will be collected across ten days:

      Day 1: Participants complete baseline screening including a test of cognition (Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment), clinical tests of sensory and motor function (Fugl-Meyer, two-point
      discrimination, vibration sensation) and a robotic test of proprioception (Arm Movement
      Detection Test).

      Days 2-10: Participants will use the more affected arm to reach to specific 'unseen' targets
      in three-dimensional space, using vibrotactile feedback to guide the movement of the arm.
      Once participants reach the location, they will be asked to squeeze and release the fingers.
      View of a computer monitor will also be used during part of the experiment to help the
      participants guide the hand. Participants will also be asked to perform a simulated feeding
      task at the beginning or end of practice on each day.
    
  