
    
      This study evaluates the effects of the addition of chlorpromazine to the standard
      therapeutic protocol in COVID 19 patients hospitalized for respiratory symptom management
      (score 3-5 WHO Ordinal Scale for Clinical Improvement).

      The investigators have observed in GHU-Paris psychiatry Hospital units (140 beds),
      significantly lower prevalence of symptomatic and severe forms of COVID-19 in patients (3%)
      than in the health workers operating in the same facilities (19% of nurses and 18% of
      physicians). COVID-psychiatry units report similar feedback in France, Spain, and Italy. One
      hypothesis could be that psychotropic drugs have a protective action on COVID-19 and protect
      patients from symptomatic and virulent forms of COVID-19.

      This hypothesis is consistent with research studies that have shown that several psychotropic
      drugs inhibit in vitro viral replication of the coronaviruses MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV-1. The
      SARS-CoV-2 has many characteristics in common with the coronavirus family and has
      phylogenetic similarities to the SARS-CoV-1 engaged in the 2002-2003 outbreak. It is,
      therefore, possible that one or more psychotropic drugs having demonstrated efficacy against
      MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV-1 also have anti-SARS-CoV-2 antiviral activity.

      The current global epidemic of COVID-19, with a high number of deaths in many countries,
      makes it urgent to search drugs potentially useful to reduce the severity and lethality of
      the infection. Drug repositioning represents a possible alternative to the news medicines
      discovery. This strategy makes it possible to eliminate many stages of development; it makes
      it possible to deploy a therapy whose side effects are known and which physicians already
      well know how to handle.

      To confirm the hypothesis of the antiviral action of chlorpromazine on SARS-CoV-2, a
      preclinical in vitro experiment began in April 2020 at the level III high-security biological
      laboratory at the Pasteur Institute (in collaboration with the GHU PARIS Psychiatry &
      Neurosciences). The first results are encouraging and show a marked antiviral effect of
      chlorpromazine on SARS-CoV-2. Technical replicas are underway to validate these preliminary
      results.

      By integrating all these evidence, the investigators hypothesize that chlorpromazine could
      decrease the unfavorable evolution of COVID-19 infection when administered at the onset of
      respiratory signs.
    
  