
    
      The choice about timing of follow visits for each patient will be performed before
      randomization and will be tailored to the single patient in accordance to NCCN and AIOCC
      guidelines following this scheduling:

        -  Oral Cavity cancer: every 2 months for the 1st year, every 3 months in the 2nd year,
           every 4 months in the 3rd year and every 6 months in the 4th and 5th year

        -  Oropharyngeal and laryngeal cancer: every 3 months for the 1st and the 2nd year, every 4
           months in the 3rd year and every 6 months in the 4th and 5th year

        -  Hypopharyngeal cancer: every 3 months for the 1st and the 2nd year, every 6 months from
           the 3rd to the 5th year

      Patients deemed to be in complete remission at month 6 (+/- 1 month) after curative treatment
      will be randomized in two follow up arms:

      ARM A (Non intensive): follow up according to NCCN guidelines, consisting of outpatient
      visits according to the schedule foreseen for single head and neck subsite. At each follow up
      visit the patients will report all new symptoms and they will receive both physical and
      fiberoptic endoscopic head and neck examination.

      Laboratory tests (complete blood count, renal, hepatic and thyroid function) will be
      performed once a year. Quality of life questionnaire (EuroQol 5D5L, EORTC QLQ C-30 and HN35)
      will be administered to patients every other visit for the first 2 years and then at each
      visit. During each visit, a socio-economic questionnaire will be also administered.
      Locoregional imaging will be performed within 6 months after treatment end and then will be
      recommended only on the occurrence of new signs or symptoms. Only patients in this arm will
      be contacted by a phone call between visits in order to monitor patient's reported symptoms
      which could be potentially related to disease recurrence.

      ARM B (Intensive): follow up outpatient visits will be performed similarly to ARM A,
      including physical and fiberoptic endoscopic head and neck evaluation and laboratory tests
      and questionnaires. Locoregional imaging will be requested for all the patients 2 times/year
      in the first 2 years and 1 time/year in the third and fourth year; PET scan will be requested
      yearly in the first 3 years.

      In the first year after RT end, MRI or CT scan will be performed at screening and at sixth
      month after enrollment, while PET scan will be performed six months after enrollment.
      Radiological imaging with PET will be customized according to smoking history being performed
      in subjects >50 years and with a smoking history of > 20 pack/years.

      Randomization will be stratified according to site of primary disease, smoking history (>
      10pack years) and likelihood of feasibility or non feasibility of salvage surgery if a
      recurrence at T/N level would emerge (salvage surgery feasibility).
    
  