
    
      von Willebrand disease (VWD) is the most common inherited bleeding disorder caused by defects
      in amount, structure or function of von Willebrand factor (VWF) (1). The prevalence estimated
      on population studies ranges from 0.6% to 1.3%(2).VWD is classified into type 1 with partial
      deficiency of VWF , type 2 with qualitative defects of VWF and type 3 with complete
      deficiency of VWF (3) (4). In practice, distinctions between certain VWD types are not easy,
      difficulties may arise because patient phenotypes may vary over time, VWF mutations can have
      complex effects on phenotype, certain laboratory tests are inherently imprecise, and the
      boundary between normal and abnormal phenotypes may not be sharply defined(3) .Moreover,
      accurate diagnosis is difficult due to the variability of the disease, clinical expression
      and the difficulties in standardizing the panel of diagnostic tests(4) (5).The first level
      tests are the VWF antigen (VWF:Ag), VWF platelet binding (activity) and factor VIII activity
      (FVIII:C), whereas the second level tests include VWF collagen binding (VWF:CB), FVIII
      binding capacity (VWF:FVIIIB) and ristocetin-induced platelet aggregometry (RIPA) and
      multimeric analysis(6). The latest official classification of VWD refers to the VWF
      multimeric profile as an integral part of the diagnostic process (5, 7, 8). Pérez-Rodríguez
      et al., and his colleauges have classified the role of multimeric analysis into three
      different categories : 1) Great significance ; multimeric analysis was necessary to establish
      a clear diagnosis; 2) Concordant ; once established clear diagnosis with other tests, the
      multimeric analysis agreed with such diagnosis; 3) Not informative: the multimeric analysis
      did not provide information for the diagnosis(8). The multimer results in 54.6% of the
      patients of Pérez-Rodríguez A et al., showed great significance in diagnosis. The role of
      genetic analysis of VWF is tricky; It is not routinely indicated but it could be mandatory in
      some circumstances i.e., when test result would affect the patient's treatment choice and the
      suitable phenotypic assays are not available as in type 2N and 2B VWD (9). Nevertheless,
      there are several reasons for performing molecular analysis in patients phenotypically well
      characterized, e.g. confirm the patient's phenotypic diagnosis(9) , help in identifying the
      pathological mechanism behind certain defects or can guide in the choice of treatment and in
      counselling regarding inheritance(5). Inheritance counselling examples are: prenatal
      diagnosis of type 3 or severe type 1(9) and the identification of carrier status among family
      members which can be easily recognized once the proband's mutation(s) have been identified
      (10). The mutations identified in VWD type 3 are often clearly disease-causing mutations
      (nonsense, frame-shift and large deletions), whereas in VWD type 1, missense mutations often
      identified and can only be considered candidate mutations due to the lack of firm evidence of
      their causal effect. The approach of investigating gene mutations causing types 1 and 3 is
      similar and it is sophisticated as there is no particular area where mutations are
      identified, in contrast to VWD type 2, that requires only the evaluation of the exons
      encoding the specific functional domain(s) and the large majority of mutations are located in
      exon 28. This strategy can be applied to all type 2 VWD (2A, 2B, 2M and 2N)(table 1)(11).

      VWD type 2A(IIA) 2A(IIE) 2A*(IIC) 2A(IID) 2B 2M 2M(CB) 2N* Domain A2 D3 D1-D2 CK A1 A1 A3
      D'-D3 Exon 3' portion of 28 22, 25-27 and 5' portion of 28 2-17 51-52 5' portion of 28 5'
      portion of 28 29-32 17-25
    
  