
    
      Methods Patient selection All patients in the Joondalup Health Campus satellite dialysis unit
      will be invited to participate in this study.

      Inclusion criteria -

        1. Age >18years

        2. Able to provide informed consent

        3. On haemodialysis for 3 months

      Exclusion criteria -

        1. Active inflammatory, infective or neoplastic process within the last 1 month

        2. Active major psychiatric condition

        3. Currently on haemodiafiltration as haemodialysis modality

      Design This study will involve an unblinded, cross-over design, with patients being
      randomised upon entry into one of 2 groups. The 2 groups will be - 1. HF80 dialyser (this is
      the best of the currently used dialysers and therefore no participant will require a
      reduction in their dialysis during this trial); and 2. FX dialyser. Patients will have
      baseline tests performed prior to intervention and then repeated after 3 months. At 3 months,
      patients will then cross-over into the other group and tests repeated after a further 6
      months.

      Due to the nature of the intervention, blinding will not be practical. The cross-over design
      will allow maximum power for this fixed and relatively small dialysis population (~50
      patients).

      Independent variables -

        1. Dialysis prescription on enrolment

           a. Including dialyser type (biocompatibility)

        2. Adequacy of dialysis

             1. Urea reduction ratio

             2. Kt/V

        3. Anaemia

             1. Including iron studies

             2. Including erythropoietin usage

        4. Calcium phosphate balance

           a. Including Parathyroid hormone levels

        5. Serum albumin

      Outcome markers -

        1. Quality of Life (i) KD-QOL - this is a standardised quality of life questionnaire
           designed and validated for dialysis patients, that will be readily comparable to other
           studies.

           (ii) Feeling thermometer

        2. Inflammatory markers (i) High sensitivity c-reactive protein (ii) IL-6 (iii) White cell
           count.

      Statistical analysis:

      Quality of life measures and inflammatory markers will be analysed using paired t-test after
      normality demonstrated. Simple and multiple linear regression analysis will then be performed
      to examine associations between independent variables with changes in the outcome variables.
      STATA 8.2 will be used to assist with the analysis
    
  