
    
      Background

        1. Ketamine as an adjuvant to multimodal postoperative analgesia and its impact on the
           development of chronic neuropathic pain:

           Ketamine, a phenylcyclidine derivate, was developed in the 1960's to be used as a
           general anesthetic. The pharmacological mechanism of ketamine remained unclear for a
           long time. However, more recently, the antagonistic role of ketamine at the
           N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor was identified. Consequently, it has been suggested
           that ketamine should be used as an adjuvant for multimodal pain treatment.

           During the last 15 years, a large number of clinical trials have been published that
           tested ketamine for the management of acute postoperative pain. Three meta-analyses have
           confirmed an opioid sparing effect in the immediate postoperative period, a decrease in
           post-operative pain intensity, and an increase in the delay until the first request of
           rescue analgesia in patients who were randomised to intraoperative ketamine [Elia &
           Tramèr, 2005; Bell et al, 2005; Himmelseher & Durieux, 2005]. There was no evidence of
           an increase in the incidence of nightmares or unpleasant dreams when patients received
           low-dose ketamine as an adjuvant to a general anesthetic [Elia & Tramèr, 2005].

           Additionally to these short-term perioperative effects, ketamine is supposed to reduce
           the development of chronic neuropathic postoperative pain through NMDA receptor blockade
           and a reduction of wind-up and central sensitization [Woolf 2000]. Chronic postoperative
           pain is a major source of morbidity [Perkins & Kehlet, 2000]. Certain types of surgery,
           such as breast surgery, thoracotomy, inguinal hernia repair and limb amputation are
           considered as "high risk" interventions for developing neuropathic pain. After
           thoracotomy, for instance, incidences of chronic neuropathic pain up to 60% have been
           reported. A few studies only have looked at long-term outcomes. In a small pilot study,
           a beneficial effect of ketamine on persistent painful sensations around the scar was
           observed for up to 6 months after surgery [De Kock et al, 2001]. Chronic neuropathic
           pain remains an important therapeutic challenge. The pathophysiology of neuropathic pain
           has shown that central sensitisation might play an important role through hyperactivity/
           hyperexcitability of spinal/supraspinal nociceptive neurons. Ketamine, which modulates
           NMDA receptors, is known to reduce neuropathic pain and might even prevent it.
           Furthermore, opioid resistance of neuropathic pain is a common feature and thermal
           sensory deficits within the painful area are predictive of the intensity of opioid
           response.

           In order to improve our understanding of the frequently observed variability in the
           response rate to ketamine, and to describe in more details the low back pain cohort we
           intend to study, we will address two further issues; first, pharmacogenetics of
           ketamine, and second, psychosocial factors that may influence the perception of
           postoperative pain and may predict the response to ketamine in patients with or without
           chronic low back pain.

        2. Pharmacogenetics of ketamine:

           Factors that can affect the individual response to drugs are genetic and non-genetic, as
           for instance, compliance, age, body fat, nutrition, concomitant disease (such as liver
           and kidney diseases), and drugs or toxic substances (such as tobacco, alcohol, and
           environmental pollutants). The individual response to a drug is influenced by the
           combination of pharmacokinetic (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion) and
           pharmacodynamic processes. Each of these processes, as well as the underlying
           pathological painful condition, involves genetic and environmental factors that can
           affect the response to an analgesic. The only consistent and predictable factor might
           possibly be the genetic one, and thus pharmacogenetics may help individualizing drug
           treatment in accordance with the genetic "make-up" of the patient. Pharmacogenetic tests
           are now available in clinical practice and might help to better identify the best
           analgesic and also to estimate the optimal dose for an individual patient. Finally, this
           genetic knowledge should lead to mechanism-based approaches for the discovery of new
           analgesics.

           Polymorphic drug metabolizing enzymes and drug transporters affect the pharmacokinetics
           of drugs whereas polymorphic drug targets and disease related pathways influence the
           pharmacodynamic action of drugs [Samer et al, 2006]. Prospective trials are urgently
           needed to study the inherited susceptibility that may lead to a lack of therapeutic
           analgesic efficacy, or dose-dependent induced adverse drug reactions.

           We choose high-priority candidate polymorphisms that we predicted would be associated
           with pain-related response or resistance to post-operative pain treatment. CYP2C9,
           CYP3A4, CYP2D6 are alleles involved in the metabolism of analgesics such as
           non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), ketamine, tramadol, or ondansetron (for
           review, see [Samer et al, 2006]). As for pain sensitivity and morphine response
           variability, the met allele at the val158met polymorphisms in the
           catechol-O-methyltransferase gene (COMT), reduces the ability of the enzyme to
           metabolize catecholamines, and has been associated with a decrease in opioid consumption
           in cancer pain patients. Furthermore, COMT polymorphisms interacts with the nociceptive
           and emotional system since the variability in experimentally evoked pain thresholds is
           linked to this genetic polymorphisms [Zubieta et al, 2003]. Unpleasant pain-related
           affect, and anxiety disorders have also been associated with this polymorphisms [Olsson
           et al, 2005]. The met allele has been associated with depression and anxious
           temperament; both are well known risk factors for developing chronic pain [Hwang et al,
           2005]. In addition to the a priori selection of these putative genes, we will carry out
           exploratory analyzes of polymorphisms in some additional genes that we had previously
           genotype for pain genetics studies. We recognize that correction for multiple testing
           might need a cohort of several hundred patients; thus, our observations and analyzes may
           be suitable only for generating hypotheses for future studies.

        3. Psychosocial factors of pain perception in patients with back pain undergoing surgery:

      Pain intensity is strongly associated with disability. Aside the importance of symptoms,
      function, general well-being, work status, and satisfaction with care have been proposed as a
      core set of outcomes in clinical trials and routine care settings [Mannion et al, 2005].
      Psychological distress and depressive mood increase the risk of chronicity. A systematic
      review evaluated psychological predictors of chronicity and disability in prospective cohorts
      of low back pain patients [Pincus et al, 2002]. Increased risk of chronicity (i.e. persisting
      symptoms and/or disability) as a result of psychological distress and depressive mood emerged
      as the main finding.

      Patients' beliefs and expectations about their pain problem also seem to influence the
      recovery process. Patients' expectations about treatment have been shown to influence the
      outcome, i.e. functional improvement, for example, can be linked not only to the intrinsical
      value of treatment but also to the patients' expectations of its possible benefits. Lutz et
      al showed that patients with higher expectations of surgery had better outcomes than those
      with lower expectations [Lutz et al, 1999]. Iversen et al found that patients with many
      preoperative expectations tended to improve more than those with fewer expectations [Iversen
      et al, 1998]. More ambitious expectations for physical function were also associated with
      improved function and satisfaction with physical function; however, high expectations for
      pain relief were associated with greater report of pain and decreased satisfaction with pain
      relief, thus suggesting that these types of expectations should be addressed differently in
      preoperative discussions.

      Investigating the relationship between expected results and actual outcomes, McGregor &
      Hughes assessed patients' expectations of surgery, and satisfaction with outcome in terms of
      pain, function, disability and general health at 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year [McGregor &
      Hughes, 2002]. The results showed that patients had high expectations of recovery and were
      confident of achieving this recovery. As for satisfaction, however, patients' reports at all
      review stages indicated that surgery had achieved only part of what they had expected,
      suggesting that patients had unrealistic expectations leading to lower satisfaction levels.

      Painful experiences may be accompanied by catastrophizing cognitions, i.e. pessimistic
      beliefs and expectations regarding the self, the others and the future, which may give rise
      to feelings of helplessness concerning one's ability to cope with life events. This may lead
      to pain-related fear, avoidance behaviors, and to reduced activity. Disability and disuse may
      ensue and be associated with depression, thus increasing pain and catastrophizing and setting
      into motion a vicious circle. When back pain is not associated with catastrophizing thoughts,
      the absence of fear allows for the confrontation with activity and eventually for recovery
      [Vlaeyen & Linton, 2000]. This model refers to both cognitive factors (e.g. meaning of pain,
      expectations regarding control over pain, maladaptive thoughts) and behavioural responses
      that may be active (e.g. carrying on with daily activities, exercising) or passive (e.g.
      rest, giving up control, withdrawal from activities) [Picavet et al, 2002].
    
  