
    
      Objectives

      To assess patient satisfaction when engaging in follow up treatment of actinic keratoses:
      Follow up of subjects with actinic keratoses (AK) who have been prescribed topical
      5-fluorouracil (5-FU) therapy as part of their standard of care.

      To assess the difference in total dose of exposure to 5-FU between treatment and control
      group.

      Background

      Teledermatology is a growing field within dermatology that has started to adapt the use of
      mobile phone technology (1). The growth of teledermatology has allowed greater access to care
      in both the inpatient and outpatient setting (1, 2), as well as in educational services (3).
      The aim of this study is to investigate how mobile phone photographic teledermatology can be
      adapted for use in the dermatology clinic to continually engage with the patient. More
      specifically, the researchers seek to understand how mobile phone technology can be used in
      the evaluation of subjects on topical 5-FU therapy for their actinic keratoses.

      Diffuse actinic damage is typically treated with field therapy (4) that involves the use of
      topical 5-FU. Patients are advised to apply the cream twice daily for 2-4 weeks (5). However,
      many patients note misunderstanding with these instructions (6). Typical follow up has
      included telephone based grading and in person follow up (5). However, a return visit to the
      clinic can be both burdensome to the patient and fill up the clinic with follow up
      appointments instead of allowing the appointment slot to go to examination of a new patient,
      thereby reducing access to care for other patients. Telephone conversations are not based on
      a physical exam and thus do not allow for objective evaluation of the treatment area. For
      this reason, the researchers seek to use mobile phone photography to evaluate patients with
      actinic keratoses on topical 5-FU treatment.
    
  