
    
      This is a three-arm, multi-site, cluster-randomized controlled trial, comparing three
      approaches to improve communication between patients and their doctors. Three health systems
      will participate in the study: UCSD Health, Reliant Medical Group, and Sutter Health.

      The study will be carried out in 2 phases.

      Phase 1: Phase 1 includes intervention and survey development work to take place prior to the
      RCT.

      OPEN High Touch intervention - The High Touch intervention will be modeled after the Open
      Communication intervention developed in the pilot (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT02522286)
      which contained three components: (a) a one question pre-visit survey delivered through the
      patient portal of the EHR, asking patients what they most want to discuss with their
      physician in the upcoming visit; (b) an animated video for patients providing coaching on how
      to best prepare for their upcoming visits and get the most from the visits; and (c)
      Standardized Patient Instructor (SPI) providing communication coaching for physicians on how
      to incorporate what matter most to patients in the visit, with empathy, and clarity.

      OPEN High Tech intervention - For the High Tech arm, the patient components of the
      intervention will be identical to the patient components of the High Touch arm (i.e., the
      pre-visit survey and patient coaching video). The difference will be in the PCP training: we
      will replace the in-person SPI with a mobile app with embedded audio and video vignettes
      demonstrating the communication challenges (e.g., patient with a big list of issues, patients
      who resist physician recommendations, and patients who disagree with physician) and
      recommended strategies. A mobile app offers several advantages, including being accessible at
      a convenient time for busy providers, being easily disseminated, and easily updated. The app
      will be interactive, posing questions to learners in association with video vignettes and
      asking learners to answer how they would handle the situation. We will start with the idea of
      building a set of short mobile modules that mirror the High Touch approach, honing skills on
      acknowledging patient's agenda, negotiate a joint agenda, invite patient to teachback and
      incorporate it in the After Visit Summary in the EHR.

      ASK intervention - The ASK intervention is intended to activate patients by encouraging them
      to ask three questions during their primary care visit: (1) What are my options? (2) What are
      the possible benefits and risks of each option? (3) How likely are each of the benefits and
      risks to happen to me? These questions will be printed on posters and placed in exam rooms
      used by providers in clinics randomized to the ASK arm of the trial.

      Phase 2: Phase 2 covers the trial recruitment, and three waves of data collection. Prior to
      the start of the RCT we will collect baseline (T0) data to allow measurement of primary care
      provider (PCP) performance prior to the trial. Patients participating in the T0 phase will
      provide only post-visit ratings of their encounters; we will not collect other outcome data
      or clinical indicators for these patients. For all patients in the intervention phase, we
      will be collecting information at two time points: 1) immediately post-encounter (T1); and 2)
      three months post-encounter (T2). We will further sample the top 5% high users of services
      after the intervention and review their medical records including the indexed visit and
      subsequent services that had occurred within four weeks after the indexed visit. The chart
      review will enable us to decipher the reasons for high volume of services after the indexed
      visit. We will also use existing patient survey data (Press-Ganey and/or NRC) to supplement
      our data sources.

      Analytical approach: We will apply intention to treat analysis, providing descriptive
      statistics on relevant outcome measures across patients, PCPs, and clinics according to their
      randomized assignments in the RCT. We will then use generalized estimating equations logistic
      regression analysis to examine the impact of the assignment into the intervention arms and
      the outcomes, while controlling for patient and physician covariates.
    
  