
    
      The objective of this project is to determine the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of
      providing access to free nicotine patches, with or without a required linkage to proactive
      telephone counseling, as adjuncts to internet-assisted tobacco treatment. Online cessation
      services will be provided by the Center for Health Communication Research at the University
      of Michigan.

      This investigation has three specific aims and one exploratory aim:

        -  Specific Aim 1: To determine the efficacy of providing access to free nicotine patches
           as an addition to online smoking cessation services.

        -  Specific Aim 2: To determine the efficacy of providing access to free nicotine patches
           linked with proactive telephone counseling as an addition to online smoking cessation
           services.

        -  Specific Aim 3: To determine the cost-effectiveness of providing access to free nicotine
           patches, with or without linkage to proactive phone counseling, as additions to online
           cessation services.

        -  Exploratory Aim 1: To examine potential mediators and moderators of intervention
           effects. An examination of potential mediators will identify key psychological and
           behavioral processes (e.g. medication adherence, self-efficacy, etc.) that underlie how
           the interventions affect the process of quitting and offer guidance regarding key
           targets for future research. An examination of potential moderators (e.g. level of
           dependence, income, gender) will identify candidate subgroups for which the proposed
           interventions may be more effective and cost- effective.

      Smokers searching online for help quitting (N=2,475) will be recruited and randomized to
      receive one of three treatments:

        1. online smoking cessation services (i.e. web),

        2. online cessation services plus access to free nicotine patches (i.e.web+patch),

        3. online cessation services with access to free patches contingent upon participation in
           proactive telephone counseling (i.e. web+patch+phone).

      The Center for Health Communications Research at the University of Michigan will serve as the
      smoking cessation website for this research project. Developed by Vic Strecher and
      colleagues, Project Quit is a web-based program designed to help individuals who would like
      to quit smoking in the next 30 days. The program is grounded in cognitive-behavioral methods
      of smoking cessation and relapse prevention. The web-based smoking cessation intervention
      features highly tailored email messages. Once enrolled in the project and the baseline
      assessment is completed, participants receive six tailored web sessions namely:

        -  Action plan (1 week before quit date);

        -  Barriers 1 (2 days before quit date);

        -  Supportive message (on quit date);

        -  Barriers 2 (2 days after quit date);

        -  Motivation (1 week after quit date);

        -  Testimonial (2 weeks after quit date).

      Evaluations will occur at baseline and at 1-, 3-, and 9-months post-enrollment. The primary
      outcome measure will be self-reported 6-month prolonged abstinence measured at the 9-month
      evaluation.

      This proposal addresses a critical need for evidence-based cessation treatments for smokers.
      At the completion of this project, it is our expectation that we will have identified an
      effective online intervention package (or packages) for dissemination of internet-assisted
      tobacco treatment.

      This study will enroll people recruited via online sources. Participants will complete a
      baseline survey about their smoking habits and quit history. Participants will then be
      randomly assigned to one of the following three treatment groups:

        -  Group 1 participants will receive access to an online tailored stop smoking program.

        -  Group 2 participants will receive free access to nicotine patches and an online tailored
           stop smoking program.

        -  Group 3 participants will receive telephone counseling, free access to nicotine patches
           and an online tailored stop smoking program.

      Participants receiving telephone counseling will receive 5 phone calls over a 2-month period
      to discuss their personal smoking cessation plan; they must complete the pre-quit and 7-10
      day calls in order to receive the nicotine patches. At 1, 3, and 9 months post-enrollment,
      all participants will complete online surveys about their smoking cessation experience.
      Participants will be contacted by phone to complete the surveys if they do not complete them
      online.
    
  