
    
      To generate CMV-T cells we put a specially produced carrier virus (adenovirus) that carries
      one CMV gene into the patient's blood monocytes or dendritic cells. These cells are then used
      to train the patient's T cells to kill cells with CMV on their surface. We then grow these
      CMV-T cells by more stimulations with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)infected cells from the
      patient's blood, which also contain the adenovirus with the CMV gene.

      When the patient enrolls on this study, they will be assigned a dose of CMV-T cells.

      The patient will be given an injection of cells into the vein through an IV line at the
      assigned dose. The patient will be followed in the clinic after the injection for 1 to 4
      hours.

      If after a 6 week evaluation period after the infusion, the patient seems to be experiencing
      a benefit (tumor regression confirmed by radiological studies, physical exam and/or
      symptoms), they may be able to receive up to six additional doses of the T cells if they
      wish. These additional infusions would be at least 1 to 3 months apart and at the same dose
      level they received the first time.

      Medical tests before treatment--

      Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests: Physical
      exam, Pregnancy test (if applicable), Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver
      function, Measurements of your tumor by routine imaging studies

      Medical tests during and after treatment--

      The patient will receive standard medical tests when getting the infusions and after:
      Physical exams, Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function, Measurements
      of your tumor by routine imaging studies 6 weeks after the infusion

      To learn more about the way the CMV-T cells are working and how long they last in the body,
      blood will be taken on the day of the T-cell infusion, before and at the end of the T-cell
      infusion, 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks after the T-cell infusion and every 3 months for 1 year.

      Total time participation for this study will be 1 year.
    
  