
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To assess the intervention impact on colorectal cancer (CRC) screening utilization over
           a 6-month observation period in African-American participants.

        -  To assess the intervention impact on CRC screening preference, classified into three
           levels (i.e., "decided not to screen or never heard of," "undecided," or "decided to
           screen"), based on data obtained from both the endpoint chart audit and the endpoint
           survey.

        -  To assess intervention impact on population health-management representations related to
           CRC screening, as assessed by perceived salience and coherence and self-efficacy related
           to CRC screening measured with 6 to 10 Likert-type items on both the baseline and
           endpoint surveys.

        -  To analyze intervention cost-effectiveness, from the societal perspective and from the
           more limited perspective of the provider and payer, focusing on the average and
           incremental cost per additional person who is compliant (i.e., has a CRC screening test
           during the observation period) for each alternative intervention and estimate the cost
           per life-year saved.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Participants are stratified according to practice.
      Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (standard-intervention group): Participants receive a personalized screening
           invitation letter encouraging selection and performance of one of the screening tests, a
           generic colorectal cancer (CRC) screening informational booklet, stool blood testing
           (SBT) cards, and instructions for arranging a colonoscopy screening appointment. After
           45 days, participants who have not been screened receive a reminder letter.

        -  Arm II (tailored-navigation intervention group): Participants receive a CRC screening
           invitation letter and materials that are tailored to the individual's preferred
           screening test strategy (i.e., SBT; SBT and instructions for arranging flexible
           sigmoidoscopy, instructions for arranging flexible sigmoidoscopy; or instructions for
           arranging colonoscopy). After 30 days, participants who have not been screened will
           receive a reminder by telephone. Those participants who have undergone screening will be
           congratulated for taking the time and preventative action, and be encouraged to continue
           future screenings. After 45 days, participants who have not been screened receive a
           reminder letter.

      Participants are assessed by a baseline survey consisting of personal background, cognitive
      and psychological representations, social support and influence, intention, and decision
      stage related to screening SBT and colonoscopy preference. Data obtained from the endpoint
      survey assessing whether participants and their providers discussed CRC screening before the
      study and opinions about the intervention, and an endpoint chart audit to gather data on
      participant CRC screening exam dates and exam results (i.e., screening SBT, flexible
      sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, double-contrast barium enema [DCBE] x-ray) are assessed for group
      differences.
    
  