
    
      In chronic diseases such as CSU, after subcutaneous injection, problems such as pain,
      ecchymosis and hematoma may arise due to the injection technique. This may lead to tissue
      loss at the injection site subsequent injections of subcutaneously administered omalizumab
      every twenty-eight days and increase the stress level . It is stated in the literature that
      complications may be reduced significantly with appropriate technique in subcutaneous
      injection applications.

      For this purpose, "ShotBlocker® (Bionix, Toledo, Ohio) was developed for subcutaneous and
      intramuscular injection applications. ShotBlocker® is a drug-free, non-invasive plastic
      device that can be applied for all age groups. It simulates the smaller nerves at the
      injection site and briefly blocks the pain gate in the central nervous system and slows down
      A-delta signals. ShotBlocker® is quick and easy to use, does not require any preliminary
      preparation, and has not been previously reported side effects. A surface of the device has a
      plurality of blunt spots these directly in contact with the skin. It is reported that the
      injection pain is reduced by applying light pressure to the contacting area with a short,
      non-sharp 2 mm thick blunt tip. There is a gap in the middle of the device to display the
      injection site and injection is applied through this gap.

      In most international studies, it has been found that subcutaneous and intramuscular
      injection with ShotBlocker® has a substantial impact on reducing pain levels. It has been
      found the limited number of studies have been published in Turkey in order to evaluate the
      effectiveness of ShotBlocker® devices in pain. In the literature review, there was not found
      any published research about the use of Shot Blocker® in patients with CSU who received
      regular subcutaneous injections.

      With the results of this research, it is believed that an effective method can be presented
      to reduce the pain and anxiety related with subcutaneous injection and increase the level of
      satisfaction in CSU patients, and to contribute the development of patient care with safe
      practices.
    
  