
    
      Null Hypothesis This is a pilot / feasability study. The null hypothesis is that there is no
      effect on the pain or oxford shoulder scores reported by patients receiving a targeted
      botulinum A toxin injection in the presence of cuff arthropathy at 6 weeks, 3 months or 6
      months compared with the baseline values.

      Objectives The aim of this feasability study is to provide the necessary information for the
      planning of a future trial. It will test the feasibility of running such a trial and provide
      estimates of the differences in outcome measures and information on resource data.

      All potential participants for this study will be identified by an Orthopaedic Shoulder
      Consultant in the shoulder clinics run at the Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Trust. The patients
      will be screened for eligibility by a research associate (SG). The eligibility criteria will
      be that the patient is medically fit for an operation, and has painful rotator cuff
      arthropathy, that is deemed suitable for intervention by the consultant surgeon. The patients
      will be informed verbally and in writing about the trial by the research associate and
      informed consent will be taken.

      The participating patients will be allocated to an USS guided botox injection. All patients
      will be asked to complete a number of questionnaires prior to the injection: the Oxford
      Shoulder Score (OSS), a Visual Analogue Score (VAS) and the EQ-5D. The range of movement of
      the shoulder joint will be documented in the usual fashion.

      The injections will all be done by Dr Anaspure (Consultant Radiologist) under USS guidance in
      a standard manner.

      After the injection, patients will be reviewed using the range of movement, OSS, a patient
      satisfaction score and EQ-5D at 6 weeks, 3 months and 6 months post injection. A record will
      be kept of any complications associated with the treatment. This data will be collected by
      the research associate, who is independent of either intervention.
    
  