
    
      While growing the NK cells from the blood in the lab, mismatched T cells may also grow, which
      can cause a reaction against normal tissue called graft-vs-host disease (GvHD). In the lab,
      the T cells will be removed from the cell product using special magnets and antibody-coated
      magnetic beads. The drug aldesleukin (interleukin-2) is then added to the NK cells to improve
      their function. The aldesleukin will be washed out of the cell product before it is given to
      you.

      The NK cells will be donated from a family member who has a certain genetic type in their
      blood called HLA that partly matches yours.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose level of NK cells
      based on when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest
      dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no
      intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue for up to 6 dose levels or until the
      highest tolerable dose of NK cells is found. One (1) to 10 participants will be treated in
      each dose level.

      The day you receive the first NK cell infusion is called Day 0. The days before you receive
      your NK cell infusion are called minus days (D-). The days after you receive the NK cell
      infusion are called plus days (D+).

      Study Drug Administration:

      On Day -7, you will be admitted to the hospital and given fluids by vein to hydrate you.

      On Days -6, -5, -4, -3, and -2, you will receive fludarabine by vein over about 30 minutes.
      About 4 hours later, you will receive cytarabine by vein over about 1 hour. If you are 60
      years old or older, you will "rest" (not receive chemotherapy) on Day -2.

      On Day -1, you will rest.

      Three (3) times a week for 2 weeks, you will receive NK cells by vein over 30 minutes. You
      will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the study
      staff for information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      You will receive filgrastim as an injection under the skin 1 time a day, starting on Day -7
      and continuing until your white blood cell levels are high enough. Filgrastim is designed to
      help with the growth of white blood cells.

      Study Visits:

      Before treatment starts:

      Your medical history will be recorded. You will have a physical exam, including measurement
      of your vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate).

      Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Before each NK cell infusion:

      Your medical history will be recorded. You will have a physical exam, including measurement
      of your vital signs. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. The amount of
      oxygen in your blood will be measured by placing a sensor on the tip of your finger.

      Twice a week, while your blood counts are low, you will have blood (about 2 teaspoons) drawn
      for routine tests.

      Once your blood counts are high enough, you will have blood (about 2 teaspoons) drawn for
      routine tests once a week until Day +56.

      Once your blood counts are high enough or around Day +28 (whichever is earlier), you will
      have a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy to check the status of the disease and DNA tests to
      check if the cells in your bone marrow are yours or your NK cell donor's. To collect a bone
      marrow aspiration/biopsy, an area of the hip or other site is numbed with anesthetic, and a
      small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through a large needle.

      Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to test the genetic makeup and function of the
      infused NK cells and to check the status of the disease:

      Before treatment starts. Before and about 1-3 hours after each NK cell infusion. Once a day
      on Days +14, +16, +18, +21, and then weekly until Day +56.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation on the study will be over on Day +56.

      You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects
      occur, if not enough NK cells can be collected, or if you are unable to follow study
      directions.

      This is an investigational study. Cytarabine, fludarabine, and filgrastim are FDA approved
      and commercially available for the treatment of AML. The investigational part of this study
      is to find the best dose of NK cells that can be given with the goal of helping to prevent
      the cancer from coming back. The way the researchers process the NK cells is investigational
      and is not FDA approved.

      Up to 30 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at Cellular Therapy
      Center (HCPA)
    
  