
    
      The primary goal of the proposed study is to identify the contributions of the amount of
      task-specific practice on locomotor (i.e., walking) recovery in patients with (> 6 Months)
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). The investigator will do this by building on our previous work
      directed towards identifying the essential exercise training parameters that maximize
      locomotor recovery. Consistent with principles of motor learning and exercise physiology, the
      investigator contend that certain training (i.e., dosage) parameters of physical
      rehabilitation, including the type (specificity) and amount of task practice, are critical to
      mobility outcomes following neurological injury. Previous work suggests these training
      parameters may influence locomotor recovery in patients with other neurological disorders
      (i.e., stroke), although few studies have attempted to delineate similar contributions of
      amount of task-specific practice in neurologic injury. Indeed, no studies have carefully
      controlled these training parameters during physical rehabilitation of patients with
      neurologic injury, and such interventions are rarely utilized in the clinical setting.
      Reasons for these knowledge gaps from other rehabilitation studies to patients with
      neurologic injury or lack of clinical implementation are unclear, but may be due to adherence
      to traditional rehabilitation theories. One concern is that practicing only stepping tasks
      reduces attention towards hallmark physical impairments following neurologic injury, such as
      loss of strength or postural stability, which are considered primary determinants of
      decreased mobility. Only a few studies have addressed whether providing only structured
      stepping training can mitigate these impairments without their explicit practice, but not in
      the neurologic injury population. A related concern is that focused stepping training without
      significant attention towards impairments or gait quality may exaggerate altered movement
      strategies, which could be reinforced with repeated practice. However, there is little data
      to suggest "worsening" of abnormal gait patterns following high intensity training. Rather,
      recent findings suggest patients demonstrate more normal kinematics. If focused task specific
      (i.e., stepping) training is to be applied clinically, participant must delineate its
      contributions towards improving locomotor function, and their effects on underlying
      impairments and gait kinematics.

      Central hypotheses are that stepping training in TBI results in:1) greater locomotor gains as
      compared to non-specific interventions; 2) gains in selected impairments underlying gait
      dysfunction (i.e., strength and metabolic capacity and efficiency); and, 3) improvements in
      gait quality. To test these hypotheses, the proposed crossover, assessor-blinded, randomized
      clinical trial (RCT) is designed to test the effects of specificity of rehabilitation
      training applied early-post-stroke. In this RCT, patients > 6 post-TBI will be allocated ≤ 15
      sessions over approximately 4-5 weeks of high-intensity stepping training or conventional
      therapy. Importantly, training intensity will be held constant to account for this potential
      confounding factor. Blinded assessments will be performed prior to and following each
      training paradigm.
    
  