
    
      1. Mobile technology and equipment based on Internet and communications technology have
           revolutionized the content and manner of social interaction and services. Mobile medical
           care has just started, the relevant platform and service is still immature, not
           standardized, poor satisfaction, low efficiency, its value and effectiveness of health
           management lack of clear theoretical support and data description. In this study, based
           on the multi-center prospective randomized controlled study, we constructed a
           large-scale maternal health service platform and a systematic standardized maternal
           health management model to carry out personalized maternal health management and mobile
           health services. Mobile medical effects validation, and further improve the mobile
           medical platform.

           This study will verify the value of mobile health care for maternal health management,
           to establish a standardized standard mobile medical model, to further improve the level
           of domestic maternal health management and improve the quality of maternal and child
           health management.

        2. Most gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) can be well controlled by health education and
           life style management, expecting a better pregnancy outcome. But standard clinic
           prenatal care which consist of clinic visit every two weeks may not give full play to
           the effects of GDM management. Telemedicine shows its potential to fill this gap. A
           multicenter, randomized controlled trial was designed to investigate whether health
           education and life style management through WeChat group chat was more effective in
           controlling blood glucose (BG) than standard clinic prenatal care in women with GDM.
           Women with GDM diagnosed by oral glucose tolerance test between 23-30+6 gestational
           weeks were randomized to a WeChat group chat-based blood glucose management group or
           routine clinic prenatal care. In PUMCH, investigators also equip CGM for m-health group
           allowing a more detailed BG information. The primary outcome was change of glycemic
           qualification rate during follow up period in both groups. The second outcome was
           pregnancy outcomes. Also, a case control study is designed to compare the glucose
           control status between rice-richen meal and wheaten-richen meal, and all other
           macronutrients and micronutrients are all calculated and same between two groups, which
           may provide more clues for type of carbohydrate recommendation for Chinese women with
           GDM.
    
  