
    
      Auditory verbal hallucinations affect up to 70% of schizophrenia patients (Waters, 2012),
      yet, even extended antipsychotic medication does not ameliorate AVH in 20-30% of patients
      (Sukhwinder S Shergill et al., 2007) and is often accompanied by side effects (Leucht et al.,
      2009). Therefore, it is crucial to develop and assess promising potentially beneficial
      therapeutic options.

      Non-invasive brain stimulation techniques like repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (rTMS) have been proposed to disrupt mechanisms in question. A number of meta-analyses
      (Aleman, Sommer, & Kahn, 2007; Demeulemeester et al., 2012; Freitas, Fregni, & Pascual-Leone,
      2009; C. W. Slotema, Blom, van Lutterveld, Hoek, & Sommer, 2014; C. W. Slotema, Dirk Blom,
      Hoek, & Sommer, 2010; Tranulis, Sepehry, Galinowski, & Stip, 2008) found significant effect
      sizes ranging from 0.42 to 1.04 for 1Hz rTMS over the left temporo-parietal junction for the
      treatment of AVH. However, the majority of studies so far investigated the effects of rTMS in
      treatment resistant schizophrenia patients as an ad-on or second-line treatment.

      No study to date has explored the effects of rTMS either as a first-line treatment or in the
      initial stage of the illness. This is surprising, considering the fact that rTMS is a safe
      treatment with minimal side-effects (Rossi, Hallett, Rossini, & Pascual-Leone, 2009) that
      could be used already in the earlier phase of treatment. This stands in considerable contrast
      to the range of side-effects associated with antipsychotics (Leucht et al., 2017) that can be
      disabling for patients and lead to lower quality of life.

      Therefore, the crucial next step is (1) to explore the effects of rTMS in medication-free
      patients from the whole schizophrenia spectrum and (2) to use an accelerated protocol of
      multiple rTMS-sessions within a short period of time. To make this assessment feasible,
      considering that patients have to be off medication, the safest and also most efficient way
      is an accelerated rTMS protocol. The great advantage of such an approach is that the effects
      of rTMS can be investigated independently of potentially influencing effects of
      antipsychotics and at the same time assess the efficacy of rTMS within a very short amount of
      time.

      In the proposed study, the investigators aim to determine the efficacy of rTMS as a potential
      treatment for AVH in schizophrenia and thus reduce suffering in patients and their relatives.
    
  