
    
      Taste sensations are provided by three different nerves of which the chorda tympani nerve
      (CTN) is the major taste nerve. It innervates taste buds in the two anterior thirds of the
      tongue. The CTN location in the middle ear predisposes for trauma of the nerve. In various
      forms of middle ear pathology, such as chronic otitis and cholesteatoma the nerve can be
      affected by the pathologic process per se, since the nerve may become exposed to bacteria
      toxins, enzymes or mechanical damage. During middle ear surgery, it can be cut off,
      stretched, touched or dried out by the heat of the microscope light beam. The nerve function
      in these situations is not clarified. Is it for example better to cut the nerve than to leave
      it traumatized after surgery. Therefore previous reports on objective CTN function pre- and
      postoperatively unfortunate suffer from inadequate descriptions of ear disease that were
      studied. In order to elucidate these questions and to give the surgeon deeper knowledge about
      how to handle CTN during surgery a prospective study is initiated on patients to be operated
      on with primary middle ear surgery.

      We believe that patients with chronic otitis media and cholesteatoma has taste disturbance
      already before surgery due to the disease itself, of course depending on degree of the
      disease, and that patients with otosclerosis has a normal nerve function before surgery. We
      also believe that patients with normal taste before surgery are more likely to notice a taste
      disturbance and that a nerve in continuity after surgery, even if it is maltreated, gives
      less taste disturbance than a divided nerve. Two methods of taste measuring are used in the
      study, Electrogustometry (EGM) and a Filter Paper Disc method (FPD). We have evaluated EGM
      regarding possible bias and artifacts as well as the correlation regarding results from the
      two methods.

      The study contains three substudies or arms.

        1. A clinical prospective trial where 100 patients that undergoes primary middle ear
           surgery because of chronic otitis, cholesteatoma or otosclerosis are evaluated with EGM
           and FPD before and after surgery. They also answer a questionnaire about subjective
           taste disturbance and a questionnaire about quality of life.

        2. A clinical multi center study on 200 patients that undergoes primary surgery because of
           otosclerosis. These patients answer a questionnaire about subjective taste disturbance
           and a questionnaire about quality of life.

        3. A histological study with electron microscopy of CTN from healthy ears and from ears
           whit chronic otitis or cholesteatoma. We we plan to investigate samples from five
           healthy and from five sick ears with EM.
    
  