
    
      After approval from the departmental research committee and College of Physicians and
      Surgeons Pakistan (CPSP), all pediatric patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria undergoing
      elective outpatient infra-umbilical surgery under general anesthesia combined with caudal
      analgesia at Aga Khan University Hospital would be enrolled for this study. Informed parental
      consent will be taken after explaining the purpose and procedure of the study.

      All patients will be assessed preoperatively for anesthesia fitness by history, physical
      examination and laboratory investigations. On arrival on the day of surgery, patient will be
      premedicated with midazolam 0.3mg/kg, 30-45 minutes before the procedure. The following
      information including age, gender, weight, ASA status, time of last oral intake, preoperative
      fasting duration, surgical procedure, any history of POV with prior surgery and history of
      POV in parents or siblings will also be noted preoperatively. Patients at high risk of POV
      will not be included in the study as prophylactic antiemetic is needed to be given to such
      patients. Once the patient is taken into the operation room, standard ASA monitoring
      including electrocardiography, non-invasive blood pressure and pulse oximetry will be
      applied. Mode of induction will be inhalational with 8% sevoflurane and 100% oxygen or
      intravenous with propofol 2.5-3mg/kg. Airway will be secured with a supraglottic device
      appropriate to the weight of the patient. Patient will be positioned for caudal block which
      will be performed using small gauge butterfly cannula using 0.25% ropivacaine in a dosage of
      1ml/kg body weight with a maximum safe dose of 3mg/kg. Maintenance will be achieved with
      isoflurane in an oxygen and nitrous oxide mixture of 60% and 40% respectively. Minimum
      Alveolar Concentration (MAC) will be kept between 1.0-2 %. Patients receiving any opioids or
      antiemetic will be excluded from the study. Intraoperative details of fluids will be noted
      (total volume and type of fluid). After completion of surgery, supraglottic airway device
      will be removed deep or awake at the discretion of primary anesthetist and patient will be
      shifted to the recovery. In PACU and day care ward, child will be assessed for vomiting by
      recording the number of episode of vomiting and for pain using Wong Baker FACES pain
      scale.The time of breaking NPO and type of first feed will be noted. Patient will be followed
      postoperatively for a period of 12 hours for any episodes of vomiting and pain in PACU and on
      the daycare ward. The decision of breaking NPO will be based on the current practice of
      pediatric surgeons and will not be interfered with.

      Criteria for discharge from the PACU will include full consciousness, adequate pain control
      determined using Wong Baker FACES pain scale (pain score of less than 4), no bleeding, stable
      vital signs, and no vomiting. These patients will be followed up initially till discharge
      from daycare ward. Later, the child will be followed up postoperatively on second day via
      phone call to the parents for the occurrence of any pain and vomiting and parental
      satisfaction with the anesthesia will also be asked. These results will be correlated with
      the length of fasting.
    
  