
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Training leads to performance improvements and motor learning. Cortical plasticity associated
      with training (use-dependent plasticity, UDP) contributes to performance improvements after
      brain lesions such as stroke. Recently, several interventional strategies have been proposed
      to enhance UDP, including pharmacological approaches and brain stimulation. The magnitude of
      improvements identified with these techniques is limited. It would be very useful to enhance
      UDP beyond the limited effects of previously proposed interventions.

      One strategy recently proposed to enhance the effect of brain stimulation techniques on the
      cerebral cortex is metaplasticity. This strategy focuses on the purposeful manipulation of
      cortical activity before applying brain stimulation. For example, previous work demonstrated
      that the magnitude of increase in cortical excitability elicited by stimulation of the
      primary motor cortex (M1) is more prominent if stimulation is applied on a hypoactive M1. An
      initial down-regulation of M1 activity (i) amplifies the effect of a subsequent intervention
      that increases M1 activity, and (ii) reduces inter-individual variability.

      It is unknown if this metaplasticity strategy can enhance the beneficial effects of anodal
      tDCS (tDCS anodal) on training effects as it does with cortical excitability, an issue of
      scientific and clinical interest, and the overall hypothesis of this protocol.

      Here, we will test the hypothesis that metaplasticity (tDCS cathodal) followed by tDCS anodal
      plus motor training will result in more prominent UDP than control interventions.

      STUDY POPULATION

      6 healthy adult volunteers for parameters estimation plus 25 healthy adult volunteers (total
      = 31 healthy adult volunteers)

      DESIGN

      In this protocol, down-regulation of M1 activity will be accomplished by applying tDCS
      cathodal, a tool extensively described in the literature to induce this effect. Therefore, we
      will test the effects of this metaplasticity intervention on the beneficial action of tDCS
      anodal to M1 in combination with motor training (MT). After a familiarization session,
      subjects will participate in 6 randomized sessions in a cross-over design:

        1. Preconditioning tDCS cathodal followed by Intervention tDCS anodal plus MT Purpose
           Target metaplasticity condition

        2. Preconditioning Sham followed by Intervention Sham plus MT Purpose Effects of motor
           training alone

        3. Preconditioning Sham followed by Intervention tDCS anodal plus MT Purpose Mild
           improvement in training effects

        4. Preconditioning tDCS cathodal followed by Intervention Sham plus MT Purpose Effects of
           tDCS cathodal alone on MT

        5. Preconditioning tDCS anodal followed by Intervention Sham plus MT Purpose Effects of
           polarity on tDCS effects

        6. Preconditioning tDCS anodal followed by Intervention tDCS anodal plus MT Purpose Control
           for the metaplasticity condition

      MT will consist of brisk repetitive thumb movements in a direction opposite to the baseline
      direction of thumb movements evoked by focal transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), in a
      well-characterized UDP protocol.

      The primary outcome measure reflecting the encoding of a motor memory will be the increased
      proportion of TMS-evoked movements falling within the target training zone (TTZ) as a
      function of MT and metaplasticity interventions.
    
  