
    
      Clinical procedures All clinical procedures took place at private office of first author
      (J.G.). Using simple randomization procedures (computerized random numbers), forty intact
      premolars were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups (n=10): I) DPC, II) MP, III)
      DPC+dexamethasone, and IV) MP+dexamethasone. After administration of local anesthesia (3%
      mepivacaine plain; Septodont, cedax, France) dental rubber dam was applied and tooth surface
      disinfected with 2% chlorhexidine gluconate. Occlusal cavity was prepared using high speed
      diamond fissure bur and buccal pulp horn was mechanically exposed (approximately 1.2 mm in
      diameter) using a sterile high speed carbide round bur. In MP, depth of penetration to the
      pulp was 0.5 mm. All of the cavity preparation procedures were intermittently performed under
      copious water coolant and light hand pressure. Using a sterile 5.25% NaOCl-soaked cotton
      pellet, bleeding from the exposure site was controlled and 2ml of sterile saline rinsed off
      NaOCl residues. For blinding the practitioner to the materials, dexamethasone (Dr.abidi,
      Tehran, Iran) and placebo were held in identical light proof syringes and numbered for each
      tooth according to the randomization schedule. Each tooth was assigned an order number and
      its pulpal wound received the solution in the corresponding prepacked syringe prior to
      sealing off the exposure site with white ProRoot MTA (Dentsply, Tulsa, OK); MTA was mixed
      according to the manufacturer's directions and a wet cotton pellet was placed over the
      material for 10 minutes. Eventually, the coronal cavity was restored with light cure resin
      modified glass ionomer (Fuji II LC; GC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan) and cured for 40 seconds
      using a curing light. All clinical procedures were performed by the same practitioner (J.G.).
      All patients took 400 mg of ibuprofen (as a single dose) for postoperative pain control. Pulp
      and periapical status were clinically (7, 21, 42, and 60 days) and radiographically evaluated
      (42, and 60 days) during the study. Clinical and radiographic signs and/or symptoms of
      irreversible pulpitis or pulp necrosis were considered as treatment failure. On the 60th day
      teeth were extracted atraumatically and prepared for submission to the oral pathology
      department for processing.
    
  