
    
      Asthma is one of the four most common adult chronic disorders. It affects 7.3% (16.4 million)
      U.S. adults and costs $18 billion in direct healthcare costs and lost productivity. Control
      of symptoms and improving patient's quality of life (QOL) are the goals in asthma management
      and require patients to accurately identify their symptoms. But the low congruence between
      patients' symptom reports and their pulmonary function leads to disease management errors.
      The accuracy with which asthma patients recognize their symptoms is affected by emotional
      factors, and because high negative affectivity is related to low interoceptive accuracy and
      worse asthma symptoms and asthma physical health, the frequent mental distress prevalent
      among asthmatics is thought to result in difficulty in distinguishing symptoms of
      stress/distress from those of asthma. Mindfulness training teaches people to recognize and
      distinguish among the components of experience (thoughts, feelings, sensations/symptoms) and
      is associated with increased perceptual accuracy of respiratory resistance, and reduced
      affective negativity. It thus has the potential to improve patient's discrimination between
      asthma symptoms and stress/distress, resulting in improved asthma management, control and
      QOL. A pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) (N=84) of a widely-available mindfulness
      training program (Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR)) to explore this hypothesis in
      adults with mild, moderate or severe persistent asthma. Intent to treat analyses comparing
      MBSR to an active control program showed clinically significant improvements in overall QOL
      (p=0.01), as well as important improvements in asthma symptoms (p=0.009), reduced use of
      asthma rescue medication (p=0.001), anxiety (p=0.05), perceived stress (p=0.01), and
      mindfulness (p=0.01). Promising improvements in the percentage of patients with
      well-controlled asthma also were found. All improvements were sustained 10 months
      post-intervention. Widespread adoption of this promising adjunct intervention will require
      sharper evidence regarding asthma control and symptoms. The primary aim is to test MBSR
      against an active control on the key clinical outcomes of asthma control and symptoms using
      gold standard measures with 256 adults with mild, moderate or severe asthma. And to evaluate
      the program's effect on asthma QOL, lung function, cost-effectiveness, and the mediating
      effect of respiratory interoceptive accuracy on asthma control, QOL, and medication use.
      Assessments are at baseline, 6-, 12-, and 18-month follow-up. MBSR is available nationwide
      and covered by many third-party payers. If sustained and credible improvements in asthma
      control and symptoms are found, MBSR could be a useful adjunct to traditional medical
      treatment and would have the potential for improving the lives of people with asthma. By
      examining the mediating effects of psychosocial variables on asthma control, the study also
      generates new knowledge on mechanisms of change and maintenance in mind-body and behavioral
      programs in medicine.
    
  