
    
      Chronic dizziness and recurrent vertigo are frequent complaints in primary and specialty
      medical care settings. Two common causes of these symptoms are vestibular migraine (VM) and
      chronic subjective dizziness (CSD), which may be seen in up to 25% of patients examined in
      tertiary neurotology centers. However, VM and CSD are relatively new diagnoses that have not
      yet been validated. Furthermore, recent research found that they co-exist 30% of the time
      with overlap in several features. From a clinical standpoint, this makes it difficult to
      diagnose and treat them well. From a research standpoint, it confounds subject selection for
      mechanistic investigations.

      The primary goal of this study was to dissect VM and CSD in order to identify the key
      features and clarify the diagnostic criteria of each condition. Subjects diagnosed with
      coexisting VM-CSD were treated with either verapamil or sertraline. It was hypothesized that
      a differential treatment response to these two pharmacologic probes would help to tease apart
      the unique clinical features of VM and CSD and identify risk factors that are shared or
      separate between the two conditions. It was hoped that the different mechanisms of action of
      the two study medications might also shed light on the physiologic underpinnings of VM and
      CSD.

      This project was a 14-week, prospective, randomized, double-blind, parallel group,
      pharmacologic dissection (PD) trial. A 12-week treatment period followed 2 weeks of baseline
      observation. Patients charted daily headache and vestibular symptoms. VM and CSD symptoms and
      potential confounds such as anxiety and depression were measured at two week intervals. Data
      were analyzed for differential and shared treatment effects that align with or oppose current
      concepts of VM and CSD.

      A PD trial uses response to one or more pharmaceutical probes (drugs) to study physiologic
      mechanisms of illness. A PD trial may provide data to separate overlapping manifestations of
      comorbid illnesses. This is useful for conditions that lack biomarkers. It also may provide
      data to identify characteristics of illnesses (symptoms, signs, cellular processes) that are
      associated with specific pharmacologic mechanisms.
    
  