
    
      This is an open label, dose escalation study to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD)
      and select the recommended phase 2 dose. Dose escalation follows a conventional 3+3 design;
      successive cohorts of 3 to 6 participants each will be evaluated in sequential escalating
      doses of single-agent IMGC936.

      Participants with relapsed or refractory, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic solid
      tumors including non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), triple-negative breast
      cancer (TNBC), colorectal cancer (CRC), gastroesophageal cancer, or pancreatic cancer will be
      enrolled.

      IMGC936 is administered via intravenous (IV) infusion on Day 1 of Cycle 1 and every
      subsequent 21-day cycle thereafter, at the assigned dose for each cohort. Infusion duration
      will vary depending on dose and participant tolerability. Sentinel dosing will be used for
      the first 2 dose levels. The first administration of IMGC936 in participants at the first 2
      dose levels of dose escalation will be staggered by at least 48 hours. The dose-limiting
      toxicity (DLT) evaluation period is 21 days. Participants may continue on study drug until
      disease progression, adverse event (AE) requiring discontinuation, DLT during evaluation
      window, pregnancy, death, investigator decision, lost to follow up (LTFU), major protocol
      deviation requiring discontinuation, withdrawal of consent, or sponsor, investigator or
      regulatory agency terminates the study.

      Tumor assessments are performed every 6 weeks (Q6W) for the first 6 months on study drug then
      every 12 weeks (Q12W). Tumor assessments continue until discontinuation criteria are met. If
      feasible, participants who discontinue study drug for reasons other than progressive disease
      (PD) (e.g., toxicity) should continue to undergo tumor assessments Q12W as post-treatment
      follow up until evidence of PD, initiation of another anticancer therapy, withdrawal of
      consent, LTFU, death, or end of study. Post-treatment follow up also includes following
      ongoing treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) until the even has resolved to baseline
      grade, the event is assessed by the investigator as stable, initiations of another anticancer
      therapy, withdrawal of consent, LTFU, death, or it has been determined that study drug or
      participation is not the cause of the AE.
    
  