
    
      Kidney stones are very common in industrialized countries and the lifetime risk is about 10
      to 15% in this population. Men are more affected than women and the mean age of the patients
      is be-tween the fourth and sixth decade of life. Notably, a considerable percentage of
      patients experience recurrent kidney stones with a relapse rate of 50% in 5-10 years
      complicated by pain and urinary tract infections and potential loss of functional renal
      parenchyma with development of chronic renal failure in the long term. Kidney stones are
      composed of inorganic and organic components. Calcium containing stones are the most common
      stone type accounting for more than 80% of kidney stones. Many factors predispose or
      contribute to the development of kidney stones, including genetic variants or mutations,
      diet, environmental factors, and behavior. Among all factors, abnormal urinary pH and calcium
      excretion are predominant findings in stone formers and seem to play a major role in the
      pathogenesis of stone formation (1-5). Moreover, a significant percentage of patients with
      calcium nephrolithiasis and normal parathyroid function show hypophosphatemia and reduced
      renal phosphate reabsorption i.e. a renal phosphate leak (6-8) with resulting
      hyperphosphaturia. To date, little is known on fibroblast growth factor (FGF23) levels in
      patients with calcium nephrolithiasis (6). The authors demonstrated that FGF23 was increased
      in stone formers with renal phosphate leak when compared to controls. Also serum FGF23
      concentration was strongly inversely associated with serum phosphate levels and rate of
      tubular phosphate re-absorption, respectively. This study suggests a role of FGF23 in the
      pathogenesis of calcium nephrolithiasis, however, more studies are necessary to confirm these
      findings. More, the influence of other novel factors involved in hyperphosphaturia has not
      been identified yet, such as Klotho.

      FGF23 is crucial for phosphate homeostasis including physiological and pathophysiological
      conditions such as X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets and it seems that FGF23 is probably the
      most important regulator of serum phosphate and calcitriol (1,25(OH)2D3) levels in addition
      to parathyroid hormone (PTH) produced by the parathyroid gland (9-13). FGF23 is produced by
      osteocytes and osteoblasts, secreted in response to phosphate, and 1,25(OH)2D3, binds to the
      FGF receptor (FGFR)/Klotho complex, and acts as a phosphaturic hormone by reducing the
      expression of both sodium dependent phosphate cotransporters, namely NaPi2a and NaPi2c in
      renal proximal tubule cells (14). There is some evidence of PTH induced expression and
      secretion of FGF23 and on the other hand FGF23 decreases 1,25(OH)2D3 production and thus
      stimulates PTH production. In chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients, FGF23 is involved in
      CKD-related mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD) and has been shown to be an independent and
      probably more critical cardiovascular risk factor than phosphate (14).

      Novel factors such as Klotho and Sclerostin, which are involved in the
      bone-kidney-parathyroid endocrine axis, have been identified recently. Klotho is a putative
      aging suppressor gene and its deficiency results in osteopenia, hyperphosphaturia, and
      calcification. Klotho is mainly expressed in the kidney but also in the parathyroid gland and
      acts as a FGF23 specific co-receptor mediating FGF23 participation in the
      bone-kidney-parathyroid endocrine axis as described above. Interestingly, secreted Klotho is
      also able to induce phosphaturia independently of FGF23 (15).

      Sclerostin is a protein secreted by osteocytes that inhibits bone formation by osteoblasts.
      Deficiency of Sclerostin causes van Buchem disease and sclerosteosis, both rare sclerosing
      bone disorders, respectively. Interestingly, in humans, Sclerostin mRNA is expressed in
      several tissues, with high levels in the kidney whereas Sclerostin protein is only restricted
      to osteocytes. The exclusive effect of Sclerostin on bone formation and its deficiency
      causing bone disorders suggest a potential role of this molecule also in other diseases where
      bone homeostasis may be disarranged such as nephrolithiasis (16-18).

      However, the potential role of FGF23, Klotho, and Sclerostin in nephrolithiasis is still
      poorly under-stood or even unexplored. The aim of this study is to test if levels of FGF23,
      Klotho, and Sclerostin are differentially regulated in kidney stone formers. Given the large
      number of kidney stone patients worldwide, the better understanding of the pathogenesis of
      kidney disease may provide the basis for the design of more individualized and specifically
      targeted therapeutics for this patient cohort.
    
  