
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Recent animal studies have shown that whole-body vibration increases bone mineral density.
      The effect of whole-body vibration on bone has been examined in only six small human studies
      with inconsistent results. Two of these studies have shown whole-body vibration reduces bone
      loss after menopause. Studies that used higher speed whole-body vibration may have produced
      greater reductions in bone loss.

      OBJECTIVE AND HYPOTHESIS:

      The objective of this study is to examine the effects of two whole-body vibration speeds
      trabecular BMD in the lower leg in osteopenic postmenopausal women. Two hundred
      postmenopausal women will take part in this 12-month study. Women will be randomly assigned
      into three groups (67 women per group) and these groups will be compared. Group 1 will
      receive very fast (90 Hz) whole-body vibration, Group 2 will receive fast (30 Hz) whole-body
      vibration, and Group 3 will not receive whole-body vibration. The hypothesis of this study is
      that the in comparison to Group 3 (no vibration), Groups 1 (very fast vibration, 90 Hz) and 2
      (fast vibration, 30 Hz) will experience reduced bone loss over 12 months, and that the
      greatest reduction in bone loss will be experienced by Group 1.

      METHODOLOGY:

      Women with any clinical conditions that affect bone and those receiving drugs that affect
      bone will be excluded. The whole-body vibration therapy will involve standing barefoot and
      upright on a vibration platform daily for 20 minutes. Data will be collected at baseline, and
      at 12 months of follow-up. Our primary analysis will evaluate whether there are differences
      in changes in trabecular BMD in the lower leg (as measured by peripheral quantitative
      computed tomography; pQCT) between Groups 1, 2, and 3. Our secondary analyses will examine
      whether there are differences in changes in the following bone characteristics between Groups
      1, 2, and 3:

        1. trabecular bone quality in the lower leg (as measured by pQCT)

        2. cortical bone BMD and quality in the lower leg (as measured by pQCT)

        3. trabecular and cortical bone BMD and quality in the wrist (as measured by pQCT)

        4. BMD at the hip and spine (as measured by dual x-ray absorptiometry, DXA)

        5. BMD and quality at the heel (as measured by quantitative ultrasound).

      SIGNIFICANCE:

      Based on current scientific understanding of bone remodeling, vibration devices have the
      potential to play a significant part in maintaining bone health in postmenopausal women. The
      results of this study will help us determine whether low-magnitude, high-frequency WBV at
      different vibration rates produces variable effects on bone, hence explaining the
      inconsistency of the results obtained previously. This study will also lay the ground work
      for future large-scale randomized controlled trials that are needed to investigate the
      long-term effects of WBV on preventing postmenopausal bone loss. If effective, WBV can be
      another non-pharmaceutical strategy to decrease bone loss in postmenopausal women. This in
      turn will decrease the number of osteoporotic fractures and their associated morbidity and
      mortality.
    
  