
    
      In an era of antimicrobial resistance, where the already existing antimicrobials are not
      sufficient, the development of new strategies for the prevention and treatment of infections
      is of great interest. This approach becomes more and more mandatory in our current era of the
      financial crisis where bacterial infections by multidrug-resistant emerge and impose heavily
      on the financial burden of the disease. These infections occur more frequently among elderly
      patients leading to prolonged hospitalization where unfavorable outcome is not infrequent1.
      Vaccination is the traditional approach of infection prevention. A classic example focusing
      on the need to prevent morbid re-infection is vaccination with pneumococcal vaccine the
      incidence of pneumococcal pneumonia and bacteremia is enormously increasing among the
      elderly2. The principle of vaccination is to develop memory B-lymphocytes so that early and
      adequate antibody titers are produced upon re-exposure to the same antigen. This is called
      the memory function of the adaptive immune system.

      Well before adaptive immunity develops proper recognition of a bacterial pathogen is done
      through binding of well-preserved structures known as pathogen-associated molecular patterns
      (PAMPs) on pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs) of the innate immune system and mainly of
      blood monocytes and tissue macrophages. Through a series of experiments in cell systems and
      animals, it was found that exposure of macrophages to small amounts of PAMPs like the
      β-glucan of Candida albicans and constituents of Mycobacterium tuberculosis may prevent death
      upon re-exposure to lethal bacterial challenges like C.albicans and Staphylococcus aureus3-6.
      Initial exposure to small amounts of PAMPs leads to epigenetic changes that induce the
      capacity of macrophages and monocytes to produce high amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines
      like tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) and interferon-gamma (IFNγ) that clear efficiently
      the pathogen3. This enhancement of the immune cells reaction after appropriate priming to
      stimuli totally different from the initial ones is called trained immunity and it could be a
      potential pathway of preventing serious infections without having severe adverse effects.

      The concept has also been tested in healthy volunteers that were vaccinated with placebo or
      BCG (Baccillus Calmette Guérin) vaccine. These volunteers were injected 14 days latter a
      tri-valent influenza A vaccine. Volunteers previous vaccinated by BCG developed significantly
      greater titers against hemagglutinin A of the influenza A virus whereas their circulating
      monocytes were more potent for the production of IFNγ7. Finally, a small study has recently
      reported that BCG vaccination of the elderly may protect against infections8, but larger
      studies are necessary to confirm these findings. This generates hopes that vaccination by BCG
      may increase immune resistance and/or tolerance of elderly patients upon exposure to
      bacterial infections.

      This generates hopes that vaccination by BCG may increase immune tolerance of elderly
      patients upon exposure to bacterial diseases.

      The aim of the study is to demonstrate in a double-blind, placebo-controlled approach if
      vaccination of elderly patients with BCG vaccine may modulate their disease susceptibility
      for bacterial diseases. This will be validated using both clinical and immunological
      criteria.
    
  