
    
      Experimental design Design: We plan to conduct a randomised double-blinded clinically
      controlled trial: The participants are assigned to either 1) placebo (100 ml of isotonic
      saline) i.v. or 2) the intervention drug: 2 g of fibrinogen concentrate (Haemocomplettan, CSL
      Behring) i.v. We intend to use a fixed dose for all patients randomized to the intervention
      group without prior measurement of the fibrinogen level. This strategy is primarily based on
      the clinical urgency since the treatment is required to be administered as early as possible.

      Materials and duration of study Patients will be included during a two year period at the
      four largest hospitals in the Capital Region: Rigshospitalet, Hvidovre, Hillerød and Herlev
      if they fulfil the following eligibility criteria Plan of trial execution In order to secure
      the ethical aspect "Time for reflection" we will provide all pregnant women who appear in the
      centres during the trial period with written information on the trial during their midwife
      evaluation. Only 1,75% of these women are estimated to meet the inclusion criteria
      postpartum.

      Intensive haemostatic monitoring Haemostatic blood samples including thrombelastography
      (TEG®), functional fibrinogen-assay for TEG®, Rapid-TEG, fibrinogen-level, d-Dimer, INR
      (international normalized ratio), platelet count and Antithrombin III will be drawn 15
      minutes after the intervention is given, 4 hours and 24 hours later. The samples taken after
      the intervention are fully available for evaluation by the clinicians responsible for the
      patient. The patient will be observed with blood pressure, pulseoximetry, ECG and possible
      side effects or re-bleeding will be evaluated.

      Follow up The patients will remain hospitalized for a minimum of 24 hours. We will contact
      all participants by phone six weeks after the intervention. Upon discharge from the hospital,
      all included patients receive information-material addressing possible late side effects and
      a contact number.
    
  