
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Even though exercise improves long-term weight loss maintenance and reduces the risks of
      cardiovascular disease and Type II diabetes mellitus, obese adults are prone to drop out of
      exercise programs. Dr. Jakicic's prior findings suggest that exercise adherence can be
      enhanced and short-term weight loss can be improved by making exercise more convenient via
      prescribing exercise in multiple short bouts, rather than one bout per day. Effects on
      long-term exercise adherence and weight loss have not been examined, however. His findings
      also suggest that providing more exercise options by placing exercise equipment in the home
      may also increase adherence, as evidenced by a significant correlation between the presence
      of home exercise equipment and physical activity. However, no experimental studies have
      tested whether placing exercise equipment in the home actually increases exercise adherence
      and weight loss.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study tested the hypothesis that prescribing exercise in multiple short bouts would
      improve long-term exercise adherence and long-term weight loss, and that the addition of home
      exercise equipment would further improve these outcomes. A total of 148 overweight women were
      recruited and randomized to one of three treatments: 1) long-bout exercise; 2) short-bout
      exercise; 3) short- bout exercise + home exercise equipment. All subjects participated in an
      18-month behavioral weight loss program, in which body weight was assessed at 0, 6, 12, and
      18 months and exercise adherence was assessed throughout the 18 months. Cardiorespiratory
      fitness and cardiovascular disease risk factors were measured at 0, 6, and 18 months.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  