
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate neuromodulation as new approach to enhance
      rehabilitation for people who have upper limb movement impairment after neurological injury
      such as stroke or spinal cord injury. Emerging evidence demonstrates that animals and people
      can exert control over the level of excitability in neural pathways that contribute to
      movement. This discovery has important implications, as it represents a new strategy to
      improve motor control in people of all ability levels, including those with neurological
      conditions. Operant conditioning is a well-studied mechanism of learning, in which the
      modification of a behavior can be brought about by the consequence of the behavior. Behaviors
      that are rewarded with positive reinforcement are displayed more frequently. In recent years,
      operant conditioning has been applied to spinal reflex responses in mice, rats, monkeys and
      people. Evidence suggests that it is possible to increase or decrease a neural circuit's
      excitability, by electrically stimulating a nerve or an area of the brain, then recording the
      muscle response and rewarding responses that are within a desirable range. This may alter the
      level of resting muscle tone, as well the muscle's contribution to intentional movements and
      its readiness to respond to unexpected perturbations. To date, only one research group has
      applied operant conditioning to improve motor performance in people. Their work has focused
      on modifying spinal reflexes for a lower limb muscle and the effects on walking. In the
      proposed project, we will expand the use of operant conditioning to muscles of the upper limb
      and to people with movement impairment following stroke and spinal cord injury, and to
      another neural pathway in addition to the spinal reflex.

      This study will include procedures necessary to measure excitability of the nervous system at
      the level of the spinal cord and at the level of the brain. Spinal reflex excitability will
      be quantified by electrically stimulating a peripheral nerve and recording the muscle
      response (ie. the H-reflex) with electromyography. Excitability of the motor pathway from
      brain to muscle (the corticospinal tract) will be quantified by stimulating a specific area
      of the brain (the motor cortex) with transcranial magnetic stimulation, and recording the
      muscle response (ie. The motor evoked potential) with electromyography. In addition, upper
      limb movement impairment will be assessed by measuring muscle tone, sensation, ability to
      generate force, and performance on a computer-based wrist motor control task. In subjects who
      have neurological conditions, upper limb function will be assessed using standardized tests,
      including the Fugl-Meyer a assessment of the Upper Extremity, the Action Research Arm Test,
      and the Box and Blocks Test. This study will test the effectiveness of operant conditioning
      as an intervention to modify neural excitability. After baseline testing, subjects will
      participate in up to 12 sessions of sham intervention followed by up to 24 sessions of real
      operant conditioning intervention. Each session will include 225 trials (3 sets of 75),
      lasting about 30 minutes. For each trial during real intervention, a stimulus will be
      delivered while the subject maintains a low level muscle contraction, the muscle's response
      to stimulation will be recorded, and immediate feedback will be displayed on a computer
      screen, showing the subject whether their muscle response was within the desired range or
      not. For example, a green bar will appear if the muscle response was 'good', otherwise a red
      bar will appear. The subject's 'percent success' also will be displayed and updated after
      each trial. During sham intervention, all procedures will be identical except that no
      feedback will be provided to the subject, and there will be no instructions to either
      increase or decrease their muscle responses.

      In healthy people, we will aim to shift spinal reflex excitability (H-reflexes) of an upper
      extremity muscle either upward or downward, expanding on previous findings showing those
      effects in a lower limb muscle, with no effect on normal movement ability (Thompson et al.,
      2009, Makihara et al., 2014). Also in healthy people, we will aim to shift excitability of
      the pathway from brain to muscle either upward or downward, using operant conditioning of
      motor evoked potentials. Only one prior study (Majid et al., 2015) has demonstrated a
      downward shift, and the first studies investigating the ability to increase motor evoked
      potentials currently are in progress. People with neurological conditions often have
      abnormally increased spinal reflex excitability affecting certain muscles, resulting in
      increased tone, stiffness, and difficulty moving. Therefore, we will aim to reduce spinal
      reflex excitability in over-active muscles, by eliciting H-reflexes and rewarding responses
      that are below a threshold. In addition, people with neurological conditions often have
      disrupted connections from brain to muscle, resulting in weakness (diminished ability to
      generate force). Therefore, we will aim to increase excitability of the pathway from brain to
      muscle, by eliciting motor evoked potentials and rewarding responses that are above a
      threshold.
    
  