
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the confirmed response rate of single agent nivolumab and dual agent nivolumab
      plus ipilimumab in patients with locally advanced/unresectable or metastatic soft tissue
      sarcoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate adverse event rates (National Cancer Institute [NCI] Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version [v]4.0) within each treatment arm.

      II. To evaluate duration of response, clinical benefit rate, time to progression,
      progression-free survival, and overall survival within each treatment arm.

      CORRELATIVE SCIENCE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To potentially detect an early signal of confirmed response rate within a histologically
      defined patient cohort.

      II. To assess the potential association between programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1)
      expression (by immunohistochemistry [IHC]) and clinical outcome, within each treatment.

      III. To evaluate associations between selected biomarker measured in serial peripheral blood
      and with clinical efficacy, within each treatment.

      IV. To evaluate the association between selected biomarker measured in tumor tissue with
      clinical efficacy, within each treatment.

      V. To evaluate the association between baseline tumor mutational burden and neoantigen
      production with clinical efficacy within each treatment.

      EXPLORATORY PHASE II OBJECTIVES (CROSSOVER TREATMENT):

      I. To evaluate secondary endpoints within patients crossing over to dual agent nivolumab plus
      ipilimumab after experiencing progressive disease while receiving single agent nivolumab.

      II. To evaluate correlative science objectives endpoints within patients crossing over to
      dual agent nivolumab plus ipilimumab after experiencing progressive disease while receiving
      single agent nivolumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes once every 2 weeks.
      Cycles repeat every 42 days for up to 108 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who progress after 10 weeks on single agent nivolumab may
      elect to cross over to Arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes once
      every 3 weeks for 12 weeks. Patients then receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks.
      Cycles repeat every 42 days for up to 108 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who progress by imaging during the first 12 weeks of therapy
      may continue treatment, at the discretion of the patient and treating investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 6
      months for 3 years.
    
  