
    
      Partnering with the accrediting board for CACs, the National Children's Alliance (NCA), the
      investigators will implement and evaluate training for Family Advocates to enhance early
      engagement in EBP (E3 training). Two levels of E3 training will be tested. The first level,
      webinar-only (E3w), will be web-based training on MH screening, EBP identification, trauma
      and effects of trauma, and engagement strategies that directly target known hindrances to
      accessing EBP in high risk, traumatized populations. The second level, webinar plus
      consultation (E3w+c), will add short-term consultation with experts in engagement and mental
      health. Consultation will target Family Advocates' skills in engagement, mental health
      screening, and coordination of care through strategies found to enhance skill acquisition.
      The investigators propose to test two key mechanisms of change for improving EBP engagement:
      knowledge (e.g., EBP identification) and skills (e.g., addressing caregiver perceptions of
      MH). To examine these change mechanisms, the investigators will implement the feasibility
      study designed to accomplish three tasks: (1) test if E3w training provides incremental
      benefits in engagement rates over the no training comparison group, (2) examine if E3w+c
      further improves outcomes beyond the E3w engagement rates and (3) examine mediating and
      moderating factors impacting outcome and implementation, including cost. The hypotheses that
      E3w will improve Family Advocates' knowledge, resulting in minor improvement in EBP
      engagement, and that addition of consultation in E3w+c will lead to increased use of
      engagement skills, resulting in greater improvement in family engagement in EBP, will be
      tested.

      Using NCA's innovative data capture systems, including the Outcome Management System (OMS;
      designed to obtain follow-up surveys from families and multidisciplinary team members), as
      well as a specific data tracking procedure using REDCap, the investigators will track case
      management details (including mental health needs and referrals) from each site randomized.
      In addition, knowledge learned via the training (pre- and post-knowledge assessments) will be
      tracked. In addition, NCA quantitative data on family engagement in EBP will be drawn, and
      the data submitted and integrated with pre- and post-training surveys of Family Advocates and
      CAC leaders measuring knowledge and perceptions of the training, including its utility,
      strengths, weaknesses, and costs.

      Applications were released to CACs nationwide in October of 2019, and sites were officially
      selected and randomized to groups using an adaptive randomization procedure such that a broad
      range of the selected covariates that are hypothesized to influence key outcomes occurs in
      all conditions. Participants from sites, including Advocates and Senior Leaders, will
      officially consent and enroll in the study in mid-December 2019. Participants will provide
      study data via an online data platform (i.e., REDCap). The outcomes of interest are the
      time-varying and CAC-varying provider fidelity and knowledge, as well as the family screening
      and engagement in treatment. Linear mixed effects models will be used to evaluate these
      outcomes, with generalized versions of these applied whenever the distribution of the outcome
      variable and the residuals suggest these to be appropriate
    
  