
    
      Cancer is always a feared illness and the diagnosis of cancer has huge psychological impact
      on the patients. Depression is one of the most common psychiatric sequelae and affects the
      disease outcome in cancer patients. Along with depression, cancer patients are also
      vulnerable to develop cognitive impairment. It could be related to the cancer or its
      treatment. Cognitive impairment that occurs among cancer patient is known as cancer related
      cognitive impairment (CRCI). Depression together with cognitive impairment adversely affect
      the quality of life of cancer patients. To date, the optimal treatment of depression in
      cancer is not established. The number of studies investigated the efficacy of pharmacotherapy
      for depression in cancer patient is limited. The evidence of treatment for cognitive
      impairment in depressed cancer patients is even more scarce.

      Vortioxetine is one of the latest marketed antidepressants in Malaysia. It has numerous
      additional effects as compared to other conventional antidepressants. In addition to blockade
      of the serotonin transporter (SERT), vortioxetine has affinity for 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT3, and
      5-HT7 receptors and as such, it is described as a 'multimodal serotonin modulator'. This may
      explain the additional benefit of vortioxetine in the treatment of depression as compared to
      other antidepressants. Furthermore, the unique mechanism of action of vortioxetine was also
      reported to improve cognitive function in patients with depression.

      General Objective:

      To examine the effect of vortioxetine in improving the depressive symptoms, cognitive
      impairment and quality of life in cancer patients who have major depressive disorder.

      Specific Objectives:

        1. To determine whether treatment with antidepressant vortioxetine is effective to improve
           depressive symptoms in patients diagnosed with cancer (of any origin) and major
           depressive disorder.

        2. To determine whether treatment with antidepressant vortioxetine is effective to improve
           cognitive impairment in patients diagnosed with cancer (of any origin) and major
           depressive disorder.

        3. To determine whether treatment with antidepressant vortioxetine is effective to improve
           quality of life in patients diagnosed with cancer (of any origin) and major depressive
           disorder.
    
  