
    
      Pelvic organ prolapse occurs when the pelvic organs (e.g., the uterus or bladder) fall or
      slide down into the vagina. Pelvic organ prolapse can be corrected with surgery. Some types
      of surgery try to restore the normal anatomy and function of the vagina (i.e., reconstructive
      surgery). Other surgery repairs the prolapse by essentially closing the vagina (e.g.,
      colpocleisis or colpectomy), thereby leaving a woman unable to have vaginal intercourse in
      the future.

      The use of colpocleisis prolapse surgery has not been well-studied. The current literature is
      lacking sufficient studies of colpocleisis to fully understand its risks and benefits for
      women considering surgery for prolapse. Traditionally, colpocleisis has been restricted to
      elderly women thought to be poor medical risks for prolonged reconstructive surgery. This
      study will describe the postoperative course of women who undergo colpocleisis, with
      particular attention to the persistence or recurrence of urinary incontinence and patient
      satisfaction after the colpocleisis prolapse surgery.

      Women who agree to participate in the study will complete questionnaires before surgery, and
      at 3 months and 1 year after surgery. Questionnaires include the Pelvic Floor Distress
      Inventory (PFDI), which includes questions about pelvic symptoms and the level of bother the
      symptoms cause; the Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ), which includes questions about
      the impact on life activities; and the SF-36, which measures health-related quality of life.

      Comparisons: Symptoms that may be related to prolapse, such as urinary incontinence, will be
      compared in women before and after surgery to see if the surgery provides improvement in
      those symptoms. In addition, patient satisfaction and health-related quality of life will be
      studied by making comparisons before and after prolapse surgery repair.
    
  