
    
      Effective HIV prevention among injection drug users (IDUs) requires educating the at-risk
      population about HIV transmission and risky behavior, and providing the means for behavior
      change. Current treatment for opiate dependence focuses on reducing the frequency of drug
      use. BUP/NX is a combination pill currently used to treat opiate-dependent individuals. This
      trial will evaluate the effectiveness of two therapies in preventing HIV transmission among
      IDUs. Drug and risk reduction counseling combined with either long term medication assisted
      treatment (LT-MAT) with BUP/NX or short term medication assisted treatment (ST-MAT) with
      BUP/NX will be compared in preventing the transmission of HIV among opiate-dependent
      individuals.

      This study will last 4.5 years. Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to one
      of two treatment arms. Group 1 will receive LT-MAT with BUP/NX. Group 2 will receive ST-MAT
      with BUP/NX. An initial 4-week safety and feasibility phase will involve the first 50
      participants at each site and will last approximately 30 weeks. Study visits will occur every
      week and will include a physical exam and blood and urine collection.

      The main treatment phase of the study will last 52 weeks. Participants in Group 1 will
      receive BUP/NX under the tongue, at first daily and then three times a week for 52 weeks.
      Participants assigned to Group 1 will take part in a BUP/NX reduction phase, which will occur
      between Weeks 47 and 52. Participants in Group 2 will receive short-term BUP/NX; dosage and
      length of treatment will be determined by the investigator. Participants assigned to Group 2
      will receive BUP/NX for a maximum of 18 days; detoxification may be repeated at Week 26 if
      the participant is still injecting opiates. After Week 4 of the safety phase and Weeks 26 and
      52 of the overall study, participants will complete an intervention acceptability assessment.

      In addition, participants in both groups will attend drug and risk reduction counseling
      weekly. After the first 12 weeks, participants will return every 4 weeks for 10 more
      counseling sessions. HIV testing, hepatitis C testing, risk assessment, and urine tests for
      opiates will occur at screening and at Weeks 26, 52, 78, 104, 130 and 156. Plasma from blood
      samples will be stored at each of these visits. Hepatitis B testing will occur at Week 26.
      Participants in China will attend study visits through approximately Week 104, and
      participants in Thailand will attend study visits through approximately Week 156.

      Participants in China who have been incarcerated may participate in an optional substudy,
      which is examining the withdrawal effects from BUP/NX after incarceration. Participants who
      agree to take part in the substudy will attend one study visit and will complete a
      questionnaire.
    
  