
    
      In our laboratory we have combined the use of new 3T clinical magnetic resonance (MR)
      technology, dynamic-contrast enhancement (DCE), and a unique endorectal-coil (ERC) probe in
      order to non-invasively obtain images of the prostate gland with higher signal-to-noise
      resolution and better spectral dispersion than has been previously achieved. This imaging
      strategy acquires higher-resolution images with smaller voxel sizes than has been possible
      with prior MR technology and more comprehensive tissue sampling compared to other
      pre-surgical assessments. This methodology should make it feasible to assess prostate-tissue
      morphology and additional features of prostate cancer such as tissue metabolism, tissue
      kinetics, and the vascular microenvironment, and thus provide a non-invasive tool to: 1)
      detect extra-capsular spread, 2) detect specific areas within the prostate that harbor
      cancer, 3) determine the aggressiveness of the cancer and 4) direct biopsy and treatment
      specifically to diseased areas.

      In order to prospectively validate these goals we will recruit successive patients who have
      been scheduled for prostate removal to participate to our protocol. Each patient will be
      studied with an ERC MRI at 3T using T2-weighted (T2W) imaging, DCE 3D T1-weighted imaging and
      MR spectroscopy (MRS). A pathologist using whole mount preparations will independently
      analyze each patient's prostate specimen. The whole mount data will be used as the standard
      against which we will compare the observations and data obtained from the 3T MRI findings.

      Aim 1: To evaluate the accuracy of T2W MRI, DCE-MRI and their combined data for staging
      prostate cancer.

      Supplementing T2W imaging with the high-resolution capability of 3TMR, we will apply standard
      morphologic criteria used at 1.5T to determine the presence or absence of extracapsular
      extension (ECE) of disease. The possible incremental value of high spatial resolution,
      dynamic contrast-enhanced data will be investigated. MRI results will be compared to ECE
      determination at whole-mount pathology.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the accuracy of MRI in determining tumor volume in the prostate gland.

      Using dynamic-contrast enhanced MRI with parametric analyses and T2-weighted images, both at
      smaller voxel sizes than have been used previously, will be our approach. Tumor volumes
      determined with MRI will be compared to those determined at pathology.

      Aim 3: To evaluate the accuracy of MRI in grading prostate cancer.

      The enhanced resolution available at 3T offers new opportunities to compare Gleason grades
      with independent and combined assessments of tissue kinetics and metabolism. Pixel by pixel
      parametric analyses will be obtained. Furthermore, choline to citrate and choline plus
      creatine to citrate ratios determined using MRS techniques will be obtained. Single voxel
      techniques will first be employed, followed by 3D chemical shift imaging, when the latter
      becomes available at 3T. DCE and MRS data will be compared both separately and in combination
      to the histologic Gleason scores of the comparable tumor identified at whole mount pathology.
    
  