
    
      Infected, broken bones that do not heal are a difficult clinical problem that significantly
      affect patient quality of life. Current methodology for detecting bacteria (growth in
      laboratory cultures) is inadequate to detect infections caused by bacteria existing in a
      biofilm, which is the layer of "slime" found in the presence of foreign bodies (eg, implanted
      metal devices to fix broken bones). Advances in molecular biology have allowed development of
      highly sensitive tests to detect bacteria in the biofilm state. However, the limited prior
      research has not included control groups or compared the performance of different highly
      sensitive tests. To address these limitations and further define the role of highly sensitive
      bacterial tests in clinical practice, the investigators hypothesize that there will be
      increasing bacterial burden when comparing clean broken bone surgery (1st surgery) to
      implanted metal device removal (2nd surgery, bone healed) to index nonunion surgery
      (subsequent surgery, bone not healed) as measured by percentage of cases being positive for
      bacteria using highly sensitive bacterial tests. Further, the highly sensitive bacterial
      tests (Illumina MiSeq system and Ibis T5000 biosensor) will have similar ability to quantify
      the number of bacteria and differentiate bacterial species. Eligible patients will consist of
      three groups. Group 1 is clean broken bone surgery undergoing plate and screw fixation,
      intramedullary nailing fixation where the fracture site is accessible, or staged treatment of
      a broken bones initially treated by joint spanning external fixation device. Group 2 will
      include patients having a plate and screws removed without clinical evidence of infection.
      Group 3 will be patients undergoing an initial procedure for fracture nonunion. Tissue
      obtained at the time of surgery will be sent to the research laboratory for culture and
      performance of the two highly sensitive tests. The tissue samples taken will be tissue
      normally removed and discarded in the course of these particular procedures. The rates of
      positivity for culture and the highly sensitive tests will be compared amongst the three
      groups. Investigators will also compare bacterial count and the distribution of bacterial
      species found using the two highly sensitive tests. These data will then undergo statistical
      analysis against clinical data gathered from review of the patients' charts. The overall
      project goal is to establish the clinical relevance of highly sensitive bacterial tests in
      diagnosing infected nonunions. The ability to more accurately identify patients with
      infection may lead to a change in clinical decision making with respect to surgical procedure
      or antibiotic treatment. This project will develop an improved understanding of the potential
      role of highly sensitive bacterial tests in diagnosing infected nonunions compared to the
      current standard of care, which is growing bacteria in the laboratory under artificial
      conditions.
    
  