
    
      This K23 research and training award advances the long-term goal of improving treatment
      outcomes and reducing transmission of HIV among HIV-infected drug users. The proposed
      training and research plans will enable the PI to develop the skills needed for an
      independent research career in the area of illicit drug use and HIV adherence intervention.
      The objective of this award is to develop skills in implementation science, behavioral
      intervention development and evaluation with drug using populations, and in-depth qualitative
      data analysis to accelerate refinement and effective implementation of interventions for
      HIV-infected drug users. Multiple comorbidities such as drug use and HIV act synergistically
      to produce poorer health outcomes and increase morbidity, mortality, and transmission of HIV.
      Consequently, effective and sustainable interventions adapted to drug users to improve
      antiretroviral medication adherence and reduce risk behaviors are urgently needed. Drug users
      present unique treatment challenges compared with other HIV-infected populations, including
      lower rates of adherence and inferior treatment outcomes. Additionally, interpersonal
      factors, including social support, negative patient-provider interactions, and socioeconomic
      challenges present significant barriers to adherence. Thus, the generalizability of current
      adherence interventions to drug users is limited, and there is a pressing need for
      efficacious interventions adapted to HIV-infected drug using populations. This project
      addresses this gap by being the first to adapt and test the acceptability and efficacy of a
      combined adherence and brief motivational intervention for HIV-infected drug users.
      Specifically, the intervention will augment the established Life Steps adherence intervention
      to include: (1) a tailored Life Steps module addressing the unique needs of illicit drug
      users, aimed at improving medication adherence; (2) a brief Motivational Interview to address
      drug use and other risk behaviors; and (3) two follow-up booster sessions. A three-phase,
      top-down research approach to adapt, refine, and pilot test the intervention will be
      conducted. Phase 1 will include focus groups with HIV-infected drug users currently
      prescribed antiretroviral medications and individual interviews with community-based
      clinicians. Phase 2 will include manual development, therapist training, a pilot trial,
      in-depth qualitative interviews, and further manual revisions. Phase 3 will include a small,
      2-armed (intervention vs. health education control) randomized controlled trial with 60
      HIV-infected drug users. Feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary indication of
      improvement in antiretroviral adherence and reduction in drug use will be examined at 1-, 3-,
      and 6-month follow-ups. To enable the PI to pursue this long-term research agenda, she will
      work with experienced mentors to build three areas of expertise: (1) proficiency in
      qualitative research methods and analysis; (2) skills in intervention development and
      evaluation with illicit drug using populations; (3) expertise in advanced longitudinal data
      analysis; and (4) implementation science. This K23 study addresses a key priority in HIV
      treatment science, and it will fully prepare the PI for an independent research career as an
      HIV intervention scientist.
    
  