
    
      Study Procedures:

      This is a Registry of the surgical procedure performed in patients undergoing elective
      surgery for rectal cancer, resected with curative intent, with anastomosis, with or without
      protective ileostomy.

      Patients will be included pre-operatively, through a website access to the study database.
      This inclusion could be done until the day before surgery. Participating sites must include
      all patients undergoing rectal cancer consecutively during the study duration (approximately
      1 year).

      Data will be collected until day 30 after patient´s discharge. No further follow-up is
      planned, except for those established by clinical practice.

      The study aims to be an extensive and comprehensive registry of all patients meeting
      inclusion criteria for a period of one year.

      An estimated number of centers and patients is not fixed a priori; will depend on the
      dissemination of the Registry between the members of the Spanish Association of Surgeons and
      the commitment and involvement of the involved investigators.

      An estimated number of centers and patients is not fixed a priori; will depend on the
      dissemination of the Registry between the members of the Spanish Association of Surgeons and
      the commitment and involvement of the involved investigators.

      All Spanish surgeons, members or not of the Spanish Association of Surgeons, will be invited
      to participate.

      Minimum requirements for all participants will be established, being the most important the
      commitment with the Registry (quality of information and regular updates).

      Other criterion that will be considered in the selection of the participating sites is to
      have a sufficient volume of patients that enables the collection of information, and to
      present a high history of rectal cancer surgeries per year. The existence of a Coloproctology
      Unit and publications in the area will be also evaluated.

      Data will be recorded in an electronic Case Report Form.

      It will contains the following variables, between others:

      Identification data of the responsible physician Administrative data of the procedure Patient
      demographic data Preoperative data Intraoperative data Postoperative data Final follow-up (30
      days after surgery) The information collected will be always a reflect of clinical practice
      at each site, as one of the results that will be analyzed are the differences in the practice
      from site to site.
    
  