
    
      Low back pain (Lower Back Pain) is extremely common, affecting more than 80% of the general
      population in the modern world, one is considered the most common cause of disability in
      people under the age of 45. 2 Lower back pain represents a social problem and substantial
      economies in Western countries, such as also considered a first cause orthopedic advice
      ahead. 3 Over the past decades, developed a number of methods for assessing the functional
      status of patients with low back pain, 4-7 and over twenty-five generic methods available
      today for use in pain clinics, orthopedic clinics and in clinical trials. 8 A large part of
      the measures used to monitor the response of patients to treat low back pain based on
      self-report questionnaires on patients' pain intensity, quality of life measures, and
      functional status.measures which relate to such measures - reduction of pain, reduction in
      the consumption of medication relieve pain, improved mood, improved daily function, improved
      sleep patterns, back in daily life and work, a reduction in the consumption of health system
      resources, and reduction in disability benefits, sick leave, early retirement, and more. The
      existence of multiple assessment tools of this type suggests that there is no a single tool
      valid and reliable for assessing the severity of low back pain and its response to treatment.
      In addition, there is a problematic depending on the patient's self-report is subjective and
      often biased because of the possibility of secondary gain illness.

      In recent years there has been great progress in the use of technologies of wearable
      monitoring both by the general population as part of the tracking of daily living and sports,
      as well as in a clinical setting. The use of cheap and simple devices give the user
      information about the number of steps performed during the day measuring heart rate and sleep
      quality .

      In the present work the investigators will make use of wearable and affordable device that
      measures a number of steps and sleep quality monitoring recovery after epidural steroid
      injection for patients with low back pain. The indices will be accepted through this
      monitoring will be compared with subjective reports of participants and physician's
      assessment about the success of the treatment. investigators Will use the wearable monitoring
      type Xiaomi Mi Band for measuring steps and sleep quality the device was chosen because it is
      cheap, easy to use, has long battery life (two weeks between charges), and the participants
      can continue to wear it every hour of the day and while bathing. as a measure of subjective
      filled questionnaire by the participants,the investigators selected the Oswestry Disability
      Index (ODI) . This questionnaire addresses aspects of wider life of the patient and is
      composed of 10 sections: pain intensity, personal care, lifting, walking, sitting, standing,
      sleeping, socializing, travel and employment.Each section includes values from 0 to 5 , with
      higher values representing higher functional limitation . The final score is obtained using a
      standard scoring .
    
  