
    
      Introduction

      The purpose of intensive care is to prevent and treat organ failure in one or more major
      organ systems, with the goal that the patient should have a continued that meaningful life.
      Due to the aging population, the development of medical knowledge and additional therapies,
      the number of patients in need of intensive care, worldwide, has increased. The number of
      patients being treated in intensive care units in Sweden increased by 23 % from 2008 to
      2015(1).

      Intensive care should be provided based on the patient's condition, needs and available
      treatment options. In addition, it is important that patients benefit from the treatment. In
      some circumstances, the patient's chronic and / or acute condition is of such a degree that
      the patient is not deemed able to benefit from intensive care. In such situations, decisions
      must be made to withdraw or withhold intensive care . A decision to withdraw or withhold
      intensive care means that life-sustaining treatments such as mechanical ventilation, dialysis
      or inotropic drugs is terminated or not initiated .

      In a recent study from our group, the investigators showed that female gender increases the
      odds of making a decision to withdraw or refrain from intensive care by 18% , when
      adjustments for age and patient condition had been made ( 2 ). The reason for this is not
      known, but can be found in explanations as to the patient's functional status prior to the
      current admission, including how well the participants manage daily activities, if the
      participants have any type of functional impairment, cognitive impairment or frailty. Frailty
      describes a patient's vulnerability , and several scientific reports demonstrate an
      association between frailty and impaired outcome after intensive care (3).

      The impact of preadmission functional status has been shown previously in several studies
      from Yale University, United States ( 7-9 ). Data is mainly for an older population, from the
      US, ( 10-11 ) but for a mixed intensive care population in Sweden there is no such data. A
      recent study from the VIP2 group has looked at how factors such as frailty , cognitive
      impairment , functional impairment and comorbidities affect outcome in patients over 80 years
      of age. It was then found that frailty alone could predict worse outcome (13). Gender and
      relationships were not parameters in this study.

      The purpose of the study is to identify factors that may influence clinical decisions about
      treatment limitations and outcome.
    
  