
    
      Within-group design to study the effects of standing-and-working accompanied by periodic
      movement compared to standing-and-working and to sitting-and-working on measures of
      musculoskeletal fatigue and discomfort, and physiological measures, in healthy normal control
      subjects, middle-aged to older adults. Measures of musculoskeletal and subjective discomfort
      and fatigue will be assessed in three sessions, i.e. "seated", "static standing", and
      "dynamic standing" (see below). During these test sessions subjects will perform small
      assignments using a computer mimicking light office work, including several tests measuring
      attention span. The first session will be the seated condition for all participants. Sessions
      2 and 3 will be randomized between static or dynamic standing.

      Prior to any research procedures, written informed consent will be obtained from each subject
      followed by initial study eligibility screening. Eligibility screening includes clinical
      screening questions, including, but not limited to, questions regarding significant history
      of cardiovascular disease, history of lower extremity pain and fractures, back pain, and
      migraines.

      Subjects will stand behind a height adjustable table that is positioned about 0.5 meters from
      a wall. For the "static standing" position subjects will be asked to stand behind the table.
      No specific restrictions for standing will be imposed on subjects (e.g. "do not move" or
      "stand quietly"). For the "dynamic standing" condition participants will stand behind the
      same table but received periodic cues to induce weight-shifting steps. A seated control
      session condition will also be used to get baseline musculoskeletal subjective ratings for
      the same time period. Each sitting or standing session will not exceed 4 hour. As many rest
      breaks will be provided to the subject as needed. The entire test session may take up to
      approximately 5 hours.

      The experimental testing protocol will be conducted preferably in the morning over three or
      more different days. Each day will be dedicated to one testing condition. Subjects will stand
      on an anti-fatigue mat during the static and dynamic standing sessions. For the standing
      conditions, rest breaks (e.g. sitting or walking around) will be provided as needed. During
      the study session caffeine consumption will be prohibited in order to standardize the
      stimulant effect of caffeine across subjects.
    
  