
    
      One of the main challenges in the treatment of Bipolar Disorder (BD) is to achieve better
      functioning outcomes after syndromal recovery. Available treatments are reasonably effective
      in reducing acute symptoms, but many times the syndromal recovery is not accompanied by the
      restoration of functioning capabilities. This is particularly true for bipolar depression,
      which is responsible for most of the burden associated with BD. Even treatment-responsive
      patients, who remain symptomatically well for extended periods of time, frequently
      demonstrate sub-threshold symptoms and continuing psychosocial morbidity and cognitive
      impairment. The cognitive impairment that persists during interepisode periods stands out as
      a major correlate of functional impairment, and may be a core aspect of the BD
      pathophysiology. Beyond that, cognitive impairment worsens with cumulative episodes.

      Functional and morphometric studies have shown changes in amygdala, hippocampus and
      prefrontal cortex of patients with bipolar disorder. Effective treatments for bipolar
      disorder, such as lithium and divalproex, have proved to prevent cellular atrophy, to have
      antiapoptotic properties and to increase BDNF levels. Findings from neuropathological studies
      have confirmed reduction and dysgenesis of neuronal cell lines in the hippocampus in bipolar
      disorder. Ultimately, a main challenge in the treatment of BD is translating the knowledge of
      neuronal plasticity and neurobiology of the illness into novel therapeutic options.

      In this context, tianeptine stands out as a therapeutic agent with unique properties, which
      match most of the conditions found in BD. The neurochemical properties of tianeptine vary
      from those of other tricyclic and non-tricyclic antidepressants. Noteworthy, none of current
      available medications for BD showed all these features: 1) tianeptine exert opposite effects
      than chronic stress in neurons, increasing neuroprotective factors what may help to quench
      the cycle of affective episode recurrence and neural and deterioration; 2) tianeptine affects
      neuroplasticity in the hippocampus and have been reported to increase dendritic lengths; 3)
      tianeptine increases BDNF levels in the amygdala; 4) tianeptine attenuated stress-induced
      glutamate release in amygdala; 5) tianeptine has anticonvulsant properties via adenosinergic
      A1 receptors; 6) tianeptine has analgesic effects.

      In the present research project, we plan on conducting an enriched maintenance study of the
      use of tianeptine as an adjunctive therapy in bipolar depression. All participants will
      receive tianeptine in an open label manner for a period of two months, following which they
      will be assigned randomly to the treatment with tianeptine or placebo in a double-blind
      fashion for six months. All patients will remain on treatment as usual for the duration of
      the trial. This trial will allow the investigation of the efficacy and tolerability of
      tianeptine 37.5mg/day as an adjunctive treatment of bipolar depression and its impact on
      clinical variables associated with the aftermath of a bipolar depression episode. Considering
      that tianeptine is approved to be used orally in humans and has been on the market for
      depression, a low risk intervention using a novel approach may be provided by this clinical
      trial. Along with clinical response, we will prospectively evaluate the improvement in
      working and declarative memory, two cognitive prefrontal- and hippocampus-dependent
      processes, respectively, and the effects of tianeptine on serum BDNF levels.
    
  