
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy comprising
           epirubicin hydrochloride, cisplatin, and capecitabine with or without bevacizumab in
           patients with previously untreated, resectable gastric, gastroesophageal junction or
           lower oesophageal cancer.

        -  Assess the safety of neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy comprising epirubicin
           hydrochloride, cisplatin, and capecitabine with or without lapatinib in patients with
           HER-2 positive previously untreated, resectable gastric, gastroesophageal junction or
           lower oesophageal cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, controlled study. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I and II: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV and cisplatin IV over 4 hours
           on day 1 and capecitabine orally twice daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo surgery 5-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy. Patients then receive 3
      additional courses of chemotherapy beginning 6-10 weeks after surgery.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes, epirubicin hydrochloride IV,
           and cisplatin IV over 4 hours on day 1 and capecitabine orally twice daily on days 1-21.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo surgery 5-8 weeks after completion of chemotherapy. Patients then receive 3
      additional courses of chemotherapy and bevacizumab beginning 6-10 weeks after surgery.
      Patients then receive maintenance therapy comprising bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day
      1. Maintenance therapy repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive lapatinib orally once daily, epirubicin hydrochloride IV, and
           cisplatin IV over 4 hours on day 1 and capecitabine orally twice daily on days 1-21.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo surgery 5-8 weeks after completion of chemotherapy. Patients then receive 3
      additional courses of chemotherapy and lapatinib beginning 6-10 weeks after surgery. Patients
      then receive maintenance therapy comprising lapatinib orally once daily on days 1-21.
      Maintenance therapy repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, during treatment, and during the follow-up period.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 9, 18, and 27 weeks after the
      start of course 4, 1 year post surgery, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1063 patients were recruited to the bevacizumab comparison of
      the study (now closed to recruitment) and 40 patients with HER-2 positive tumours will be
      recruited into the ST03 feasibility study.
    
  