
    
      Group sessions will be held weekly for a total of 12 sessions, with each session lasting
      approximately 90 minutes. Given that this is a church-based study, all group sessions will
      begin with a prayer, and spiritual messages will be woven into the study educational
      materials.

      Study subjects will be asked to wear a Fitbit Flex 2 activity tracker during the 12 weeks of
      study participation during their waking and sleeping hours. A brief training on how to
      operate the Fitbit will occur during the first study session, and participants will be
      provided with the contact information of nurse coaches for troubleshooting purposes.
      Participants will have the option of keeping the Fitbit Flex 2 for their personal use after
      the study is complete.

      Participants will receive a blood pressure cuff and will be asked to record their blood
      pressure measurements twice a day (upon awakening and before bed) during the 12 weeks of
      study participation. A brief training on how to correctly take and record blood pressure
      measurements will take place during the first study session, and participants will be
      provided with the contact information of nurse coaches for troubleshooting purposes.
      Participants will have the option of keeping the blood pressure monitor for their personal
      use after the study is complete.

      During the first study session, participants will be introduced to a website in which they
      will be asked to log all meals daily during the 12 weeks of study participation. Instructions
      on how to use this website will be provided during the first study session, and participants
      will be provided with the contact information of nurse coaches for troubleshooting purposes.

      Beginning at week 6, the VR component of the intervention will be introduced. Participants
      will be provided with Homido Mini Virtual Reality goggles, and they will be given
      instructions on how to operate the VR technology using their own phones. Participants will be
      asked to download a VR application to their personal phones, which will only be available for
      participants in the research study. The research team will help participants manually
      download the app into their phones. Participants will be asked to use the VR daily, and to
      keep a daily log of which experiences they used on each day and for how long. Participants
      will have the option of keeping the VR goggles for their personal use after the study is
      complete.

      Phone contacts will be initiated by nurse coaches based on time preferences expressed by
      participants. These contacts will provide opportunities for participants to share their blood
      pressure measurements, ask questions and discuss their progress and challenges. During the
      first 4 weeks of the pilot, these contacts will occur twice a week, and then weekly for the
      remaining of the pilot. The nurse coaches will provide their contact information in case that
      participants desire to contact them with questions at other times.

      To identify study participants, the Pastor of Holman Methodist Church will make an
      announcement about the study during his weekly service and direct interested people to
      members of the research team for more information. Additionally, study flyers with contact
      information for the research team will be posted throughout the church.
    
  