
    
      The ankle joint is an important part of the human lower limb. It has the function of
      maintaining the normal standing of the human body, supporting and bearing the body weight and
      conducting movements. As one of the complex joints of the human body, its surrounding
      ligaments and tendons not only play an important protective effect on it, but also play a
      fixed role in the movement of the ankle to effectively prevent excessive ankle varus/valgus.
      Ankle fractures account for approximately 3.9% of total body fractures, ranking the first in
      intra-articular fractures. An ankle injury is often accompanied by intra-articular fractures
      and surrounding ligament rupture. With the increasing requirements for joint functions and
      clinical surgery, inappropriate treatment for ankle ligament injury can result in limited
      movement function of the ankle, and even lead to traumatic arthritis and chronic ankle
      instability.

      X-ray examinations are routinely preferred for the diagnosis of ankle injury, which can make
      an accurate diagnosis of ankle dislocation and fracture. However, X-ray plain film has a low
      resolution for tendon and ligament lesions, which is easy to result in missed diagnosis of
      mild fractures, bone contusion and occult fractures, and moreover, it is difficult to fully
      clear the location, type and degree of ankle injury.

      MRI has high definition and resolution to implement a multi-parameter multi-directional
      scanning. Its histopathological findings can accurately and objectively display ankle and
      surrounding ligament injuries and their severity. MRI is able to display the anatomic
      structure and severity of ligament injury of the ankle on three anatomic planes: transverse,
      sagittal and coronal. Sagittal MRI is a good helper for diagnosis of Achilles tendon lesion,
      which can clearly show the talus, posterior tibial tendon, talocalcaneal joint, Achilles
      tendon, subtalar joint, articulatio talonavicularis, tibiotalar joint, and the cartilage and
      joint cavities. Coronal MRI can clearly show structures of the peroneal joint, tibiotalar
      joint, and lateral malleolus, especially the articular surface between the tibia, fibula and
      the ankle bone as well as between the ligament fibula and the ankle bone; and meanwhile, it
      can display the posterior tibial ligament, posterior talofibular ligament and posterior
      tibial tendon. Transverse MRI well shows the tibiofibular ligament, and anterior talofibular
      ligament. The ankle ligament mainly consists of three parts: the lateral collateral ligament,
      medial collateral ligament and tibiofibular ligament. Activities of the ankle refer to
      flexion and extension along the sagittal plane, including plantar flexion and dorsiflexion,
      to play a role of supporting and bearing, movement conduction and function as a lever.

      Adverse events If expected or unexpected adverse events (such as headache and nausea) during
      the MRI detection, the date of occurrence, type of injury and therapeutic managements will be
      recorded. Severe adverse events, including a requirement for immediate surgery, damage to
      patient's work ability, life-threatening events or death will be reported to the project
      manager and the institution review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open access All data will be collected on a case
      report form, recorded electronically and saved in a dedicated computer. Continuous variables
      from each record will be collected for descriptive statistical analysis, to allow real-time
      review and identify any potential deviation.

      The validity of the data will be assessed by the censor once every 6 months through a random
      sampling of 10% of the database. Only the researchers participating in the study will have
      the right to query the database that will not be modified.

      Statistical analysis will be completed by professional statisticians who will responsible for
      a statistical report. The statistical results will be given to the project manager, who will
      be responsible for writing the research report.

      Anonymized trial data will be released at www.figshare.com.
    
  