
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To obtain preliminary evidence of the clinical effects of acupuncture compared to usual
      care on the change in sensory neuropathic pain as measured by the European Organization of
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire
      (QLQ)-Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN) 20 item (20) sensory subscale.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Change in the motor and autonomic neuropathic pain subscores on the EORTC QLQ-CIPN20.

      II. Change in patient-reported assessment of numbness and tingling using the 2-item
      Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      measure.

      III. Preventing the escalation of CIPN from grade 1 or 2 to a higher grade. IV. Amount and
      intensity of planned chemotherapy relative to completed chemotherapy.

      V. Effect on sensory and motor nerve function via nerve conduction studies (NCS) (e.g.
      conduction velocity, latency, and amplitude).

      VI. Effect on peripheral nerve swelling via nerve ultrasound (e.g. cross sectional area,
      CSA).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To obtain preliminary evidence on phenotypic differences between African-American and non
      African-American (A-A) (i.e., white, Asian, etc.) with regard to presentation of CIPN as well
      as response to the intervention.

      II. To obtain preliminary evidence of the effect of acupuncture on intraepidermal nerve fiber
      density (IENF) via skin biopsy.

      III. To examine the associations among the peripheral nerve assessment measures (nerve
      conduction, peripheral nerve ultrasound, skin biopsy) and of the peripheral nerve assessment
      measures with the patient reported outcomes (EORTC QLQ-CIN20, PRO-CTCAE) at baseline, week
      12, and for the change from baseline to week 12.

      IV. To examine the association between expectations of the effectiveness of acupuncture to
      reduce peripheral neuropathy and baseline, 12 week, and change in patient-reported outcomes
      on the EORTC QLQ-CIPN20 and PRO-CTCAE.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP 1: Participants undergo 8 45-minute acupuncture treatments over 10 weeks.

      GROUP 2: Participants receive usual care.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 12 weeks.
    
  