
    
      Hospitalization for acute heart failure (AHF) results in a high rate of post-discharge
      mortality and re-admissions, as well as high financial costs. Reducing 30-day re-admissions
      after AHF hospitalization is a major national quality goal intended to both improve patient
      outcomes and reduce costs.

      Approximately 85% of emergency department (ED) patients with AHF are hospitalized, and
      800,000 of the 1,000,000 hospitalizations for HF originate from the ED, highlighting the
      critical role of the ED. Even a single digit percentage (i.e. 5%) decrease in the number of
      AHF admissions would equate to an estimated 40,000 fewer hospitalizations.

      Why are so many AHF patients hospitalized? AHF patients have a high post-discharge event
      rate. Emergency physicians have a low risk tolerance. When both are combined, most patients
      are admitted. The absence of risk scores for the ED setting compounds the problem. Most risk
      scores were developed in the hospital. As hospitalization may affect the outcomes of
      patients, whether these risk scores apply to the ED setting is unknown. As a result, which
      patients are at lower risk in the ED has not been well-studied. Further, absence of high-risk
      features does not necessarily equal absolute low morbidity or mortality, though such patients
      are likely at lower risk. In the absence of a risk score, clinical judgment is a poor
      substitute and often fails to identify patients at high risk, such that those discharged from
      the ED may be at equal or greater risk for death than hospitalized patients. Thus, the
      difficulty of identifying low risk, combined with the inherent high morbidity and mortality
      of AHF, leads to a disproportionate number of hospitalizations.

      Over a decade ago, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Policy Guidelines suggested that up
      to 50% of AHF patients were potential candidates for ED discharge or observation unit
      management. Furthermore, nearly half of all patients hospitalized for AHF present with
      lower-risk features such as high blood pressure (> 140mmHg) and a BNP < 1000 pg/mL. If low or
      lower risk ED patients with HF could be accurately identified, perhaps a greater proportion
      of patients with AHF could be safely discharged or observed briefly prior to discharge.

      Study Rationale: With this pilot study, we will generate the necessary and sufficient pilot
      data to inform the design of a definitive trial to test whether identification of low risk
      acute heart failure (AHF) patients with negative serial high-sensitivity troponin T (hsTnT)
      in the ED may be safely discharged home or observed briefly in observation status.
    
  