
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Background. COPD is a common chronic health condition. Because current medical treatments
      have minimal impact on disease progression, a strategy to prevent COPD-related disability
      would have important clinical and public health benefits.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study will test a specific conceptual model of how disability develops in COPD. The aims
      are: (1) To evaluate the impact of respiratory impairment, especially pulmonary function
      impairment, on the risk of functional limitation in COPD. Using a control group, to elucidate
      the prevalence of respiratory impairment, functional limitation, and disability that is
      directly attributable to COPD. (2) In adults with COPD, to delineate the longitudinal effect
      of functional limitation on the risk of incident disability. The investigators hypothesize
      that development of functional limitation, and not pulmonary function impairment, is the
      major determinant of disability. (3) To determine the prospective impact of disability on the
      risk of future adverse health outcomes. The investigators will assemble a prospective cohort
      of 1200 randomly sampled adults with COPD who are members of a large regional health
      maintenance organization. A matched control group of 300 subjects will be recruited. Subjects
      will undergo a detailed physical assessment that measures respiratory impairment (e.g.,
      pulmonary function) and functional limitation (e.g., lower extremity function, muscle
      strength, exercise performance, and cognitive function). Structured telephone interviews will
      ascertain disability outcomes at baseline and 18-month prospective follow-up. The
      investigators will also study the modulating effects of specific risk factors and protective
      factors on the progression from functional limitation to COPD-related disability, including
      psychological factors, environmental exposures, and health care process factors.
    
  