
    
      N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is an FDA-approved drug that has been used in multiple conditions to
      mitigate oxidative stress. The study investigators' lab and others have shown that NAC
      provides neuroprotection either alone or in combination with hypothermia when given within
      1-6 hrs of insult in animal models of HI injury. However, in neonatal rats subjected to
      severe hypoxic ischemic insult, NAC + hypothermia did not neuroprotect males as well as
      females. The study investigators and others determined that the majority of HIE infants are
      insufficient or deficient in 25(OH)vitamin D, a critical neurosteroid that also augments
      synthesis of an important antioxidant, glutathione. By adding active, low-dose
      1,25-dihydoxy-Vitamin D3 to NAC (NVD), with a 1 hour delay after starting hypothermia, and
      repeated daily for 14 days in neonatal rat HI model, the study investigators significantly
      improved severity of brain injury over hypothermia alone in both sexes. Importantly, NVD also
      significantly improved functional outcomes of strength, sensorimotor and memory functioning 6
      weeks after HI, even in male rats with the most severe brain pathology.

      NAC and active vitamin D are FDA approved and are safe even in very sick newborns. In the
      study investigators' trial of NAC in maternal chorioamnionitis, comprehensive physiologic
      monitoring in preterm and term infants exposed to intrauterine inflammation demonstrated no
      significant differences in cerebral blood flow, oxygenation, or left ventricular function in
      infants treated with NAC or saline.

      The primary objective of this study in human neonates after HIE birth treated with the
      standard hypothermia protocol, is to determine the unique pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of
      NAC and vitamin D during hypothermia and after rewarming, verify the central nervous system
      (CNS) effect of NVD on the pharmacodynamic target, reduced glutathione, and determine the
      duration of CNS effect. The study investigators used low dose NAC (Acetadote, 25-40
      mg/kg/dose) every 12 hours and Vitamin D3 (Calcitriol, 0.03 to 0.1microgram/kg) every 12-24
      hours, infused IV for 10 days in a dose escalating study. The study investigators determined
      PK parameters and plasma oxidative stress markers during day 1 of life while hypothermic, and
      day 5 of life during normothermia (24-36 hours after rewarming). To establish effective
      dosing of NVD based directly on CNS effect, CNS metabolites were quantified with magnetic
      resonance spectroscopy (MRS) before and immediately after NVD dosing on DOL 5, infusing NVD
      during the routine MRI for HIE. In a subset of 10 infants the delayed effects of NVD on CNS
      metabolomics were determined by MRS between 2-6h after NVD dosing on DOL 5. Development was
      followed for >24months.
    
  