
    
      Patients will be evaluated using the standard diagnostic workup of patients with early
      arthritis. This includes history taking, physical examination, Disease Activity Score of 44
      joints (DAS44) and a laboratory test, including C-Reactive Protein(CRP), Erythrocyte
      Sedimentation Rate (ESR), Complete Blood Count (CBC), Rheumatoid Factor (RF), Anti-Cyclic
      Citrullinated Peptide(anti-CCP), transaminases, urinanalysis.

      Also part of the standard workup for these patients are X-Rays of hands and feet to detect
      erosions. The baseline medication will include - in concordance with European League Against
      Rheumatism (EULAR)-guidelines and the provisional 'Nederlandse Vereniging voor
      Reumatologie(NVR)'-guidelines - Methotrexate (MTX) for all patients. The medicine regimes are
      part of the ongoing cohort studies from which the patients will be recruited. Evaluating the
      medicine effects is not part of the 'Echografie bij Vroege Artritis (EVA)(Ultrasound in Early
      Arthritis)' study. All consecutive Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients will be asked to
      participate in this study. They will receive oral and written information about the EVA
      study.

      Approximately two weeks after this first consultation the patient returns to his or her
      rheumatologist for the diagnosis and accompanying treatment. If the patient decides to
      participate in this study they fill out the informed consent form. The patient will be asked
      to fill out the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) and the Short Form-36 (SF-36). After
      this, at baseline, at three months and at 12 months, Metatarsophalangeal (MTP) 2-5(dorsal
      aspect) and Metacarpophalangeal (MCP) 2-5(dorsal, palmar, lateral) and wrists of each patient
      will be examined with ultrasound by a single rheumatologist per centre specialized in
      Ultrasound (US). This rheumatologist will be unaware of the clinical, laboratory and
      radiographic findings.
    
  