
    
      1. Introduction:

           According to statistics, the occurrence of GDM in 2017 of China was roughly 14.8%. A
           preliminary test performed by the obstetrics outpatient department of the First People's
           Hospital of Chongqing Liangjiang New Area, China (Project partner) revels that the GDM
           percentile was 17.5%.

           It is currently believed that GDM can affect the perinatal health of next generation
           including "giant children". Recently, the impact of GDM on the health of children in
           childhood has become a research hot spot. GDM is an important public health issue that
           has a huge impact on children's health.

           "1000 days in the early life" refers to the period from the combination of sperm and egg
           to the second year of life, which has a profound impact on children's growth and
           development and adulthood health and even the health of their children. Children at this
           age are in the window period of interaction between genetics and environmental factors,
           and yet, are also in the "opportunity window" of epigenetic regulation. The disease and
           nutrition of pregnant mothers will greatly affect the growth and development of children
           in the first 1000 days of their lives, as well as the long-term health of the children
           and that of the children's children.

           International studies have shown that the children of GDM mothers may have abnormalities
           in nervous system development, including cognitive memory impairment and bradykinesia.
           Recent studies have found that GDM diagnosed before 26 weeks of gestation can increase
           the risk of autism spectrum disorders in the 18-24-month-old children, and GDM treatment
           cannot reduce the risk. A study in Spain found that GDM significantly reduced test
           scores for language and gross motor development in 18 months old children(P<0.05).

           The mechanism of GDM on the development of children psychomotor development is more
           complicated. Studies have shown that the middle and late pregnancy is an important stage
           of nervous system development. chronic hypoxia in GDM fetuses prompts the body to
           mobilize iron from other tissues, including the brain, to produce sufficient hemoglobin
           for oxygen. Iron is involved in the differentiation of neurons in the brain, the
           synthesis and decomposition of neurotransmitters and the myelin sheath of the brain,
           etc. Iron deficiency in the brain can lead to changes in the structure and function of
           the hippocampus and striatum, thus affecting the development of sensation, movement,
           emotion, learning, memory and behavior. Currently considered, Some indicators of blood
           routine can comprehensively reflect the iron storage in the body. Iron deficiency in
           developing children causes irreparable damage to cognitive and memory functions.

           Researchers believe that GDM during pregnancy affects children's iron metabolism,
           thereby increasing the risk of impaired neuropsychological development such as cognitive
           memory and exercise after birth, and that the iron nutrition status after returning to
           normal cannot reverse this damage.

           The new concept of the origin of human disease ,"The developmental origins of health and
           disease (DOHaD)."theory, that is, environmental factors (such as maternal nutrition,
           diseases, etc.) in early life (such as fetal period) will affect some adult
           non-communicable diseases (such as obesity and metabolic diseases),and even affects the
           health of multiple generations.

           Foreign related studies had found that the birth weight of the children in the GDM group
           was higher than that of the non-GDM mothers (P<0.01), and the height of the children in
           the GDM group was lower than that of non-GDM group when the children were 1.5 years old
           (P<0.01). At the age of 7.7 years, the children weight of GDM group was significantly
           higher than that of the non-GDM group (P<0.01).

           Researchers believe that GDM during pregnancy affects fetal fat synthesis and weight,
           further affects the weight and body symmetry of the children after delivery, and
           increase the risk of physique growth deviation of the children.

        2. Purpose and Significance of Research 2.1 Purpose 2.1.1 To clarify whether GDM during
           pregnancy affects children's iron metabolism, thereby increasing the risk of postnatal
           cognitive memory, motion and other neuropsychological development level damage, and
           whether the postnatal iron nutrition status returns to normal cannot reverse this
           damage.

           2.1.2 To clarify whether GDM during pregnancy affects fetal fat synthesis and weight
           gain,further affects the weight and body symmetry of the children after delivery, and
           increasing the risk of physique growth deviation of the children.

           2.2 Significance The results of this study may provide a basis for the scientific
           judgment of the prognosis of the children of GDM mothers and the formulation of early
           intervention plans, as well as data support for further health policy formulation.

        3. Target 3.1 To clarify the influence of GDM on children's neuropsychological development
           level and progression; 3.2 To clarify the influence of GDM on children's physique
           growth; 3.3 To clarify the effect of GDM on Hb, MCV, MCHC, RDW%, and PLT in neonatal
           blood routines; 3.4 To understand whether GDM at different stages of pregnancy has
           different effects on the physique growth and neuropsychological development of the
           children, and whether it may have a predictive effect; 3.5 To understand whether the
           impaired neuropsychological development level of infants and preschool children in the
           GDM group with normal Hb, MCV, MCHC,RDW% and PLT has been repaired.

        4. Research Steps In the obstetrics department of the First People's Hospital of Chongqing
           Liangjiang New Area,China, the pregnant women diagnosed as GDM by IADPSG2010 standard
           and delivery children were enrolled into the GDM group, and the healthy pregnant women
           and delivery children in the same period were enrolled into the non-GDM group according
           to 1:1 ratio. To Collect data of pre-pregnancy, pregnancy and pregnancy outcomes of the
           two groups, and fill in the "Questionnaire", including the age of pregnant women,
           permanent residence, pre-pregnancy weight, pre-pregnancy weight, height, educational
           status, Number of pregnancies, number of births, pregnancy-related conditions, etc.
           Husband's age, educational status, weight, height, average monthly household income,
           etc. The physique growth index and blood routine were monitored at the age of 1 month,3
           months,6 months,12 months,24 months,36 months,48 months,60 months and 72 months,
           respectively. Physique growth indicators and blood routine were monitored. PDMS-2 was
           used to evaluate the motor development of infants at the age of 1 months,3 months and 6
           months, and the Gesell developmental scale was used to comprehensively evaluate the
           neuropsychological development of infants at the age of 6 months,12 months,24 months,36
           months,48 months,60 months and 72 months.

        5. The calculation formula of sample size is as follows:

           Nkeley =(（Z_(α/2)+Z_β ）^2 P(1-P)(γ+1))/〖γ(P_(0-) P_1)〗^2 p = (p_0+γp_1)/(γ+1) N＝The
           sample size of each group，α＝standard deviation，α=0.05，Zα/2=1.96，β=0.2，Zβ=0.842，r=1.It is
           ca6.lculated that each group needs 255 samples.

        6. Recruitment Process Since July 1, 2019, the subject recruitment was implemented in the
           obstetrics department of the First People's Hospital of Chongqing Liangjiang New Area,
           China. 255 pregnant women diagnosed with GDM by IADPSG2010 standard and their children
           will be enrolled into the GDM group, whereas, the same number of healthy pregnant women
           and their children will be enrolled into the project.

        7. Statistical Analysis Plan

           Excel software was used for data entry and SPSS 19.0 statistical software was used for
           data analysis. GDM was used as the exposure factor to analyze the differences between
           exposed group (study group) and unexposed group (control group).Specific analysis
           includes:

           7.1 Chi-square test was used to analyze the general demographic characteristics and
           other baseline characteristics between the two groups; 7.2 Chi-square test was used to
           analyze the feeding conditions, complementary food addition conditions, nursing
           conditions and main diseases between the two groups; 7.3 The height and weight values of
           the two groups were calculated according to the standard: LAZ, WAZ, WLZ and BMIZ, and
           the results were analyzed by student's t test.

           7.4 GMQ, FMQ and TMQ values in PDMS-2 motor development scale assessment results between
           the two groups were analyzed by nonparametric tests, while the development quotient (DQ)
           of the five area assessed by the Gesell developmental scale was analyzed using
           nonparametric tests.

           7.5 Student's t test was used to analyze the blood routine values between the two
           groups.

           7.6 Multiple linear regression analysis was used to analyze the factors affecting
           physical, motor and intellectual development between the two groups.

           7.7 Incomplete Data Disposal Method 7.7.1 Deletion of cases containing missing data:
           there are mainly simple deletion method and weight method. If the number of missing data
           is small, cases with missing data can be deleted or bias reduced by weighting the
           complete data. After marking cases with incomplete data, complete data cases are
           assigned with different weights, which can be obtained by logistic or probit regression.

           7.7.2 Fill in the missing data with the possible data

           Mean value interpolation:

           If the null value is numeric, the missing attribute value is filled in based on the
           average value of the value of the attribute on all other objects; If the null value is
           non-numeric, the value that the attribute takes the most times in all other objects
           (that is, the value with the highest occurrence frequency) is used to make up the
           missing attribute value according to the mode principle in statistics.

           7.7.3 Lost to follow-up to the processing method last observation carried forward(LOCF)
           and baseline observation carried forward(BOCF)

        8. Quality Control Plan Site quality control will be carried out regularly, at least once a
           month, to ensure that the plan is strictly followed, and the data collected are
           accurately recorded.

           8.1 Ethics This study has been approved by the Ethics Review Board of Children's
           Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.

           8.2 Selection of Research Subjects The person in charge of screening and enrollment must
           screen the subjects in strict accordance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria and
           maintain consistency of the inclusion and exclusion criteria Upon signing of the
           contract, screener will collect data of pre-pregnancy, pregnancy and pregnancy outcome
           of the two groups of mothers and have them fill out a questionnaire.

           8.3 Follow-Up Visits One researcher will keep track of follow-up visit, keep telephone
           numbers, provide health consultation, pay home visits, keep touch with the parents in
           any other possible forms and remind the parents of their appointments.

           8.4 Measures and Physical Evaluation One researcher will be responsible for physical
           measurements. This researcher will be trained on the standard physical measurement prior
           to the beginning of research, and the average value of three measurements will be taken.
           In terms of accuracy, two appraisers must go through the professional training of
           regular medical institutions and obtain the qualification certificate, and then begin
           the evaluation after the accuracy and consistency of the evaluation results.

           8.5 Data Collection Special personnel are assigned to collect and save paper data every
           day, and timely input the paper data into the computer for real and correct storage.

           8.6 Data Entry The research data are loaded into the electronic record form and cloud
           platform database timely, completely, correctly and clearly to ensure the authenticity
           and reliability of the content.

        9. Safety Evaluation There were no additional interventions in this study, so there was no
           additional risk to children beyond routine care.
    
  