
    
      In the early allergic response in asthma, allergens connect to IgE on mast cells and
      basophile granulocytes. For that there are 3 main pathways in activation:

      Besides quick liberation of Histamine and induction of cytokines there is a liberation of
      mediators from the arachidonate metabolism. In addition to Histamine there are especially
      Prostaglandin PGD2, Leukotriene LTC4 and also Thromboxane A2 for the classic symptoms of the
      early allergic reaction responsible. All of those mediators have potent bronchoconstrictive
      activity.

      Prostaglandin D2 and Thromboxane A2 work on Thromboxane receptors. LTC4 links to
      Cys-LT-receptors.

      According to an in-vitro-model of the early allergic reaction in human precision-cut lung
      slices with passive specific sensitization against grass-pollen, it has been shown that the
      early allergic response can only be suppressed partly by giving Antihistamines, Leukotriene
      receptor antagonists or Thromboxane receptor antagonist all on its own. It goes in consent
      with clinical findings, that all of these drugs alone have just an insufficient activity on
      asthma.

      In the described human in-vitro-model the combination of Thromboxane receptor antagonist with
      Leukotriene receptor antagonist (Montelukast) blocked the early response in asthma
      completely.

      These findings are the rationale for our study because so far there is no clinical data about
      the effect of the combination of Leukotriene receptor antagonist (Montelukast) with
      Thromboxane receptor antagonist.

      The drug Montelukast is a Leukotriene receptor antagonist which is known for the treatment of
      mild to moderate asthma in Germany. According to the GINA-Guidelines Montelukast is given in
      addition to steroids and β-mimetics in asthma severity grade II and III.

      The drug Ramatroban is a Thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist which is in Japan allowed for the
      treatment of allergic rhinitis. It also has an anti-asthmatic effect because it blocks
      bronchoconstriction, hyperresponsiveness of the airways and infiltration of inflammation
      cells. Furthermore, it has positive effects on allergic rhinitis by blocking the permeability
      of capillaries, blocking the nasal hyperresponsiveness and the infiltration of the mucosa by
      eosinophils.

      During the studies Ramatroban has proved to be a save drug for the indication allergic
      rhinitis and also allergic asthma. In contrast to sufficient effectiveness in the indication
      allergic rhinitis it has been said that there is just insufficient effectiveness in the
      indication asthma.

      About the combination of Ramatroban and Montelukast exists no clinical data so the study at
      hand examines the effect of Ramatroban/Montelukast versus Montelukast/Placebo on the early
      allergic reaction in patients with mild to moderate atopic asthma (GINA I and II) sensitive
      to house dust mites in a specific inhalative provocation.
    
  