
    
      The READ-2 Study is a phase 2 randomized, multi-center clinical trial to be conducted under
      an investigator-initiated investigational new drug (IND). The study aims to enroll 126
      patients, who will be randomized into 3 different groups. The primary objectives of the
      READ-2 Study are: (a) to obtain data on the bioactivity and dose interval effects of
      intravitreal ranibizumab (RBZ) alone, as well as in combination with laser photocoagulation,
      on retinal thickness and visual acuity in subjects with DME; and (b) to obtain additional
      safety and bioactivity data to aid in the design of a phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate
      ranibizumab as a therapeutic option for patients with DME The study consists of a 2-week
      screening period (Days -14 to 0), a 6-month treatment period with a primary time endpoint,
      and a 18-month follow-up and treatment period with secondary time endpoints. Consented
      subjects will enter the 14-day screening period to determine eligibility. Serum chemistry and
      hematology testing, urinalysis, pregnancy testing, and macular thickness measurements based
      on optical coherence tomography (OCT) will be performed. Screening will also include VA,
      ophthalmic examination and fluorescein angiography (FA) entry criteria.

      Patients who have ETDRS visual acuity of 20/40 or worse, but better than or equal to 20/320
      due to foveal thickening from macular edema secondary to diabetes (type 1 or 2) and who meet
      eligibility criteria will be eligible to enroll in the study. Baseline foveal thickness by
      OCT must be at least 250, which is often associated with VA of 20/40 or worse and which
      provides sufficient thickening so that a treatment effect is easily detectable (Nguyen et al.
      2004). Approximately 126 patients with DME will be enrolled in this study from all clinical
      sites in the study. Every effort will be made to recruit and enroll eligible patients from
      men and women of all ethnic and social backgrounds. Patients who meet entry criteria will be
      able to enroll in the study until the quota of patients has been achieved.
    
  