
    
      Helicobacter pylori infection is the main cause of peptic ulcer (1, 2) Some consensus
      conferences have recommended triple therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) and two types
      of antibiotics for 7 days as first-line treatment when patients with peptic ulcer have
      Helicobacter pylori infection.(3, 4)This recommendation is based on the finding that patients
      with proven eradication of H. pylori have an extremely low rate of recurrence of peptic
      ulcer.(5) Although a well-controlled study found comparable rates of small gastric ulcer
      healing after eradication therapy alone without continuation of antiulcer treatment, relief
      of symptoms was significantly slower with eradication therapy alone. Moreover, the success
      rate of eradication therapy has decreased during the past few decades, and whether or not
      eradication is successful becomes clear only 2-4 weeks after treatment(6).

      Patients with large gastric ulcer lesions are often not completely healed with H. pylori
      eradication alone (7) . Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have become the mainstay of maintenance
      therapy after eradication of H. pylori infection due to the associated effective healing and
      fast relief of symptoms without tachyphylaxis. However, PPI therapy has some risks, including
      dyspeptic symptom or rebound acid hypersecretion after cessation that may induce dependence
      (8,9) , drug interactions with other substrate of CYP2C19, and some kinds of respiratory or
      gastrointestinal infections . Also, the result of H. pylori eradication can be affected by
      such antisecretory drugs.(10) Rebamipide is a gastroprotective antiulcer drug that has been
      found to reduce the rate of recurrence of gastric ulcers without affecting H. pylori status,
      unlike antisecretory drugs such as PPIs and H2 receptor antagonists.6 and have a healing rate
      of about 90% at 8 weeks after eradication therapy (11) Rebamipide (2-(4-
      chlorobenzoylamino)-3-[2-(1H)-quinolinon-4-yl] propionic acid) prevents gastric ulcer
      formation by inhibiting neutrophil activation. Rebamipide stimulates prostaglandin generation
      in the gastric mucosa, resulting in stimulation of mucus secretion. Rebamipide inhibits H.
      pylori adhesion to the gastric epithelial cells.(12) The primary aim of study to evaluate
      whether rebamipide could improve success rates of anti-H. pylori treatment .
    
  