
    
      The long-term goal is to identify effective self-managed therapies for military members that
      will return them to duty as quickly as possible. The overall objective of this project is to
      compare two self-managed treatment regimens for PFPS: (1) NMES-Exercise supplemented with
      high BFR LOP of 80% and (2) NMESExercise augmented with a low percentage of BFR LOP at 20
      mmHG (BFR-sham). Each of the two treatment arms will perform a fixed exercise protocol
      singularly and in combination with BFR-NMES, and NMES alone.

      The rationale for this study is that by limiting blood flow to an exercising limb using both
      active and passive exercise is expected to significantly improve lower extremity muscle
      strength, mobility, quality of life (QOL) and pain. The central hypothesis is that the
      combination of NMES/exercise of the injured leg supplemented with BFR set at 80% LOP will
      show significantly greater improvements in muscle strength, mobility, pain, daily activity
      and QOL than the NMES-Exercise with BFR set at a very low percentage of LOP at 20 mmHG. To
      test this hypothesis, the investigators will address the following specific aims:

      a1. To determine whether self-managed NMES-Exercise program supplemented with a high BFR of
      80% LOP (limb occlusion pressure) is significantly more efficacious than NMES-Exercise with
      low BFR LOP set at 20 mmHG (sham) in improving muscle strength of the lower extremity, daily
      physical activity and mobility. Muscle strength will be measured by isometric peak torque of
      the left and right knee and hip posterolateral stabilizers; physical activity will be
      measured by steps walked and energy (kcal) expenditure/day; and mobility by time to complete
      a stair climb, step down test, distance walked in 6 minutes, and number of times to complete
      the chair rise.

      a2. To determine whether NMES-Exercise with high LOP BFR therapy improves QOL and PFPS
      symptoms significantly more than NMES-Exercise with low LOP BFR. QOL will be measured by the
      SF-12 Health Survey and the Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression (CES-D) scale.
      Symptoms of PFPS will be quantified by the Anterior Knee Pain Scale and IKDC subjective knee
      form.

      The investigators expect to demonstrate that these combined multimodality therapies of a
      self-managed NMES-Exercise program supplemented with high (80%) LOP BFR-NMES-Exercise is more
      efficacious than a low percentage of LOP BFR-NMES-Exercise (sham). Positive results will
      translate into therapy options for PFPS that can be used by health care providers to
      accelerate rehabilitation, speed return to world-wide duty status, decrease symptoms, and
      lower medical costs. Moreover, these approaches are safe, easy to use and
      non-pharmacological.
    
  