
    
      The American Academy of Pediatrics and other leading health agencies call upon pediatricians
      to address environmental tobacco smoke (ETS), prevent smoking onset in youths, and encourage
      cessation of tobacco use by adolescents and their parents. Systematic intervention on tobacco
      by pediatricians would protect infants and young children from the harmful effects of ETS and
      save adolescents from a lifetime of addiction and tobacco-related disease. Despite this, few
      pediatricians address tobacco use, and pediatric residency training programs are not
      preparing residents to play a leadership role in the anti-tobacco arena.

      The Pediatric Residency Training on Tobacco project is a four-year randomized controlled
      study of the efficacy of a specialized tobacco intervention program for pediatric residents.
      Eight participating pediatric training sites were randomly assigned to a Special Training
      condition featuring "Solutions for Smoking", a hybrid CD-ROM/Website training program. Six
      sites were randomly assigned to a control condition that provided standard print literature.
      Key features of "Solutions for Smoking" include a website containing background material on
      tobacco, interviewing, behavioral and pharmacological aspects of intervention, and a series
      of CD-ROMs containing audio-visual vignettes that model state-of-the-art interviewing and
      tobacco intervention skills. Residents are expected to practice the interventions with
      patients in their Continuity Clinics, and all sites are provided with brochures and other
      intervention materials for this purpose. Study investigators meet with residents at all sites
      three times per year to discuss the program and the residents' efforts to intervene on
      tobacco with their patients. Annually, second and third-year residents participate in
      Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCEs) and a Resident Tobacco Survey. Patients
      and parents attending each of the Continuity Clinics complete Patient and Parent Tobacco
      Surveys at baseline and end of study.

      Primary endpoints include changes over time in pediatric residents' tobacco intervention
      knowledge, skills, and activities as reported on the Tobacco Surveys and measured by
      performance on the OSCEs at baseline and follow-up. Secondary endpoints include changes in
      smoking, other tobacco use, and control of ETS by patients and parents. The study
      hypothesizes that pediatric residents in both arms of the study will be similar in knowledge
      and skills at baseline; that residents in the specialized training program will acquire more
      knowledge and greater skills for tobacco intervention during the course of the study compared
      to residents in the control condition; and residents in each condition will increase the
      frequency in which they address tobacco in patients and parents.
    
  