
    
      Snake bite is a common clinical problem in India and elsewhere, affecting agricultural
      workers and rural population, resulting in thousands of deaths every year. Apart from causing
      systemic manifestations such as coagulopathy, acute renal failure, and neuroparalysis, local
      effects of the venom manifest as swelling of the bitten limb. Despite administration of
      adequate antivenom, the limb swelling progresses in the first 48-72 hours accompanied by
      considerable pain. Often the limb swelling is accompanied by formation of blebs and
      gangrenous skin changes. At times, the limb swelling is severe enough to result in
      compartment syndrome, necessitating surgical interventions such as fasciotomy and
      debridement. Animal bites are typically associated with a risk of infection by the oral
      flora. Likewise, apart from releasing the venom, inoculation of oral flora as a result of
      snake bite could result in local infectious complications adding to the deleterious effects
      of the snake venom.

      Observational studies suggest that the risk of infection following simple bites on the lower
      limbs is much less than what is often believed, and evidence from clinical trials also does
      not support routine use of antibiotics in snake bite. For this reason, clinical practice
      guidelines do not recommend routine prophylactic use of antibiotics in snake bite. But, in
      reality, many clinicians continue to use antibiotics routinely in all venomous snake bites
      hoping to prevent a local infection. While such a strategy may not reduce the risk of
      infection, it would result in overuse of antibiotics promoting antimicrobial resistance and
      escalating treatment costs.

      The investigators hypothesize that clinically-directed use of antibiotics would be
      non-inferior to routine use in preventing local infectious complications of snake bite, while
      being superior in reducing the antibiotic consumption. Non-inferiority would be inferred if
      the one-sided 95% CI of the difference does not exceed 10% in favour of the routine use arm.
    
  