
    
      Rational Severe sepsis and septic shock represent the first cause of death in ICU (42% to 60%
      mortality rate). Sepsis is defined by alteration of cellular function, immune dysregulation,
      coagulation and metabolism disorders, following the Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome
      (SIRS).

      Among different affected organs, skeletal muscle is highlighted. Proteolysis increasing,
      proteosynthesis decreasing and mitochondrial dysfunction lead to an overall muscular cells
      alteration (sarcolemma, sarcoplasmic reticulum and contractile proteins). These mechanisms
      induce a reduction of skeletal muscle mass and skeletal muscle-specific force generation.
      Diaphragm could be the first muscle affected during sepsis (1). Sepsis is the primary risk
      factor for diaphragmatic dysfunction. Diaphragm could be considered as an organ altered by
      sepsis (2). Diaphragmatic dysfunction is associated with sepsis severity and pejorative
      prognosis. Its assessment becomes an important issue in order to evaluate the patient
      severity status, to monitor diaphragm recovery and adjust treatment.

      One study evaluated diaphragmatic function with Magnetic Phrenic Nerve Stimulation in
      mechanically ventilated patients (3) and one with Needle Electromyography of diaphragm in
      patients with prolonged weaning from mechanical ventilation (4). But any study assessed
      diaphragmatic function with ultrasound measure of Diaphragmatic Thickening Fraction in
      patients with severe sepsis or septic shock, mechanically ventilated or not.

      Ultrasonography is noninvasive, ionization free, feasible rapidly at the bedside and thus can
      be regularly used in diaphragm assessment (5). The diaphragmatic thickening fraction (DTF) at
      the zone of apposition (6) allows to assess thickening capacity of diaphragm during
      inspiration so its contraction capacity. It is an accurate and reproducible outcome measure
      for diaphragmatic dysfunction assessment. A DTF < 20% indicates a diaphragmatic dysfunction
      (7).

      We hypothesize that acute diaphragmatic abnormalities are present in ICU septic patient and
      it can be a prognosis factor of patient severity.

      Aim of this study is to assess diaphragmatic function with the DTF ultrasound measure in
      patients with severe sepsis or septic shock, mechanically ventilated or not, hospitalized in
      ICU in order to determinate diaphragmatic dysfunction frequency, its prognosis value and its
      associated factors.

      Objectives Primary To estimate diaphragmatic dysfunction frequency with measure of Ultrasound
      DTF in ICU septic patients.

      Secondary:

        -  To determine if DTF is a predictor of intubation;

        -  To determine if DTF is a predictor of successful weaning from mechanical ventilation in
           subgroup of mechanically ventilated patients;

        -  To monitor changes of DTF during ICU hospitalization;

        -  To determine risk factors of diaphragmatic dysfunction;

        -  To determine associated factors of diaphragmatic dysfunction.

      Methods Design This is a prospective study in a 14-bed medical and surgical ICU including 50
      consecutive patients with severe sepsis or septic shock.

      Data collections Demographic data, antecedents, severity score, organ dysfunction-related
      variables, physiologic data, presence of sepsis, presence of mechanical ventilation and
      medications will be prospectively recorded on inclusion (ICU admission for severe
      sepsis/septic shock or severe sepsis/septic shock occurring during ICU hospitalization).
      Ultrasound DTF, severity score, organ dysfunction-related variables, physiologic data,
      presence of septic shock, medications, presence of mechanical ventilation will be
      prospectively recorded each days of ICU hospitalization. Duration of mechanical ventilation,
      number of failed extubation, decision to perform tracheostomy, ICU and Hospital stay, ICU and
      Hospital mortality will be also recorded.

      Recruitment Patients will be recruited in a 14-bed medical and surgical ICU when they present
      inclusion criteria.

      All patients or their relatives will provide written consent to participate.

      Diaphragm thickening assessment All patients will be evaluated in a semi-recumbent position.
      Ultrasound will be performed using an ultrasound system equipped with a 10 megahertz linear
      probe.

      Daily Measure of Diaphragmatic Thickening Fraction (DTF) will be performed by a trained
      physiotherapist. Physiotherapist (A. LE NEINDRE) was trained during six months for this
      measure by a well-trained Physician.

      DTF is measured each day as follow (7): the probe is placed in an intercostal space between
      mid axillary line and anterior axillary line, 0.5cm to 2 centimeters below the
      costodiaphragmatic sinus. With B-mode the diaphragm is observed like a structure made of
      three distinct layers: a nonechogenic central layer bordered by two echogenic layers: pleural
      line (internal layer) and peritoneum (external layer).

      The patient will be then instructed to perform breathing to total lung capacity and then to
      exhale to residual volume, when it is possible (awake patient). Awakening status will be
      recorded. Mechanically ventilated patients will be evaluated in Pressure Support (PS) mode
      (during daily PS mode research for patients with Controlled Ventilation), with the lower PS
      level tolerated. PS level will be recorded.

      DTF measure is performed in B-mode using the following formula: TF (%) = [(end-inspiration
      thickness - end-expiration thickness)/(end-expiration thickness) x 100]. Three consecutive
      measures will be performed. Video files will be recorded and DTF will be estimated
      independently by a second trained operator (Dr F. PHILIPPART), unaware of patient conditions.
      The better value of these three measures will be retained. Diaphragmatic dysfunction is
      defined like a DTF < 20% (7).

      Assessment of DTF reproducibility Twenty recordings (from twenty separate patients) will be
      randomly selected from the study to assess analyzer reproducibility. The same sets of
      recording will be analyzed twice by the same Ultrasound Performer (A. LE NEINDRE) to assess
      intra-analyzer reproducibility and separately by two different Ultrasound Performers (A. LE
      NEINDRE and F. PHILIPPART) to assess inter-analyzer reproducibility.

      Statistical Analysis Diaphragmatic dysfunction frequency is defined by proportion of patient
      with DTF<20%. It will be expressed as a percentage with 95% Confidence Interval.

      Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis will be performed to assess DTF
      ability to discriminate between patients who will be intubated and those who will be not. ROC
      curve analysis will be also used to discriminate mechanically ventilated patients who will
      fail to wean and those who will success.

      DTF will be analyzed as a continuous variable and univariate linear regression models will be
      used to identify factors associated with higher or lower DTF values. Multivariate analysis
      will be performed using a forward logistic regression process taking into account all
      potential associated factors for diaphragm dysfunction.

      Each potential risk factor for diaphragm dysfunction (DTF < 20%) will be evaluated in a
      univariate model (Student t or Mann-Whitney U test for continuous variables depending on
      distribution; chi-square test or Fisher exact test for categorical variables depending on
      size), and multivariate analysis will be performed. For all comparisons, a P value less than
      or equal to 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Impact of Diaphragmatic dysfunction on ICU and hospital mortalities, institution of
      mechanical ventilation, failed weaning form mechanical ventilation, tracheostomy rate will be
      assessed.

      Impact of Diaphragmatic dysfunction on ICU and hospital mortalities will be evaluated using
      Kaplan-Meier survival function estimates.

      Expected results We expect measure of DTF allows identifying patient with severe sepsis or
      septic shock with diaphragmatic dysfunction. It would also estimate diaphragmatic dysfunction
      frequency with ultrasound measure and warranting its use routinely at the bedside. We expect
      that DTF helps to characterize degree of severity of septic patient and can be a new index
      able to predict intubation in this population. As previous studies showed in other
      populations, DTF could predict success of extubation in mechanically ventilated septic
      population. It would be another tool to monitor evolution of organ failure. A second study
      will be conduct in order to evaluate a new strategy to manage septic patient at risk of
      diaphragmatic dysfunction (Inspiratory Muscle Training) and the use of DTF as a predictive
      index of intubation.

      Organization of the project Number of Participants This is a pilot study aiming to establish
      diaphragmatic dysfunction frequency, prognosis and associated factors in patients with severe
      sepsis or septic shock. We wish a 18 months maximal duration of study. Considering the
      recruiting capacity of our ICU and our previous studies for this population we will include
      50 consecutive patients.
    
  