
    
      Solar light is an important environmental factor for all living organisms. With the
      advancement of the lighting technology, artificial light, such as light emitting diode (LED),
      has become another major lighting source. The influence of blue light and color temperature
      emitted from LED light source in most of the commercial 3C electronics on human health has
      been increasingly paid attention. Light exposure has been reported to be associated with
      different physiological mechanisms and pathologic events, including sleeping, metabolism and
      brain dysfunctions. However, lights are also applied in many therapeutic processes. Hence, it
      is a critical issue to develop a next-generation lighting environment for health promotion
      and improve the competitiveness of green-technology industries in Taiwan by integrating
      biomedical researches and cutting-edge lighting technology. For developing next-generation
      LED industry, the inspection technology and product standard on photobiology safety has been
      established in Taiwan. Inspiringly, Researchers in Taiwan have made a LED structure that can
      emit all the hues of sunlight by changing its terminal voltage, which may further facilitate
      the use of future lighting device on health promotion. Based on these technical advancement,
      in this project, investigators aim to integrate multidisciplinary investigations on animal
      experiments, translational applications, and clinical trials to establish an good lighting
      environment for participants with dementia and mild cognitive dysfunction, and bring benefits
      to Taiwan's green technologies. To meet this goal, this project aims to integrate lighting
      and information technologies, including Internet of Things (IoT) and data science analytics,
      to investigate the lighting effects on human health by conducting animal and translational
      experiments, and further promote the health in multiple testing groups across different
      patients. In this project, investigators incorporate the research strengths in light
      bioscience, environmental bioscience and medical engineering developed at National Health
      Research Institutes (NHRI) and the lighting, IoT and data science technologies developed at
      National Applied Research Laboratories (NARL). Additionally, investigators aim to collaborate
      with the division of neurology, ophthalmology and dermatology at the Kaohsiung Medical
      University, and make a new phototherapy for participants suffering from dementia, sleep
      disorder, cognitive dysfunction by using IoT and data science on big health and environmental
      data. By integrating multi-disciplinary technologies, investigators aim to promote health on
      brain, mind and body for elderly people and susceptible population by providing a health home
      lighting environment, which would be potentially beneficial to resolve the emerging issues of
      aging, sub-health population, psychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, the
      safety and molecular mechanism of phototherapy will be validated using animal models.
      Industrially, this project will build a strong linkage between LED, information and health
      promotion industries and upgrade the traditional LED industry by adding the novel application
      on health promotion.
    
  