
    
      Hypothesis :

      Custodial is not inferior to blood cardioplegia in myocardial protection in paediatric
      cardiac surgery ..

      Methodology :

      Study design :

      Randomized controlled trial

      Data collection:

      All demographic data ,diagnosis ,procedure(type.CPB time ,crossclamp time) , surgeon and
      hospital course details .

      Computer generated randomisation into two groups based on cardioplegia solution .

      if randomised to blood patient will receive blood cardioplegia, delivered by microplegia
      delivery system by adding potassium to the blood (K= 35 ml eq/L) . The initial dose will be
      35ml/ kg, and subsequent doses 20-15 ml/kg given every 20 minutes at a Temperature of 10 - 15
      °C, while maintaining a perfusion pressure of 100-125 mmHg.

      if randomised to custodial patient will receive single dose of HTK custodiol cardioplegia. at
      temperature of 4-8°C and will be perfused for 6-8 minutes. Dose will start from 400 up to
      1000 ml according to the child's body weight. Perfusion pressure will be kept at 70 - 80 mmHg
      until the heart is arrested..

      Blinding :

      Surgeons will know the type of cardioplegia in the OR while other assessor will be blinded .

      Sample size calculated with an online calculator based on α error of 0.05 and β error of 0.2
      to detect an absolute risk difference of 15% in composite end point between the two groups
      yielded 137 in each arm ,The results will be presented as mean (SD), median (interquartile
      range), or proportion . Using relative risk and log rank for statistical analysis .A P value
      of less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Statistical analyses will be
      carried out using the SPSS .

      Safety monitoring and interim results :

      Both cardioplegia solutions are already in use and FDA approved there is no safety concerns
      at the time being . However , an interim analysis will be carried on every 6 months and the
      principal investigator will decide weather to stop or carry on if any major discrepancies in
      outcomes

      literature review : After an extensive literature review the investigators found only one
      randomised trial by elmorsy et al , which concluded that A single dose of an HTK cardioplegic
      solution provides better myocardial and cerebral protection than repeated doses of oxygenated
      blood cardioplegia during pediatric congenital cardiac surgery.

      On the other hand there was another retrospective report by bojan et al, found that The use
      of Custodiol cardioplegia in neonates undergoing ASO was associated with a larger troponin
      release when compared with warm blood cardioplegia,p <0.001 suggesting poor myocardial
      protection.

      koruon et al, done a tissue level comparison between htk and conventional crystalloid
      cardioplegia and their statistical analysis revealed no significant difference between the
      two groups regarding the clinical variables, apoptotic indices and proliferation indices.

      Liu j et al ,did a retrospective study comparing custodiol to St. Thomas crystalloid
      cardioplegia which concluded That HTK group had shorter cross-clamping time and more frequent
      spontaneous defibrillation than St. Thomas group.

      Also an animal study by Chen Y et al, on piglets that were randomised to either a single dose
      of HTK or multidose cold blood cardioplegia .. No significant differences were noted in the
      myocardial lactate content, ATP content, and histopathological score between both groups .

      Finally a retrospective report by E Qulisy et al concluded that Custodiol cardioplegia is
      associated with less myocardial protection and higher adverse outcomes compared to blood
      cardioplegia in pediatric age group undergoing cardiac surgery.
    
  