
    
      Recent data show that 47% of the patients undergoing coronary angiography for angina have no
      epicardial disease. Of these, 52% have isolated microvascular angina, 17% have isolated
      vasospastic angina, 20% have both, and 11% have non-cardiac chest pain. These data suggest
      that microvascular disease is a highly prevalent condition, which might affect as many as 25%
      of all patients undergoing coronary angiography (without counting patients with acute
      coronary syndromes and those with mixed epicardial and microvascular disease). Based on an
      estimate of the Woman´s Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation (WISE) study, 3-4 million patients with
      symptoms of myocardial ischemia have non-obstructive coronary artery disease in the United
      States of America. These patients represent a significant burden in terms of mortality and
      morbidity as well as in terms of healthcare costs due to disability, hospitalization, and
      repeat testing.

      Patients with microvascular angina require frequent hospitalizations, undergo repeat invasive
      procedures, have an impaired quality of life and a poor prognosis, since patients with a high
      index of microvascular resistances) have a higher risk of mortality (hazard ratio (HR)
      1.6[0.8-3.4], P<0.001)). An analysis of the WISE study identified an impaired coronary flow
      reserve in the absence of epicardial disease as the strongest predictor of 5-year adverse
      events (26.7% versus 12.2%, HR 1.2[1.1.-1.4], P=0.008).

      Although its importance is acknowledged by the most recent guidelines, microvascular angina
      represents a major clinical challenge. In particular, there is a strong disagreement on its
      classification, on the several mechanisms behind its pathophysiology, and the therapeutic
      alternatives available remain unsatisfactory.

      Despite these uncertainties, there is a consensus that this condition is highly frequent, as
      it affects up to two-thirds of patients who suffer from stable angina and either have no
      coronary stenoses at angiography or have combined epicardial and microvascular disease.

      The limits of medical therapy Traditional anti-ischaemic drugs are the first step in medical
      treatment, but their effectiveness is very limited in the setting of microvascular disease.
      Short-acting nitrates can be used to treat anginal attacks, but since nitrates are only
      effective on large arteries, this therapy is only indicated for the therapy of patients whose
      symptoms are caused by spasm of epicardial coronaries, and not for true microvascular angina.
      Beta-blockers limit myocardial oxygen consumption but do not affect the mechanisms of
      microvascular disease. Calcium antagonists, have shown variable results in clinical trials,
      but the limitation of this approach is that a significant heterogeneity exists in the types
      of calcium channels in the vasculature.

      Evidence on the coronary sinus reducer In recent years, the coronary sinus reducer has been
      introduced to treat refractory angina in patients with refractory angina due to obstructive
      coronary artery disease (CAD) and no revascularization options, a situation similar to
      microvascular disease. This novel therapy is based on the concept that an elevation in
      backward pressure in the coronary venous system provokes dilatation of the subendocardial
      arterioles, resulting in a significant reduction of vascular resistance in this area and a
      redistribution of blood flow to these ischaemic subendocardial layers. Numerous studies
      confirm the efficacy of the Reducer for patients suffering from angina who are not candidates
      for revascularization. Preliminary evidence supporting the use of this device in
      microvascular disease patients also exists, but requires confirmation in a large, randomized
      trial.
    
  