
    
      Physical therapists have an important role as initial contact providers for individuals with
      musculoskeletal disorders. Health care expenditures are on the rise each year in the U.S. and
      a large proportion is due to musculoskeletal disorders. Despite the rise in spending, there
      has not been an improvement in outcomes for individuals with musculoskeletal disorders.
      Furthermore, increased medical spending and utilization could expose patients to iatrogenic
      harm. Comparative effectiveness studies of different portals of entry would help to determine
      the most effective pathways for individuals with musculoskeletal disorders to seek care. The
      purpose of this study is to determine whether patients with musculoskeletal injuries do
      better by seeing a primary care provider first versus seeing a physical therapist first.
      Subjects will be enrolled from two sites (Temple University, Philadelphia, PA and Brooke Army
      Medical Center, San Antonio, TX). Patient self-reported outcomes measures will be collected
      at baseline and 6 weeks. At 6 months, healthcare utilization will be assessed. The
      investigators plan to enroll a target sample size of 75 subjects per site (150 total).
      Descriptive statistics will be computed to characterize the 2 treatment groups with ANCOVA
      being used to assess differences between treatment groups at 6 weeks, adjusting for baseline
      values, evaluating the assumption of parallel slopes. The investigators will further
      investigate sources of systematic differences in response to treatment using methods such as
      generalized estimating equations and linear mixed effects models. This research will be the
      first multi-site study to compare effectiveness of these two pathways for individuals with
      musculoskeletal pain in the U.S. With a growing older adult population, the percentage of
      individuals who have musculoskeletal pain in the U.S. will only increase over time. This
      research study is timely and could meet the need for identifying the most effective pathway
      for individuals with musculoskeletal pain to seek care.
    
  