
    
      Introduction:

      Tinea imbricata is a rare form of tinea corporis caused by Trichophyton concentricum, an
      anthropophilic dermatophyte. Its lesions would present embossed "maze-like" or lace-like
      pattern of embosed concentric rings mainly on the trunk and extensor surfaces of both
      extremities, sparing the palms, soles, hair and nails. Due to the rarity of the disease,
      limited epidemiologic and prevalence studies exist. (Halickova, 2008) Tine imbricata is known
      to be endemic in places such as the Paciﬁc Islands of Oceana, South East Asia, India,
      Sri-Lanka, North, Central and South America. (Halickova, 2008 and Pihet, 2008) The first case
      was discovered in the southern Philippines by William Dampier in 1789. (Fernandez, 1962) In
      2010, cases of tinea imbricata were found to still exist among T'boli tribe who live in the
      mountainous areas of Kiamba in Sarangani through the University of the Philippines-
      Department of Science and Technology (UP-DOST) telemedicine project. (Carpio, 2010) The
      inherited susceptibility of T.concentricum infection may explain why the disease affects only
      specific group of people. The most accepted inheritance pattern is autosomal recessive
      attributing to the inherited defect in cell-mediated immunity, which results to failure of
      the T-lymphocytes to become sensitized to the fungi and mount an immune response. Majority of
      the patients are blood-related individuals and rarely infect unrelated individuals even after
      close contact or cohabitation., Other risk factors are isolated and primitive living
      conditions especially in humid areas, widespread poverty, poor hygienic conditions and
      overcrowding. (Bonifaz, 2003 and Bonifaz, 2004) Antifungals are the mainstay treatment
      against Trichophyton concentricum. Griseofulvin, 500 mg/tab twice daily, and terbinafine, 250
      mg once daily, for at least 4 weeks result to complete resolution. (Wingfield, 2004) However,
      these commercial antifungal preparations are costly and not readily available in the health
      centers of Sarangani. Furthermore, even with systemic antifungal intake, disease remission
      would only last for at least 8 weeks post-treatment. Alternative treatment options that will
      promote clearance of the infection that are accessible, inexpensive and practical to use
      should be explored.

      Antifungals from local plant sources are one of the potential alternatives. Among these,
      Senna alata has validated efficacy on superficial dermatophytic infections and is included in
      the Philippine National Drug Formulary. It is a tropical ornamental shrub, also known as
      candle bush and locally as "Akapulko, which grows throughout the low and medium altitude
      areas of the country including Sarangani.

      Chemical screening of the leaves and roots of S. alata revealed the anthraquinones and its
      derivatives such as aloe, emodin, chrysophanol, and rhein, are the major components
      responsible for its antifungal activity. These are naturally occurring phenolic compounds are
      readily oxidized to form a phenolate ion or quinone, which aids in the scavenging and
      entrapment of microorganisms. Furthermore, phenols impair a variety of enzyme systems that
      are involved in the microorganism's energy production. They also disrupt the integrity of the
      cell membrane and interfere with the synthesis of its structural components. (Hemen and
      Ledwani,2012) There were anecdotal reports on the efficacy of akapulko decoction against
      tinea imbricata. A decoction is the liquid resulting from concentrating the essence of the
      substance by heating or boiling, especially a medicinal preparation made from a plant. Plant
      parts such as leaves can be used in decoctions. The first anecdotal report was published by
      Dofitas and Non last 2010. Senna alata leaf decoction was used as leave-on body wash in a
      T'boli woman resulting in complete clearance of the lesions. In the case series by Carpio et.
      al., S. alata leaf decoction resulted to partial improvement of the skin lesions. (Dofitas
      and Non, 2010 and Caprio, 2010) At present there are no existing clinical trials about the
      use of akapulko as an alternative or complementary treatment to tinea imbricata. The
      favorable results from the anecdotal and case series studies pave the way for the
      consideration of akapulko decoction as a part of an accessible and affordable treatment
      regimen for tinea imbricata.

      II Objectives:

      General objectives: This study aims to assess the efficacy and safety of Senna alata leaf
      decoction applied once daily in the treatment of tinea imbricata.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To determine the treatment response at the end of four weeks (28 days +/-3) as measured
           by disease severity, pruritus visual analogue scale score and potassium hydroxide smear
           conversion of the patients with tinea imbricata treated once daily with Senna alata leaf
           decoction

        2. To document the adverse reactions associated with Senna alata leaf decoction
           application.

      III Methods:

      This study was a preliminary open label, before-and after clinical trial. This study took
      place at Kiamba Municipality, Sarangani Province, Mindanao from November 2014 to January
      2015. The duration of patient involvement was 4 weeks (28+3 days). Figure 1 shows the flow
      chart of the study procedure.

      Recruitment of participants: An outreach skin clinic, manned by dermatology residents and
      consultants of the University of the Philippines- Philippine General Hospital, was conducted
      in the local health center. Patients with any skin disease and suspected tinea imbricata
      cases were invited to consult. Patient recruitment began during the outreach mission and was
      continued even thereafter. A consultant investigator assessed eligibility and disease
      severity of the participants, during and even after the outreach mission. Trained research
      assistants collected skin scrapings from active skin lesions of patients.

      Each participant was assigned code numbers written on the case record forms. The
      participants' names with the corresponding numbers were recorded in a separate registry.

      Securing consent and enrolment of participants: All patients with clinically diagnosed tinea
      imbricata and with microscopically positive KOH smear were invited by the investigators to
      join the study. The purpose, duration, benefits and possible adverse effects were explained
      to all participants and signed consent forms were secured by research assistants who could
      speak T'boli dialect. A thumb mark was obtained in place of a signature for illiterate
      participants. (Appendices A, B, and C)

      Enrolled patients were subjected to the following steps before starting therapy:

        1. Detailed history-taking and physical examination

        2. Collection of skin scrapings and microscopic confirmation of fungal elements in skin
           scrapings using potassium hydroxide mount

        3. Accomplishment of the standard case record forms, which details the severity of the
           disease, pruritus VAS score and adverse drug effects. (Appendix D)

        4. Pre-treatment photographic documentation. A written consent was obtained prior to
           photographic documentation of each patient. Photography was done in a private room.

      Application of Akapulko leaf decoction:

      The participants were instructed to take a bath once a day using a syndet bar and to towel
      dry their skin before applying the akapulko decoction. Fresh decoction was prepared by the
      patients every day. After a bath, the patient applied the fresh cooled decoction by hand on
      the whole body especially on the affected areas and left it to dry. Approximately one
      glassful (350ml) of akapulko decoction should be consumed for one whole body application. The
      total duration of daily application should be 4 weeks (28 days +3) until the next outcome
      assessment.

      The patients were given illustrated, laminated instructional materials and a tabulated
      checklist of instructions on how to prepare and apply the akapulko decoction. This served as
      a monitoring sheet of each patient. (Appendix E) The barangay health workers underwent
      hands-on training by the investigators on the preparation of the akapulko leaf decoction.
      Trained research assistants conducted demonstration of the akapulko preparation to the
      enrolled patients. (Appendix F)

      Clinical Parameters: Each patient was assessed based on disease severity based on erythema,
      scaling and area of involvement. (Tables 1-3) Then, composite scores were combined and graded
      no disease, mild, moderate and severe. (Table 4) Pruritus severity was gauge using 10-cm
      pruritus visual analogue scale score. KOH smear of skin scrapings was also done before and
      after treatment.

      Outcome assessment:

      Clinical response to treatment was assessed after 4 weeks. Standard photographs were taken by
      the research assistants for documentation and sent electronically via email to the
      investigators. A panel of two dermatologists who had prior clinical experience with tinea
      imbricata assessed the treatment response based on the digital photographs taken at the end
      of the treatment period. Post-treatment VAS scores were recorded.

      Mycologic cure was assessed as a negative KOH mount after 1 month of treatment in both
      treatment groups. The research aides or the public health nurse collected skin scrapings for
      KOH on the same site as the pre-treatment KOH source. Samples were placed in clean pieces of
      folded bond paper inside a properly sealed envelope and airmailed to the investigators for
      KOH microscopic examination.

      Data management and analysis A standard case record form was used to collect patient data
      (Appendix A). Accomplished records were checked for accuracy and completeness by the
      investigators in the field. Data gathered were encoded in an electronic spreadsheet,
      Microsoft Excel 2011.

      Descriptive analysis was done, which included epidemiologic characteristics, initial disease
      severity, and clinical outcome per patient. Clearance rates were computed after 4 weeks using
      the formulas below.

      Clearance rate = Number of patients who underwent clearance x 100/ Total number of patients
      enrolled

      Partial clearance rate = Number of patients who underwent partial clearance X 100/Total
      number of patients enrolled

      Failure rate = Number of patients who had no improvement + worsening disease severity
      X100/Total number of patients enrolled

      Each patient was classified as with complete clearance, partial clearance or no clearance.
      Subgroup analysis by disease severity was performed. Diagnostic concordance between the two
      consultants who assessed disease severity was determined using Cohen's kappa statistics.
      Wilcoxon paired signed rank test was used to analyzed before and after clinical parameter
      scores. Adverse drug events, reported by the patients, were recorded as a frequency
      distribution.

      Adverse reactions Presence of any adverse reactions was noted. Subjects were instructed to
      report side effects for proper management. (Table 5) Participants with mild to severe adverse
      drug effects were to be withdrawn from the study and provided appropriate management by the
      investigators.

      Ethical considerations:

      This study was conducted in accordance to the guidelines of the Helsinki declaration. The
      study protocol was formulated in accordance to the guidelines imposed by the National Ethical
      Guideline for Health Research published by the Philippine Health Research Ethics Board and
      was conducted upon the approval of the institution's ethics review board. Since indigenous
      people are involved as subjects, this study was approved the National Commission on
      Indigenous People (NCIP). A research grant was received from the Philippine Dermatological
      Society. There were no conflicts of interest in the conduct of this research.
    
  