
    
      Epiphora is a condition due to obstruction of lacrimal passages either proximal or distal.
      Canalicular obstruction is a condition in which the lacrimal canaliculi are narrowed or
      occluded. Canalicular obstructions can be anatomically classified as proximal type in which
      the obstruction found at the initial 2-3 mm from the punctal opening while in mid canalicular
      type obstruction at 3-8 mm from the punctum and the distal type in which a membrane of the
      common canaliculs to the lacrimal sac. Canalicular obstruction can be acquired or congenital.
      Acquired canalicular obstruction may result from infectious and inflammatory eyelid
      disorders, ocular surface disease, systemic or topical medications, irradation, iatrogenic,
      intrinsic cannalicular tumors and trauma. The correct chioce of the techinque for given
      canalicular obstruction and therefore the long-term success depends on the site and degree of
      the obstruction, incomplete obstruction or stenosis can be treated with canalicular stenting.
      Proximal and mid canalicular obstructions need reconstruction by excising the focal
      canaliculus obstruction near the punctum and the cut ends of the canaliculus can be
      anastomosed over a stent. Dacryocystorhinostomy with retrograde intubation of the lacrimal
      system has shown some success may avoid the need for a Jones tube. Patients with symptomatic
      distal canalicular obstruction should undergo timely insertion of a bicanalicular silicon
      stent to prevent permanent and complete closure of the canaliculi. There are several
      modalities of canalicular intubation for the patients with distal canalicular obstruction. In
      patients with nasolacrimal duct and canalicular obstruction ,preferred procedures include
      dacryocystorhinstomy with bicanalicular or monocanalicular intubation .However,in patients
      with canalicular obstruction without nasolacrimal duct obstruction use bicanalicuar silicone
      intubation. In 2014 P.Bige' designed self-retaining bicanaliculs intubation setII(SRSII)
      which is the latest innovation in the field as these silicone stent segments traverse both
      canaliculi till the lacrimal sac. In which each end of this semicircular device has 2 stout
      angulated wings/flanges which pose no resistance while proceeding forward into the
      canaliculus, but once they get into open cavity (lacrimal sac), the flanges open up and give
      resistance to their removal against the common canalicular opening.
    
  