
    
      Neonates defined as having very low birth weight (VLBW) are found to have a number of
      conditions typical for this period of life and body weight at birth. Perinatal and neonatal
      infections are relatively common in these babies, which can be attributed to their
      immunological immaturity (immature cellular or humoral immune responsiveness) and
      insufficient gastrointestinal tract colonisation by non-pathogenic bacteria, the presence of
      which depends on the type of delivery, feeding and environment in which the neonates are
      nursed.

      Neonates admitted to neonatal intensive care units, particularly low birth-weight neonates
      born prematurely or with congenital disorders, are most susceptible. Probiotics administered
      to neonates are known to compete with pathogenic bacteria for essential nutrients and
      receptor sites, and to enzymatically modify toxin receptors. They are also known to produce
      antimicrobial substances, acidify the intestinal environment and stimulate the immune system,
      helping it reach full maturity. These are the reasons why intestinal microflora normalisation
      with the help of probiotics can be beneficial for VLBW neonates, especially those requiring
      intensive medical care.

      In a review of clinical studies on the use of probiotics in NEC prevention in neonates,
      demonstrated beneficial effects of probiotics in a group of VLBW neonates compared to
      placebo. There are scientific reasons to believe that probiotics administered to neonates
      modulate the composition of the gut flora colonising the intestinal tract and are beneficial
      for the development and maturity of the immune system. In hitherto clinical studies, specific
      probiotic strains were found to provide beneficial effects by limiting infections in the
      neonatal period, including necrotizing enterocolitis in VLBW neonates.

      The purpose of this multicentre, randomized study was to investigate whether the use of a
      probiotic preparation containing Lactobacillus rhamnosus KL53A and Bifidobacterium breve PB04
      influence on emergence and development of natural intestinal flora and the clinical status of
      premature very low birth weight neonates and reduction of colonisation by pathogenic bacteria
      and to estimate the incidence of gastrointestinal disorders. The study took place between
      April 2012 and July 2013 in eight study centres in Poland. It was conducted in accordance
      with the original protocol and according to ICH-GCP requirements.

      The duration of subject's participation in the trial was approximately 49 days, or until they
      were withdrawn or discharged from the hospital, whichever came earlier, prior to day 49.

      As the trial did not concern medicinal product but the foodstuff (food for special medical
      purpose) it did not require Authority approval but was only subject to relevant Ethics
      Committee approval.

      The study only included neonates who fulfilled the eligibility criteria, after obtaining an
      informed consent from their parents/legal guardians, to have their baby enrolled in the study
      and randomized into one of the two study groups: probiotic or placebo. Investigational
      product were administered during the first 48h of life, at the time of the enteral feed.

      Efficacy evaluation was to determine whether the investigational product positively
      influences the emergence and progressive development of the natural gut flora and the
      clinical status of preterm VLBW neonates. As part of the efficacy evaluation, it was also
      examined whether the probiotic agent has the capacity to inhibit pathogenic colonisation and
      to reduce the incidence of gastrointestinal disorders, as compared to placebo.

      Safety was evaluated by determining whether investigational product in VLBW preterm neonates
      increases AE/SAE incidence and influences the type of adverse events and serious adverse
      events as compared to placebo.
    
  