
    
      The patients will be randomly assigned to the short arm human centrifuge training (SAHC
      intervention), standard of care (SOC training) or a passive control. The SAHC intervention
      consists of 3 sessions per week. The session duration is 1 hour. The intervention will last 3
      months.

      Aiming to estimate the minimum number of participants required for obtaining reliable
      results, the investigators performed power analysis. It was conducted in g-power 3.1 to
      determine a sufficient sample size using an alpha of 0.05, a power of 0.80, and a medium
      effect size (f = 0.21). Based on the aforementioned assumptions, a total sample size of 26
      participants per group was computed.

      The passive control group will abstain from any exercise. Initially, there will be one
      session serving as an evaluation and familiarization of the SAHC group participants on the
      centrifuge. Its aim besides familiarization will be also to individually assess the optimal
      according to the participant's cardiovascular functioning with cardiac output (CO), stroke
      volume (SV) mean arterial pressure (MAP) diastolic blood pressure (DBP), systolic blood
      pressure (SBP), and heart rate (HR). These criteria are monitored at each training session
      and are used to dynamically adapt the intervention intensity. More specifically, after 6
      training sessions (2 weeks), the centrifugation load will be increased and considering the
      cardiovascular criteria, centrifugation will be combined with either aerobic exercise
      (through an ergometer) or resistance training through elastic training bands. Further
      verification of the dynamic configuration of the intervention will be provided by the
      electroencephalographic (EEG) assessment. More specifically, resting state EEG (eyes open &
      closed condition, lying in horizontal position) and centrifugation in three different
      intensities, mild (corresponding to 0.5,0.7, and 1 g), medium (corresponding to 1.2 and 1.5
      g) and high intensity (corresponding to 1.7 and 2 g). Functional connectivity and
      cortical-network features derived from graph theory will be used by deep learning algorithms
      (convolutional neural networks) in order to define the optimal centrifuge training.

      A set of core outcomes as described below will be collected at the following experimental
      time instances: a) baseline, b) after 4 weeks, c) 8 weeks, d) 3 months, e) 6-month follow-up,
      g) 12-month follow-up. The outcomes will be collected across the domains of body structure
      and function, activity, and participation as classified by the world health organization
      international classification of functioning (ICF), disability and health.

      The primary outcomes are the following:

        1. A set of cardiovascular biosignal sensors described above,

        2. Electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings,

        3. The functional gait assessment (FGA) and

        4. The functioning differences assessed by changes in summary ordinal score on the short
           physical performance battery (SPPB). The battery consists of three tests: balance, gait
           ability and leg strength. The score for each test is given in categorical modality (0-4)
           based on run time intervals, and the total score will range from 0 (worst) to 12 points
           (best). The SPPB has been shown to be a valid instrument for screening frailty and
           predicting disability, institutionalization and mortality. A total score of less than 10
           points indicates frailty and a high risk of disability and falls. 1 point change in the
           total score has demonstrated to be of clinical relevance.

      More primary outcomes include other measures of gaze and postural stability, fatigue, and
      functional mobility, isokinetic strength and muscle oxygen consumption. Additionally, a set
      of biomarkers in blood and urine will be collected.
    
  