
    
      Before starting treatment some of the cancer cells will be taken from the patient and
      separated in the laboratory. A specially produced human virus (adenovirus) that carries the
      IL-2 gene will be put into the cells. The rest of the cancer cells will be stimulated to
      express on their surface a substance called the human CD40 ligand. These substances (IL-2 and
      CD40L), already naturally present in the body, are meant to help the immune system fight the
      cancer.

      In this study, the modified cancer cells will be injected under the skin. There will be up to
      six shots. We do not know the best amount of special cells to use, so different patients will
      get different numbers of cells.

      After the first three shots (if more modified cancer cells are available), patients may be
      able to have three additional shots. After they have received six shots, they may be able to
      have additional shots if the cancer has gotten smaller and more of the cells are available.

      A complete history and physical examination is necessary before a patient can be enrolled in
      the study. A physical examination will also be performed weekly for ten weeks after the
      injection, then on week twelve, then monthly for one year. Patients will then have yearly
      checkups for the next fifteen years. After the first and second shots, we will remove some of
      the modified cells that have been injected under the skin, to study them. We will do this by
      removing a section of skin (referred to as a skin biopsy) at the place where the cells were
      injected. These tests will help us to see whether or not the modified cells are killing
      cancer cells and whether or not the cancer cells are growing. If we suspect the cancer cells
      are growing, we may repeat this procedure after the third and fourth shots.

      To study how the immunity is working in the patients system, we will take blood samples
      before the first injection, then weekly for 10 weeks, on week 12, once a month for a year,
      and then eventually once a year for fifteen years. These blood samples must be taken at The
      Methodist Hospital. The total amount of blood that will be obtained is approximately two to
      three tablespoonfuls, which is considered a safe amount. If the patient has additional
      injections, blood will be drawn prior to each injection. Additional office visits may be
      necessary.

      If the patient decides to withdraw at any time during the study both samples and data
      collected during the study will be maintained with identifiers for safety reasons.
    
  