
    
      The main objective of the PRECISESADS project is to reclassify the individuals affected by
      SADs into molecular clusters instead of clinical entities through the determination of
      molecular profiles using several "-omics" techniques.

      The specific objectives of this cross sectional study and sub-study are:

        1. To identify a systemic taxonomy for patients with SADs by producing the following data
           in individuals with SADs and controls: genetic, epigenomic, transcriptomic, flow
           cytometric (from peripheral blood mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells (PBMCs)),
           metabolomics and proteomic in plasma and urine, exosome analysis, classical serology
           (antibodies and autoantibodies), and clinical data.

        2. To better characterize individual SADs at the omics level.

        3. To perform clustering analyses to determine the groups of individuals who,
           differentially from other groups, share specific molecular features (precision
           medicine).

        4. To identify gene expression, methylation profiles through deconvolution methods
           comparing a mixture of cells with subpopulations determined by flow cytometry with
           separated cells, cytokine profiles and plasma metabolomics using Mass Spectrometry, in a
           substudy of 288 individuals.

      The clustering process will be data-driven with the aim to find the most homogenous and
      differentiated clusters of diseases that clearly separate individuals on the basis of,
      serological, genetic, epigenomic, cellular (cell proportions), metabolomic, proteomic
      (cytokines, autoantibodies) and transcriptome characteristics and differentiate them from
      controls and other patient clusters.

      A total of 2000 patients and 666 controls will be included in the study, adjusted to the
      following distribution:

        -  A total of 400 patients diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)

        -  A total of 400 patients diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis (RA)

        -  A total of 400 patients diagnosed of scleroderma or systemic sclerosis (SSc)

        -  A total of 400 patients diagnosed of Sjögren's syndrome (SjS)

        -  A total of 400 patients diagnosed of primary antiphospholipid syndrome (PAPS) or Mixed
           Connective Tissue Disease (MCTD) or with undifferentiated disease • All patients will be
           recruited from 18 sites in Europe (Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal,
           Spain, Hungary and Switzerland).
    
  