
    
      Background

      Subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH) is common among the elderly population, with an estimated
      prevalence of 6-15%. It has been associated with multiple adverse outcomes such as
      cardiovascular diseases and neuropsychological disturbance. Muscular function impairment has
      also been associated with SCH. However, the association between subclinical hypothyroidism
      and physical performance in older adults remains unclear and randomized controlled trials are
      lacking.

      Physical performance is an important prognostic indicator for older adults. Prospective
      studies showed that it is related to hospitalization, institutionalization, cardiovascular
      disease, disability and mortality. Gait speed is one of the most widely used measures of
      physical performance in clinical and research settings, with a solid prognostic value.

      Aside from overall physical performance, two other dimensions of muscular function can be
      assessed: muscle function, usually assessed by handgrip strength (predictive validity for
      decline in cognition, mobility, functional status and mortality for older people), and muscle
      mass, usually assessed by dual-energy X-absorptiometry). Those three dimension together form
      the definition of sarcopenia, a relatively new concept which has been gaining visibility in
      the last years because of its high prevalence and clinical relevance.

      Both subclinical hypothyroidism and muscle function impairment are highly prevalent among the
      older population, and the latter bears a heavy personal, social and economic burden.
      Therefore, evaluating the potential benefit of levothyroxine therapy on muscle function in
      this population holds the potential to prevent adverse health-related outcomes and maintain
      the patients' autonomy and quality of life.

      Objectives

      To investigate whether levothyroxine therapy in older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism
      affects sarcopenia measures (mass, strength and physical performance) in a substudy of the
      TRUST and IEMO trial.

      Methods

      The existing trial infrastructure (TRUST and IEMO trials, clinicaltrials.gov ID: NCT
      01660126) will be utilized to collect information on muscle mass and function from 322
      participants with persistent subclinical hypothyroidism randomized to either thyroxine or
      placebo. Utilized outcomes are specified in the corresponding section.
    
  