
    
      1. Research status at domestic and foreign

           Ovarian cancer is the second fatal gynecological cancer. More than 70% of ovarian cancer
           patients are diagnosed as advanced. Standard treatments include optimal reduction
           surgery and platinum/taxane chemotherapy. Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the most
           common histological type of ovarian cancer, up to 20% of high-grade serous ovarian
           cancer (HGSOC) shows germline and/or somatic mutations in the BRCA1/BRCA2 gene. BRCA1
           and BRCA2 are tumor suppressor genes that play a central role in repairing DNA
           double-strand breaks (DSBS) through homologous recombination (HR). Due to their
           increased sensitivity to DNA damage reagents, they extend the survival period of BRCA1
           and BRCA2 mutant EOCs, among which BRCA2 vectors have the best survival rate.
           Poly-adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase 1 is a key ribozyme involved in
           single-strand break (SSB) repair through the base excision repair pathway. In the
           absence of poly adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase(PARP) activity, these lesions
           are considered to have transformed into DSB. Cells lacking HR, such as BRCA mutant
           cells, are extremely sensitive to PARP inhibition. This phenomenon called "synthetic
           lethality" has led people to study poly adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase
           inhibitors (PARPi) used as therapeutic agents in BRCA1/BRCA2 carriers.

           Olaparib is the first oral PARPi approved in the United States in December 2014 for the
           fourth-line treatment of advanced ovarian cancer with BRCA mutations. In the early
           development of PARPi olaparib, studies have found that platinum sensitivity seems to be
           related to a higher objective response rate between BRCA carriers and non-carriers.
           Gelmon et al. designed a phase II randomized trial Study 19, which evaluated the
           efficacy of olaparib and placebo as maintenance therapy in patients with
           platinum-sensitive serous ovarian cancer recurrence. Compared with the placebo group,
           the median progression-free survival (PFS) of the olaparib group was significantly
           longer (8.4 months for the olaparib group and 4.8 months for the placebo group (HR=0.35;
           [95) % credibility interval (CI) =0.25-0.49]; p<0.001). Post-hoc analysis showed that
           among BRCA germline mutations (gBRCA) carriers, the improvement of PFS in the olaparib
           group was greater (HR≤0.18; [95%CI=0.10-0.31]; p <0.0001). The SOLO2 study is a
           randomized, controlled phase III randomized controlled trial, which further confirmed
           the findings of patients with gBRCA mutations in Study 19. At present, based on the
           latest National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines and guidelines for the
           clinical application of PAPPi for ovarian cancer, the first-line recommends
           PARPi+bevacizumab (Bev) maintenance therapy, and PARPi maintenance therapy is the
           standard treatment for platinum-sensitive recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer.

           The above-mentioned studies based on olaparib are mostly randomized controlled trials
           (RCTs). Because RCTs often have strict inclusion and exclusion criteria, they are
           carried out in a highly standardized environment, so that the research subjects have
           good homogeneity. The validity is high, but the research results may not be able to be
           extrapolated to practice. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate the role of treatments
           for advanced diseases in the real world. To provide better guidance for patients,
           real-world evidence is needed to make up for the lack of randomized controlled trials.
           At present, in real-world researches, there are only retrospective studies on the use of
           olaparib in ovarian cancer at home and abroad, and the results are consistent with its
           corresponding RCTs. There is a lack of prospective real-world evidence with higher
           levels of evidence.

        2. Study drugs

           The drug name is olaparib tablets. This product is a film-coated tablet. 1)150mg: green
           to green/gray, oval, biconvex tablets, with "OP150" engraved on one side and blank on
           the other side. 2)100mg: yellow to dark yellow, oval, biconvex tablets, with "OP100"
           engraved on one side and blank on the other side.

        3. Research programs

           3.1 Overall design

           This study is a prospective real-world product registration study. It is an
           observational study. The main research content is to evaluate the efficacy and adverse
           reactions of PARPi olaparib in patients with ovarian cancer, fallopian tube cancer or
           primary peritoneal cancer. According to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, we collect
           various information of the target research participants, and organize the data and
           perform statistical analysis under the guidance of epidemiologists and statistical
           experts. The curative effect is evaluated by indicators such as PFS, overall survival
           (OS), and objective response rate (ORR). Moreover, we collect and analyze the adverse
           reactions of study participants after taking olaparib. 20ml blood samples and surgically
           removed histological samples of enrolled patients are collected (only for enrolled
           patients who agree to blood sampling) for exploratory biological marker research and
           exploratory pharmacogenetic analysis.

           3.2 Sample size

           This research is an observational study. 245 study participants are expected to be
           included.

           3.3 Stratification factors

           This research can set up different plans according to the following different
           stratification factors and research purposes.1) Number of treatment lines: first-line
           maintenance, second-line maintenance, back-line treatment, excess indications. 2)
           BRCA1/2 mutation status: positive, negative. 3) Platinum sensitive status: platinum
           sensitive, platinum resistant. 4) CA125 level, etc.

           3.4 Treatment plan

           This study is a non-interventional study that only collects data and does not interfere
           with clinical treatment. The medication is administered according to clinical
           instructions, guidelines and local treatment routines.

        4. Research process

           4.1 Subject informed

           Patients should sign an informed consent form before the start of the study. The
           researchers need to explain the contents of the informed consent to the subjects in
           detail. After the candidate has fully read and understood the informed consent, if she
           agrees to participate in the study, the subject should sign and date the informed
           consent. Researchers also need to sign and date the informed consent form.

           4.2 Interview on selection

           Within 7 days of the subjects' enrollment, the investigator collected baseline data,
           including: general information; medical history diagnosis; past tumor treatment history;
           family history; whether it meets the admission criteria.

           4.3 Interview during treatment and the last interview

           After the subjects are enrolled, the investigator will conduct a visit every 12 weeks.
           The data include:

             -  Efficacy evaluation: CT/MRI imaging examination and tumor marker CA125 examination
                are required.

             -  Safety evaluation: whether there are adverse events (AE).

             -  At baseline, at the same time as the RECIST assessment time (once every 12 weeks)
                until the objective radiation disease progression or the end of the study treatment
                interview, a functional assessment of cancer treatment-ovarian cancer (FACT-O)
                questionnaire survey.

        5. Safety evaluation

           5.1 Definition of Adverse Events

           AE refers to all the adverse medical events that occur after the subject receives the
           experimental drug. It can be manifested as symptoms and signs, diseases or abnormal
           laboratory tests, but it may not be causally related to the experimental drug.

           5.2 Severity of adverse events

           During the study period, the severity of AEs will be classified according to Common
           Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, and AE of grade ≥3 will be
           collected.

           5.3 Relationship with study drug

           When judging the correlation between AEs and study drugs, the following factors should
           be considered: 1) It is definitely related; 2) It may be related; 3) Possibly
           irrelevant; 4) Definitely irrelevant; 5) Undecidable.

           5.4 Adverse event records

           All adverse events that occur from the subject's first use of olaparib to 4 weeks after
           the last dose, including observed by the investigator, obtained by inquiries, and
           spontaneously reported by the subject should be fully recorded.

           Researchers need to continue to follow up all AEs until the event is cured, returns to
           baseline, reaches a stable state, or no more information is available. The researcher
           needs to monitor and record the outcome of the AE in the subject's source file. After
           the study, there is no need to actively collect new AEs.

        6. Drug management

           This study is a real-world study, and olaparib is a marketed drug, so olaparib needs to
           be purchased and used by patients according to the normal procedures in the hospital.

        7. Data recording and monitoring

           7.1 Data logging

           This project uses table records. According to Good Clinical Practice (GCP) requirements,
           in order to ensure patient privacy, patient names should not appear. All patients' names
           should be filled with name codes, and the codes should be abbreviated in Chinese name.
           The specific dosage and time of medication are unknown, and should be filled in unknown
           rather than blank or missing items. The researcher should ensure that all data must be
           consistent with the "inpatient medical record".

           7.2 Data monitoring

           During the test process, the research unit will review the completed test case data,
           check whether the data is correct, complete and standardized, and assess the
           traceability of all data.

        8. Statistical analysis

           8.1 Definition of statistical analysis data sets

           The study includes cases that have received at least one trial drug and have a safety
           evaluation into the primary and secondary endpoint analysis. Those who have not used a
           trial drug or have no research data after being selected can be eliminated. Excluded
           cases should be kept for future reference and no statistical analysis should be
           performed.

           8.2 Statistical analysis methods

           The continuous variables in this study are described by median and interquartile range.
           Categorical variables are described by absolute value and the proportion of the total
           number of patients. Χ2 test are used for comparison between groups. The method of
           survival analysis is used to statistically process the follow-up data. Kaplan-Meier
           method is used to draw the survival curve of the follow-up subjects. Log-Rank test was
           used to evaluate the survival difference between each group. Cox regression model was
           used to analyze the influencing factors of the survival time of each group of follow-up
           subjects. Candidate influencing factors with a significance level of 0.05 in the
           univariate analysis were selected into the multivariate analysis. For all analyses, the
           test level α=0.05, when p<0.05 is considered statistically significant. All analyses
           were performed using Statistical Product and Service Solutions (SPSS) software (version
           22.0).

        9. Quality control and quality assurance

      All research processes should establish standardized operating procedures.
    
  