
    
      Overview: The investigators plan to measure the coagulation status with the new sensor in
      patients who are attending the Coagulation Clinic in Meir Hospital Center. The investigators
      will measure their coagulation status with the new sensor during the participants' routine
      clinic visits. During their visits, The participants' care will not be affected or influenced
      by the results of the data obtained by the new sensor. The accumulated data will be collected
      and later correlated with their clinical status and with routine clotting parameters that are
      measured, depending on the type of anticoagulation the participants receive. Specifically, in
      those receiving warfarin, INR will be assessed during their visit, while in patients
      receiving direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs), factor Xa activity will be assessed.
      Inparticipants receiving heparin, PTT will be assessed.

      Patients and control subject: Subjects will be recruited from the Coagulation Clinic. The
      participants will consist of patients attending the clinic for follow-up of their prescribed
      anticoagulation treatment. Patients to be studied will include subjects receiving warfarin
      anticoagulation, NOACs, heparin and anti-platelet therapy (aspirin, clopidrogel or other
      anti-platelet medications). Normal subjects receiving no anticoagulation will also be studied
      and will serve as the control group.

      Protocol: Experimental subjects will be selected from patients attending the Coagulation
      Clinic. Patients will be seen in the clinic and receive their usual follow-up care. After
      obtaining informed consent, the participants' coagulation status will be assessed with the
      new sensor. Patients on warfarin medications will have a venous blood sample obtained (5 ml)
      for determination of INR. Patients receiving NOACs will have a venous blood sample obtained
      (5 ml) for determination of Factor Xa activity. At a later date, the coagulation status of
      the patients as assessed by the new sensor will be compared to the coagulation status as
      assessed by the standard laboratory methods.

      Normal controls will be recruited from hospital personnel. Normal controls will have their
      coagulation status assessed by the new sensor only. Since normal control are not receiving
      anticoagulation therapy, blood samples for measurement of INR or factor Xa activity will not
      be drawn. Normal controls will receive no financial compensation.

      Methodology: The pneumatic cuff is attached to the root of the index finger. The sensor cuff
      is attached several centimeters distal to the pneumatic cuff. Measurement is taken for a
      60-second control period, and then the pneumatic cuff is inflated to above-systolic blood
      pressure (200 mm Hg) for 180 seconds, and measurement is taken during this period of time.
      The cuff is then deflated, and another 60-second measurement is taken. Data is collected by
      the measuring device for later analysis.
    
  