
    
      Specific aims are to:

        1. Identify readiness assessment criteria (RAC) essential in determining a rural county's
           capacity to support comprehensive mammography and appropriate follow-up services.
           Through a mixed-method analysis, using qualitative and quantitative techniques, we will
           define essential factors in leadership, infrastructure and local resources across the
           five counties of the initial BSPAN network.

        2. Using the RAC (defined in Aim 1), we will determine which of the five BSPAN1 counties
           have capacity to manage and sustain the Outreach & Health Promotion and Delivery &
           Navigation components of the program (High Capacity), and which have the capacity to
           manage and sustain only the Outreach & Health Promotion component (Medium Capacity). We
           will monitor the performance of two High Capacity and one Medium Capacity counties to
           increase program responsibility, adjust BSPAN support as needed, and calibrate the
           sensitivity of our RAC tool.

        3. Expand BSPAN to 12 new rural and underserved counties according to RAC score and
           evaluate each county's ability to implement program components and increase
           comprehensive mammography and appropriate follow-up. Using the RAC (defined in Aim 1),
           we will characterize the capacity in each of the 12 new counties to implement components
           of the BSPAN program (High, Medium, and Low Capacity). We will monitor process measures
           and outcomes in each county at regular intervals. Results of BSPAN2 will demonstrate a
           sustainable hub-and-spoke model of service delivery that capitalizes on local community
           strengths to care for their own residents. This expansion will enable 12 new county
           partners to increase screening access, improve time to diagnostic resolution, and
           facilitate timely referral to local treatment services, while maintaining services
           levels in the original five counties. BSPAN2 will also produce an assessment tool and
           internet-based patient tracking application that can be used to disseminate a
           hub-and-spoke model for delivery of mammography services to rural communities across the
           country.
    
  