
    
      This will be a small, double-blind study involving placebo and 3 g/day of DHA. There will be
      a one-month baseline period, followed by a six month treatment period.

        1. Neurologists from the North York General Hospital or Toronto Western Hospital will refer
           patients being treated for intractable epilepsy.

        2. Patients will be contacted by phone by the study coordinator, who will explain the study
           and ask about willingness to participate. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
           discussed, as well as the patient's responsibilities. It will be made clear that there
           will be no cost to the patient.

        3. If patients are interested, a letter will be sent to them. The letter will contain a
           description of the study, the patient's responsibilities if he/she agrees to
           participate, and an explanation of informed consent.

        4. One week after the letter, the study coordinator will again contact the patients by
           phone, answer any questions, and

           - if the patient is willing to participate - set up the initial visit.

        5. At the initial visit, the study coordinator will give the subject written and verbal
           information. Patients will be asked to sign an informed consent form. They will be given
           a seizure diary, to keep during the first month (prior to treatment) and to continue for
           the six months of treatment. The diary will record the frequency/type of seizures.

           The study physician will review the medial history (seizure frequency/type), medications
           and blood work to be taken to measure serum levels of AEDs and n-3 PUFAs. About two
           teaspoons of extra blood will be taken and stored for possible future assays.

           The study coordinator will then provide the patients with their appropriate capsules for
           the first three months of the trial. The rest will be mailed. The patient will receive
           written instructions on how to take the capsules. Only the study coordinator will know
           the patients' group assignments. (A sealed back-up of the code will be left with Dr.
           Burnham.) Patients will be given the study coordinator's cell phone number with
           instructions to call if they feel unwell at any time. If serious problems occur, the
           study coordinator will refer patients to the Emergency Department.

        6. Weekly telephone calls: Participants will receive scheduled weekly telephone calls from
           the study coordinator to collect any information recorded in the seizure diaries during
           the one month baseline period continuing through the sixth month treatment period.

        7. After the last month of the trial, a second in-person visit will be scheduled to
           re-examine the patient, and order more blood work. (Two teaspoons of the blood will be
           reserved for possible future assays.) At the end of the visit, The study coordinator
           will debrief the patient and give him/her a letter of thanks from the P.I. The patient
           will then be told where he/she can purchase DHA if he/she wants to continue.

        8. Data will be analyzed by Dr. Burnham. After data analysis, patients will be informed
           about the results of the whole by letter.
    
  