
    
      There is a lack of objective data relating to variation in treatment practices and resource
      utilisation for Multiple Myeloma (MMY) patients between countries. This void continues to
      hamper attempts to create meaningful health economic models for MMY treatment and impedes
      understanding of the MMY clinical arena. This non-interventional observational study is
      designed to address the problem by providing a definitive picture of routine treatment and
      resource utilisation practices for MMY patients at any stage of treatment, independent of
      drug(s) used and treatment line across the different countries taking part. A
      non-interventional study design has been selected to facilitate data collection about routine
      clinical practice. This study seeks to obtain an appropriate subset of the true population of
      patients with MMY throughout Europe Middle East and Africa. Many concerns exist when
      attempting to develop an unbiased study sample, including biases regarding the selection of
      patients to be enrolled. Therefore, a multi-staged site and patient selection model will be
      used to reduce biases associated with patient and site selection. The study seeks to enroll
      at least 3,000 patients. It will deliver a description of everyday treatment practice of MMY.
      Additional retrospective medical reviews will also be performed to collect information
      regarding disease history. The primary objective of the study is to document and describe
      current treatment regimens and disease progression of patients with MMY. Secondary objectives
      of the study involve understanding the MMY patient population and its generalisability to all
      treated MMY patients. Additional goals of the study are to document and compare: (a)
      utilisation of current treatment regimens for MMY; (b) quality of life and health economic
      parameters associated with MMY treatment regimens; (c) the safety profile of current
      treatment regimens for MMY and the impact on resource utilisation; (d) the effectiveness of
      current treatment regimens for MMY. The study will collect prospective data on efficacy,
      outcomes, health economic and safety parameters for all patients whenever available. The
      resulting database will allow future health economic, pharmaco-epidemiological, and outcomes
      research, and provide important data from the clinical arena. At least 3000 patients will be
      recruited to this study. As this is an observational study, the decision of patients to take
      part in this study will not have any impact on the care they are receiving. All treatment
      decisions will be made at the discretion of the participating physicians. Only data available
      from routine clinical practice will be collected. There are two phases of data collection in
      this study: (a) at baseline, the patient's historical treatment and resource utilisation
      data, where possible stretching back to diagnosis, will be recorded via electronic data
      capture; (b) following the baseline visit, the patient will enter a prospective data
      collection phase where data will be collected at least every three months. At each data
      collection point, all changes since the previous data collection point will be collected.
      Prospective data collection will continue until the study is complete or the patient is
      withdrawn from the study. Data will continue to be captured until three years after the last
      patient is recruited to the study. Interim analyses will be conducted at least annually to
      update the current data. To monitor the safety profile of MMY treatment related to a Johnson
      and Johnson product, any unwanted effects that occur during the MMY treatment will be
      recorded Observational Study - No investigational drug administered
    
  