
    
      Because of its extremely high morbidity and mortality, it is imperative to look for new
      antifungal therapies to treat mucormycosis. The agents of mucormycosis are exquisitely
      sensitive to iron availability, and we and others have demonstrated that iron chelation
      therapy improves the survival of rodents with mucormycosis. Deferasirox (Exjade) is the first
      orally bioavailable iron chelator approved for use in the United States (US) by the Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA), with an indication for treatment of iron overload from chronic
      transfusions. In clinical studies, deferasirox has been well tolerated and effective in
      iron-overloaded patients.

      Although the safety and efficacy of deferasirox have been extensively evaluated in
      iron-overloaded patients, there are minimal data in non-iron-overloaded patients or in
      infected patients. Therefore, the safety and efficacy of deferasirox in patients with
      mucormycosis is unclear, and confirming safety in the current study, at the currently planned
      dose, is required to lay the groundwork for a future phase III clinical trial.

      This is a prospective, phase II, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study of
      liposomal amphotericin B (LAmB; AmBisome) plus deferasirox vs. LAmB plus placebo for
      mucormycosis infection. Twenty patients with proven or probable mucormycosis (except for
      isolated skin infection) by consensus EORTC/MSG criteria, who have received less than 14 days
      of antifungal therapy for mucormycosis, and who have had radiographic imaging by CT or MRI
      within the past 72 hours that shows evidence of infection, will be randomized to receive LAmB
      plus deferasirox or placebo (n = 10 per arm), with randomization stratified by study site.

      The primary objective is to determine the safety and tolerability of adjunctive deferasirox
      therapy in patients being treated with LAmB for mucormycosis, and to obtain exploratory data
      on the efficacy of the iron chelation treatment. The exploratory efficacy endpoint will be
      the global response rate (composite of clinical and radiographic response) at end of study
      drug administration, as determined by a blinded adjudication committee.
    
  