
    
      Background:

      Newly diagnosed localized prostate cancer patients face difficult decisions about treatment
      and management; including radiation therapy, radical prostatectomy, brachytherapy, and
      observation. Previous studies have cited patient preference and physician recommendation for
      treatment as major roles in treatment decisions.

      Objectives:

      This grant will be used to develop and evaluate a decision analysis based intervention to
      improve decision-making among veterans with newly diagnosed localized prostate cancer. While
      the ultimate goal of this study is to improve decision-making among these patients, factors
      influencing physician recommendations for treatment will be sought. The former will be
      achieved by evaluating the efficacy of providing physicians with information incorporating
      patient preference for alternative health states with probabilities of treatment outcomes.
      Factors influencing physician recommendations for treatment will be determined through
      qualitative interviews with physicians.

      Methods:

      Patients were accrued at the VA Chicago Health Care System Lakeside Urology Clinic. Upon
      consent for participation in the study, comorbidities, histologic grade of the biopsy, and
      age were obtained for 13 patients with newly diagnosed localized prostate cancer. Using a
      standard gamble technique, interviewers obtained patient utilities for 5 distinct health
      states related to prostate cancer treatment. Clinical and pathologic characteristics were
      incorporated into the decision analytic model, and the derived quality-adjusted life
      expectancies (QALEs) were shared with the treating urologist before patient-physician
      discussion of treatment options. The feasibility of the decision analytic intervention and
      unbiased estimates of the impact of the intervention was evaluated. The long-range objective
      of this proposal is to design an intervention for veterans that increases physician
      understanding of patient treatment preferences and patient understanding of choices in
      prostate cancer treatment.

      Status:

      Completed
    
  