
    
      Design of the study :

      Non-comparative, non-randomized monocentric phase II trial designed as a two-staged Simon
      minimax plan.

      Inclusions will be suspended at the end of the first stage. Statistical stopping rules are
      detailed in the justification of the number of patients required.

      Inclusion: Patients will be included after validation in multidisciplinary consultation by
      the interventional radiologist in charge of the patient.

      Follow-up: Only the cryoablation procedure is performed as an alternative to surgery, the
      usual follow-up of these patients will be maintained (1 consultation / 3 months, 1 MRI every
      6 months). Additional consultations on D7 and M1 will be conducted by phone (symptoms and
      pain history only).

      Device(s) under investigation The Endocare® Cryocare® Systems consist of a compact,
      easy-to-operate console and associated accessories that include Endocare® cryoprobes to
      deliver cold temperatures to the therapeutic tissue and Endocare® TempProbe® devices to
      monitor temperatures in the surrounding tissue. The Cryocare® Systems are intended for use in
      open, minimally invasive procedures in the areas in general surgery, urology, gynecology,
      oncology, neurology, dermatology, proctology, pulmonary surgery and thoracic surgery.

      The systems are designed to freeze/ablate tissue by the application of extreme cold
      temperatures including prostate and kidney tissue, liver metastases, tumors, skin lesions,
      and warts.

      CE Mark; Classe IIa

      Expected benefits for the participants and for society This study has a direct individual
      benefit because of the proposed curative treatment by cryoablation as an alternative to other
      therapeutic modalities. For the society, the minimally invasive cryoablation may reduce the
      hospitalization stay and the complication's rate compare to the reference standard (surgery).
    
  