
    
      Background The condition of being overweight is an increasing problem worldwide, becoming an
      epidemic both in Europe and in the United States. Recent estimates that over 60% of adults
      are overweight and at the same time obesity affects around 35% of the population. In the US
      the cost of the health system to cope with obesity and related diseases now exceeds the sum
      of 100 billion and in Europe costs are currently similar. Health risks related to being
      overweight include psychological difficulties, depression and stigma, physical problems and
      heart diseases, cancer and respiratory diseases not to mention musculoskeletal and metabolic
      problems.

      Obesity is a chronic health condition, but is also a major risk factor for various diseases
      both chronic and acute. This problem is currently steadily rising, with prevalence data and
      epidemiological estimates that should be of great concern. Despite strong biological
      components and hereditary aspects, obesity is primarily linked to incorrect habits of
      everyday life, mainly eating habits and physical activity. Numerous studies have documented
      that regular physical activity and wise choices in food uptake can prevent obesity and
      related conditions.

      The main challenge in addressing obesity and associated disorders is represented by
      developing and making available and sustainable comprehensive programs that include
      combinations of physical activity, dietary aspects and psychological interventions.

      Interventions developed in this way, including dietary education protocols, physical
      rehabilitation and exercises programs, nutritional, endocrinological, psychological, surgical
      and pharmacological treatments are mainly effective in the short term, despite many of which
      are characterized by high costs and several periods of hospitalization. The analysis of the
      literature suggests the superiority of intensive multidisciplinary interventions: health
      protocols, dietary programs, psychological and physical rehabilitation. One of the problems
      of such interventions is that they are often only possible during an hospitalization period,
      with high costs associated. However, despite good evidence of effectiveness, the long-term
      results are generally limited.

      In general, availability, costs, compliance and long-term efficacy are important limitations
      to this variety of approaches. Frequently obese individuals regain about 30% of the weight
      they lost within the first year. After only 3 years they are returning to pre-treatment
      weight. Psychological intervention are generally assumed to be one of the core parts in the
      treatment aimed to obesity. In particular, Cognitive-Behavioral interventions, usually within
      multidisciplinary paths and rarely implemented individually, are generally considered the
      gold-standard for addressing the epidemic of obesity, or "globesity".

      Rationale Reasons for the long-term failure of interventions for obesity can be found in the
      lack of long-term sources of reinforcement for healthy habits acquired during the intensive
      treatment period. The tradition of behavioral sciences has developed models of
      interpretation, explanation and pragmatic operation supported by evidence of effectiveness
      and efficiency in the promotion of desired behaviors in various contexts and with a longer
      time effect. These span from the cessation of smoking, passing trough the ability to adapt
      and live with chronic diseases, ending with the promotion of safety behaviors in working
      environments. For this reason behavior analysis in general, and in particular the Contextual
      Behavioral Science, can play a decisive role in the prevention of obesity and keeping the
      results achieved within short intensive protocols, usually held in hospitals.

      By modifying deeply rooted and long-term acquired habits, the person with obesity can obtain
      more psychological and physical health, reduce risk factors and improve his overall health,
      wellness and quality of life with benefits not only for the individual but also for his
      social environment.

      During the rehabilitation periods patients affected by obesity are frequently in contact with
      contingencies that are very different from those of their daily lives. In the rehabilitation
      facility or during the hospitalization, contingencies are efficiently shaped to promote
      desired behaviors and decrease actions that are identified as dysfunctional, with both
      aversive and reinforcing contingencies. Later on, after the treatment, in his natural
      environment initially behaviors are maintained, but having been promoted in a environment
      that provide contingencies supporting healthy behaviors, they often undergo a processes of
      extinction consequently with cessation of reinforce. At the same time, outside the hospital,
      dysfunctional behaviors such as avoiding physical activity and eating tasty food, are
      reinforced in a systematic and contingent way. This tendency to extinction of functional and
      healthy habits and reinforcement of dysfunctional habits leads, in the long term to gain the
      weight lost laboriously and this also leads to lower levels of well-being.

      Although the existing programs already provide protocol phases to be implemented once they
      are home, often the patients fail to adhere to nutrition programs and planned activities. On
      the contrary they return frequently to previous habits, and show a high drop-out rate at
      follow-ups.

      To overcome the limited long-term adherence after the hospitalization period, it is necessary
      to find a way to give significant, contingent and informative feedback also after the
      rehabilitation phase. In this regard the use of activity trackers represents a clear, valid
      and "smart" use of new technologies, linked to well established behavioral science.

      Hypothesis, goals and expected results The project aims to promote a long-term change in
      lifestyle of as part of a multidisciplinary intervention, in close collaboration with
      physicians, the service of Clinical Nutrition and the osteo-articular rehabilitation.

      The main goal of this study is test the efficacy of combining behavioral change technologies
      through contingent and meaningful feedbacks provided by wearable devices with ACT-based
      intervention, a well-studied psychological treatment developed in a contextual behavioral
      framework. The combination of thisapproach should be feasible and efficient, compared with
      gold standard treatment with inferior costs. Four experimental condition are provided: 1)
      usual care during hospitalization with programmed follow-up checks, 2) contingent feedback on
      daily life activities through activity trackers or wearable device stand-alone, 3) ACT based
      intervention stand-alone, 4). combination of the previous two, ACT-Based Intervention and
      Activity Tracker with Feedback.

      Primary outcome, or dependent variable, of the study is physical activity as collected by
      wearable electronic devices. Other outcomes, as for example time of sleep, are collected by
      wearables, and other provided by self report through web platform. The independent variable
      of the study is the type of treatment (ACT intervention and feedbacks provided by activity
      trackers). For the purpose of the study we collect data about daily steps and workout log for
      each participants.

      The intervention aims to help people in their everyday environment to remain more consistent
      with the choices made, and follow appropriate diets and physical activity. The project is
      directed to participants in the multidisciplinary rehabilitation program at St. Joseph
      Hospital - Verbania, Italian Auxological Institute, a private research institute that works
      also for the Italian national health system. The recruitment will take place progressively
      and subjects will be randomized to the four experimental conditions expected by the protocol.
      Data will be analyzed in different experimental single-subjects over multiple baselines
      designs. The subjects are also grouped according to the experimental condition to allow
      statistical analysis of experimental designs intergroup, consistent with the approach of a
      controlled and randomized trial.

      Due to the novelty of using a combination of behavioral change strategies with Acceptance and
      Mindfulness - based therapy with wearable device to promote healthy life-style in the
      post-rehabilitation period, no well defined hypothesis have been established about the
      possible contribution of this kind of intervention in comparison with usual care, the "gold
      standard" multi-disciplinary treatment chronic conditions linked to obesity. With the
      development of mobile technology and brief clinical protocols, new interventions in the field
      of obesity and connected chronic pathologies have to be evaluated.

      Anyway, the mACTonHEALTH study is quite innovative for different reasons. First, combination
      of single case designs with RCT is uncommon, particularly with medium-scale studies like
      this. Second, using wearable device activity trackers both as device for data collection
      measuring the primary outcomes and as device to provide contingent feedbacks, assumed to as
      one the two independent variable. Third, combining directly brief ACT intervention and
      behavior modification strategies with mobile-tech implementation is another element of
      innovation. Furthermore, although ACT is becoming well-studied in the traditional clinical
      context, large-scale application to both medical and natural settings has not largely
      occurred. Including in assessment procedure direct collectable data, indicators of both
      physical and psychosocial health. Also, the inclusion of objective physiological outcome
      measures constitutes an aspect of innovation in ACT research. Last, the study will focus on
      mediation mechanisms underlying treatment success and presents possible links to systematic
      models on psychological flexibility, a core process assessed in ACT researches.

      Hypothesis To the best of the researcher's knowledge, this study will be the first randomized
      controlled trial to examine the effectiveness of a combination of contingent feedbacks
      provided with wearable devices with ACT-based interventions to improve healthy life style
      according to medical and behavioral prescription among obese patients. It is also one of the
      first example of a large implementation of multiple single case designs with a continuous
      data collection, made possible due the implementation of wearable-technology. Conducted in
      the context of clinical practice, this trial will potentially offer empirical support to
      alternative interventions to improve radical long-time change in life habits and consequently
      promote quality of life reducing mortality and morbidity rates among obese population.
      Furthermore, by virtue of its short duration, the program could potentially be utilized for
      health promotion also in non-hospitalization context and primary or secondary prevention of
      obesity and linked conditions.
    
  