
    
      All female patients of childbearing age that qualify for this study will receive a urinary
      pregnancy test prior to enrollment. Application of a tourniquet will occur after induction of
      anesthesia and intubation with minimal possibility of causing discomfort as the patient will
      be anesthetized. The tourniquet will be applied preferably to a leg but an arm will be used
      if a leg is unavailable. The tourniquet will be inflated for three 5 minute intervals over a
      30 minute period of time using the Zimmer A.T.S. 2000 Tourniquet System. Patients will be
      randomly allocated to one of two groups. The experimental group will have the tourniquet
      inflated on the leg or arm to 200 mmHg. The control group will have the tourniquet inflated
      on the leg or arm to only 20 mmHg. An audible timer will be used to help alert investigators
      that the tourniquet is in need of deflation after each 5-minute interval. The tourniquet will
      be removed after the needed 30 minutes of inflation/deflation to prevent inadvertent
      inflation of the tourniquet. Blood and Urine specimens will be labeled with patient name and
      medical record number. Urine samples will be taken in the operating room and at 6,12,24,48
      hours postoperatively to test for urinary biomarkers at the O'Brien Clinical Research Center.
      Blood samples for calculation of serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine will be
      collected/processed/distributed/stored according to current UAB main laboratory guidelines as
      this test is routinely ordered on renal transplant patients. Urinary biomarker laboratory
      testing samples will be obtained by a bedside nurse placed in a routine urine sample
      container and a co-investigator will then bring samples to the laboratory where the samples
      will be tested for NGAL, KIM-1, and IL-18. Blood samples will be taken daily for the first 5
      days. A blood sample will be taken from the patient at 1 month to determine the serum blood
      urea nitrogen level and the creatinine level. The degree of allograft injury will be assessed
      by the levels of urinary biomarkers NGAL, IL-18, and KIM-1. Incidence of allograft or
      transplanted kidney primary malfunction will be based on urine output during the first three
      days after transplantation, the one month serum creatinine concentration, one month estimated
      glomerular filtration rate calculated according to diet modification. Additional secondary
      endpoints include 90-day mortality, length of ICU stay, and length of hospital stay. There is
      a low probability of tourniquet postoperative pain secondary to time of tourniquet inflation
      being both intermittent and for a short period of time. Inconvenience includes phone
      discussions with researchers/coordinators and preoperative discussions addressing risks and
      benefits of the study. Tourniquets will not be placed on extremities with preexisting
      arteriovenous fistulas or grafts utilized for hemodialysis. In addition, tourniquets will be
      placed after oscillometric blood pressure cuff placement for intraoperative
      anesthesia/surgical monitoring to provide adequate patient blood pressure assessment. The
      tourniquet will not be placed on the same extremity as the oscillometric blood pressure cuff.
      The primary investigator or a co-investigator will be present during times of tourniquet
      inflation. The patient will be assessed for complications immediately after tourniquet
      removal, in the PACU, and in the ICU/or step down unit. Finally, patient complication
      assessment will occur on the transplant floor after effects of anesthesia have completely
      resolved within 24 hours of tourniquet application. The extremity will also be assessed for
      injury at the 1-month follow up visit.
    
  