
    
      Design: prospective randomized controlled trial Sitting: department of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology Faculty of Medicine, Zagazig University, Zagazig, Egypt Sample size calculation:
      thoroughly reviewing the use of vaginal misoprostol and intracervical Foleys catheter alone
      or in combination for mid trimester pregnancy termination, Rezk et al 2014 showed that the
      percentage of complications "fever and diarrhea" in the first group (misoprostol) was 30 %
      versus complications in the second group (intra cervical Foleys group)" cervical laceration
      "was 13.3 %. Therefore, at confidence level 95% and power 80%, using Epi info 7 the Sample
      size will be one hundred fifty-eight (158) patients.

      Study participants: the study will include women indicated for termination of pregnancy
      between 14weeks-23 weeks and 6 days of gestation. The investigators will involve patients
      with a singleton pregnancy with one or multiple cesarean delivery. The investigators will
      exclude all patients with critical co-morbidities: bleeding disorders, chorioamnionitis,
      low-lying placenta, rupture uterus, myomectomy and contraindication to misoprostol or latex
      allergy. All women will undergo history taking, general examination, and local assessment for
      the cervix. Departmental US to confirm the diagnosis and indication for termination and
      position of the placenta. Blood tests will be done including blood group, full blood count
      matching, Antibodies screening and viral markers.

      Randomization: After meeting eligibility criteria all participants will be counseled to the
      clinical trial. A signed documented consent form will be attached to their medical records.
      The patients will be sorted into two groups using a computerized random number generator in a
      sequence of sealed, numbered opaque envelopes, with a 1:1randomization ratio.

      Group I (Misoprostol group): seventy-nine patients will receive a loading dose of moistened
      misoprostol tablets (cytotec pfizer 400 mg) inserted vaginally and it will be followed by
      maintenance dose (200 mg) after six hours and repeated every 4 hours till the start of
      effective uterine contraction with maximum five doses in 24 hours duration .

      Group II (Combined group): seventy- nine patients will get intracervical Foleys Catheter
      insertion .Exposure of the cervix by means of a sterile speculum, a 16F Foley catheter will
      be introduced into the cervical canal to induce cervical ripping. The catheter will be fixed
      through inflation of the balloon with 30 milliliters of sterile solution when the catheter
      will be beyond the internal cervical os. Slight traction of the catheter will be exerted
      through tapping it to the inner thigh. After six hours of Foleys catheter fixation, The
      investigators will start infusion of 10 IU of oxytocin on 500 ml ringer lactate by rate 125
      ml\hr followed by one hour rest to allow diuresis. Increased gradually of oxytocin dose by
      5IU each time until achieving regular uterine contraction, maximum five doses in twenty -four
      hours duration. Therefore the maximum dose of oxytocin 100 IU over 24 hrs duration to avoid
      water intoxication.

      Failed induction of abortion is considered if no fetal expulsion occurred within twenty for
      hours from the use of primary method of termination. The Demographic data and serial clinical
      monitoring will be recorded by the assigned on duty registrar.
    
  