
    
      Eligible, consenting women with insulin-treated T2DM receiving ACS at 24 0/7 - 36 5/7 weeks'
      gestation for threatened PTB will be enrolled and randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 1)
      addition of sliding scale insulin to their home insulin regimen, 2) up-titration of their
      home insulin regimen, or 3) discontinuation of their home insulin regimen and initiation of a
      continuous insulin infusion. The randomization sequence will be created by the study
      statistician in a permuted block design, and assignments will be centrally allocated using
      the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) application. Study investigators will be masked
      to the randomization sequence and varying block sizes.

      Regardless of treatment group, all women will receive Dexcom G6 Professional CGM for 10 days
      or hospital discharge. The device will be applied by research staff or if desired, by the
      patient herself, under direct supervision by research staff. The CGM sensor will be applied
      to the patient's abdomen away from skin folds, where there is hair, near the waistband or
      areas of scarring, tatoos, irritation or open wounds. An additional waterproof adhesive will
      be applied to help prevent the sensor from being dislodged and finally the transmitter will
      be attached. The patient will be provided a handout with instructions for care. The
      Professional CGM device will ensure both patients and providers are masked to CGM data, which
      will be used for research purposes only as CGM is not readily available to guide insulin
      titration in most clinical settings. Capillary blood glucose testing, the method routinely
      used in clinical practice, will be used to guide insulin titration for each treatment group.
      Women assigned to the sliding scale insulin group will continue their home insulin regimen
      and receive supplemental insulin as needed for post-prandial hyperglycemia based on capillary
      blood glucose testing 4 times daily (fasting and 1-hour post-prandial) for 5 days after ACS.
      Women assigned to the up-titration of home insulin group will have their home insulin dosages
      increased based on an algorithm with capillary blood glucose testing 4 times daily and
      additional sliding scale insulin as needed for post-prandial hyperglycemia. For example, if a
      woman's baseline insulin regimen includes a total of 70 units of daily insulin (NPH 30 units
      in the morning (qAM), NPH 10 units at bedtime (qPM), and Aspart 10 units with each meal),
      then on day 2 after ACS she will receive 50% more or 105 units total (NPH 45 units qAM, NPH
      15 units qPM, and Aspart 15 units with each meal). Women assigned to the continuous insulin
      infusion group will have their home insulin discontinued and receive a continuous insulin
      infusion based on hourly capillary blood glucose testing for 5 days after ACS. Given the high
      acuity of insulin infusion management these women will be monitored on L&D, but women in the
      other two treatment groups may be managed on L&D or on the Antepartum unit at the discretion
      of the primary provider. Regardless of treatment group, all women will be allowed to eat as
      long as it is deemed safe by the primary provider. If women assigned to receive the sliding
      scale insulin group or the up-titration of home insulin group are made nil per os (NPO) at
      any time after enrollment, they will be placed on the continuous insulin infusion per
      protocol with hourly capillary blood glucose testing. Once a diet is resumed, they will be
      switched back to the insulin algorithm.

      Upon completion of the study intervention, all women will complete the Diabetes Treatment
      Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ) to assess satisfaction with their insulin treatment
      strategy. The DTSQ is one of the most widely used treatment questionnaires as it is
      internationally validated and approved by the World Health Organization and International
      Diabetes Federation and available in over 100 different languages. The questionnaire is
      composed of 8 questions, each of which are scored on a scale ranging from 0 ("very
      dissatisfied or inconvenient") to 6 ("very satisfied or convenient"). The first section
      assesses treatment satisfaction and includes 6 questions that ask about 1) satisfaction with
      treatment, 2) flexibility, 3) convenience, 4) understanding of diabetes, 5) recommend
      treatment to others, and 6) willingness to continue. The second section consists of 2
      questions that assess the burden of hyper- and hypoglycemia. Overall treatment satisfaction
      is measured by the sum of the scores on the first 6 questions, and a higher score indicates
      higher satisfaction (maximum score of 36). The DTSQ is particularly well-suited for use in
      this study because it is able assess treatment satisfaction regardless of the specific
      treatment method, and it is easy to answer without placing a large burden on patients.

      Other than glycemic management during the 5 days after ACS, antenatal care (fetal testing,
      maternal laboratory evaluation, timing and mode of delivery) will be at the discretion of the
      primary obstetric provider. Umbilical cord blood will be collected at delivery and stored at
      the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) for analysis at the conclusion of the trial.
      After birth, all neonates born to women with T2DM have a heelstick performed to measure
      capillary blood glucose as part of standard of care. Additional neonatal care after birth
      will be at the discretion of the primary neonatal provider.

      Comprehensive baseline maternal data and maternal and neonatal outcomes will be abstracted
      from the UAB electronic medical record and Professional CGM devices. Additionally, measures
      of health resource utilization will be collected such as duration of time on labor and
      delivery, number of capillary blood glucose tests, treatments administered such as insulin,
      intravenous fluids, and dextrose for hypoglycemia.
    
  