
    
      The most common clinical course of the patient with cancer is local tumor progression leading
      to the development of metastases, systemic inflammation and the ensuing symptom cluster known
      as anorexia-cachexia syndrome. This syndrome includes cachexia (anorexia, weight loss and
      muscle wasting), fatigue, weakness, pain, dyspnea, nausea, malaise, depression and poor
      performance status. Patients suffering from this syndrome also have poor tolerance, adherence
      and response to anti-cancer therapy, resulting in disease progression and reduced life
      expectancy. In spite of the dire need, no proven options for treating inflammatory cancer
      cachexia are currently available.

      VT-122 is the co-administration of the cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitor, etodolac and the
      beta-adrenergic antagonist, propranolol.

      It is proposed that these drugs can attenuate systemic inflammation and ameliorate the
      symptoms of inflammatory cachexia in patients with advanced cancer. As a result, this
      treatment may improve tolerability and adherence to anti-cancer therapy, thereby yielding
      direct and indirect benefits in reducing disease progression and improving both the life
      expectancy and quality of life for patients with advanced cancer.

      The potentially synergistic activities of beta blockers and COX-2 inhibitors, their
      offsetting side effects and their known beneficial impact on co-morbidities associated with
      liver failure may make them well-suited for use with sorafenib, the standard of care for
      patients with advanced HCC.

      The purpose of this study is to assess whether use of VT-122 is safe and effective in
      cachectic patients with advanced HCC. In addition to assessing cachexia-related symptoms, the
      ability of the VT-122 regimen to improve tolerability to sorafenib and thereby to improve
      both survival and quality of life will also be assessed.
    
  