
    
      This is a multicenter study in which 10 to 15 hospitals will participate. It is a
      non-intervention study in which the data from the medical records of the patients will be
      collected according to the action protocols of each center.

      This is a prospective, non-randomized study where the data of the implants performed during a
      12-month period will be recorded. Both the diagnosis and the follow-up of the patients to
      whom the device is implanted will strictly adhere to the protocols present in each center and
      which are the ones used according to all current clinical guidelines. At no time will any
      intervention or diagnostic test be performed outside the protocols in force in each center.
      The study does not imply any intervention or visit for the participants that is not routine
      clinical practice according to the clinical-healthcare procedures of each participating
      center.

      Following routine clinical evaluations performed as part of standard patient care, it will be
      decided, after obtaining informed consent from patients, and whether they are eligible for
      the study and scheduled for the implant procedure with the devices. of the study.

      After a baseline evaluation, the implant will be performed according to the usual clinical
      practice of each participating center. A follow-up visit will be made 30 days, 6 and 12
      months after the procedure.

      Investigators will perform implant and device evaluations and document adverse events (AE)
      and possible device deficiencies

      Study objectives

      1. Primary Objectives 1.1. General safety and efficacy at 6 months post-implant

      Defined as :

        -  Absence of symptoms or rupture of the aneurysm.

        -  Growth of the aneurysm.

        -  Absence of reintervention.

        -  Need for conversion to open surgery.

        -  Significant clinical migration.

        -  Branch occlusions.

      1.2 Technical success: GORE® Excluder® IBE implant in the planned location. No conversion,
      death, type I or III endoleaks or obstruction of the extremity of the graft.

      1.3. Safety and efficacy of IBE together with VBX compared to IBE all-in-one system at 6
      months.

      2 Secondary objectives 2.1. Absence of major adverse effects defined as:

        -  Absence of morbidity and / or mortality related to the aneurysm or the device.

        -  Absence of mortality from any cause.

      2.2. Assessment of quality of life based on the EuroQol 5D questionnaire
    
  