
    
      Unfortunately, despite the best clinical efforts and breakthroughs in biotechnology, most
      patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer continue to die from their disease in a very short
      period of time. The primary reason for this is the short progression time of the disease; in
      fact, most patients with pancreatic cancer have symptoms at the time of the diagnosis.
      Moreover, lack of any single agent or procedure to have any significant impact on long term
      survival rates further contributes to poor prognostic outcomes observed with this disease.

      These reasons are the major causes of cancer progression that are usually discussed when
      considering treatment options for patients with disease that continues to grow and spread.
      However, another important part of the body should be considered-- the immune system.
      Scientists have clearly shown that pancreatic cancer cells as well as other cancer cells
      produce a number of abnormal proteins or abnormal amounts of certain proteins not found in
      normal cells. Normally one would expect a patient to develop an immune response against these
      abnormal proteins found in their cancer and attack them much the way we would fight off an
      infection from a foreign bacteria or virus. However, for reasons that scientists do not fully
      understand, the immune system fails to respond to these abnormal proteins and does not attack
      the cancer cells. This human clinical trial proposes a new way to make the immune system
      recognize the cancer and encourage it to attack the cancer cells.

      Many people are familiar with the idea of transplants between people of organs like the
      kidneys or heart. When an organ transplant between two people is completed one of the
      problems that can occur is rejection of the donated organ by the recipient. This can occur
      because the immune system of the patient who receives the organ attacks the donated organ. If
      you were to attempt to transplant a pig heart to a human the rejection would be dramatically
      stronger than when organs are transplanted between two people. This is partly because lower
      animals express sugar-protein patterns on the surface of their cells that humans do not. In
      fact, our immune systems can quickly recognize tissues from lower mammals such as the pig or
      the mouse and destroys them.

      In this project, we propose to put a mouse gene into human pancreatic cancer cells that
      produces these abnormal sugar patterns and stimulates the immune system to attack the
      pancreatic cancer. This strategy works well to kill other human cancer cells in the
      laboratory, but it needs to be tried in pancreatic cancer patients to see if it will be
      effective. We propose to test this new treatment in patients with pancreatic cancer who have
      undergone tumor resection to see if it can stop or slow recurrence of tumors in these
      patients. Patients will be injected with an anti-tumor vaccine consisting of a mixture of two
      types of dead human pancreatic cancer cells that have been genetically altered to express the
      mouse gene responsible for making this abnormal sugar-protein on the cells.
    
  