
    
      Specific Aims:

        1. To examine the efficacy of atomoxetine in improving neuropsychological functioning
           (CANTAB, Time Perception Tasks) and structural (DSI) and functional (resting fMRI) brain
           connectivity as the primary efficacy endpoints.

        2. To examine the efficacy of atomoxetine in reducing ADHD core symptoms and in improving
           family/social/academic/occupational adjustment and quality of life.

      The study design is a randomized open-label, methylphenidate control trial. The sample
      consists of 60 adults, aged 18-50, with clinical diagnosis of DSM-IV. All participants will
      be randomly assigned to atomoxetine (n= 30), methylphenidate (n= 15), and clinical visit with
      psychological counseling (n=15) in a 8-week randomized clinical trial with 3 treatment arms.

      The measures included psychiatric interviews (ADHD+SADS), the CGI-ADHD-S, the standardized
      self-reported questionnaires (the AAQoL, WFIRS-S, and WFIRS-P for social function; ASRS for
      ADHD symptoms), neuropsychological tests (CANTAB including attention tasks, visual memory,
      executive functioning, and gambling test; Time Perception Task), and brain imaging (DSI and
      resting fMRI).

      They will be reassessed with safety, ADHD symptoms and social functioning/quality of life at
      baseline, week 2 (± 5 days), week 4 (± 5 days), and week 8 (± 5 days); neuropsychological
      tests at baseline, week 4 (± 5 days), and week 8 (± 5 days); and brain imaging studies (DSI
      and resting-fMRI) at baseline and week 8 (± 5 days). Additionally, blood sample will be
      collected at baseline for future pharmacogenomic study.

      We anticipate that this study will be one of the first to investigate the efficacy of
      atomoxetine on neuropsychological functioning, and structural and functional brain
      connectivity in the world. If this research can be carried out, it will be the first project
      using brain images as assessment tools in a clinical trial among psychiatric patients in
      psychiatric field in Taiwan.
    
  