
    
      Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a condition in which the muscles and soft tissues of the
      throat collapse during sleep, resulting in them stopping breathing for a short period. It
      affects around 4% of all pregnant women and is more common in obese people. Pregnant women
      with untreated OSA are more likely to have pregnancy complications and are more likely to
      need a caesarean section. Babies born to mothers with untreated OSA are more likely to need
      neonatal treatment. If OSA is diagnosed and treated then these risks are reduced. In
      non-pregnant patients presenting for surgery, an screening tool called STOPBANG has been
      proven to be effective in identifying patients with OSA.

      S: Do you Snore loudly? T: Do you often feel tired during daytime? O: Has anyone observed you
      stop breathing during your sleep? P: Do you have high blood pressure? B: Is your BMI >35
      kg/m2? A: Are you >50 years old? N: Is your neck circumference >40cm? G: Is your gender male?

      The investigators aim to assess whether STOPBANG can be used to identify OSA in obese
      pregnant women.

      The aim is to recruit 100 pregnant women with a body mass index (BMI) ≥40 at Sunderland Royal
      Hospital. Data will be collected when they attend for their anomaly scan or glucose tolerance
      test (during the second trimester of pregnancy). Participants will complete an Epworth
      sleepiness scale questionnaire and the STOP questions before having their BMI, age and neck
      circumference documented. A STOPBANG score and Modified STOPBANG score (substitute tired
      question with Epworth >10) will be calculated. All participants will then take a Rad8 pulse
      oximeter home to record their overnight pulse rate and oxygen saturations. The oximetry
      results will be analysed by a respiratory physiologist and the oxygen desaturation index will
      be calculated. A statistician will analyse the results to determine if there is a
      relationship between STOPBANG score or Modified STOPBANG score and likelihood of the pregnant
      women having OSA. In a secondary analysis we will then see if any individual elements of
      STOPBANG can be used to predict OSA.
    
  