
    
      A study of children and adolescents with very early onset by age 12 (COS) of DSM-III-R
      defined schizophrenia is examining the clinical, neurobiological, early neurodevelopmental,
      genetic, and clinical drug response characteristics of these cases, under Protocols 97-M-0126
      and 03-M-0035. Earlier studies have documented the continuity between COS and adult-onset
      cases. The focus has now shifted to increasing the sample size and evaluation of familial
      risk factors including: psychiatric diagnoses of family members; neuropsychological testing,
      anatomic and functional brain imaging, and obtaining blood and fibroblasts for cell lines for
      genetic studies.

      A study of obstetrical records of COS probands indicated no increase in adverse pre or
      perinatal events for these cases compared with obstetrical records of their well siblings. In
      contrast, several findings point to increased genetic risk for these probands.

      The study of first-degree relatives of these very rare cases addresses the hypothesis that
      risk factors, most probably genetic, are increased in immediate family members relative both
      to community controls and to the relatives of patients with chronic, treatment resistant,
      adult-onset schizophrenia (AOS). A second hypothesis is that COS familial risk factors
      include similar forms of the developmental delays/abnormalities being observed in the COS
      probands. Preliminary data suggests greater abnormalities of frontal-parietal circuits for
      early onset patients and their relatives than seen in adult onset illness.

      We will examine brain development in unrelated healthy volunteers and siblings of our COS
      probands by combining resting- and task-related magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
      magnetoencephalography (MEG) imaging. Imaging studies may lead to greater understanding of
      the course, mechanisms, and influences on brain development of high-risk siblings and may
      lead to improved understanding of the risk factors, early identification, and optimization of
      brain maturation. For more than 20 years, imaging has been done under a separate protocol
      (89-M-0006); however, we now plan to incorporate these imaging studies into this protocol (as
      well as into our main patient screening and follow-up protocol (03-M-0035) by previously
      submitted amendment).
    
  