
    
      The study design is a three-arm, prospective, pre-post intervention trial. Crohn's Disease
      (CD) patients at 27-29 weeks of pregnancy will self-select to Arm 1 or Arm 2. Controls will
      be in Arm 3.

        1. Arm 1 (diet-CD): 8-10 weeks of dietary intervention (n=66)

        2. Arm 2 (no-diet-CD): usual diet with no diet intervention (n=66)

        3. Arm 3 (no-diet-control): unaffected controls at the same gestational stage will follow
           their usual diet and no intervention (n=66).

      The goal of this study is to prospectively test the hypothesis that a non-invasive dietary
      intervention during the last trimester of pregnancy could beneficially shift the microbiome
      of CD patients and their babies, hereby promoting a healthier immune system during a critical
      time of the immune system development. Particularly, the study team will test whether
      favorable diet-driven changes in the microbiome can lead to a reduced risk of postpartum
      relapse and lower gut inflammation in the offspring.

      Stool, saliva, breast milk and umbilical cord blood samples will be collected, and
      questionnaires administered. Self-selected participants to Arm 1 will adopt a specified diet,
      which will be adapted to address specific needs of third trimester pregnancy without
      compromising the diet principles. Subjects will receive nutritional counseling and training,
      and compliance to dietary recommendations will be recorded.

      Analysis will be performed to correlate dietary change and assessed changes in quality of
      life with microbial composition in the gut and with circulating markers of inflammation in
      moms. The study team will also compare the effect of diet vs. non-diet on babies' microbiome
      and the impact of the early life microbiome in levels of inflammatory markers after 1-year of
      partum.

      This study will help better understand the origin of the initial bacterial colonization in
      high-risk babies, providing potential intervention targets for primary CD prevention. The
      study team will also generate an extensive collection of serial samples and longitudinal
      clinical data, including identification of specific dietary components correlated with
      certain functional and quantitative bacterial patterns for future investigations. This study
      will help create new opportunities to foster a healthy microbiome in high risk babies of
      microbiome and immunity-mediated diseases, thereby hopefully reducing their risk later in
      life.
    
  