
    
      1. Objective

           The purpose of this protocol is to understand the mechanism whereby neural processes of
           socioemotional cognition associated with alcohol use disorders lead to negative drinking
           consequences. This study is a two-stage procedure to both provide evidence of a response
           modulation deficit associated with socioemotioal processing in individuals with alcohol
           use disorder and investigate how moderating that deficit affects socioemotional
           processing and negative drinking consequences.

        2. Study Population

           Community participants both with and without alcohol use disorder and Inpatients with
           alcohol use disorder.

        3. Design

           In the first stage, participants will undergo functional magnetic resonance imaging
           while looking at socioemotional stimuli and alcohol cues and will pilot a neurofeedback
           training protocol. Personality traits and executive function will also be investigated.
           In the second stage, inpatient participants with alcohol use disorder will be randomly
           assigned to receive active or sham neurofeedback. Participants will undergo two
           functional magnetic resonance imaging sessions including looking at socioemotional
           stimuli and alcohol cues, resting state fMRI, and real time neurofeedback during alcohol
           craving. Ability to inhibit attention to alcohol cues and craving will be assessed prior
           to and following the neurofeedback as well. Participants will be contacted approximately
           1 month, 3 months, and 6 months post release from inpatient treatment to assess
           outcomes.

        4. Outcome

      The primary outcome of this study is to demonstrate that deficits in response modulation in
      the presence of alcohol cues drive socioemotional processing and negative drinking outcomes.
      The mechanism will be demonstrated through less socioemotional neural processing in alcohol
      cued compared to non-alcohol cued conditions, and through evidence that down regulation of
      alcohol cue salience reduces the alcohol cue effect on socioemotional processing.
    
  