
    
      This prospective single arm cohort study is to be conducted at the University of South
      Florida. The study will examine the effect minocycline (MC) has on the traits of Angelman
      Syndrome.

      Minocycline HCl is an FDA approved antimicrobial medication in the tetracycline family of
      drugs. Of all the tetracyclines, MC is the most lipid soluble and most active. Unlike other
      antibiotics in this family, MC possesses the unique characteristic of being able to cross the
      blood brain barrier. The study dosage has been used in other trial treatments of other
      neurologic disorders with positive outcomes. Studies of long-term administration of MC at the
      study dose have been shown to be safe and well tolerated. This dosage has already been
      approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of bacterial infections of multiple organ
      systems, and acne vulgaris.

      It is important to note that minocycline is not approved to treat Angelman syndrome or to be
      used in children younger than 8 years old. The study protocol has been reviewed by several
      physicians and scientists and been deemed safe to proceed. As with any medication the
      potential for side effects exist. The side effects range from serious to mild and include
      allergic reactions to upset stomach. In order to minimize this risk, the medical staff will
      perform a thorough medical history and physical examination before the prescription is issued
      to ensure no allergy to this medication, penicillin or another tetracycline exists.
      Discoloration of the teeth is potential adverse effect that exists when taking high doses of
      MC over long periods of time. The tooth discoloration is permanent and the parent or guardian
      of the participants will be made aware of this potential side effect prior to enrollment in
      the study. In other studies using MC, the most common complaint was gastrointestinal upset.

      Recruitment & Prescreening - We anticipate some of the study participants will live far from
      the study site. In order to reduce screen failures (travel to the site only to find out your
      child doesn't meet the study criteria) the following process is required. To give parents the
      opportunity to consider the study and have time to consult with their doctor(s), we will
      begin recruitment approximately one week after the study has been published on this website.
      Parents will be asked to submit their information electronically by clicking the link at the
      bottom of this webpage or by accessing weeberlab.com/clinical_trials.html. In the event they
      do not have internet access, they may call the study coordinator for assistance. Once you
      have indicated your interest in participation, a packet of information will be sent to you
      via email (or postal service if you prefer). The packet will include an informed consent
      document, a release of medical information and a form for your primary care doctor to
      complete and return directly to us. All of this information will be reviewed by the medical
      staff to determine your child's eligibility. Out of the first 50 eligible participants, 24
      will be randomly selected by the Clinical and Investigational Science Institute (CTSI) at
      USF.

      Study Procedure - Those selected will be required to travel to the study site a total of 3
      times for 2 days each at their own expense (some assistance may be available through the
      Foundation for Angelman Syndrome Therapeutics, visit www.cureangelman.org). It is important
      that you seriously consider your ability to complete the study. The number of participants we
      are allowed to enroll is strictly governed and funding is limited. It is imperative data is
      collected from each of the 24 participants to ensure the best possible results. We do not
      know if your child will benefit from receiving this medication, which is why we are doing
      this study.

      During the visits your child will be asked to provide a blood sample and undergo an
      electroencephalogram gram (EEG), physical examination as well as behavioral assessments.
      During the first visit, the study drug, minocycline, will be dispensed to you. You will be
      asked to administer the study drug to your child twice daily. You will also be asked to log
      the administration to confirm compliance with the study regimen. A telephone interview will
      be conducted with you after 4 weeks of treatment to assess drug tolerance and to record any
      changes you may have observed. The study medication will be discontinued after 8 weeks of
      treatment. At the same time point, you will have to return to the study site for a follow up
      visit identical to the primary visit. The final follow up visit will occur at the 16 week
      time point (8 weeks following the minocycline treatment). This visit will be identical to the
      first two visits and will assess the lasting effects of the medication. Below is a summary of
      the study procedures.

      Summary of Study Procedures:

        1. Recruitment Begins - Interested parents contact the study staff via the internet form.

        2. Prescreening packets are sent - Informed Consent Document, Health Information Release &
           Primary Care Physician (PCP) questionnaire

        3. Eligibility Determined for 30 potential participants

        4. Random Selection of 24 participants

        5. Baseline Testing - Informed Consent Obtained, Lab work and EEG performed History and
           Physical exam performed

        6. Enrollment - Study Neurologist confirms the participant meets the study criteria.

        7. Behavioral Assessment

        8. Minocycline Administration

        9. Telephone Interview (4 weeks)

       10. Discontinue Minocycline (8 weeks)

       11. Follow up Assessment (8 weeks)

       12. Telephone Interview (12 weeks)

       13. Final Follow up assessment (16 weeks)

      At the bottom of the page you will find a link to the weeberlab.com/clinical_trials.html
      website. There you will be able to submit your contact information.
    
  