
    
      This was an open-label, single oral dose,randomized sequence, three-way crossover study to
      compare the bioavailability, safety and tolerability of ondansetron 8 mg Orally Dissolving
      Filmstrip (ODFS) administered without (Test Treatment A) and with water (Test Treatment B)
      with that of Zofran Orally Dissolving Tablets (ODT®) containing ondansetron 8 mg administered
      without water (Reference Treatment C) in healthy adult participants. The 3 treatment
      sequences were: ABC, BCA, and CAB, in which, all treatments were administered after an
      overnight fasting of at least 10 hours in each period.

      Participants reported to the study site between 07:30 am to 04:30 pm on 22 Aug 2008, 25 Aug
      2008, and 28 Aug 2008 for Period 1, Period 2, & Period 3, respectively. Participants were
      served dinner between 8:00 pm to 8:30 pm, to ensure a minimum of 10 hours of fasting prior to
      administration of a single dose of either the test or reference product. Participants were
      dosed as per the randomization schedule with a 3-day wash out period between each
      administration.

      A total of 18 blood samples (4 mL each) were collected from each subject in each period for
      pharmacokinetic analyses. Safety assessments including monitoring of adverse events, periodic
      physical examination, and vital signs monitoring. Urine Drug Screening was done at the time
      of check-in of all the study periods to identify participants with any substance abuse. Urine
      pregnancy screen (for female subjects only) was scheduled at the time of screening and at
      admission for Period 1, Period 2, Period 3. A clinical assessment, which included general and
      systemic examination, was done at the pre-study screening and post study physical
      examination. Clinical laboratory hematology and chemistry tests were performed at screening
      (pre-study) and at the study follow-up visit (post-study).
    
  