
    
      This was a two-arm, randomized, double-blind, multi-center, international phase III study of
      dabrafenib in combination with trametinib versus two matching placebos in the adjuvant
      treatment of melanoma after surgical resection. Patients with completely resected,
      histologically confirmed, BRAF V600E/K mutation-positive, high-risk [Stage IIIa (lymph node
      metastasis >1 mm), IIIb or IIIc] cutaneous melanoma were screened for eligibility. Subjects
      were randomized to receive either dabrafenib (150 milligram (mg) twice daily [BID]) and
      trametinib (2 mg once daily [QD]). None of the patients had undergone previous systemic
      anticancer treatment or radiotherapy for melanoma. All the patients had undergone completion
      lymphadenectomy with no clinical or radiographic evidence of residual regional node disease
      within 12 weeks before randomization, had recovered from definitive surgery, and had an
      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 or 1. BRAF V600 mutation status
      was confirmed in primary-tumor or lymph-node tissue by a central reference laboratory. All
      the patients provided written informed consent.

      The primary end point was recurrence-free survival, Overall survival, as the key secondary
      end point, was to be tested in a hierarchical manner only if the primary end point met the
      criteria for significance. The overall survival analysis used a preplanned three-look
      Lan-DeMets group sequential design with an O'Brien-Fleming-type boundary, which was used to
      determine the significance threshold for the first interim overall survival analysis
      (two-sided P=0.000019).

      Disease assessments included clinical examination and imaging by means of computed
      tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or both.) Imaging was performed every 3 months during
      the first 24 months, then every 6 months until disease recurrence or the completion of the
      trial. Follow-up for survival began after recurrence and continued through the end of the
      trial. Adverse events and laboratory values were assessed at screening, on the date of
      randomization, at least once per month through month 12, and at every visit for
      disease-recurrence assessment after month 12. Adverse events and laboratory values were
      graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0.
    
  