
    
      Pelvic floor dysfunction is common and can include symptoms of urinary incontinence, fecal
      incontinence and prolapse. Studies suggest that pelvic floor dysfunction may affect up to 25%
      of women in the United States including 17.1% of women with moderate to severe urinary. While
      most causes of stress/stress predominant urinary incontinence and urge/urge predominant
      urinary incontinence are due to of poor pelvic floor musculature and abnormal neuromuscular
      control, the cause of these abnormalities is not known. Traumatic injuries to the pelvic
      area, such as in an accident, and complications from vaginal childbirth can contribute to
      this condition. Some cases are due to a learned behavior (repeated actions of straining).

      For most pelvic floor disorders, first line therapy involves behavioral modifications and
      pelvic floor physical therapy. Physical therapy has proven benefits for treatment of pelvic
      floor disorders and may improve symptoms in up to 70% of patients with any urinary
      incontinence (either OAB or SUI), and 60-70% patients with FI. Unfortunately, not all
      patients are able or willing to undergo treatment with pelvic floor physical therapy. During
      therapy, patients are undressed, and the therapist works internally palpating the muscles in
      the vagina and rectum to facilitate rehabilitation. Treatment with the BTL EMSELLA allows for
      similar rehabilitation of the pelvic floor while patients remain comfortably clothed.

      The use of magnetic stimulation to treat pelvic floor disorders has been studied previously.
      In one prospective cohort study of 91 women, treatment with weekly sessions of perineal
      magnetic stimulation was associated with improved quality of life and decreased urinary
      leakage episodes. Magnetic stimulation has also been shown to improve urodynamic parameters,
      both increasing the maximum urethral pressure for patients with stress incontinence, and
      increase bladder capacity for those with urgency incontinence. The BTL EMSELLA is a device
      cleared by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for entirely non-invasive electromagnetic
      stimulation of pelvic floor musculature for the purpose of rehabilitation of weak pelvic
      muscles and restoration of neuromuscular control for the treatment of male and female urinary
      incontinence. High intensity focused electromagnetic (HIFEM) technology induces deep pelvic
      floor muscle contractions designed to deliver the equivalent of 11,200 Kegel exercise over 28
      minutes, with the intention of increasing neuromuscular tone of the pelvic floor. This study
      will look at treatment of the two of the most common pelvic floor disorders: stress or stress
      predominant urinary incontinence and urge or urge predominant urinary incontinence.
    
  