
    
      Hypochondriasis or severe health anxiety is characterised by excessive, disproportionate and
      persistent thoughts, behaviour and emotion focused on physical symptoms and/or fear of
      developing a serious illness. There is often excessive worry about illness or disease in the
      absence of supporting medical evidence and contrary to continual medical reassurance.

      The most effective psychological treatments are cognitive and behavioural therapies (CBT).
      However, CBT has failed to demonstrate consistent gains in the treatment of this disorder.

      A newer form of psychological therapy, Metacognitive Therapy (MCT) has shown to be more
      effective than CBT in the treatment of anxiety disorders and depression. MCT is based on the
      principle that health anxiety is caused by a pattern of extended thinking, this pattern is
      called the Cognitive Attentional Syndrome (CAS). The CAS is made up of chains of verbal
      thought in the form of excessive worry about having an illness; a pattern of focusing
      attention on threat, such as scanning the body for signs of illness and excessive body
      checking; and coping strategies that have negative effects, such as internet searching for
      illnesses or trying to block out thoughts of illness. Rather than stopping negative thinking
      the CAS extends it and leads to the belief that illness is present. To help reduce these
      symptoms MCT teaches specific techniques that help people develop new ways of experiencing
      negative thoughts about illnesses, allow them to abandon worry and learn to disengage from
      unhelpful coping attempts.

      A recent small study has provided some limited evidence that metacognitive therapy (MCT) can
      be applied to cases of hypochondriasis and demonstrated that the therapy was associated with
      improvement in symptoms.

      To provide future evaluation of MCT in this client group a more definitive trial will be
      carried out to ascertain the effects of MCT in a larger group when compared to a control
      group.

      If the results are positive this will provide a rationale for a larger research study, which
      will compare MCT with evidence based treatment such as CBT.
    
  