
    
      Justification Various studies have demonstrated that phototherapy (laser or LED) is effective
      at enhancing skin wounds. The biological effects of both forms are similar and related to an
      increase in fibroblasts, the stimulation of angiogenesis, an increase in collagen synthesis,
      the formulation of granulation tissue and a reduction in inflammatory cells. Moreover, both
      forms of phototherapy increase the healed area in a shorter period of time, with LED
      demonstrating a late-onset effect on the healing process. In patients with partial foot
      amputation, this time is crucial for the fitting of the prosthetic and, consequently, the
      beginning of physical therapy and early locomotion. Diminishing the treatment time, with the
      patient observing a gradual progression in the healing process and experiencing a consequent
      increase in quality of life, could be a transforming factor to avoid the recurrence of ulcers
      and avoid further amputations.

      Hypothesis

      Alternative hypothesis: LED therapy is effective at potentiating the complete closure of
      ulcers in a shorter time following minor amputations in individuals with Diabetes mellitus.

      Hull hypothesis: LED therapy is not effective at potentiating the complete closure of ulcers
      in a shorter time following minor amputations in individuals with Diabetes mellitus.

      Methods A single-center, randomized, controlled, double-blind clinical trial with two
      parallel groups will be conducted in accordance with the criteria contained in the
      Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT statement).

      The sample will be composed of patients diagnosed with Diabetes mellitus in medical follow up
      at the vascular outpatient clinic of the Mandaqui Hospital Complex of São Paulo. Twenty
      patients will be analyzed in each group, as this is the estimate of surgical treatment for
      each vascular surgeon in a one-year period at the Mandaqui Hospital Complex.

      Randomization and formation of groups Patient allocation will be performed by a researcher
      with no contact with the patients or main researchers. Randomization will be conducted in
      blocks of four for the balanced distribution of the experimental groups. For such, a lottery
      of 40 numbers will be conducted using a free program available at
      http://www.randomization.com, version from March 29, 2013.

      Opaque envelopes will be identified with sequential numbers. A piece of paper containing
      information on the corresponding group determined through the randomization process (control
      or LED) will be placed into each envelope. The envelopes will remain sealed in numeric order
      in a secure location until the time of the treatments of the post-amputation ulcers. The
      researcher in charge of the randomization process and preparation of the envelopes will not
      be involved in any other aspect of the study.

      Immediately following surgery, the main researcher, who will be in the surgical ward, will
      open an envelope without altering the numeric sequence and will perform the procedure
      indicated (active LED + bandaging or placebo LED + bandaging). The 40 patients will be
      allocated to the experimental and control groups in an equal fashion.
    
  