
    
      IV ibuprofen (trade name Caldolor) is a novel therapeutic modality approved by the US Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) in June 2009 for the treatment of mild to moderate pain, as an
      adjunct to opioid analgesics, and for the reduction of fever. Ibuprofen is a non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), which produces its effect through inhibition of the enzyme
      cyclooxygenase (COX). There are at least 2 variations of cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and COX-2) and
      ibuprofen non-selectively inhibits both, thus decreasing prostaglandin synthesis. This action
      gives ibuprofen its analgesic, anti-pyretic, and anti-inflammatory properties. NSAIDs have an
      established history of efficacy in the treatment of both acute and chronic somatic pain.
      Caldolor, being an intravenous formulation, offers a distinct advantage in patients who
      either are unable to take medications orally or are fasting preoperatively.

      Post-procedure myalgia is a well-known and common complication of ECT. Although the exact
      etiology is unknown, the myalgias are believed to result from a combination of
      succinylcholine administration and the seizure activity induced by the ECT procedure itself.
      Succinylcholine-induced postoperative myalgias are a well-known phenomenon, initially
      described in the early 1950's. The exact pathogenesis is unknown, with muscle damage from
      succinylcholine-induced fasciculations or calcium-mediated phospholipase A2 activation and
      prostaglandin production being proposed as possible etiologies. The latter mechanism provides
      the rationale for using NSAID therapy. However, succinylcholine is unlikely to be the only
      factor involved in the development of myalgias following ECT, as a recent study showed that
      dose adjustments to succinylcholine did not affect rates of myalgia in these patients.
      Furthermore, seizures can also cause direct muscle injury and there have been reports of
      muscle pain after ECT both with and without succinylcholine.

      A thorough literature search using Medline, Ovid, and scholar.google failed to find any
      research articles evaluating pretreatment therapy for myalgias in post-ECT patients. The
      current practice for the treatment of myalgias following ECT has been extrapolated from
      research on succinylcholine-induced myalgia in post-surgical patients. Previous studies have
      shown at least partial efficacy with pretreatment of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking
      agents, benzodiazepines, sodium channel blockers (predominantly lidocaine), and nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs. The nature of the ECT procedure itself makes several of these
      modalities undesirable. Both Lidocaine and benzodiazepines can alter the seizure threshold
      and the short duration of the procedure possibly increases the risks associated with longer
      acting nondepolarizing muscle relaxants (ie. blurred vision, diplopia, difficulty breathing
      and swallowing). Therefore, the options for pretreatment are limited. In addition, a recent
      meta-analysis of randomized trials determined NSAIDs to cumulatively have the best efficacy
      of any pretreatment therapy in the prevention of post-procedural myalgias. Due to its
      intravenous formulation, some practitioners have administered ketorolac to ECT patients
      before the procedure. However, despite a proven efficacy in myalgia prevention shown by
      NSAIDs as a class, a study specifically examining the use of ketorolac in this regard failed
      to show any benefit. The use of Ibuprofen has yet to be examined.

      Myalgias are a serious concern of patients and occur in approximately 50% of these cases. The
      pain is usually described as muscle soreness, similar to that resulting from strenuous
      exercise. The myalgias typically begin shortly after the procedure, lasting approximately 2-7
      days in total. A recent study reported that 89% of patients considered prevention significant
      and would be willing to pay a median of $33 out of pocket to avoid this side effect. In
      addition to patient discomfort, myalgias can have a further financial burden if these
      patients are unable to return to work or resume previous daily activities in the days
      following the procedure. An agent that could treat and possibly even prevent these myalgias
      has the potential to be very beneficial to these patients.

      Experimental Plan:

      The study will be a prospective, randomized, double-blinded placebo-controlled clinical
      trial. The subject population will consist of patients undergoing first time
      electroconvulsive therapy, ranging in age from 18 to 80 years. Subjects will be given a
      Mini-Mental State Examination at the time of their presentation for ECT to assess their
      cognitive ability. If the patient consents and fits the inclusion criteria, patients will be
      randomized to one treatment modality, which they will receive for the first three treatment
      sessions. The subject and the person collecting the data will both be blinded as to what
      treatment modality the subject belongs to. The patients will be divided into two groups,
      Group 1 and Group 2. Group 1 will be treated with IV ibuprofen 800mg/8ml given over 30
      minutes, prior to induction for ECT; while Group 2 will receive an identically appearing
      placebo dose, also administered IV, over that same time period. Both groups will receive a
      standardized anesthetic consisting of methohexital at 1 mg/kg IV for induction and
      succinylcholine 1 mg/kg IV for muscle paralysis. Other medications (eg. anticholinergic or
      antihypertensive drugs) will be administered at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. ECT
      will be administered by the psychiatrist in order to achieve a seizure with a motor component
      of > 15 second duration. Patients will be transported to the recovery room for
      post-anesthesia care. Rescue analgesics (Tylenol 500mg PO, Tylenol with codeine 300/30mg PO,
      Fentanyl 25 mcg IV) will be available to any patient with complaints of myalgia or headache
      pain of VAS >4.

      Measurement Tools:

      Severity of myalgias will be assessed based on a self-reported assessment utilizing a
      numerical rating scale (NRS). The scale will be rated as 0 meaning no pain at all and 10
      meaning that pain is so severe as to interfere with daily activities.

      Questionnaire:

      Do you have any muscle aches or pain right now? If yes, how would you rate that muscle
      ache/pain on a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain and 10 being pain that is the worst
      imaginable?

      Example:

      0 = No pain 1-3 = Mild Pain (nagging, annoying, little interference with everyday activities)
      4-6 = Moderate Pain (interferes significantly with everyday activities) 7-10 = Severe Pain
      (unable to perform everyday activities) Have you had to take any medications to treat your
      muscle aches? If yes, what medication did you take? How many pills? What was the strength of
      the medication? Do you have a headache right now? If yes, how would you rate that headache on
      a scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain and 10 being pain that is the worst imaginable?

      Measurements:

      Each patient will have a self-reported numerical pain score assessed at baseline before
      therapy, 1 hour post-ECT, 6 hours post-ECT, 24 hours post-ECT, and finally at 48 hours
      post-ECT. The 6, 24 and 48 hour post-ECT assessments will be conducted via a telephone
      conversation. The use of rescue analgesics during recovery will also be documented as well as
      time from the end of procedure to discharge. The presence of headache will also be documented
      in each patient.
    
  