
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Vorinostat is designed to cause chemical changes in different groups of proteins that are
      attached to DNA (the genetic material of cells), which may slow the growth of cancer cells or
      cause the cancer cells to die.

      Cyclophosphamide is designed to interfere with the multiplication of cancer cells, which may
      slow or stop their growth. This may cause the cancer cells to die.

      Doxorubicin is designed to stop the growth of cancer cells, which may cause the cells to die.

      Vincristine is designed to interfere with the multiplication of cancer cells, which may slow
      or stop their growth. This may cause the cancer cells to die.

      Prednisone is designed to decrease inflammation by preventing white blood cells from
      completing an inflammatory reaction. This drug can cause lymphocytes, a type of white blood
      cell, to break apart and die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin to take vorinostat
      on the first day of treatment which is Day -1. Vorinostat capsules are taken by mouth, either
      3 times a day or 2 times a day, depending on what the study doctor thinks is in your best
      interest. If you are taking vorinostat 3 times a day, it should be taken in the morning,
      afternoon and evening. If you are taking vorinostat 2 times a day, you will take the capsules
      in the morning and evening. The capsules must be taken with food (within 30 minutes after a
      meal). You will receive the vorinostat capsules on the first day of each cycle. You will also
      receive instructions on how to take the drug. You should return any unused vorinostat
      capsules back to study staff at the end of each cycle. You will take vorinostat for 5 days
      (Days -1 through 3) of each cycle and then beginning on Day 1, cyclophosphamide, vincristine,
      and doxorubicin will be given though a needle in your vein. This will happen for each 21-day
      study cycle. Cyclophosphamide is given over 1 hour. Vincristine is given over 15 minutes.
      Doxorubicin is also given over 15 minutes.

      The starting dose of vorinostat may change On Days 1-5 of each cycle, you will take
      prednisone tablets by mouth.

      If you begin to experience severe or intolerable side effects, the study drug schedule may be
      stopped for up to 3 weeks. If the side effects improve, you may be able to receive the study
      drugs again, with either a lower dose of vorinostat or if you are taking vorinostat three
      times daily, you may take it twice a day instead. The chemotherapy drugs (cyclophosphamide,
      doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone) may also be lowered depending on what side effects
      are being experienced. If you continue to have severe or intolerable side effects with the
      lower dose of vorinostat and chemotherapy, you will taken off study.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of all cycles, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded, including any drugs that you are taking.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  Blood (about 5 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 2 you will have an ECG.

      On or before Day 1 of Cycle 3 the following tests and procedures will be performed if your
      doctor thinks necessary:

        -  You will have CT and/or PET scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  You may have a bone marrow aspirate and/or biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You will receive the study drugs for up to 6 cycles. You may be taken off study early if the
      disease gets worse or if severe or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      If you go off study treatment for any reason, you will have an end-of-study visit within 4
      weeks after your last dose of study drugs or before starting a new treatment. At this visit,
      the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced.

        -  Blood (about 5 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have CT scans and PET scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you had skin lesions when you began the study, the skin lesions will be photographed.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have bone marrow biopsy and/or aspirate.

      Follow-up Visits:

      After you are off study treatment, you will have follow-up visits. You will go to these
      visits every 3 months for the1st year, every 4 months for the 2nd and 3rd years, and every 6
      months for the 4th and 5th years. After this, you will return 1 time each year unless the
      lymphoma returns. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced.

        -  Blood (about 5 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have CT scans and PET scans to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you had skin lesions when you began the study, the skin lesions will be photographed.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have bone marrow biopsy and/or aspirate.

      This is an investigational study. Vorinostat is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma that has not come back or not responded to prior
      therapy. CHOP is currently FDA approved for treatment of patients with NHL. The use of
      vorinostat in combination with CHOP in patients with T-cell NHL is investigational.

      Up to 52 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  