
    
      Drugs that suppress the immune system, such as sirolimus and tacrolimus, have contributed to
      increased success of transplantation. However, to prevent organ rejection, transplant
      recipients need to take immunosuppressive drugs for the rest of their lives, and these drugs
      make patients more susceptible to infection, endangering their health and survival. Regimens
      that are less toxic to or can eventually be withdrawn from transplant recipients are needed.
      Alemtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to and depletes excess T cells in the bone
      marrow of leukemia patients. This study will determine the effects of intravenous alemtuzumab
      and oral sirolimus and tacrolimus after kidney transplantation. The study will also evaluate
      this regimen's potential to allow eventual discontinuation of components of long-term
      immunosuppressive therapy.

      This study will last up to 4 years. Participants will undergo kidney transplantation on Day 0
      and will receive intravenous doses of alemtuzumab, acetaminophen, and diphenhydramine on Days
      0, 1, and 2, as well as methylprednisolone on Day 0. After transplant, patients will receive
      up to 10 days of valganciclovir or acyclovir. Participants will take tacrolimus daily by
      mouth for at least 60 days after transplant and sirolimus daily by mouth for at least 12
      months after transplant. As part of opportunistic infection (OI) prophylaxis, participants
      will also take sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim by mouth 3 times a week, valganciclovir or
      acyclovir for up to 10 days post-transplant, and clotrimazole or nystatin by mouth for at
      least 3 months post-transplant.

      There will be a minimum of 62 study visits spread out over 4 years after transplant. Vital
      signs measurement, adverse event and OI reporting, medication history, physical exam, and
      blood collection will occur at selected visits. Sirolimus withdrawal will begin when a
      participant meets certain study criteria. The withdrawal process will occur over a minimum of
      3 months at an approximate rate of 33% of the pre-withdrawal dose per month. Participants
      eligible for sirolimus withdrawal will undergo several kidney biopsies, including one 2 weeks
      prior to the start of withdrawal, 6 and 12 months after completion of withdrawal, 1 year
      after study enrollment, and annually thereafter.
    
  