
    
      Certain patients report that they are able to modulate the loudness or pitch of their
      tinnitus temporarily through various means, including attention re-direction or somatosensory
      mechanisms such as oral facial movements or head turn. This subset of patients may represent
      a unique opportunity for the researcher to gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for
      tinnitus.

      Neural activity in the brain has been linked to increases in blood flow and blood
      oxygenation. These changes in the concentration of oxyhemoglobin versus deoxyhemoglobin alter
      the magnetic resonance signal of blood which may then be detected using an appropriate MR
      pulse sequence as blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) contrast. In addition to increases in
      blood flow due to evoked neural activity, the brain exhibits continuous low frequency
      spontaneous activity. These fluctuations tend to be synchronous in functionally related, but
      spatially distinct, regions of the brain even when not performing a prescribed task. The
      phrase functional connectivity has been used to implicate the neural activity that
      facilitates the coordinated activity of functionally related brain regions.

      This study will use functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging (fcMRI) to measure the
      network of synchronous brain activity in patients with tinnitus. Several targeted networks
      are those linked to the auditory system, attention, and control systems and the emotion
      systems linked to prefrontal cortex. Previously, functional MRI (fMRI) used changes in blood
      flow and blood oxygenation within the brain to detect which isolated regions of the brain
      were active during a task. The goal of functional connectivity research is to describe a
      pattern of interactions or a picture of the connectivity that occurs within distinct regions
      of the brain when the individual is not involved in a task.
    
  