
    
      Excessive alcohol consumption is a worldwide major public health problem. Persons who drink
      more than 2-3 drinks per day are at risk for numerous medical, psychological and social
      problems. Brief interventions have shown to be an efficient treatment modality for problem
      drinkers in settings such as primary care, emergencies or psychiatric hospitals by numerous
      randomized studies. Brief intervention consists typically in a brief assessment, giving
      patients personal feedback, dealing with resistance and ambivalence, establishing a goal of
      reduced alcohol use, and giving a workbook; reinforcement visits or calls are included. Brief
      interventions seem to be particularly effective in patients with alcohol problem without
      dependence.

      Screening for alcohol problem is best done using standardized questionnaires, as the Alcohol
      Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT), developed by WHO and translated in many languages.
      The AUDIT allows distinguishing between normal alcohol use, harmful or at risk use and
      dependence and is easy to use.

      No study on brief intervention has been conducted in scheduled surgery. This seems to be a
      promising situation, since there is first a visit with the anaesthetist, during which
      screening for alcohol problem should occur, then a hospitalisation, during which the
      intervention could be made. It is possible that patients are more concerned by their health
      when they come to hospital for a surgery.

      The aim of this controlled, randomized study is to test the hypothesis that a brief
      intervention, consisting in a visit with a trained nurse, followed by a telephone call three
      months later, in patients with at risk or harmful alcohol use, undergoing a scheduled
      surgery, could be efficient to promote the decrease of alcohol consumption.

      Patients will be screened during the visit with the anaesthetist with AUDIT. Patients with
      AUDIT between 7 and 12 will be proposed to enter the study, and randomised between Brief
      Intervention and no intervention. A research technician will interview patients 12 months
      after the surgery, with assessment of the AUDIT and alcohol consumption. CDT and GGT will be
      measured prior to surgery, then at 12 months after surgery.
    
  