
    
      This study includes the following activities:

        1. Screening:

           Phase I: It will be conducted online. Respondents to recruitment solicitations will be
           provided an online Uniform Resource Locator (URL) with a hyperlink to a study flier that
           describes the essential elements of the study. It will also include a choice of URL or
           Quick Response (QR) code to access an online survey that will provide more details about
           the study. The research staff will also ask preliminary questions about eligibility
           (age, height and weight to calculate BMI), and consent to have the research team review
           the participant's answers.

           Phase II: It will be conducted online. After completing an online consent, the
           participants will provide personal information in the Sociodemographic and Lifestyle
           Questionnaire and health and medical conditions in the General Health History
           questionnaire as well as the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D)
           and the Eating Habits Checklist to screen for eating disorders.

           Run-in period: To minimize attrition and ensure that potential subjects are appropriate
           for the intervention, research staff will teach all eligible individuals how to download
           and complete a 5-day Self-Monitoring diary using the My Food Diary (Fitbit)
           Self-Monitoring program on the participant's phone or computer. After review of the
           diary, research staff will contact the potential participant to schedule the baseline
           assessment. Individuals need to record at least 700 kcal/day of food intake to be
           eligible for the study. Each user will have a username and password and also have the
           ability to manage the participant's own privacy settings.

           Baseline Assessment: Individuals who remain eligible will be invited to a screening
           appointment where the investigators measure the participant's height/weight for BMI, and
           explain the aims of the study and the 2 group conditions. If interested in
           participating, attendees will be asked to sign a consent form for the baseline data
           collection. At this visit, the participants will be asked to complete the Barriers to
           Healthy Eating scale; Weight Efficacy Lifestyle (WLE); Self-Efficacy and Eating Habits
           Survey; Self-Efficacy and Exercise Habits Survey; Self-Regulation of Eating Behavior
           Questionnaire; a one-page questionnaire (Quick WAVE140) that assesses current diet and
           PA habits, PROMIS Sleep Disturbance Short Form 8a; Effort-Reward Imbalance
           questionnaire; and ASA-24 Dietary Recall (two different days) . At the end of the
           baseline assessment, participants will be scheduled for a One-on-One session with a
           master's prepared registered dietician who will conduct an interview WAVE screener and
           provide counseling regarding lifestyle habits that support weight loss.

        2. Randomization:

           At the One-on-One session, the research staff will use a computer software program on a
           laptop to determine to which group the individual will be randomized. (Prior to this
           time, the randomization scheme will be implemented via a computerized program (Visual
           Basic 6.0) using minimization method, which will be overseen by a statistician (Co-PI: S
           Sereika). Each of the 2 conditions (Self-Monitoring alone or Self-Monitoring plus
           Feedback) will be assigned a total of 265 subjects with randomization stratified by
           gender and race. After randomization, all participants will receive instructions on
           using the Fitbit Charge 2™ for physical activity and the Withings or Fitbit scale for
           self-weighing.

        3. Intervention:

           The intervention will consist of the Self-Monitoring and Feedback program and remote
           guidance to a lifestyle program for weight loss. All participants will be subscribed to
           My Food Diary an online Self-Monitoring program that can be accessed via the
           participant's smartphone or any computer. The interventionists will have access to the
           diaries so the study staff can contact a participant if there is any safety concern
           about the reported eating behaviors. The study will provide all participants a
           wrist-worn FitBit Charge 2™ to self-monitor the participant's physical activity which
           synchs with the participant's phone or computer. The study will also provide all
           participants a Bluetooth-enabled scale (Withings or Fitbit) for self-monitoring the
           participant's weight. The Withings scale will transmit the weight values to the
           smartphone, Health Mate app and server, so the research team will know the weight status
           of participants. The Fitbit scale will transmit weights to the Fitbit server and then to
           the participant's phone so that study staff can monitor weight. The subject registers as
           the primary scale user and is subsequently recognized and distinguished from other
           household users. The scale displays the weight accurately to the 10th decimal. The data
           are converted to graphs for easy review. Batteries have a 6-12 month life. The scale
           measures weights between 5 and 180 kg. Participants will weigh themselves with the
           device daily; participants will be able to view the participant's weight data on the
           participant's smartphone. The Fitbit will provide data on daily steps and distance
           walked, which will be used to inform the selection of message that the investigators
           will provide participants in the Self-Monitoring plus Feedback group feedback messages
           related to physical activity. The data that will be transmitted between the Fitbit and
           Pitt servers will not contain any identifying personal information nor will Fitbit store
           any identifying information for the participants.

           Self-Monitoring group (Control Group): Individuals in this condition will not receive
           Feedback messages. All subjects will use a smartphone to self-monitor diet (My Food
           Diary), Fitbit Charge 2™ to monitor PA, and a Withings/Fitbit digital scale for weight.
           The Fitbit app is publically available. At the baseline visit following randomization,
           participants will be oriented to Self-Monitoring and the various Self-Monitoring devices
           and apps, and provided a tutorial with images shown on the laptop and devices as well as
           printed materials showing the screen shots. At this baseline session, each participant
           will have a one-on-one session with the project interventionist which covers the core
           principles of behavioral weight loss to ensure all understand basic recommendations for
           safe and effective weight loss. The participants also will be given personalized fat,
           calorie, and physical activity goals for weight loss and information about how to access
           the intervention materials from the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) online which is
           publicly available (https://www.diabetesprevention.pitt.edu/).

           Self-Monitoring+Feedback (Intervention Group)-This group will receive up to 4 Feedback
           messages per day (messages will be delivered between the hours set by the participants
           on the participant's phone, e.g., 8 AM and 9:30 PM). Messages will be delivered
           automatically, remotely and in real-time. it will be tailored to each participant's
           progress based on standardized algorithms. At the baseline visit following
           randomization, participants will be oriented to Self-Monitoring and the various
           Self-Monitoring devices and apps, and provided a tutorial with images shown on the
           laptop and devices as well as printed materials showing the screen shots. In addition,
           the Feedback program will be explained to them and how this is responsive to information
           entered on the Self-Monitoring diaries. Also, the participants will be given a brief
           handout on fat, calorie, physical activity and weight goals for weight loss and
           information about how to access the intervention materials from the Diabetes Prevention
           Program (DPP) online.

           The research team is able to review the Self-Monitoring data, and will check the data
           weekly. If any indication of rapid weight loss or periods of inactivity occur, research
           staff will contact the subject.

        4. Measurements used in Study: At Phase I and II Screening: Medical and Weight History
           Form, Sociodemographic Form, Binge Eating Scale (Eating Habits Checklist), Center for
           Epidemiologic Studies Depression (CES-D); At baseline, 6 and 12 months: Weight (Withings
           or Fitbit scale, smartphone), blood pressure, waist circumference, Self-Regulation of
           Eating Behavior Questionnaire (SREBQ), Barriers to Healthy Eating (BHE), Weight Efficacy
           Lifestyle (WEL), Self- Efficacy and Eating Habits Survey, Self-Efficacy and Exercise
           Habits Survey, Quick WAVE Screener Questionnaire, PROMIS Sleep Disturbance,
           Effort-Reward Imbalance Questionnaire, diet (24-Hour Dietary Recall & smartphone), PA
           (The FitBit Charge 2™, smartphone), Intervention Satisfaction Questionnaire (at 12
           months only).
    
  