
    
      Chronic wounds and their associated care are a burden to patients and health care systems
      worldwide. Microbiological testing of wound samples is often used to identify and quantify
      bacterial species, the latter of which may be both an objective quantitative indicator of
      infection and a predictive correlate of healing. Microbiology reports contain useful
      information about microbial identities, antibiotic susceptibility, and semi-quantitative
      bacterial growth rates, but these data typically represent the bacterial load in the wound
      centre only, and often arrive 3-5 days later. There is an unmet clinical need to improve the
      microbiological sampling and treatment of wound infections. To address this need, we
      developed a handheld portable imaging device that obtains white light (WL) and fluorescence
      (FL) images (or video) of normal skin and wounds in high-resolution and in real-time, which
      can be used at the point-of-care. It was demonstrated in previous studies that the device1)
      provides image-guidance for tissue sampling, detecting clinically-significant levels of
      pathogenic bacteria and wound infection otherwise overlooked by conventional sampling and 2)
      provides image-guidance for wound treatment, accelerating wound closure compared with
      conventional therapies and quantitatively tracking long-term changes in bacterial bioburden
      and distribution in wounds.

      The current trial aims to compare the assessment of diabetic foot ulcers by fluorescence
      image guidance to standard practice. The device will be used to acquire fluorescence images
      of diabetic foot ulcers: when wounds are illuminated by violet/blue light, most pathogenic
      bacterial species emit a unique red fluorescence signal. The device is intended to be used as
      part of the clinical assessment process, which may include visual assessment, signs of heat
      or high temperature, the presence of exudate, and redness in the area. Images will guide the
      clinician to inspect, sample or further evaluate areas where fluorescing bacteria is present.
      This study will allow us to determine the benefit of fluorescence image-guided procedure as
      compared to standard clinical practice to assess bacterial burden in diabetic foot ulcers.
      Microbiological swabbing under standard practice and fluoresce-guided imaging will be
      performed in order to compare the two techniques.
    
  