
    
      EXPERIMENTAL PLAN AND COURSE OF STUDY This is a prospective non-randomized non-interventional
      multicenter study including the respect of a quality charter and involving a prospective
      registration of clinical and histological data to test the hypothesis of a proportion of
      false negative rate (=rate of metastatic SN) of 5% +/- 5% within the population at low risk
      by the combined use of the MSKCC nomogram and Tenon score. No modification therapy will be
      conducted because the scores will not be provided to operators.

      6.1 Conduct of the study 6.1.1 Before and during surgery Every surgeon agreeing to
      participate in the study - and thus to respect the quality charter - will make the inclusion
      of his eligible patients with an e-CRF which will generate automatically a number of
      anonymity. A form of inclusion specifying the number of anonymity of the patient, the
      initials of the name and the first name as well as the date of birth of the patient will be
      send back by e-mail by the study coordinator and clinical study technician (CST) of the
      URC-Est. The surgeon will have at his disposal 60 boards of labels of anonymity elaborated by
      the CST of the URC-Est corresponding to 30 patients (2 boards of labels by patient). The
      resupplying of labels will be managed by the CST.

      A label will contain i) the number of anonymity, ii) the address and phone number of the
      surgeon, iii) the address and phone number of the pathology laboratory, iv) the address and
      phone number of the study coordinator including fax number where pathological results should
      be send.

      During the first intervention, the surgeon will send the histological specimen (i.e.
      lumpectomy or mastectomy, SN, and possibly non-SN in case the ALND is completed during the
      first surgical procedure with a board of labels of anonymity.

      In case of additional surgical procedure to complete ALND, the histological specimen (i.e.
      non-SN) will be sent to the pathology laboratory with the second board of label of anonymity
      corresponding to this patient.

      The laboratory of pathology will have to label with anonymity labels all histological reports
      that should be sent to the study coordinator. To eventually calculate combined prediction
      (MSKCC nomogram and Tenon score) and ensure respect of the quality charter, specific data
      must appear in the pathology report:

        -  Clinical information: age of the patient, the location of the primitive tumor (upper
           outer quadrant, SUPERO-medial, INFERO-lateral, INFERO-internal retroareolar or other),
           palpable tumor or not, the results of histological or cytological diagnosis performed
           preoperatively.

        -  Regarding the number of lumpectomy: size of invasive cancer (largest diameter),
           histologic type, associated intra ductal carcinoma (type and percentage), existence of
           vascular or lymphatic emboli, estrogen receptor status, progesterone receptor status,
           HER-2-neu status, SCAFF and Bloom-Richardson grade or equivalent, if realized, the level
           of expression of antigen Ki 67; regarding sentinel lymph nodes: number of SN harvested ;
           for each metastatic SN: type of metastasis: macrometastasis, micrometastasis, isolated
           cells, method of intraoperative diagnosis of metastasis (if performed): frozen section,
           cytology, RT-PCR. Final pathologic exam: routine H&E, serial sectioning H&E, IHC.
           Regarding non-sentinel lymph nodes: number of non-SN

        -  number of metastatic non-SN, postoperative TNM. 6.1.2 Collection of histological results
           from the pathology laboratories The study data will be informed through pathology
           reports. Ten weeks after receiving the e-CRF, the CST of the URC-EST under the
           responsibility of the study coordinator will contact the pathology laboratory. The
           latter will label with anonymity labels all histology reports corresponding to the first
           and possibly, if an additional ALND has further been done, and will fax reports to the
           study coordinator(fax number on the label).

      6.2 Procedure to calculate the risk of non-SN involvement A calculation of the probability of
      metastatic non-SN using the MSKCC nomogram and the the Tenon score will be performed for all
      patients. Calculations will be implemented under the responsibility of coordinating doctor.

      The result of these calculations will not be communicated to surgeons. 6.2.1 Calculating the
      score of Tenon

        -  Variable 1: Existence of macrometastasis in a non-SN: if macrometastases, 2 points are
           assigned, 0 otherwise.

        -  Variable 2: histological size of invasive tumor: 3 points if the tumor is greater than
           20 mm, 1.5 points if the size is in 10 and 20 mm and 0 points if less than 10 mm.

        -  Variable 3: Ratio between the number of metastatic SN (whatever the type of metastasis
           (macrometastasis, micrometastasis or isolated tumor cells)) and the number of SN
           harvested: 2 points if the ratio is 1; 1 point if between 0.5 and 1, and 0 points if
           less than 0.5.

      The scores for the 3 variables are then added together to calculate the score of Tenon.

      6.2.2 Calculation of risk by the MSKCC nomogram This calculation involves 8 variables: 1)
      histological type associated with SBR grade (infiltrating ductal carcinoma grade 1, grade 2,
      grade 3 and invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC)), 2) the existence of a LYMPHO-vascular invasion
      (LVI) (yes, no), 3) the multifocal nature of the tumor (yes, no), 4) status of estrogen
      receptor (present, absent), 4) the number of non-metastatic SN (0 to 14), 5) the number of
      metastatic SN (from 1 to 7), 6) the size of the tumor (from 0 to 9 cm), 7) method of
      detecting metastases in the SN. For the latter, there are 2 different situations: when using
      the technique CRYOCONGELATION, 4 items were proposed (CRYOCONGELATION analysis, analysis by
      H&E : routine H&E and serial sectioning H&E, and IHC), and in the absence of use of
      technology by cryocongelation only 3 items were proposed (analysis by H&E : routine H&E and
      serial sectioning H&E, and IHC).

        1. The calculation must be done using the calculator developed by the authors and easily
           accessible on the website http://www.mskcc.org/MSKCC/htlm/5794.cfm.

             -  First Row "Performed Frozen Section. The item must be checked if the pathologist
                has performed frozen section intra-operatively. Otherwise, the item must not be
                checked.

             -  Second line "Pathological size (cm)" must refer the histological size of the
                largest tumor diameter in centimeters.

             -  Third line "Tumor type and grade": you must select the corresponding item from the
                4 items offered: ductal I (for infiltrating ductal carcinoma (TCC) grade 1), ductal
                II (for TCC grade 2), ductal III (for TCC grade 3) and lobular (for infiltrating
                lobular carcinoma).

             -  Fourth line "Number of Positive Sentinel Lymph Nodes" must report the number of
                metastatic SN, whatever the type of flooding (by macrometastasis a micrometastasis
                or isolated cells).

             -  Fifth line "SN Method of Detection": you must select the item. Two scenarios:

                  1. In the first line item "Frozen Section Performed" was checked: 4 item are then
                     offered: Frozen (if the metastasis was diagnosed at the frozen section).
                     However, this scenario can not produce it because in this case, the patient
                     has received ALND in the same operation as the procedure of SN; Routine (if
                     the metastasis was diagnosed by analyzing routine H&E), Serial (if the
                     metastasis was diagnosed after serial sectioning in H&E), IHC (if the
                     metastasis was diagnosed by IHC)

                  2. the first line item "Frozen Section Performed" was not checked: 3 item are
                     then proposed: Routine (if the metastasis was diagnosed by analyzing routine
                     H&E), Serial (if the metastasis was diagnosed after serial sectioning in H&E),
                     IHC (if the metastasis was diagnosed by IHC).

             -  Sixth row "Number of Negative Sentinel Lymph Nodes': the number of non-metastatic
                SN.

             -  Seventh row "Lymphovascular Invasion." The item must be checked in case of
                lymphatic or vascular emboli.

             -  Eighth row "Multifocality. The item must be checked in case of multifocality.

             -  Ninth Line "Estrogen Receptor Positive". The item must be checked if the tumor
                estrogen receptors.

        2. The use of the nomogram (defined as the graphical representation of the model) is not
           recommended because the calculation is less precise than the web interface.

      6.2.3 Risk calculation combining the MSKCC nomogram and the Tenon score

        -  Group at low risk of metastatic non-SN: probability with the MSKCC nomogram of ≤ 10% and
           a score of Tenon ≤ 3.5.

        -  Group at risk of metastatic non-SN: probability with the MSKCC nomogram of > 10% and/or
           Tenon score > 3.5.

      6.3 Monitoring of patients included in the study The study evaluates the combined use of two
      predictors at baseline. It does not require monitoring. However, all patients will be
      monitored regularly for any breast cancer and adjuvant treatment of breast cancer will remain
      unchanged by this study.

      6.4 Total time of research The recruitment and the opening of study centers is planned over a
      period of 6 months. Inclusion of patients is planned over a period of 18 months. The total
      duration of the study is 24 months.
    
  