
    
      The investigators propose to carry out three Specific Aims:

        1. Determine whether markers of ovarian age/aging are associated with increased CVD risk.

           Specifically, the investigators propose to assess whether:

             1. Ovarian age predicts CVD risk (measured by peripheral endothelial function testing)
                independent of chronological age.

             2. The rate of ovarian aging is independently associated with increased CVD risk after
                adjustment for ovarian and chronological age.

        2. Determine whether ovarian aging may moderate or mediate established associations between
           race/ethnicity and CVD risk and socio/emotional health and CVD risk. Specifically, the
           investigators propose to:

             1. Examine whether observed race/ethnic disparities in CVD risk (measured by
                peripheral endothelial function testing) may vary by (moderation model) or be
                partially attributable to (mediation model) ovarian aging.

             2. Examine whether effects of socio/emotional health (as indexed by separate
                composites of psychosocial functioning and socioeconomic status) on CVD risk may
                vary by (moderation model) or be partially attributable to (mediation model)
                ovarian aging.

        3. Determine if similar mechanisms of cellular aging underlie both ovarian aging and CVD
           risk. Temporal appearance of indices of cellular aging, ovarian aging and CVD risk would
           support our primary hypothesis. Specifically, we propose to determine whether telomere
           and mtDNA in peripheral leukocytes, oxidative stress (plasma F2-isoprostanes), and
           indices of inflammation (C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, and soluble intercellular
           adhesion molecule-1) correlate with both ovarian aging and CVD risk, and the temporal
           pattern of appearance.
    
  