
    
      Cervical carcinoma (CC) is one of the most common cancers in women from countries with
      emerging economies; in Mexico, CC has the second highest incidence and mortality rate.
      Several studies have demonstrated that the most important prognostic factor is lymph node
      metastasis in early-stage CC patients prior to radical hysterectomy (RH) with bilateral
      pelvic lymphadenectomy (BPL), in which positive lymph node metastasis decreasing overall
      survival (OS) from 80% to 53% at 5 years.

      MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are single-strand RNAs comprising approximately 21-23 nucleotides. miRNAs
      regulate gene expression through the inhibition of posttranscriptional events and, in some
      cases, induce the degradation of their target messenger RNA. In cancer, miRNAs can function
      as both oncogenes and/or as tumor suppressor genes depending on the function of their target
      genes.

      Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue blocks from CC patients diagnosed between
      January 2006 and December 2013 at the Department of Oncologic Gynecology of the National
      Cancer Institute (Mexico City) were analyzed with the intention of selecting those with a
      confirmed histopathological diagnosis of stages IB1 or IIA1 CC treated with RH and BPL. Total
      RNA was extracted from 5 (10-µm) sections for selected tissues.For the clinical correlation
      analysis, the samples were divided into 2 groups: 1 with positive occult lymph node
      metastasis pathology and 1 without lymph node metastasis pathology. For both groups, patients
      were matched for age, tumor size and presence of lymphovascular permeation.

      The identification of global miRNA profiles was performed using GeneChip miRNA 3.0 Array
      (Affymetrix, Cat. 902018) following the manufacturer's instructions. the microarray was
      hybridized and washed using the Affymetrix Fluidics Station 450 and scanned with the
      Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner 3000. After processing the images, the raw data were processed.
      To obtain the miRNA profile, the processed samples were divided into 2 groups, samples with
      lymph node metastasis and samples without lymph node metastasis. Differentially expressed
      miRNAs were identified using a cutoff value of p <0.01 and a fold change (FC) of 1.5. miRNAs
      that met these criteria were classified as over-expressed or under-expressed.
    
  