
    
      Low back pain (LBP) ranks among the first diseases in term of years lived with disability,
      which is mostly explained by the development of recurrent or chronic pain. A systematic
      review observed that 62% of patients still have pain 12 months after onset (recurrent and
      chronic) while another estimated that between 2% and 34% of acute cases will develop chronic
      LBP. These rates highlight the need to identify the best therapeutic approaches at the acute
      stage to prevent transition to chronicity and high recurrence. The latest Clinical Guideline
      from the American College of Physicians for acute LBP recommends to select "nonpharmacologic
      treatment with superficial heat, massage, acupuncture or spinal manipulation". The
      application of superficial heat ("thermal therapy") presented the strongest evidence
      (moderate) for short-term reduction in pain. Four randomized controlled trials (RCT) that
      tested the effect of a wearable heatwrap (the most studied form of thermal therapy in acute
      LBP) reported a reduction in pain and disability up to 2 days after cessation of the
      intervention: an effect superior to Ibuprofen, Acetaminophen or oral placebo. Heatwrap may
      provide enough pain relief in the acute phase to remain active, which is recommended to
      prevent the development of chronicity. One RCT showed that the addition of a heatwrap to
      exercise provided greater short-term improvement in pain/disability than exercise alone.
      Although some authors suggest that an increase in physical activity level may explain such an
      effect, this assumption has not been tested yet.

      Hence, the main objective of this RCT is to determine the immediate, short-, middle- and
      long-term effect of continuous low-level thermal therapy in combination or not with exercises
      on pain, disability, and physical activity level in people with acute LBP.

      Project hypothesis : The Thermal care + Exercises group will show greater improvement in
      pain, disability and physical activity level than both Thermal care and Control groups for
      immediate, short-, middle- and long-term follow-ups.

      Participants: Individuals with acute LBP will be included according to the mentioned
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. They will be recruited from medical and through the electronic
      mailing list of Université Laval (> 52,000 individuals). The list of participants of the
      Quebec Low Back Pain Study (QLBPS Core Dataset, funded by the QPRN) will also be used - all
      participants in the Quebec City area recruited for the QLBPS Core Dataset will be referred
      for the present project.

      Study Design: This study will include six assessments over 6 months : baseline pre, 1-hour
      post, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months. At the baseline evaluation (baseline pre),
      participants will complete self-administered questionnaires on symptoms and disability
      (Numerical scale for pain, Oswestry Disability Index - ODI, Global Rating of Change - GRC),
      on pain-related fear (Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia - TSK) and on pain-related self-efficacy
      (Chronic Disease Self-Efficacy Scale short version - CDSES-6). Finally, participants will be
      randomly assigned to one of three intervention programs: 1) Thermal care group, 2) Thermal
      care + Exercises group, and 3) Control group. Immediately after group assignment (same
      session), participants will meet a physical therapist (PT) to review their assigned program
      (60-minutes meeting), during which a ThermaCare® Heat wrap or a sham wrap will be applied by
      the PT. In Thermal Care + Exercises group, an exercise program will be taught by the PT then
      performed by participants. General advices on the management of acute LBP will be given to
      all participants. Thereafter, the immediate effect of thermal therapy on pain will be
      evaluated (1-hour post-intervention assesment).

      After the baseline evaluation and PT session, participants will perform their assigned 7-day
      intervention program. Every day, they will complete a logbook related to their pain level
      during the previous day and to their adherence to their program. In addition, participants
      will wear a fitness wristband to track physical activity level for 7 days (number of steps
      per day). Then, pain, ODI, GRC, TSK and CDSES-6 will be assessed at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months
      and 6 months after baseline to determine short-, middle-, and long-term effect of
      interventions.

      Randomisation: a list will be generated using a computer random number generator by an
      independent research assistant (allocation concealed in sealed and opaque envelopes).

      Sample size & Statistical analyses: Based on sample size calculation, calculated for the
      primary outcome (ODI) and previous data from the project investigators group (n=50 with acute
      LBP), 20 participants are required per group (G*Power 3.1.7; effect size: 0.80, α = 0.05, β =
      0.80, mean baseline ODI of 44.0 +/- 13.5, lost at follow-up = 10%). Thus, 60 participants
      with acute LBP will be recruited.

      To determine the effect of interventions, two-way ANOVA (Group x Time) will be performed
      (after confirming normality and homogeneity of variance). Bonferroni adjustments for multiple
      comparisons will be used (posthoc), and effect sizes will be reported (η2).
    
  