
    
      Physiological coronary lesion evaluation is actually a routine practice in the labs to guide
      percutaneous coronary intervention decision making. Unlike FFR, the new index permit us to
      perform an analysis of the physiological importance of every lesion and every coronary
      segment. This fact has allowed to create a new specific software. Syncvision show us the
      functional compromise of every lesion and predict the expected IFR improvement.

      This potential benefit could have an extra benefit in the reduction of the implanted stent
      length. There are some observational study published that reported a reduction of 5 mm of
      stent length, but we think that the reduction could be significantly higher.

      However, this reduction could be detrimental of the complete cover of plaque in this type of
      lesion, which has also proved to be a predictor of MACEs.

      For this reason, we have proposed to perform a randomized study to define if the utilization
      of physiological IFR pullback evaluation in long and/or diffuse coronary lesion present
      advantages over classical angiographic PCI.

      Study hyphotesis:

      Revascularization guided by IFR-Pullback in long and/or diffuse coronary lesions permit to
      reduce the stent length implanted, with the potential benefit in terms of MACEs reduction.

      Study design:

      Randomized and controlled study where we will include patients with significant coronary
      stenosis at least in one vessel and a total lesion length higher than 30 mm in the different
      clinical scenarios (stable angina, NSTEMI and STEMI in non-culprit lesion).

      In the control group, stent length will be decided by the operator. In the iFR-pullback
      group, stent length will be decided in base to iFR expected, trying to obtain an IFR of 0.90
      with the minimum stent length as possible.

      The expected stent length reduction is 15 mm (primary endpoint). As secondary endpoint, we
      will analyze the combined endpoint of myocardial infarction, death and new
      revascularization).

      The sample size in base to primary endpoint will be of 100 patients.
    
  