
    
      Patients treated with radiation (XRT) for head and neck cancers (HNCs) experience significant
      side effects such as abnormally reduced salivation, difficulty swallowing, and taste changes
      even after they have been definitively treated. To control side effects and minimize
      discomfort, intensive self-care protocols are prescribed, but adherence is poor. Partners
      (spouses/significant others) can play a critical role in supporting adherence, but often lack
      knowledge, experience high rates of distress, and display poor communication (e.g., critical
      or controlling), that can interfere with patient self-care. The investigators have developed
      a home-based couples skills-training (CST) intervention that teaches: 1) self-management
      skills to control/prevent side-effects; 2) communication skills to facilitate coordination of
      care and support; and 3) strategies to improve communal coping and confidence in the ability
      to work as a team. The goal is to reduce healthcare utilization and improve multiple domains
      of patient and partner QOL. Specific aims are to: develop and evaluate the content and
      materials of the CST intervention (AIM 1) and evaluate its feasibility and acceptability (AIM
      2). The multidisciplinary team will review and evaluate the content we have already developed
      based on the ongoing work with HNC couples (K07). Once content is finalized, tailored manuals
      will be developed for patients and partners and evaluated through two focus groups (AIM 1).
      The investigators expect that most couples (> 60%) approached will agree to participate and
      that CST will be well-accepted (AIM 2). Knowledge gained will be used to refine CST and to
      collect data on effect sizes and variation for a larger trial. Innovation: CST takes a
      multiple-behavioral approach to addressing and preventing HNC treatment side effects and, in
      the process, seeks to improve multiple domains of QOL. It is also the first program in HNC
      that actively involves both members of the couple to address barriers in the home environment
      in which self-management occurs. Finally, this study conceptualizes the couple relationship
      as a resource and leverages that resource to improve patient care and outcomes. Impact:
      Home-based delivery will enhance future dissemination and outreach to the target population.
      Overall, CST holds great promise for improving patient self-management behaviors, reducing
      costly hospitalizations and treatment interruptions, and improving multiple aspects of
      patient and partner QOL.
    
  