
    
      Young adults, aged 20-35 years, experience the greatest rate of weight gain, averaging 1-2
      lbs/yr. Over time, this weight gain is associated with a worsening in cardiovascular disease
      risk factors and an increase in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome. Given the difficulties
      in producing sustained weight loss later in life, preventing weight gain from occurring
      during this critical period is key to curbing the obesity epidemic. The Study of Novel
      Approaches for Prevention (SNAP) is a 2-center randomized trial designed to test whether
      behavioral interventions based on self-regulation can prevent weight gain in young adults
      (18-35 years; body mass index (BMI) 21-30 kg/m2). Approximately 600 participants will be
      recruited over two years and randomly assigned to a control condition (N=200),
      self-regulation with small changes (N=200) or self-regulation with large changes (N=200). The
      Small Changes group will be taught to make small, consistent, changes in eating and exercise
      behavior to prevent weight gain or reverse weight gain if it occurs whereas the Large Changes
      group will emphasize periodic, larger changes in eating and exercise, with a goal of
      producing weight loss and thereby providing a buffer against anticipated weight gain. The
      primary aim of the trial is to test whether the magnitude of weight gain from baseline across
      an average planned follow-up of three years differs across the three groups, with a priori
      hypotheses that weight gain will be greater in the Control group than in either intervention
      and greater in the Small Changes than Large Changes group. Secondary aims are to compare the
      three groups on a) the proportion of participants in the three groups who gain less than 1
      pound over the planned follow-up, b) the mean difference in weight gain from baseline to
      24-month follow-up, c) the changes in behaviors and psychosocial measures (diet, physical
      activity, dietary restraint, frequency of self-weighing,depression, and occurrence of
      abnormal eating behaviors), and d) the changes in cardiovascular disease risk factors (blood
      pressure, lipids, insulin sensitivity, and waist circumference). The trial will also examine
      the association among changes in behaviors, weight, and cardiovascular disease risk factors
      and examine variables that may moderate the effects of the intervention (including gender,
      ethnicity, initial BMI, age) and potential mediators of the effects of the intervention
      (including changes in diet, activity, and self-regulatory behaviors). SNAP is member of the
      Early Adult Reduction in Weight Through Lifestyle Interventions (EARLY) consortium of
      clinical trials funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
    
  