
    
      Successful treatment of gingival recession (GR) is based on the use of clinically predictable
      periodontal plastic surgery (PPS) procedures. There are many procedures and different
      surgical procedures were proposed. Coronally advanced flap and subepithelial connective
      tissue graft (SCTG) is a good combination to increase the keratinized tissue width and reduce
      the amount of gingival recession.

      SCTG has greater predictability for root coverage and causes minimal discomfort to patient.
      Although donor site heals with primary intention causing less scar tissue, in some different
      harvesting procedures primary flap closure may not be achieved due to nature of thick palatal
      tissues.

      Some potential complications may occur at donor site such as: necrosis of graft and palatal
      site, pain, excessive hemorrhage, protracted discomfort, donor site infection and in some
      cases donor site paresthesia.

      Platelet rich fibrin (PRF) is a platelet concentrate obtained by a simple procedure that does
      not require biochemical blood involvement. The three-dimensional fibrin network and presence
      of many growth factors such as fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor
      (PDGF) and epidermal growth factor supports effective neovascularization, accelerated wound
      closure and rapid cicatricial tissue remodeling. The strong fibrin architecture distinguishes
      it from other kinds of platelets concentrates and it seems responsible for the slow release
      of growth factors over a period of 7-14 days5. This period is seen as sufficient to prevent
      complications after connective tissue graft. Since the first description by Choukroun in
      2000, PRF has been used in the clinical field for more than a decade in oral surgery and
      implant dentistry.

      Based on the known biological effects of PRF, the aim of this study is to evaluate the PRF in
      the management of soft tissue donor sites in term of bleeding and pain sensation, and to
      observe the changes in tissue healing after connective tissue graft procedure at palatal
      donor site.
    
  