
    
      Torque Teno Virus (TTV) is the prototype of the Anelloviridae family-single chain and
      circular viruses. These viruses form about 70% of the human virome. TTV prevalence in the
      general population is very high (>90%) and has not been consistently confirmed to cause any
      disease. Kidney transplant studies seem to indicate that an elevated viremia could predict
      the risk of de-veloping an infectious process (bacterial, viral or fungal) in the following
      weeks. A group of research analyzed the influence of TTV as a predictive marker of infection
      in 169 kidney transplant recipi-ents. Patients with infection showed higher TTV levels, even
      3 months before the infectious process, allowing its authors to postulate that the
      quantification of TTV could help to modulate the treatment of patients at risk (reducing
      immunosuppression, introducing or prolonging antimi-crobial prophylaxis). Publications of
      subsequent studies with greater number of patients seem to confirm these data. Likewise, in
      the specific case of CMV infection, the quantification of TTV in the early stages of kidney
      or liver transplantation also allows identification of patients at risk of developing a CMV
      infection. In the field of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) few studies have
      analyzed the replication kinetics of TTV. There seems to be a drop in TTV plasma load after
      conditioning treatment, with a progressive increase in the first months post-transplant, in
      parallel with the number of lymphocytes. In early stages of HSCT, a relation-ship between TTV
      replication kinetics and the probability of developing an infection by CMV has also been
      described. Likewise, the possible relationship of TTV with other complications of HSCT, such
      as Epstein-Barr virus infection (EBV) or graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), have been
      reported. However, not every study conducted to date show this line of results. An other
      research analyzed 2054 blood samples from 123 patients undergoing HSCT, finding no
      significant differences between TTV and post-transplant complications, such as viral
      reactivations (CMV, EBV or adenovirus), acute GvHD, relapse or mortality
    
  