
    
      The objective of this study is to validate the RISE as a reliable tool to predict survival in
      patients newly diagnosed with IPF and prospectively followed for a period of at least 3
      years, or until death or lung transplant.

      This is an observational, prospective cohort study.

      Inclusion criteria will be:

        -  a new diagnosis of IPF based on the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory
           Society criteria (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2018;198:e44-e68) and based on
           multi-disciplinary discussion with Chest Radiologist and, when a surgical lung biopsy is
           available, Lung Pathologist.

        -  a pattern consistent with UIP/IPF will be further confirmed by at least 2 expert
           radiologists, unless a surgical lung biopsy is available and MDD confirms a diagnosis of
           IPF.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  diagnosis of ILD other than IPF.

        -  not a new diagnosis of IPF.

      Patients newly diagnosed with IPF will be included in the study.

      Patients will be reassessed at 4 months intervals and at each visit the MRC dyspnea score
      (MRCDS), pulmonary function tests (FEV1, FVC and DLCO), and 6-minute walk distance (6MWD)
      will be recorded. RISE will be calculated ad described in Eur Respir J 2012;40:101-109.

      MRCDS, PFTs and 6MWD are part of the standard of care in IPF and are routinely obtained at
      each visit of IPF patients in the ILD clinic (every 4 months).

      Pulmonary function tests will be performed according to the ERS/ATS guidelines (Eur Respir J
      2005;26:319-38).

      A 2nd HRCT will be repeated at 24 months from the time of diagnosis, or sooner if clinically
      indicated. The HRCT visual fibrosis score on each HRCT will be calculated, as described in
      Respir Res 2020;21(1):119. Longitudinal changes will be considered as well.

      All relevant comorbidities (cardio-vascular disease, diabetes, sleep apnea, chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease) will be taken into consideration.

      Enrollment in pulmonary rehabilitation physiotherapy will be considered and recorded. The
      length of the enrollment will be considered.

      Hospital admission for respiratory reasons will be considered and recorded.

      Treatment start and stop dates will recorded. Each switch of therapy will be recorded as
      well.

      All protocol violations will be recorded.

      Patients will be prospectively followed for a period of at least 3 years and mortality events
      will be recorded. Three-year lung transplant-free survival will be the primary endpoint.

      Acute exacerbations (AEs) of IPF, as defined in AJR Am J Roentgenol 1997;168:79-83, will also
      be recorded. AEs will be a secondary endpoint.

      Progression of disease will be defined as either: >10% absolute reduction in forced vital
      capacity (FVC) % pred; >50 m decline in 6-minute walk distance (6MWD); admission to hospital
      for respiratory causes; lung transplantation assessment; or death Progression of disease will
      be a secondary endpoint.

      Patients who received a lung transplant will be censored.

      At the end of the study period, both baseline RISE and longitudinal changes of RISE will be
      tested as predictors of mortality. Other individual variables that will also be tested as
      predictors of mortality will include: age at the time of diagnosis; time between onset of
      symptoms and diagnosis (months); gender; body mass index; smoking history (pack-years); PFTs;
      6MWD (both meters and % predicted); desaturation during the 6-minute walk test; HRCT visual
      fibrosis score; Gender-Age-Physiology (GAP) Index (Ann Intern Med 2012;156:684-691);
      Composite Physiologic Index (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2033;167:962-969) and Mortality Risk
      Scoring System with Ascertainable Predictors (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2011;184:459-66).
      Longitudinal changes of these variables will be considered as well.

      Planned secondary analyses include the comparison of 3-year survival in the following
      subgroups:

        -  Patients with HRCT pattern typical for UIP vs. non-typical.

        -  Patients with autoimmune markers (although not meeting criteria for interstitial
           pneumonia with autoimmune features) vs. those without.

        -  Patients with concomitant emphysema vs. those without.

        -  Patients on pirfenidone vs. patients on nintedanib.

      Values will expressed as mean±SD. Comparisons between survivors and non-survivors will be
      made with unpaired t-test or with the Mann-Whitney U-test, where appropriate.

      The optimal cut-off value for different variables to detect mortality or AE will assessed
      using receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis.

      Survival will evaluated using Kaplan-Meier curves and the log-rank test. Cox proportional
      hazards regression analysis will used to identify significant variables predicting survival
      status.

      Variance inflation factors of variables predicting endpoint will be calculated to rule out
      the possibility of multicollinearity and demonstrate that the variables are truly
      independent.

      Results will be summarized as hazard ratios, representing the relative risk of dying as a
      result of a specific characteristic during the observation period.

      Variables selected via univariate analysis (p<0.05) will evaluated in the multivariate Cox
      regression analysis.

      Areas under the curve (AUC) were compared according to the methods of DeLong et al.
      (Biometrics 188;44:837-845).

      Fine-Gray competing risk regression analysis will be used to account for the competing risks
      of lung transplant and death (J Am Stat Assoc 1999;94:496-509). p-values <0.05 will regarded
      as significant.
    
  