
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare event-free survival (EFS) in patients with high-risk resectable melanoma
      randomized to neoadjuvant MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) with patients randomized to adjuvant
      MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the frequency and severity of toxicities on each of the arms. II. To compare
      between arms overall survival (OS), disease control at 24 weeks, locoregional control in the
      surgical site(s), and total number of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) doses received.

      III. On the neoadjuvant arm, to estimate the pathologic response rate, the Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed
      complete response [CR] and partial response [PR]), and the immune-related (i)RECIST response
      rate (confirmed and unconfirmed CR and PR), before surgical resection; to compare definitions
      of pathologic partial response; and to evaluate the association between pathologic response
      and EFS and OS.

      IV. To describe the proportion of patients on each arm who received the surgery planned at
      randomization.

      ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank tumor tissue and whole blood in anticipation of future correlative studies in this
      patient population.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Within 84 days after surgical resection, patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 18 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 every 3 weeks for 3
      cycles, then undergo surgical resection within 3 weeks. Within 84 days, patients receive
      pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks for 15 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 12 weeks, then every 3
      months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, then every 12 months for up to a total of 10
      years.
    
  