
    
      Stage 1 Stage one includes recruitment, the informed consent process, enrollment into the
      study, completion of the stage 1 questionnaire, and HIV counseling and testing. MSM/TG who
      present for routine HTC will be pre-screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria by the HTC
      counseling staff. MSM/TG who meet the inclusion criteria will be informed about the study and
      if interested will complete the informed consent process. After providing consent,
      participants will fill out the stage 1 questionnaire before receiving the HIV test result.

      After the HIV test result is known to be positive or negative, the research staff will assign
      the participant to a study group (A,B,C,D) based on the HIV and ATS use status, as defined in
      section 3.2.3. If the study group has not yet filled to maximum size, then the participant
      will be offered participation in Stage 2 though another informed consent process. If the
      participant agrees, then the research staff will confirm contact information and will inform
      the participant that they will receive a reminder before the next visit in 6 months by their
      method of choice (telephone, SMS, email, Line, Facebook, etc).

      If the study group has reached its maximum size, then the participant will be informed that
      their involvement in the study is finished and will be thanked for their contribution.

      Stage 2 Stage 2 is the longitudinal follow-up of participants over 18 months. All study
      groups will follow the same schedule of follow-up visits one time every 6 months for 3
      visits. At each visit, participants will complete a follow-up questionnaire and have a blood
      test. There will be no differences in procedures based on ATS use. Follow-up procedures will
      be divided by HIV status.

      The four groups and sample sizes are:

        1. Group A: HIV negative, non-ATS user (n=275)

        2. Group B: HIV negative, ATS user (n=70)

        3. Group C: HIV positive, non-ATS user (n=130)

        4. Group D: HIV positive, ATS user (n=35)
    
  