
    
      AML is one of the most lethal cancers among young people in Hong Kong. Induction chemotherapy
      is the mainstay of treatment, resulting in remission (i.e. clearance of leukemic cells) in
      70% cases. Patients who fail induction chemotherapy or who relapse after initial remission
      would need to receive further chemotherapy with a view to achieve a second remission. Those
      who do so can be potentially cured by bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Those who fail are
      left with very little options. As a result, only 30% patients can survive long-term.

      AML is heterogeneous and 10-30% patients carry a gain-of-function mutation of a gene known as
      fms-related tyrosine kinase-3 (Flt3) in the leukemic cells, which confers them with abnormal
      cellular proliferation. These patients have inferior prognosis compared with those without
      the mutation. With conventional chemotherapy, these leukemias often fail to remit, precluding
      patients from receiving curative BMT. Sorafenib is a multi-kinase inhibitor which is FDA
      approved for the treatment of metastatic hepatocellular and renal cell carcinomas. It is also
      effective against Flt3 and has been shown to be very effective in inducing remission in
      patients with AML carrying Flt3 mutation.

      This proposal aims to treat relapsed or refractory AML patients carrying Flt3 mutation in the
      following ways:

        1. Patients who have persistent or refractory leukemia after at least two prior
           chemotherapy regimens will receive sorafenib to induce a remission, hence bridging them
           to BMT for curative treatment.

        2. Patients who relapse after BMT will receive sorafenib to induce remission again in
           preparation for second BMT.

        3. Patients who are not candidates for BMT but have persistent or refractory leukemia after
           at least two prior chemotherapy regimens will receive sorafenib to induce a remission,
           followed by chemotherapy consolidation. Sorafenib induction will have significantly less
           side-effects compared with induction by conventional chemotherapy.

      Patients who are treated with sorafenib will be managed in the hospital and out-patient
      clinics in the same way as patients undergoing induction by conventional chemotherapy. They
      will have bone marrow examinations before and one month after receiving sorafenib treatment
    
  