
    
      Research procedures: The interventions in this study will be caloric dietary restrictions
      intended to result in a 10% reduction of body weight within 6 months, or a supervised aerobic
      exercise program designed to improve cardiovascular fitness. The diet with weight loss group
      will meet with a registered dietician on a weekly basis for the first 2 months and then
      bi-weekly for the duration of the study for education and review of the subject's caloric
      intake. Similarly, the exercise group subjects will participate in weekly supervised aerobic
      exercise sessions. At these visits, a food logbook and an exercise logbook will be turned
      into the study staff to review. Prior to inclusion in the study, the patient's medical record
      will be reviewed for evidence of metabolic syndrome, specifically, recent lipid analysis,
      blood sugar, weight, height, waist circumference, and blood pressure. A self-report history
      and physical examination form, Perceived Behavior Control Scale, Self-Efficacy Scale, Beck
      Depression Inventory will also be included as part of the enrollment process and ongoing
      participation. Pre-intervention/initial screening includes fasting triglycerides, HDL,
      glucose, hs-CRP, Uric Acid, insulin, and plasma creatinine, 24-hour urine collection, blood
      pressure, waist and hip circumference, height, weight, VO2 max estimated from sub maximal
      standardized treadmill exercise test, Beck Depression Inventory, Perceived Behavioral Control
      Scale, Self-Efficacy Scale and Pre-intervention 3-day food record and physical activity
      questionnaire to assess baseline diet and activity levels. During study monitoring: daily
      exercise log (exercise group), assessed weekly, (determine the intensity, duration, and
      frequency of aerobic exercise), daily food log (diet with weight loss group), assessed for
      caloric intake, quarterly 3-day food records, assessed for caloric intake, and composition of
      fats, carbohydrates and proteins, quarterly blood pressure, weight, height, waist and hip
      circumference, quarterly fasting serum triglyceride, HDL, fasting serum glucose, and uric
      acid, and quarterly physical activity questionnaire, Beck Depression Inventory, Perceived
      Behavioral Control Scale, and Self-Efficacy Scale. Post-study assessment: fasting serum
      triglycerides, HDL, serum glucose, uric acid, hs-CRP, insulin, and plasma creatinine, 24-hour
      urine collection, body weight, height, and waist and hip circumference, VO2 max estimated
      from sub maximal standardized treadmill exercise test, and 3-day food record, physical
      activity questionnaire, Beck Depression Inventory, Perceived Behavioral Control Scale, and
      Self-Efficacy Scale. The control group will complete the pre and post measurements and the
      3-day food record and physical activity questionnaire as required by the diet and exercise
      groups.
    
  