
    
      Background:

      Spinal cord injury (SCI) prevents normal leg exercise which leads to secondary complications,
      including cardiopulmonary deconditioning, a high incidence of pressure sores, and bone
      demineralisation. Wheelchair sports do not raise fitness to the level of sedentary
      non-injured people but it has been shown that cycling via functional electrical stimulation,
      "FES-cycling", can. Previous studies have been clinic-based; this limits the exercise time
      and is inappropriate for widespread use. We propose to show that home-based FES-tricycling
      can be a recreation, and can also lead to significant health benefits.

      We will train subjects at home more intensively than in previous studies, to see whether they
      can cycle useful distances. The effects of this training will be systematically assessed in a
      Health Study, which will: (i) regularly monitor cardiopulmonary fitness; (ii) make regular
      tissue measurements related to pressure sore susceptibility, and (iii) measure the effect on
      bone density. These health measurements will be made at the collaborating clinical centres,
      i.e. for Glasgow, this will be at the Queen Elizabeth National Spinal Injuries Unit, Southern
      General Hospital. We will also document the mobile recumbent tricycle system as a design
      specification, in preparation for commercialisation.

      The project will be based around three centres, in London, Glasgow and Nottwil, and brings
      together an interdisciplinary team of engineers, exercise scientists, therapists and
      clinicians.

      Aims:

      Engineering Development. To develop the equipment and methods for recreational cycling to the
      stage of a pre-commercial design specification.

      Training for Recreation. To carry out a progressive, high-intensity FES cycle-training
      programme. 15 paraplegic subjects (5 at each centre) shall complete the training programme,
      which is based at their homes. To assess the feasibility of recreational FES-cycling, by
      measuring the power which can be sustained during long periods of cycling, and to measure the
      impact of the training regime on their quality of life.

      Health and Fitness Study. To assess whether the training regime leads to significant
      improvements in cardiopulmonary fitness, and therefore lower risk of heart disease, and to
      reductions in the likelihood of the development of pressure sores and fractures.
    
  