
    
      Chronic pain affects approx. 20% of the world's population and greatly affects the quality of
      life of the patients. Recent studies have found that multiple chronic pain patients are
      characterized by central sensitization and other studies have even found that the degree of
      central sensitization might be important for pain relieving effects to, e.g., surgery or
      pharmaceutical treatment. These studies highlight the importance of assessing central
      sensitization but also indicate that central sensitization can be influenced by multiple
      factors and it is deemed important to assess such factors in experimental and clinical
      settings to improve our understanding of the field.

      Sleep impairment and the effects on central pain pathways One common complaint among chronic
      pain patients is that their sleep is affected. It is estimated that at least 50% of chronic
      pain patients also suffer from sleep disturbances. This is alarming since sleep is well-known
      to provide neural maturation, facilitate learning, memory, cognition, and general
      productivity and a lack of sleep impact all of these important processes. Furthermore,
      earlier studies have shown that partial and total sleep deprivation affect even healthy
      participants and impair both peripheral and central pain pathways and may indicate that
      regular sleep is important to maintain a proper healthy response to pain. This notion is
      supported by evidence showing an association between sleep impairment (e.g. partial or total
      sleep deprivation) and impaired conditioned pain modulation (CPM), which is the human
      surrogate model for diffuse noxious inhibitory control. It is also well-established that CPM
      is impaired in chronic pain patients suffering from back pain, fibromyalgia, or severe knee
      osteoarthritis (OA). Davies et al. demonstrated that restoring sleep could predict resolution
      of chronic widespread pain. However, the underlying mechanisms linking impaired sleep and a
      reduction in pain inhibition are still unclear. Certain neurotransmitters such as serotonin
      and brain areas such as the periaqueductal gray matter are known to modulate both sleep
      stages and nociception, and may partly explain the association between impaired sleep and
      reduction in pain inhibition.

      Nonetheless, little is known about the effect of sleep impairment on central pain mechanisms
      in clinical cohorts. This is important since it is still unclear if restoring a good quality
      of sleep can modulate the central pain pathway changes known to occur when having impaired
      sleep and/or chronic pain.

      One approach to this question is to assess patients known to suffer from sleep impairment. In
      this respect, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) patients are known to present with worsened sleep
      due to the collapse of the pharyngeal musculature throughout the night. This leads to
      excessive daytime sleepiness and a decrease in quality of life. Furthermore, pain tolerance
      has been shown to be decreased in elderly who are diagnosed with OSA. However, little is
      known about OSA patients and pain sensitivity, and if the sleep impairment also affects the
      central pain pathways. If so, this may provide an important first step in understanding the
      possible benefit of restoring restoring normal regular sleep, as routinely achieved through
      gold standard treatment, and if this can modulate central changes known to occur in chronic
      pain patients.

      Therefore, this project will focus on obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) patients to investigate
      if central pain mechanisms are affected by poor sleep and if golden standard sleep therapy
      through continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) improves central pain mechanisms.
    
  