
    
      Suicide is a significant public health problem. Depression, alcoholism (abuse or dependence),
      and a prior suicide attempt are risk factors for suicide. However, little information exists
      to guide clinicians in the choice of antidepressant medication for patients with comorbid
      major depression and alcoholism who are at risk for suicidal acts.

      There is evidence that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) may reduce impulsive
      aggression, and therefore lower the risk for suicidal behavior. We will test the hypothesis
      that fluoxetine, an SSRI, will be associated with fewer suicide events (defined as suicidal
      acts or increases in suicidal ideation necessitating a change in management), decreased
      suicidal ideation and decreases in neuropsychological measures of impulsivity compared to
      bupropion. The non-serotonergic drug, bupropion will improve energy and hopelessness. We
      expect the two drugs to be equally efficacious in reducing global depression severity. We
      will compare fluoxetine with bupropion in a 6-month randomized, controlled study of major
      depressive disorder and comorbid alcoholism in patients who have a prior history of suicide
      attempt. Patients requiring alcohol detoxification will be excluded. Patients will also
      receive weekly psychotherapy.

      We will study 42 subjects with a current major depressive episode, comorbid alcoholism and a
      history of a past suicide attempt (21 subjects per year) in a randomized, double-blind,
      controlled trial, stratified by alcoholism type (1 vs 2). All subjects with alcohol
      dependence will be evaluated for risk of alcohol withdrawal prior to randomization. We will
      include patients who have suicidal ideation. However, patients with a suicidal plan or intent
      will only be enrolled as inpatients if the research team and the independent treatment team
      on the inpatient research unit agree that this is clinically reasonable. For example, if ECT
      or antipsychotics are indicated, the patient will not be enrolled. The study will provide six
      months of antidepressant pharmacotherapy as well as psychotherapy focused on alcohol relapse
      prevention. Patients will also be encouraged to attend daily Alcoholics Anonymous meetings.
      The outcome measures will be: 1) occurrence of suicide events; 2) reduction of suicidal
      ideation; 3) reduction in neuropsychological measures of impulsivity.
    
  