
    
      Reconstructive surgery is intended to replace amputated anatomical regions by autologous
      tissue taken from distant locations: flaps. The goal is to restitute ad integrum with minimal
      sequelae. Among the flaps available, perforator flaps have the advantage of being highly
      plastic, large and can be taken from accessory vessels the loss of wich does not compromise
      the vitality of the sampling site. However their more variable anatomy requires irradiating
      preoperative morphological assessment (CT angiography) or a doppler ultrasonography that is
      not always performed by the surgeon himself and does not distinguish between muscle
      perforator and skin perforator.

      Fluorescence angiography is a superficial exploration technique of vascularization. After
      intravenous injection of a tracer (indocyanine green ICG), fluorescence angiography provides
      useful surface angiographic imaging in real-time. It can also help in monitoring
      intraoperative and postoperative quality of vascular anastomoses. Although fluorescence
      angiography has numerous applications (ophthalmology, neurosurgery, liver
      transplantation...), its usefulness in surgical flaps is only supported by a few
      publications. None really validate its clinical value by comparing it to reference
      investigations (CT angiography or doppler ultrasonography).

      40 candidate for reconstructive surgery will be included in this study. The day before
      surgery, in addition to the usual technique used to locate perforator flaps, the patient will
      receive an injection of 0.025 mg / kg Infracyanine® (indocyanine green) and the area of
      interest of the flap will be explored with the Fluobeam™ camera.

      Two hours after the surgery, during the usual clinical monitoring of the vitality of the
      flap, a new injection of Infracyanine® will test perfusion of the flap by measuring
      fluorescence intensity of the target area. These measurement will then be repeated every 6
      hours for 4 days.
    
  