
    
      The investigators propose a factorial design strategy to evaluate the effects, individually
      and in combination, of the most promising pharmaco- and behavioral cessation therapies
      available for PLWH according to the review of the extant literature for HIV-infected and
      general population smokers. The sizable cohort and prospective design will also permit the
      investigators to evaluate the effects of tobacco use, treatment, and cessation on a panel of
      soluble biomarkers of inflammation that are likely contributors to cardiac morbidity and
      mortality in people living with HIV/AIDS. The specific aims of the study are:

      Primary Aim 1: Compare varenicline to placebo on rates of 7-day point prevalence abstinence
      (PPA) at 24 weeks in smokers with HIV/AIDS. It is hypothesized that rates of smoking
      abstinence at week 24 will be higher in those treated with varenicline compared to placebo.

      Primary Aim 2: Compare Positively Smoke Free to low intensity, brief counseling on rates of
      7-day PPA at 24 weeks in smokers with HIV/AIDS. It is hypothesized that rates of smoking
      abstinence at week 24 will be higher in those treated with Positively Smoke Free compared to
      brief counseling.

      Secondary Aim: Compare Positively Smoke Free + varenicline to the other two study conditions
      outlined above on rates of 7-day PPA in smokers with HIV/AIDS at 24 weeks. It is hypothesized
      that the effect of PSF with varenicline is greater than the effect of PSF or varenicline
      alone.

      Exporatory Aim: Explore the effect of successful cessation/smoking abstinence on levels of
      cardiac specific biomarkers, nicotine biomarkers, generalized markers of inflammation,
      lipids, coagulation and monocyte/macrophage activation. The investigators hypothesize that
      smoking cessation will be associated with significant reductions in levels of these
      biomarkers and monocyte/macrophage activation.
    
  