
    
      Endometriosis is a common benign condition, affecting women of reproductive age. The disorder
      is characterized by endometrial surface epithelium, endometrial glands or stroma, found
      outside the uterus at anatomically ectopic sites.

        -  Laparoscopic excision of the disease is frequently carried out for the treatment of
           severe endometriosis. Pelvic adhesions often develop following surgery, restricting the
           success of treatment. Commercially available anti-adhesive solutions are often used
           successfully for limiting post-operative adhesions following myomectomy surgery.

        -  This study aims to assess the effect of resorbable hydrogel anti-adhesive gel following
           laparoscopic surgery for severe pelvic endometriosis on the prevalence of postoperative
           ovarian adhesions.

        -  This is a prospective double blind randomized controlled trial for patients with severe
           pelvic endometriosis (as defined by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine
           classification system) requiring extensive laparoscopic dissection (open of one or both
           para-rectal spaces) with uterine and ovarian preservation.

        -  Disease severity and eligibility for inclusion into the study will be confirmed at
           surgery.

        -  Pre-operatively, all participants will complete a standardized symptom questionnaire
           detailing the presence and intensity of specific endometriosis symptoms
           Intra-operatively both ovaries are routinely elevated to the anterior abdominal wall
           using Prolene suture (ovarian suspension) to facilitate operative access. At the end of
           the procedure, each participant will be randomized to having only one ovary coated with
           4mls of hydrogel anti-adhesive gel, before the ovaries are replaced to their
           anatomically correct position.

        -  Three months after surgery, all randomized patients will have a transvaginal ultrasound
           scan to assess for ovarian mobility and repeat symptom questionnaire.

        -  Both patients and the person performing the ultrasound scan will be blinded to the
           randomization process.
    
  