
    
      Femoral neck fracture is one of the most common diseases in the elderly. Artificial hip
      replacement is currently the preferred treatment for femoral neck fractures, and
      characterized by no presence of postoperative bone nonunion, femoral head necrosis and other
      complications, though longer operative time and larger surgical incision are unavoidable.
      Patients undergoing artificial hip replacement can recover weight-bearing walk early after
      surgery, making rehabilitation rapid, to avoid a variety of complications, such as bed rests.
      Hip replacement via posterolateral approach is generally used, but limited by large incision,
      cutting off the extortor, and postoperative hip dislocation.

      The minimally invasive approach for hip replacement has the advantages of less blood loss and
      less trauma compared with conventional approaches. The supercapsular percutaneously-assisted
      total hip (SuperPATH) approach (Appendix 1) is consistent with the posterolateral approach in
      the anatomical landmark, preserving all the advantages of the posterior approach. Compared
      with the conventional approaches, the SuperPATH approach has no neurovascular interface that
      is uneasy to damage blood vessels and nerves during operation, reducing intraoperative blood
      loss, and retains all of the joint capsules and supinator muscles, significantly reducing the
      probability of postoperative dislocation of the hip. Osteotomy via this approach can be
      completed without hip dislocation, thus reducing incidence of vascular distortion and
      postoperative deep vein thrombosis. Hip replacement via the SuperPATH approach can be
      completed under direct vision rather than perspective inspection, and the surgical incision
      on the femur is made according to the femoral anteversion angle. In addition, this approach
      is also used for femoral intramedullary nail implantation. These surgical procedures are more
      likely to be grasped by clinicians. Preservation of the joint capsule and supinator muscles
      makes physical activities unrestricted and speeds up rehabilitation. Moreover, there is a
      corresponding reduction in the hospital stay and costs. However, SuperPATH technology is
      rarely reported in China as it has been introduced for a short time and in few hospitals.

      Previous studies have reported that SuperPATH approach for artificial hip replacement
      exhibits better short-term effect on elderly femoral neck fractures. In this trial, the
      follow-up period will be prolonged to 6 months in order to observe the short-to-mid term
      effect in the elderly with femoral neck fractures.

      Adverse events Postoperative adverse events including incision pain and infection, back
      muscle pain, spinal cord/nerve injury, length inequality of the lower limbs, prosthesis
      falling-off and prosthetic loosening will be recorded during the follow-up period. If severe
      adverse events occur, details including the data of occurrence, type of adverse events and
      therapeutic measures will be reported to the project manager and the institutional review
      board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis, and open access Data collection Clinical data,
      including demographic data, disease diagnosis, accompanying diseases, and allergic history
      (drug allergy), will be collected and summarized using standardized case report forms. These
      data will be processed and recorded electronically.

      Data management Researchers will be responsible for data processing, confirming and locking.
      The locked data will be unable to be altered and preserved by the Pudong Hospital of Fudan
      University. In addition to these researchers, only the persons who have permission will have
      the right to query the database.

      Data analysis All data will be statistically analyzed by professional statisticians who will
      responsible for completing an outcome analysis report that will be submitted to the principle
      investigator who will be responsible for completing a research report. An independent data
      monitoring committee is responsible for data monitoring and management throughout the entire
      trial to ensure scientific accuracy, stringency, authenticity, and integrity.
    
  