
    
      The use of taxanes in breast cancer chemotherapy regimens is considered standard first line
      therapy.1 However, taxanes are known to induce peripheral neuropathy, from 59-87% for
      paclitaxel and from 11-64% for docetaxel. 2-4 Sensory manifestations can include pain;
      numbness, tingling, & burning; diminished proprioception, and decreased vibration and touch
      sensation. 5-6 Motor symptoms such as lower extremity muscle weakness and impaired balance
      has been reported. 7 Currently, peripheral neuropathy remains a significant toxicity
      resulting in taxane chemotherapy dose reductions or discontinuation, with no evidence-based
      preventative or treatment strategies are available. 8 Taxanes induce sensory and motor
      neuropathy by inducing both mitochondrial and vascular dysfunction.9 In rodents, treatment
      with taxanes resulted in swollen, vacuolated axonal mitochondria that are functionally
      impaired, producing a chronic energy deficit.10 In addition, toxic effects to the endothelial
      cells of the vasa nervorum (small arterioles that supply peripheral nerves) in the dorsal
      root ganglia attenuates blood flow to neurons, resulting in endothelial cell death. 11 These
      findings suggest that both mitochondrial impairment and vascular damage are major mechanisms
      that underlie the development of taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy, manifesting as sensory
      manifestations and neuropathic pain. 9-12

      Mitochondrial and vascular dysfunctions lead to sensory loss and reduced muscle strength,
      functions dependent upon cellular mitochondria to generate energy in the form of ATP
      (adenosine triphosphate). Thus, mitochondrial dysfunction results in the loss of
      energy-generating capability, and vascular impairment deprives muscle and nerve cells of
      oxygen-rich nutrients, further impairing neuronal function. A limited number of human and
      animal studies have demonstrated that exercise stimulates endothelium-dependent vasodilation
      and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression, increasing endoneurial blood flow
      and energy generating capacity through mitochondrial protein synthesis and glycolysis, 13, 14

      The proposed exercise intervention addresses gait/balance impairments and motor (resistance)
      components of taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy. The mechanism by which the intervention
      achieves the proposed outcomes is though 1) increasing endoneurial blood flow to peripheral
      nerves and mitochondria resulting in reduction in neuropathic symptoms (including pain) and
      clinical manifestations of peripheral neuropathy, while improving gait/balance in those with
      persistent neuropathy; 2) The subsequent increase in nutrient supply allows the mitochondria
      to function more efficiently, and may alleviate the neuropathic manifestations of
      taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy.

      Specific Aims:

      In a sample of patients who completed a taxane-containing chemotherapy regimen (> 1 year) for
      breast cancer and who have a persistent neuropathy (VAS score of > 3) the specific aims of
      this RCT are:

        1. To test the efficacy of a 16-week -delivered program of gait/balance training plus
           resistance exercise, compared to an educational attention control condition in
           increasing muscle strength, improving gait/balance and nerve conduction parameters,
           decreasing the severity of taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy symptoms, and increasing
           quality of life.

        2. To evaluate for differences in muscle strength, gait/balance, sensory (sural) and motor
           (peroneal) nerve conduction, peripheral neuropathy symptoms, and quality of life (QOL)
           between patients who receive the exercise program, compared to those in an educational
           attention control condition controlling for age, BMI, taxane cycles and intervals,
           neuropathic pain, neuropathy/pain medications, current resistance exercise participation
           and falls/near falls experienced
    
  