
    
      Essential tremor is a very common movement disorder affecting approximately 1.4% of the
      population. Response to medications such as beta blockers and mysoline may be only partial or
      be accompanied by intolerable side effects. Roughly 80% of patients have significant tremor
      reduction to ethanol although daily use of this as a treatment has potentially serious social
      and legal consequences. The leading hypothesis for the pathophysiology of essential tremor is
      unmasking of spontaneous oscillation of neurons in the inferior olive. Both ethanol and
      1-octanol have been shown to reduce these spontaneous oscillations in an animal model of
      essential tremor; however, 1-octanol dose this at a dose much lower than an intoxicating dose
      suggesting that it may be useful in the treatment of essential tremor. Our initial study with
      1-octanol at a low, single dose in patients with essential tremor suggested it was both
      efficacious and safe.

      This present study is planned to identify a maximum tolerated dose and broaden the safety and
      efficacy data in humans. Additionally, we hope to collect further information about the
      pharmacokinetics of 1-octanol. This study is designed as a phase Ia, unblinded, inpatient
      study of adults with essential tremor receiving escalating doses of 1-octanol. Cohorts of
      three will begin dose escalation at the dose previously studied. Each cohort will be followed
      in inpatient setting for 72 hours ( and outpatient for 1 additional week) during which
      adverse events, pharmacokinetics and efficacy will be assessed. If no subject achieves
      dose-limiting toxicity, 3 additional subjects will be recruited to receive the next higher
      dose. If 1/3 subjects achieves dose-limiting toxicity, the next cohort will receive the same
      dose. Dose limiting toxicity is defined as the dose that produces dose-limiting toxicity in
      at least 2 subjects. Maximum tolerated dose will be defined as the next lower dose.

      With this study, we hope to identify a range of doses that may useful in the treatment of
      essential tremor and combined with the pharmacokinetic and efficacy data, design a protocol
      to study multiple dose regimens over longer time periods.
    
  