
    
      This study will assess the accuracy of this novel device against a commercially available
      patient monitor (Philips Intellivue MP30). Results will be compared to that of two existing
      devices designed for low resource settings: Bempu, a temperature monitor placed around an
      infant's wrist; and Thermospot, a sticker that changes color with temperature.

      This study will enroll up to 70 infants at Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital. Up to 35
      subjects will be collected from the neonatal ward and 35 subjects from the Kangaroo Mother
      Care (KMC) ward. This sample size will ensure that the investigators are able to collect
      sufficient data from infants with a range of gestational ages, weights, temperatures, and
      treatment locations (ie open cot, radiant warmer). The data from this study can be used to
      calculate the sample size needed in a larger study to evaluate changes in outcomes and nurse
      behavior related to the different temperature monitors (NTM, Bempu, Thermospot).

      During the trial, the following steps will be taken:

      A trained study nurse will assess the subject for clinical complications before attaching the
      temperature monitoring devices.

        1. A trained study nurse or clinician will attach the test temperature monitoring devices
           to the infant. A trained research assistant from Rice University or from the Biomedical
           Engineering Department at Malawi Polytechnic will observe all procedures and will notify
           the nurse of any observed errors so they may be corrected. They will also be able to
           answer any technical questions from the nurse. If there is any concern for the comfort
           or skin of the infant, only one device may be placed on at a time (NTM, Bempu,
           ThermoSpot).

        2. The trained study nurse will attach the temperature probe from the commercial gold
           standard as well as provide any other care needed.

        3. A research assistant will use a laptop to collect data from the continuous temperature
           monitors (NTM and gold standard). The nurse will record the temperature readings every
           hour from all monitors on paper forms along with the standard of care.

        4. Each time an alarm sounds from any device (Bempu and the commercial gold standard have
           audible alarms), the nurse will record all temperature values including a reading taken
           with the standard of care method. If the subject is found to be hyper/hypothermic, the
           nurse will respond with the appropriate standard of care.

        5. Temperature monitoring will continue for up to 3 days. The research assistant may ask
           the nurse to remove and reapply the temperature probes during this period.

      The goal of this study is to confirm the accuracy of these temperature monitors. Target
      accuracy for NTM device is +/- 0.5 C. In order to confirm this temperature accuracy in the
      settings of both the neonatal ward and the KMC ward, 35 subjects are needed in each setting.
      The international standards for clinical thermometers, standard number 80601-2-56, requires
      that 35 subjects from each patient population be tested to demonstrate the clinical accuracy
      of the thermometer. The clinical accuracy is reported using a measure of bias as well as the
      limits of agreement.
    
  