
    
      The Study Drug:

      Brentuximab vedotin is an antibody that is designed to find a certain protein (called CD30)
      on cancer cells and bind to it. It is designed to then enter the cell and release a molecule
      that may kill the cancer cells.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found eligible to take part in this study, you will begin receiving brentuximab
      vedotin by vein over 30 minutes on Day 1 of each 21-day study cycle. If you have side effects
      after your first dose and your doctor thinks it is in your best interest, future doses may be
      lowered or delayed for up to 3 weeks.

      Premedications:

      If you have any reactions at the infusion site after you receive the study drug during Cycle
      1, you may be given acetaminophen (Tylenol) or diphenhydramine (Benadryl) 30-60 minutes
      before all following infusions.

      Study Visits:

      At each clinic visit, including follow-up visits (described below), you will have full skin
      exams. You will be checked to see how much of your skin's surface has lesions. Up to 6 skin
      lesions will be selected to be photographed and measured at each visit. Your private areas
      will be covered (as much as possible), and a picture of your face will not be taken unless
      there are lesions on your face. You will not be able to be identified in the photographs. The
      following tests and procedures will also be performed:

      On Day 1 of all study cycles (before you receive the study drug):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs that you may be taking and if you are having any side
           effects.

        -  You will complete 5 questionnaires about your quality of life and itching symptoms.

        -  Blood (about 4-6 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check the status of
           the disease.

        -  If you have not had a lesion biopsy within the last 6 weeks you will have a lesion
           biopsy to check the status of the disease and for PGx testing.

      Length of Study Treatment:

      You may receive the study drug for up to 8 cycles. You will be taken off study if the disease
      gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      If the disease has a complete response, you may receive the study drug for 2 more cycles if
      the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      If the disease has complete response, then comes back, you may receive the study drug for 8
      more cycles if the doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      If you are doing better at the end of 8 cycles but the disease is not in complete remission,
      the study doctor may allow you to receive the study drug every 3 weeks at the full dose or
      every 2 weeks at a lower dose for 8 additional cycles. If you continue to have improvement
      after these 16 cycles, the study doctor may allow you to continue receiving the study drug.
      The study doctor will discuss this with you.

      Follow-up Visits:

      About 3-4 weeks after you have stopped taking the study drug, the following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked if you are having any side effects.

        -  You will complete 5 questionnaires about your quality of life and itching symptoms.

        -  Blood (about 4-6 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check the status of
           the disease.

        -  You will have a CT or PET scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have a lesion biopsy to check the status of the disease and for PGx testing.

      Long-term Follow-up:

      You or your primary doctor may be contacted for long-term follow-up on the status of the
      disease, any study-related nerve damage (including loss of motor or sensory function) you
      have, and your overall health status.

      Follow-up will be every 12-16 weeks for the first 2 years after the last dose. Then, the
      follow-up will be every 6 months (+/- 1 month) up to a maximum period of 5 years.

      This is an investigational study. Brentuximab vedotin is FDA approved and commercially
      available for use in patients with ALCL. It is currently being used for LyP and MF for
      research purposes only. You will receive $15 coupons for valet parking for each clinic visit
      you make during this study.

      Up to 84 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  