
    
      Current evidence supports intensive glucose control for patients in the intensive care unit
      post-cardiac surgery. The risk-benefit ratio of tight glucose control using continuous
      insulin infusion during surgery has not been established. Pros for tight control include the
      association of hyperglycemia with neurological injury, cardiac ischemia, white blood cell
      dysfunction and renal failure. The cons include adverse effects, mainly hypoglycemia and
      hypokalemia. As with any intervention in medicine, tight intra-operative glucose control
      should be assessed in a randomized controlled trial.

      Objectives:to assess whether tight intra-operative tight glucose control using continuous
      insulin infusion reduces morbidity and mortality following cardiac surgery, defined as the
      incidence rate of surgical site infections, adverse neurological events, renal failure and
      30-day mortality following CABG.

      Additional outcomes will include the effect of continuous insulin infusion on longer-term
      mortality; other infectious complications and antibiotic use during hospitalization;
      cardiovascular outcomes; the need for re-operations; length of hospital stay; readmission;
      hypoglycemia and other adverse events.

      Design: randomized controlled trial, with blinding of outcome assessors.

      Participants: all consecutive patients >18 years undergoing CABG, without or without
      additional valve or other surgery at Rabin Medical Center; Beilinson campus, providing
      informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria: patients with diabetic ketoacidosis, or hyperosmolar coma.

      Intervention: Continuous insulin infusion throughout the operation aimed to maintain
      normoglycemia using a nomogram

      Control: Glucose management according to the discretion of the anesthesiologist (continuous
      or bolus infusion)

      During the early post-operative period (ICU-stay following surgery), all patients will be
      treated with intensive glucose control targeting glucose levels between 80-110.
    
  