
    
      This clinical study will be held in the orthodontic clinic, Faculty of dentistry, Cairo
      University, Egypt Principal investigator (MZ) will select and examine the patients according
      to the inclusion criteria.

      Tooth preparation procedure:

      Excessive saliva in Upper six anterior teeth will be removed by cotton rolls or by using an
      air syringe without excessive drying. Principal investigator (MZ) will take a photograph for
      each tooth using A Digital DSLR camera (canon 700d with lens 100 macro 2.8) and this
      photograph is T0(before application of the gel)

      Intervention and comparator:

        1. Bonding procedure before application of intervention and comparator

           Upper six anterior teeth will be cleaned with pumice, rinsed and dried thoroughly. The
           area where the bracket is to be placed will be etched with a 37% orthophosphoric acid
           gel for 15 seconds and then rinsed with water. After rinsing, the enamel surface will be
           dried with compressed moisture and oil free air. A layer of primer will be applied to
           the tooth and bracket mesh. Adhesive paste will be applied to the base of the bracket
           and pressed firmly onto the tooth surface. Excess adhesive will be removed, and the
           adhesive light cured for 20 seconds.

        2. Preparation of clinpro XT (intervention)

           In upper right anterior teeth, the polished tooth surface is etched using 37%
           orthophosphoric acid gel. applied for 15 seconds over the labial enamel surface
           extending from gingival surface of the bracket to the free gingival margin. Then, the
           surface is rinsed thoroughly by water spray and dried with compressed moisture and oil
           free air to remove the etchant. The paste and liquid components of the varnish are mixed
           on a paper pad for 10-15 seconds by a small plastic spatula. When the mix material
           appears glossy and smooth in consistency, it is applied as a thin layer over the etched
           enamel surface by a ball applicator. Care should be taken to avoid prolonged contact of
           uncured material with soft tissues.

           If accidental contact occurred, the material is immediately wiped off with wet cotton
           roll. Then, the varnish is light cured with the visible light-curing unit for 20 s.Oral
           hygiene instruction will be given to the patient e.g. tooth brushing twice a day with
           fluoride toothpaste.

           A photograph will be taken for the labial surface of each upper right anterior tooth
           using the same camera by the outcome assessor (MS) after 3 months (T1) and 6 months (T2)
           of orthodontic treatment.

        3. Preparation of Acidulated Phosphorus Fluoride (Comparator):

      Acidulated Phosphorus Fluoride gel will be applied directly over the labial enamel surface
      extending from gingival surface of the bracket to the free gingival margin using a small
      brush/swab to spread the gel over the surface. The gel will be left in place for four minutes
      then washed. Patients will be instructed not to rinse, eat, drink or smoke for the next 30
      minutes.
    
  