
    
      Recent studies have explored the prognostic role of TDI-derived parameters in major cardiac
      diseases, such as heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, and hypertension.(1-3). In
      these conditions, myocardial mitral annular or basal segmental (Sm) systolic and early
      diastolic (Ea or Em) velocities have been shown to predict mortality or cardiovascular
      events. In particular, those with reduced Sm or Em values of <3 cm/s have a very poor
      prognosis. In heart failure and after myocardial infarction, noninvasive assessment of LV
      diastolic pressure by transmitral to mitral annular early diastolic velocity ratio (E/Ea or
      E/Em) is a strong prognosticator, especially when E/Ea is > or =15. (3) Conventional Doppler
      indices and TDI parameters correlated with functional class in patients with advanced heart
      failure. The E/E' ratio, which probably reflects high LV end-diastolic pressure, was the best
      measure for differentiating patients with functional class III and IV, and it also correlated
      with cardiac mortality and hospitalization for worsening heart failure, thereby providing
      additional value to standard echocardiographic measures(4-5) In our study we'll try to
      demonstrate that clinical deterioration of patients with LV systolic dysfunction directly
      correlates with parameters of their diastolic function and that these parameters more
      predictable than changes in LVEF.

      This study will be performed on the base of Natania Heart Institute (out of hospital clinic).

      Within community-based population study we'll select the patients with LV systolic
      dysfunction.

      The participants will be classified according to their LV systolic function, functional class
      (NYHA) of HF.

      Approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled.

      The participants will be evaluate according their baseline features, clinical status using
      EQ-5D score, KCCQ Overall Summary Score, KCCQ Symptom Frequency Score.

      After enrolment all our patients will undergo:

        1. Maximal work capacity testing (in METS) per BRUCE protocol,

        2. HR response estimation,

        3. 6-min walk test (to walk down 100 foot corridor to cover as much as possible in 6min)

        4. VO2 estimation using the knowing formula VO2 (mlO2/kg/min) =
           (mphX2.68)+(1.8X26.82XmphXgrade+100)+3.5 1MET =3.5 ml Q2/kg/min

        5. Echocardiography will be performed by VIVID -7 with 3.7 MHz probe All subjects examined
           with color TDI, FPV, two-dimensional and M-mode echo in the left lateral decubitus
           position.

      Follow-up Follow-up at least 2 years With out patients clinical evaluation monthly Exercise
      capacity evaluation every 3 mo Echocardiography one in half a year
    
  