
    
      OBJECTIVES

      This is a randomized, controlled trial that will test the hypothesis that
      replication-competent adenovirus-mediated suicide gene therapy in combination with 80 Gy
      intensity modulated radiotherapy (IRMT)will improve freedom from failure (FFF) relative to 80
      Gy IMRT alone in patients with newly-diagnosed prostate cancer with an intermediate-risk
      profile.

      The trial contains two treatment arms:

      Arm 1- Gene Therapy + IMRT Arm 2- IMRT

      The study will be stratified by clinical site and pre-treatment risk factors (e.g., %
      positive biopsy cores, Gleason score.

        -  Gleason score 5/6 AND PSA <10 ng/mL; AND >=50% positive biopsy cores

        -  (Gleason score 5/6 and PSA 10-20 ng/mL) OR (Gleason score 7 and PSA 0 - 20 ng/mL); AND
           <50% positive biopsy cores

        -  Gleason score 5/6 and PSA 10-20 ng/mL) OR (Gleason score 7 and PSA 0-20 ng/mL) AND >=50%
           positive biopsy cores.

      An interim safety analysis (Interim Analysis 1) will be conducted after the first 21 patients
      in the investigational therapy arm, and a total of 42 subjects in both arms, have completed
      the 90 day toxicity assessment following randomization (phase 2 component). If, at this
      point, there are no safety concerns as determined by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board
      (DSMB), the trial will continue as a phase 3 study with two additional interim analyses
      (Interim Analyses 2 & 3). The primary analysis for treatment efficacy will be based on all
      randomized subjects.

      Primary

      To assess the relative efficacy of replication-competent adenovirus-mediated suicide gene
      therapy in combination with 80 Gy intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) versus 80 Gy IMRT
      alone in patients with newly-diagnosed prostate cancer with an intermediate-risk profile. The
      primary endpoint is freedom from failure (FFF) (biochemical or clinical).

      Secondary

      To assess the difference between the two treatment arms for:

        -  Acute (<= 90 days) and long-term (> 90 days) toxicity.

        -  Prostate biopsy status (12 cores) at 2 years.

        -  Freedom from distant metastases.

        -  Disease-specific and overall survival.

        -  Quality of life.

      Exploratory

      To examine:

        -  Possible effect of gene therapy on PSA doubling time (PSADT) after PSA failure.

        -  Possible association between the primary and secondary outcomes and
           Ad5-yCD/mutTKSR39rep-ADP adenovirus persistence (as measured by adenoviral DNA in
           blood).

        -  Possible association between the primary and secondary outcomes and specific
           immunological endpoints including levels of circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes,
           T-cell proliferation response, cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response, and development of
           antibodies to prostate-specific antigens.
    
  