
    
      The investigators have conducted several studies aimed at establishing the optimum PIEB
      regimen for the patient population at Mount Sinai Hospital. The first study was to determine
      the effective interval of PIEB in 90% of women during first stage of labor (EI90), while
      using a fixed bolus of 10 mL of bupivacaine 0.0625% with fentanyl 2 μg/mL. This study showed
      that the PIEB time interval to provide effective analgesia is approximately 40 minutes, which
      corresponds to an hourly consumption of 9.4 mg of bupivacaine. In that study, however, 44% of
      the women experienced sensory blocks to ice above the T6 level (although not associated with
      motor block or hypotension).

      The investigators subsequently conducted another study with the same anesthetic solution and
      the same PIEB interval of 40 minutes, to determine the effective volume (dose) of local
      anesthetic to produce the same outcome of effective analgesia without breakthrough pain. The
      conclusion was that the volume (dose) could not be reduced without compromising efficacy of
      the technique, and not surprisingly, the sensory block distribution was very similar to that
      in the first study. The investigators believe that the high sensory block levels obtained the
      previous studies and in other studies in the literature suggest an imperfect use of the
      technique, with an exaggerated and unnecessary spread of the epidural mixture. The
      investigators then conducted a third study to determine the effective time interval between
      boluses of more concentrated bupivacaine 0.125% 5ml plus fentanyl 2 mcg/ml. The EI90 for
      boluses of 5ml of bupivacaine 0.125% with fentanyl 2 mcg/mL was found to be approximately 35
      minutes. Similar to the two previous studies, the incidence of women exhibiting sensory block
      to ice >T6 was still high, approximately 58.4%.

      This study will further pursue the effect of volume reduction while maintaining the dose of
      local anesthetic. It may be true that a bolus of 5mL was still too large of a volume to limit
      the epidural spread. A more limited spread could lead to better usage of the local
      anesthetic, even reducing its hourly consumption.
    
  