
    
      Background:

        -  We generated a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that engages CD70 using its natural
           ligand CD27, as the binding moiety. Transducing peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) with
           this CAR conveys major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-independent recognition of
           CD70-expressing target cells, which include renal cell carcinoma and other cancers.

        -  In co-cultures with CD70+ target cells, anti-hCD70 CAR transduced T cells secrete
           significant amounts of IFN-gamma with high specificity.

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives:

        -  Phase I: Determine the safety of administering PBL transduced with anti-hCD70 CAR in
           concert with preparative lymphodepletion and high dose interleukin-2 (IL-2;
           aldesleukin).

        -  Phase II: Determine if anti-hCD70 CAR-transduced PBL can mediate the regression of CD70
           expressing tumors.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must be/have:

           --Metastatic or unresectable CD70-expressing cancer which has progressed after standard
           therapy

        -  Patients may not have:

             -  Allergies or hypersensitivities to high-dose aldesleukin, cyclophosphamide, or
                fludarabine.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase I/II, single center study of PBL transduced with anti-hCD70 CAR in
           patients with measurable, unresectable cancer expressing CD70.

        -  PBMC obtained by leukapheresis will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (OKT3) and
           aldesleukin in order to stimulate T-cell growth.

        -  Transduction is initiated by exposure of these cells to retroviral vector supernatant
           containing replication-incompetent virus encoding the anti-hCD70 CAR.

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative regimen of
           cyclophosphamide and fludarabine.

        -  On day 0, patients will receive PBL transduced with the anti-hCD70 CAR and will then
           begin high-dose aldesleukin.

        -  A complete evaluation of lesions will be conducted approximately 6 weeks (plus or minus
           two weeks) after treatment.

        -  The study will be conducted using a Phase I/II optimal design, with two separate cohorts
           for the Phase II component:Cohort 2a, patients with CD70-expressing clear cell renal
           cell carcinoma (RCC), and Cohort 2b, patients with a CD70-expressing non-RCC malignancy
           (solid tumors only).

        -  A total of up to 124 patients may be required; approximately 38 patients in the Phase I
           portion of the study and 43 (41, plus an allowance of up to 2 non-evaluable) patients in
           each cohort of the Phase II portion of the study.
    
  