
    
      The percentage of elderly individuals (65+) in the society of Israel is 10.6%. As life-span
      increases, this percentage is expected to reach 15% in 2035. According to the Central Bureau
      of Statistics of Israel regarding the injuries and fatalities of road users, about 14% of the
      injuries and about 42% of the fatalities are pedestrians. Older pedestrians are about 22% of
      the pedestrians, twice their part in the population. Ageing effects on balance, mobility and
      executive functions (especially working memory and inhibitory control) might partially
      explain these statistics.

      Changes in cerebellar functional plasticity may mediate between the decline in balance,
      mobility and some executive functions during elderly. Studies have shown age-related decrease
      in structural morphology and function of the cerebellum. The traditional functions of the
      cerebellum mainly include involvement in the coordination of motor movements, maintenance of
      balance, and motor learning. Interestingly, studies have found that cerebellar alpha power
      has an important role in voluntary movement, as well as in higher non-motor cognitive
      functions such as working memory. Cerebellar activation during working memory task may reﬂect
      the automated simulation of cognitive operations.

      Various forms of physical interventions were found beneficial to promote balance, mobility
      and executive function of working memory and inhibitory control performances and optimize
      brain structure and function during elderly. The environment in which the physical
      intervention occurs is important. Therefore, changing the environment of intervention from
      on-land to aquatic may result in changing of cerebellar activity, thereby influence on
      balance, mobility, working memory and inhibitory control abilities proven to be functions
      connected to the cerebellum.

      Due to the characteristics of water (such as density and viscosity), an immersed individual
      is exposed to physical forces (e.g. specific gravity, thermodynamics and the meta-centric
      effect) that do not exist on land. Immersion improves balancing abilities by increasing the
      proprioceptive input to the immersed body. Sensory feedback is increased by promoting a sense
      of body awareness, as resistance to movement through water is greater than resistance to
      movement through air. In support of this view, a recent Magnetoencephalography (MEG) study
      among adults has shown improved verbal working memory ability following one month of
      intensive aquatic physical intervention. Improved verbal working memory was positively
      correlated with increased right cerebellar alpha power. In the purpose study we examine the
      effects of physical intervention in different environments on balance, mobility, working
      memory and inhibitory control abilities and brain activity in order to decrease aging effects
      that in turn might lower fall risk, increase safety of road users and improve planning and
      organizing everyday activities among community-dwelling older individuals.
    
  