
    
      Background:

        -  Persons may be prone to develop melanoma for a variety of reasons including: family
           history; environmental exposures; other malignant or premalignant conditions which may
           or may not be heritable; immune deficiency; or, preneoplastic conditions such as
           dysplastic nevi.

        -  Investigations of individuals and families at high risk of melanoma have led to
           etiologic clues that are important in the general population.

        -  Identification of melanoma susceptibility genes, the estimation of their effects, and
           gene-covariate and gene-gene interactions could improve prevention, screening and
           treatment of this cancer.

      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate and define the clinical spectrum and natural history of disease in syndromes
           predisposing to melanoma.

        -  To evaluate potential precursor states of disease in families at risk.

        -  To quantify risks of melanoma, pancreatic cancer, and other cancers in family members.

        -  To map, clone, and determine function of tumor susceptibility genes in melanoma-prone
           families, including modifier genes such as pigmentation or dysplastic nevi genes.

        -  To identify genetic determinants and gene-environmental interactions conferring melanoma
           (and other cancer) risk in individuals and families.

        -  To evaluate gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in melanoma (and other cancer)
           formation.

        -  To educate and counsel study participants about their melanoma risk and methods for
           primary and secondary prevention of melanoma.

        -  To develop educational materials for medical professionals and high-risk family members.

      Eligibility:

      Persons of any age will be considered if,

        -  There is a family or personal medical history of melanoma of an unusual type, pattern,
           or number; or,

        -  There are known or suspected factor(s) predisposing to melanoma, either genetic or
           congenital factors, or unusual demographic features.

        -  For familial melanoma, three or more living affected cases with invasive melanoma among
           family members are required.

      Design:

        -  This is a prospective study. Families are studied long-term using a cohort approach.

        -  Two melanoma susceptibility genes have been identified, but it is likely others are yet
           to be found. We are also exploring potential modifier genes in participating families.

        -  The affection status of each participant, information on their skin examination, sun
           exposure history, medical photographs (both overview and close-up) and blood draw for
           localizing genetic loci, identifying genes and evaluating phenotype/genotype
           correlations, constitute the workup for newly recruited families.

        -  Study volunteers are reevaluated every few years to document changes in their skin exam
           over time. This is essential for establishing the natural history of dysplastic nevi and
           melanoma.
    
  