
    
      The study proposed in this application is a part of a larger project entitled "Clinical
      utility of radiographic texture analysis in diagnosing and treating osteoporosis". The
      overall goal of the larger project is to determine whether computerized texture analysis of
      digitized high-resolution images of trabecular bone (texture analysis) improves our ability
      to diagnose bone fragility and follow natural history and/or response to pharmacological
      therapy of osteoporosis. In the study proposed here we plan to examine changes in the results
      of texture analysis during two years of pharmacological therapy for osteoporosis.

      Role of densitometry in osteoporosis:

      Measurement of bone mineral density is the principal diagnostic method used in clinical
      practice and in research studies, both to identify patients who have the disease and to
      follow their response to therapeutic agents. The technique used most widely is dual-energy
      X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), which has advantages of low cost and radiation exposure, and high
      precision and accuracy of 1-2% and 4-8%, respectively [Garner, 1996 and Melton, 1990]. Based
      on the association between the low BMD and increased risk of fracture, BMD-based treatment
      guidelines have been developed [Melton, 1993 and National Osteoporosis Foundation, 1999].
      There is, however, a considerable overlap between BMD of patients who sustain fragility
      fractures and those who do not [Cummings, 1993; Marshall, 1996; Melton, 1989; Ross, 1990 and
      Wasnich, 1990]. The problem arises because the fragility is determined not only by the
      quantity of the bone (measured as bone density), but also by its "quality" which is believed
      to be related to the preservation of the normal trabecular pattern [Parfitt, 1987]. Bone
      quality is not specifically assessed using current diagnostic methods. Information about bone
      quality, however, would be of substantial clinical and scientific value, as it would
      complement the BMD measurement when selecting patients for therapy and when studying bone
      loss or assessing effects of therapeutic agents.

      Texture analysis:

      A novel approach to noninvasive and practical assessment of bone structure is to analyze the
      texture of high resolution radiographs of trabecular bone [Link, 1999]. Dr. Giger has
      developed a method for characterizing bone structure by computerized texture analysis of
      digitized high-resolution radiographs [Jiang, 1999; Caligiuri, 1993; Caligiuri, 1994;
      Chinander, 1999 and Chinander, 2000]. In this approach, the texture is analyzed in several
      ways, including Fourier based analysis, which yields root mean square (RMS) as a measure of
      magnitude of trabecular bone texture pattern, and the first moment of power spectrum (FMP)
      which characterizes the texture pattern's frequency; and Minkowski dimension fractal analysis
      [Caligiuri, 1993; Chinander, 1999; Chinander, 2000; Benhamou, 1994; Jiang, 1999; Majumdar,
      1993 and Maragos, 1994]. Radiographic texture analysis has been studied in vivo, on lumbar
      spine radiographs and found to predict presence of vertebral fractures elsewhere in the spine
      more reliably than did the BMD of the spine [Caligiuri, 1993 and Caligiuri, 1994;]. In
      addition, in an in vitro study texture features as well as BMD were analyzed in femoral neck
      specimens obtained during surgical hip replacement. Mechanical loading (crush test) was then
      performed on cubes of trabecular bone machined from these specimens to determine their bone
      strength. It was found that the combination of BMD and texture analysis predicted bone
      strength better than BMD alone [Jiang, 1999; Chinander, 1999 and Chinander, 2000].

      Biochemical markers of bone turnover:

      In studies of osteoporosis, the bone mass is assessed by measuring BMD while the metabolic
      activity of the bone is assessed by measuring the biochemical markers of bone turnover
      [Looker, 2000]. These markers have limited utility in individual patients because they have
      high within-person variability (low precision), and because it is not clear which markers are
      useful in which clinical situation [Looker, 2000 and Bauer, 1999]. In contrast, comparing
      biochemical markers between groups of patients in clinical studies has been found to be
      useful in two settings. Firstly, it has been found that high levels of biochemical markers of
      bone resorption predict fractures independent of BMD [Garnero, 1996 and van Daele, 1996].
      Secondly, early changes in bone markers (at 3-6 months) during anti-resorptive therapy
      predict later changes in BMD and fracture rates [Ravin, 1999; Greenspan, 1998; Chesnut, 1997
      and Bjarnason, 1997]. The mechanisms underlying these observations have not been elucidated
      to date. It is speculated that increased bone resorption, which is reflected in elevation of
      biochemical markers of bone turnover, increases fragility by weakening trabecular structure
      prior to or independent of measurable BMD changes. Similarly, decreased bone resorption
      during pharmacological therapy is likely to improve the trabecular structure before or
      independent of its effects on BMD. Since the aim of our research is to (indirectly) examine
      the trabecular structure by performing the radiographic texture analysis, we plan to
      determine whether the changes in biochemical markers of bone turnover during antiresorptive
      therapy will correlate with changes in the results of texture analysis.

      Rationale for the study:

      Anti-resorptive therapy reduces bone fragility and increases bone density. It is likely that
      the trabecular structure of the bone also changes during treatment. Peripheral densitometry
      has not been used so far to monitor response to therapy. If the combination of texture
      analysis and peripheral BMD change reproducibly during treatment it may be possible to employ
      this combination to monitor therapeutic response. In so doing, one could avoid the need to
      use the central densitometry and biochemical markers of bone turnover since the former is
      cumbersome while the latter suffers from low precision.

      Potential advantages of using a portable peripheral densitometer: The texture analyses
      described above were developed for high-resolution radiographs, which were digitized and
      subjected to computer analysis. The new DXA imaging systems such as GE/Lunar PIXI which will
      be used in our research, provide digital images with resolution sufficient for computerized
      texture analysis (200 micron pixels). Furthermore, PIXI can generate the image in a shorter
      time (seconds vs. minutes) and at a fraction of radiation dose of conventional radiographs.
      Finally, since this is a portable densitometer, the methodology developed in this proposal
      has the potential to be widely applicable to large segments of the population, including
      frail elderly who have limited mobility and high prevalence of osteoporosis.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      The studies will be performed in the outpatient facility of the University of Chicago. Every
      3 months for the first 6 months and every 6 months for the remainder of 2 years, the subjects
      will come in the morning in the fasting state, provide a urine sample (second morning void)
      and blood sample for measurement of biochemical markers of bone turnover. Height and weight
      will be recorded at each visit, and any change in health status, including fractures
      ascertained. We will also assess other factors known to influence bone turnover, such as diet
      and physical activity. Every 12 months, the subjects will fill out Block food frequency
      questionnaire from Berkley Nutrition Services. In addition, every 6 months they will fill out
      a calcium intake questionnaire, which will be analyzed by the nutritionist and a short
      physical activity questionnaire, which was used in PEPI trial for assessment of physical
      activity. Medication compliance will be assessed by questioning the patients and counting the
      number of calcium and alendronate tablets remaining from the previous visit.

      After these tests are completed, the subjects will go to the densitometry suite of the
      Endocrinology clinic where BMD will be measured and heel images obtained for texture
      analysis. The left heel will be scanned twice using the PIXI densitometer (GE/Lunar
      corporation) for measurement of BMD of the heel and texture analysis. (If there is a
      deformity of the left heel, right heel will be used for all examinations.) In addition, every
      6 months, BMD of the lumbar spine and proximal femur will be measured using the central
      densitometer Prodigy (GE/Lunar corporation). The same instrument will be used for lateral
      vertebral assessment (a method used for detecting vertebral deformities on images of the
      lateral spine from the densitometer), which will be performed every 12 months.
    
  