
    
      This is a multicenter, open-label non-comparative, observational patient registry conducted
      at 15 to 20 clinical sites.

      Patients who have agreed participate and have signed an informed patient consent prior to
      surgery will be included. Follow-up visits will be performed at the following time points:
      baseline (pre-and postoperative), at 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months, and (12) months (for
      patients with insufficient signs of healing at the 6 months visit; otherwise preferable
      visit).

      To minimize potential bias of the observational study design, a reasonable sample of
      investigators and sites (15-20 sites), and patients (up to 200 patients) are selected.
      Furthermore, data will be analyzed by an independent Contract Research Organization, and
      objective outcome measures are used eg, WOMAC, QuickDASH, fracture healing.

      All data collected on the electronic case report forms (eCRF) for this registry will be
      de-identified. Each patient will be assigned to a unique reference number. eCRFs are
      confidential documents and will only be available to the Sponsor (including Sponsor
      delegates, like clinical research associates (CRAs), the Investigator, the investigation
      statistician, and if requested to the advisory committee, ethical committees and regulatory
      authorities. The key to link the unique reference number to the patient will be kept in the
      investigation file by the Principal Investigator for each investigation site.

      Registry procedures:

      Baseline visit/Pre-Op:

        -  Potential study patients are informed about the study by the Investigator (or delegate)

        -  All inclusion and exclusion criteria are checked to determine if the patient can
           participate in the registry

        -  Prior to any registry-specific examination, the patient gives written informed consent
           (IC) and the IC form is placed into the patient's medical record. A copy of the IC and
           the written patient information is handed over to the patient

        -  Collection of demographic data, medical history (Charlson Comorbidity Score(49;50)),
           concomitant medications, fracture characteristics and accident/injury information

        -  Collection of X-rays: all imaging procedures are organized and prepared for the
           transmission to the Clinical Research Organization (CRO) as outlined in the imaging
           manual

        -  Documentation of study-specific questionnaires (QuickDASH, WOMAC, EQ-5D) based on the
           reported pre-injury status

        -  The data are entered into the eCRF

      Intra- and postoperative procedures:

      All surgical procedures will be done per the standard of care at the treating institution.
      Aftercare and rehabilitation procedures will be left to the surgeons' discretion.

      Follow-up visits:

        -  Post-operative: before hospital discharge

        -  6 weeks (7 - 56 days)

        -  12 weeks (57 - 120 days)

        -  6 month (121 -270 days)

        -  (12 month (271 - 425)): for patients with insufficient signs of healing at the 6 months
           visit; otherwise preferable visit

      The following procedures are performed during these visits:

        -  Assessment of fracture healing

        -  Assessment of physical function and symptoms (QuickDASH*, WOMAC*, weight bearing or load
           on the affected extremity status)

        -  Screening for AE or serious AE including documentation and reporting

        -  Documentation and reporting of secondary surgical interventions due to device or
           procedure related Adverse events

        -  Assessment of health-related quality of life (EQ-5D*)

        -  Collection of X-rays

        -  Data entry into the eCRF.

        -  Appointment for the next visit

      Clinical Investigation Administration:

      The clinical investigator(s) will permit registry-related monitoring, audits, ethics
      committee review and regulatory inspection(s), thereby providing direct access to the
      facilities, personnel and to source data/documents on request. The Sponsor's staff or
      representatives will closely monitor the conduct of the registry so that any questions and
      problems that may arise can be promptly resolved. Such monitoring will also ensure that the
      registry is conducted in accordance with this registry protocol, including all amendments and
      with the requirements of national regulations and ISO 14155.

      Monitoring will involve periodic visits, by the Sponsor's representative to the investigation
      site to verify compliance with all requirements of the registry, to observe procedures and to
      audit the registry for quality control purposes (presence of required documents, informed
      consent and for comparison of the case report forms with source data). The frequency of these
      periodic visits will depend on the enrolment rate and whether there are any difficulties in
      running the registry in a given site. A monitoring plan describes all monitoring procedures
      in detail.

      On-site audits may take place and are independent of and separate from routine monitoring or
      quality control functions. They may take place at various stages during the registry. The
      clinical investigator/s will be informed in writing and/or by telephone in a timely manner
      that an independent audit is to take place along with the scope of the audit, a date and
      timelines involved. Whenever possible, the auditor will be accompanied by the responsible CRA
      or Sponsor's representative. The auditor may stay at the registry site as long as deemed
      necessary.

      In order to ensure quality of the data, all relevant registry documents (registry protocol,
      case report forms, patient information) will be reviewed by a person not involved in the
      set-up and management of the registry. The results of the audit will be documented in an
      audit report and any corrective actions needed from the Investigator communicated to the
      Principal Investigator.

      In general, data collected in the hospital patient charts are considered as source data. In
      order to facilitate data collection at the investigation sites, a set of source worksheets
      (SW) based on all variables outlined in the registry protocol will be provided. Data that is
      not routinely documented in the hospital chart is collected on these worksheets and
      therefore, the worksheet is considered to be the source document and has to be kept at the
      investigation site accordingly. Data collected on patient and surgeon questionnaires are also
      considered as source data.

      Source data will be entered by site staff into a web-based Electronic Data Capture (EDC)
      system and managed according to a detailed pre-specified Data Management Plan. The
      Investigator or site coordinator shall complete the eCRF in a timely manner after a patient's
      visit ie, not later than 10 days after the occurrence of a documentable event.

      Completed eCRFs will be verified against source data (ie, source data verification).

      Investigators shall provide access to the hospital files and any other medical source
      document containing patient's clinical/medical information, to the company representative to
      allow source document verification.

      The clinical Investigator is asked to keep a list with full names of all patients
      participating in the registry, giving reference to the patient records.

      After the completion of the registry, an electronic copy of the data collected at each
      investigation clinic will be provided.

      Radiographic images will be collected as per standard imaging procedures (standard of care)
      at the investigation site following patient examinations at discharge, 6 and 12 weeks, 6 and
      (12) months. Digital de-identified images will be sent to GCTM. Transfer of imaging data to
      GCTM and handling of the de-identified imaging data at GCTM will be performed according to
      GCTM standard procedures. More details are described in the imaging manual.

      Images relevant for the registry will be retained de-identified electronically as part of the
      TMF in accordance with relevant guidelines.

      The central registry database will be monitored by GCTM representative and queries will be
      made on a regular basis to each participating site as needed to ensure the quality and
      integrity of the data.

      Data management will be performed by GCTM. Data handling and protection are conducted
      according to the guidelines of International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14155 and
      applicable regulations.

      A study specific Data Management Plan describes all details of data management and quality
      control of the study database at GCTM.

      All trial-related essential documents (i.e. documents which individually and collectively
      permit evaluation of the conduct of an observational study and the quality of the data
      produced) will be retained by the clinical Investigator for at least 15 years after the end
      of the registry or as per national requirements. In case where this is not possible, the
      Sponsor will organize archiving facilities for the source data, in accordance with data
      confidentiality regulations. The Sponsor will inform the clinical investigator(s) in writing
      when these documents no longer need to be retained.

      The Sponsor will retain specific essential documents in the Trial Master File (TMF) according
      to the relevant guidelines.

      The Principal Investigator at each investigation site has the primary responsibility for
      patients' treatment, follow-up and overall compliance with the registry protocol, national
      regulatory requirements and the requirements of ISO 14155. It is advisable that the
      investigation site appoints a study coordinator who can become the primary point of contact
      for the CRA concerning overall registry administrative matters.

      All Investigators using the DLS in the registry must be trained on the registry device, the
      registry protocol requirements, national regulations and requirements of the ISO 14155 prior
      to becoming involved in the patient registry and include their curriculum vitae (CV) in the
      Investigator file with a copy for the Sponsor' TMF. This training shall be documented by the
      CRA and/or the Principal Investigator on the site personnel log along with the authorized
      tasks the Principal Investigator delegates to each team member and an identification of
      signature.

      The registry obligations for the Sponsor, the Clinical Research Associate, and the
      Investigator are followed as outlined in the ISO14155 and any applicable regulation, and
      reviewed with the Investigator prior to the start of the registry.
    
  