
    
      Study Design:

      This is a prospective, single-institution, parallel-group, single-blinded,
      randomized-controlled, two-arm, effectiveness study comparing bupivacaine liposomal
      injectable suspension (Exparel®) versus regular bupivacaine hydrochloride (HCl).

      Procedure:

      In patients aged 18 and over who require sternotomy, thoracotomy, mini-thoracotomy, or
      laparotomy incisions will be screened and consented for potential enrollment. Patients will
      be randomized following consenting to either Exparel® or regular bupivacaine hydrochloride
      group.

      Course of Study:

      The study will accrue patients over the course of 4 years.

      Enrollment:

      Enrollment will consist of all adult patients aged 18 and over undergoing surgical procedures
      requiring sternotomy, thoracotomy, mini-thoracotomy, or laparotomy incisions. Patients will
      be screened and consented preoperatively. If the patient is deemed eligible and consents to
      participate, randomization will occur and the patient will be considered enrolled.

      Recruitment:

      The target for enrollment will be 280 patients (the study target sample size per power
      analysis, but actual enrollment will be greater (330 patients) to account for exclusions for
      various reasons in order to achieve the target recruitment).

      Risks:

      There is a small increased risk to the patients by participating in the study in addition to
      a possible chance of breach in patient confidentiality as the study involves evaluation of an
      FDA-approved drug. As detailed in the informed consent, the subjects are at risk of
      developing adverse effects from Exparel®, described on the drug packet insert and from HCl
      Bupivacaine, also described on the drug packet insert. The investigators do not expect any
      additional physical risks other than an unintentional disclosure of sensitive patient health
      information.

      Data Safety Monitoring:

      As the Principal Investigator of this study, Dr. Charlton-Ouw from the Department of
      Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery at The University of Texas at Houston Medical School will
      conduct the data safety monitoring of this study. He will annually meet with all other
      co-investigators to review the patients enrolled in this study. As part of the data safety
      monitoring plan, all patients enrolled until that point in time would be unblinded in order
      to review the outcomes. Additionally, in view of the uncertainty attached to the treatment
      effects in this heterogeneous population, owing to limited currently available data, an
      independent Data Safety Monitoring Committee, will oversee the progress of the trial.

      IND#:

      The drugs that will be used are already approved by the FDA and do not have IND/IDE#

      Proposed Funding Source:

      The study is internally funded and is investigator-initiated.

      Communication of Study Results:

      The communication of study results will occur only between authorized individuals who are
      listed to take part in the study through our department. The individuals who will take part
      in the study will acknowledge and adhere to the importance of patient safety and the
      protection of their private information. The results of this study will be analyzed and
      published after the approval of the principal investigator, co-investigators, and
      biostatistician in a peer-reviewed scientific journal and/or presented at an
      international/national scientific conference or meeting regardless of outcome.
    
  