
    
      Total knee prosthesis (PTG) is a widespread surgical procedure that aims to treat severe knee
      osteoarthritis. This type of intervention has proved successful in reducing chronic pain
      caused by osteoarthritis and in improving the motor performance of the operated subject as
      well as the quality of life even if the functional outcome after this procedure is still
      limited, especially in the execution of more complex and demanding motor tasks (e.g. climbing
      and descending stairs, walking on unstable surfaces, maximum knee flexion under load) due to
      the difficulty in finding a prosthetic design that mimics the natural joint biomechanics of a
      non-arthrosic knee.

      Medial Pivot (MP) knee prostheses have been designed to meet these requirements by
      replicating the morphology of the healthy knee, characterized by a medial compartment with a
      stable conformation and a movable lateral compartment that moves by rotating around the pivot
      point. Despite the theoretical premises of this prosthetic model, in literature very few
      studies have investigated how the MP design translates into an improvement of the functional
      outcome of the subject operated during the journey, while no study has ever been conducted to
      evaluate the functional outcome during the execution of more demanding motor tasks although
      the subjects who undergo knee arthroplasty are always younger and more and more active, with
      increasingly higher functional needs. To date, gait analysis, a non-invasive functional
      assessment method that provides objective and quantitative data about spatio-temporal
      parameters, kinematics, kinetics and muscle activation, represents the Gold Standard for the
      assessment of functional outcome both in healthy patients and in patients subjected to
      prosthetic surgery.

      The purpose of the present pilot study is to evaluate, through gait analysis and rating
      scales, the functional outcome during the execution of motor tasks with high functional
      demand such as walking on an unstable surface, stair ascent and descent, maximal knee flexion
      under load (lunge) on a sample of 20 subjects candidates to cemented total knee arthroplasty
      with MP design at the Orthopedic and Traumatology Clinic 2nd of the Rizzoli Orthopedic
      Institute. The parameters obtained will be compared with the parameters of healthy subjects
      comparable by age and Body Max Index (BMI) already acquired at the Movement Analysis
      Laboratory of the Rizzoli Orthopedic Institute, where the study will be conducted.

      The pilot study is necessary to carry out a preliminary assessment of the functional outcome
      and joint biomechanics of the knee prosthesis with the gait analysis method never performed
      in other studies during the execution of demanding motor tasks, with high functional demand.
      The collection of information and data obtained will allow the appropriate calculation of the
      sample useful for a subsequent study.

      During the pre-hospitalization visit, participation in the study will be proposed to those
      who meet the inclusion criteria. If the subject accepts, he will be recruited and will have
      to sign the informed consent to the study.

      On the day of admission to the ward (generally the day before the scheduled surgery), the
      enrolled patients will undergo the evaluation scales and gait analysis at the Institute's
      Movement Analysis Laboratory.

      The patients will be operated by the team of the Traumatological Orthopedic Clinic 2nd
      through the implantation of a cemented total knee prosthesis MP (Evolution medial-pivot knee
      system, MicroPort Orthopedics). Anterior knee access with medial para-patellar capsulotomy
      and standard instruments will be used according to current standards of good clinical
      practice.

      In the post-operative period, patients will carry out post-surgical rehabilitation following
      normal clinical practice.

      The patients will be re-evaluated at a 6-month follow-up through gait analysis and evaluation
      scales on the occasion of the control visit that takes place, according to the normal
      clinical practice at the Institute.
    
  