
    
      This is an exploratory pilot study to determine the safety and efficacy of autologous,
      micro-fragmented adipose tissue (Lipogems®) injection under ultrasound guidance for chronic,
      nonresponsive shoulder pain due to rotator cuff disease (i.e., rotator cuff tendinopathy) in
      persons with spinal cord injury (SCI). Twelve (12) persons with SCI who have chronic shoulder
      pain for longer than 6 months in spite of completing conservative treatment who are diagnosed
      with rotator cuff disease on examination. Micro-fragmented adipose tissue will be obtained by
      using a minimal manipulation technique in a closed system (Lipogems®), without the addition
      of enzymes or any additives. The final product will consist of micronized fat tissue yielding
      fat clusters with preserved vascular stroma of about 500 microns with intact stromal vascular
      niches and harboring regenerative cellular elements. Approximately 6 mL of micro-fragmented
      adipose will be injected into the tendon with a 22-gauge needle under continuous ultrasound
      guidance. No other biological or pharmacological agents will be used in combination with the
      micro-fragmented adipose. After 24 hours, subjects will be given a standardized stretching
      protocol to follow for 4 weeks followed by a formal strengthening program. Participants will
      be followed for adverse events and changes in shoulder pain intensity on an 11-point
      numerical rating scale (NRS; 0-10, with anchors "no pain" and "pain as bad as you can
      imagine"); the Wheelchair User's Shoulder Pain Index (WUSPI; 15-item disease-specific
      functional measure of shoulder pain in persons with SCI); the Brief Pain Inventory
      interference items (BPI-I7; a subscale of 7 items measuring interference with general
      activity, sleep, mood, relationships, etc.); and a 5-point subject global impression of
      change (SGIC) scale. Subjects will be examined at 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, and 6 months
      after the treatment. Follow-up shoulder ultrasound will be performed at 6 months.
    
  