
    
      It has been well established that carbohydrate (CHO) ingestion during prolonged, moderate- to
      high-intensity endurance-type exercise can delay the onset of fatigue and enhance exercise
      performance. Interestingly, several studies have reported that CHO ingestion can also improve
      performance during more intense exercise of short duration-less than 45-60 min. However,
      there is no apparent metabolic explanation for this improvement, because endogenous CHO
      stores should not limit exercise performance during short duration exercise tasks. To examine
      exogenous and endogenous glucose kinetics during high-intensity cycling exercise, Carter and
      colleagues tested 6 endurance athletes for 1 h at 75% Wmax while infusing either 20% glucose
      or 0.9% saline. Despite greater plasma glucose availability in the glucose-infusion trial,
      total CHO oxidation rates did not differ between treatments. Moreover, no performance
      benefits were observed after intravenous glucose administration. Consequently, the authors
      suggested that CHO ingestion during high-intensity exercise of short duration might exert its
      ergogenic effect by acting through the central nervous system, possibly mediated by glucose
      receptors in the mouth or gastrointestinal tract.

      To test this hypothesis, Carter and colleagues investigated the impact of a carbohydrate
      mouth-rinse solution on 1-h time trial performance. The use of a mouth-rinse treatment, in
      which a CHO solution is spat out without swallowing, was chosen to remove any influence of
      the gut or exogenous CHO oxidation on performance. Participants were reported to cycle faster
      after a mouth rinse with a 6.4% maltodextrin solution at every 12.5% of the trial completed
      compared with a placebo rinse. The authors concluded that CHO mouth rinsing improves time
      trial performance and that the mechanism responsible might be an increase in central drive or
      motivation mediated by glucose receptors in the mouth. However in the former study, subjects
      were tested in a fasted state, which is impractical compared to how athletes normally prepare
      for training and competition.

      In follow-up to the former study, we tested the performance effect of a carbohydrate mouth
      rinse 2 h after subjects ingested a CHO rich meal. From an evolutionary viewpoint, it can be
      speculated that the potential stimulating effect of glucose in the mouth might be of
      considerable impact under conditions when liver glycogen stores might be compromised. In
      agreement with this theory, there was no performance improvement with a CHO mouth rinse
      during time trial performance 2 h following the ingestion of a CHO -rich meal. However, as
      there are now studies demonstrating results both for and against any ergogenic effect of a
      CHO mouth rinse during short duration time trials it remains to be determined whether CHO
      mouth rinse improves performance during a 1 h time trial in the fasted state only. Therefore,
      the present study aims to investigate any potential ergogenic effect of a CHO mouth rinse
      during a 1 h time trial performance in both the fasted and fed state.
    
  