
    
      Hypertension affects approximately 50 million individuals in the United States. As the
      population ages, the prevalence of hypertension will continue to increase if broad and
      effective preventive measures are not implemented. According to the World Health
      Organization, hypertension is the most common attributable cause of preventable death in
      developed nations, as uncontrolled hypertension greatly increases the risk of cardiovascular
      disease, cerebrovascular disease, and renal failure. Despite the availability of
      antihypertensive treatments, hypertension remains inadequately controlled; only about one
      third of patients continue to maintain control successfully.

      A major component of blood pressure regulation is the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, a
      system of hormone-mediated feedback interactions that results in the relaxation or
      constriction of blood vessels in response to various stimuli. Angiotensin II, a polypeptide
      hormone, is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin-converting
      enzyme as part of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Angiotensin II is the principal
      pressor agent of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system with a myriad of effects on the
      cardiovascular system and on electrolyte homeostasis.

      In the United States, a disproportionate number of African-Americans have hypertension
      compared to age-matched non-Hispanic Caucasians and Mexican Americans. Earlier onset and
      greater severity of hypertension in African-Americans contribute to greater target organ
      damage and may be a factor in shorter life expectancy in this population compared to
      Caucasian-Americans. Although genetic factors have been invoked to explain these racial
      differences, environmental factors probably play a more important role. Improved management
      of hypertension through both lifestyle intervention and pharmacotherapy, including
      combination therapy, are necessary to achieve target blood pressure in African Americans.

      Takeda Global Research & Development Center, Inc. is developing TAK-491 (azilsartan
      medoxomil) to treat patients with essential hypertension. Azilsartan medoxomil is a prodrug
      that is hydrolyzed to the active moiety, TAK-536 (azilsartan), which is a selective
      antagonist of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor subtype.

      This study is being conducted to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of oral azilsartan
      medoxomil compared with placebo in African-American participants with essential hypertension.
      Participation in this study is anticipated to be approximately 10 weeks.
    
  