
    
      Subjects will be identified upon emergency department (ED) arrival or upon transfer from an
      outside facility and screened for enrollment by a PCAS physician as soon as possible.
      Eligible patients will have receive any required resuscitation (including central venous and
      arterial line placement, endotracheal intubation and hemodynamic resuscitation as needed)
      prior ot having baseline labs and studies performed. Subjects will then be started on study
      drug delivered via the mechanical ventilator with a concealed canister (subject, providers
      and outcome assessors blind to treatment assignment). Randomization will be performed 1:1 in
      blocks of 8 using a random number generator. A randomization list will be prepared in advance
      by the director of respiratory therapy (RT) at each site and verified by a company
      representative. These individuals (who are not part of the study team) will be unblinded and
      assure that allocation to placebo and intervention is accurate. The allocation list will
      assign study drug canisters (by barcode) to each subject in order of study ID. Treatment
      assignment will be revealed after opening a sealed opaque envelope once enrollment is
      confirmed by a physician investigator. Study drug will then be administered by RT based on
      allocation. During study drug administration hourly vital signs will be obtained and
      methemoglobin levels for safety. Study drug will be weaned off after 12h over the course of
      1h (10, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 ppm each for 10 min) prior to discontinuation. Subjects will then
      receive standard post-resuscitation care with outcomes assessed by a blinded study team
      member (see below for outcomes).

      Additional clinical variables to be collected Demographics and baseline function. Age, sex,
      race, maximum education level, employment status, marital status, Barthel activities of daily
      living (ADL) index prior to OHCA.

      Arrest data. Location of OHCA, witnessed, bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR),
      estimated no flow and low flow times, presenting rhythm, doses of epinephrine administered,
      shocks administered, recurrent arrest, date and time of ROSC.

      Medical comorbidities. Diabetes, hypertension, active smoking, hyperlipidemia, chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), hypertension, drug abuse, prior myocardial infarction,
      prior coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), prior coronary angiography with angioplasty or
      stent, congestive heart failure (EF on last echocardiogram [ECHO] prior to OHCA), obstructive
      sleep apnea, pulmonary hypertension, calculated Charlson comorbidity index (CCI).

      Home medications. Statins, nitrates, anticoagulation, antiplatelet agents Hospital
      Interventions. Coronary angiography, percutaneous coronary intervention, CABG, mechanical
      ventilation hours and fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) from 0-24h after therapy start
      In-hospital medications. Alteplase, anti-epileptic medication use (valproate, phenytoin,
      lacosamide, leveteracetam), neurostimulants (methylphenidate, bromocriptine, modafinil,
      amantadine), cumulative dose of fentanyl, propofol, midazolam, cis-atracurium and vecuronium
      in at 24 (+/- 12 hours), 48 (+/- 12 hours), and 72 (+/- 12 hours) hours after therapy
      initiation

      Data Storage Subjects will be assigned a study identifier (ID) upon entry and all
      data/samples stored using that ID. Linkage to patient identifiers will be maintained in a
      secure spreadsheet and will include name, date of birth and medical record number. Clinical
      data will be entered on case report forms (source documentation) which will be stored in a
      locked filing cabinet within a locked office assigned to the study team. Deidentified
      clinical and lab data will all be subsequently entered from the case report forms into a web
      based database (REDCap) to be maintained by Dr. Dezfulian's research assistant who has prior
      experience from other studies.

      Statistical Analysis Plan Continuous data will be compared using t-tests and repeated
      measures ANOVA to compare between iNO and placebo groups at multiple times. Dichotomous
      outcomes including the primary endpoint will be compared by chi squared test. Time to
      awakening and 90d survival will be compared by log rank test of Kaplan-Meier survival plots.
      All tests will be two tailed with unadjusted p<0.05 considered significant. In the event of a
      differential distribution of baseline variables strongly associated with outcome (univariate
      OR >2), dichotomous outcomes will be adjusted for these baseline variables.
    
  