
    
      This is a 2 year pilot project to develop an intervention, and to test research methods and
      evaluation to assess the effects of yoga on core strength and balance of an older population
      in an effort to ultimately reduce the frequency of falls. The literature suggests that
      increased core body strength improves balance and reduces fall frequency in the elderly. Yoga
      increases core strength. There is limited evidence that regular yoga exercising is associated
      with a decreased frequency of falls in the older adult population. However, there have not
      been any randomized trials testing the impact of a yoga program on fall frequency. The
      investigators' goal for this project is to develop a yoga program that is feasible, safe, and
      acceptable to an older population then test the intervention, research methods and evaluation
      in preparation for conducting a randomized trial of the intervention.

      This study is conducted with the investigators community partner, the aging and disabilities
      resource center (ADRC) of Southwest Wisconsin. The ADRC will help with recruiting, posting on
      ADRC's website and flyers. The ADRC will provide locations for classes and assessments.
      Recruitment will also occur through local community event announcements.

      An advisory board of 8-10 members of older adults will inform about needs and feasibility,
      and help review the handbook and video. The advisory boards involvement will be in the
      preparatory phase of the research, along with full project oversight.

      Enrollment Questionnaire

      Eligible subjects will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire. The questionnaire will
      include questions about: 1) Demographics including age, gender, race, ethnicity, years of
      education, income level, 2) Number of falls in the past 1 month, 6 months and 1 year, and 3)
      Fear of falling questions using the ABC (Activities-specific Balance Confidence Scale).

      Visit 2- Physical Activity Assessment

      The physical activity assessment will be conducted one-on-one by a Physical Therapist and
      occur at the individual ADRC offices where yoga classes will be held. Height and weight will
      be measured during the first assessment only. Testing will consist of 3 low physical demand
      tests of static and dynamic balance and gait characteristics: 1) The Berg Balance Scale, 2)
      The Functional Gait Assessment, and 3) The Dynamic Gait Index. Each of these tests requires a
      minimal to moderate amount of exertion, typically not enough to cause any shortness of breath
      with transient mild increase in heart rate. The total time anticipated to conduct the testing
      is 60 minutes.

      The investigators chose these tests because they are validated measures for the
      investigators' subject population, do not require any special equipment, take only a few
      minutes to administer, and are safe to perform in an older adult population.

      Visits 3 to 18- Intervention

      The intervention consists of 16 bi-weekly 50-60 minute yoga classes, conducted by certified
      yoga therapists, and in case of the advisory group, after classes questions about improvement
      of classes that will take about 5 minutes. Additionally, 10 minute home exercise poses and 5
      minute relaxation will be done each day between classes. The control group will practice 5
      minutes relaxation on days between classes.

      There will be 3 classes (in 3 different counties), the first is the 8-10 member advisory
      board. The second and third classes will have 10-15 participants in each workshop. The target
      is up to 60 total participants (including advisory board). There will be 2-3 months between
      the first set of classes and second and third set of classes to refine methods and conduct
      enrollment and testing for the subsequent groups.

      A co-investigator will give out envelopes that contain the patient assignment to home
      practice or no home practice during the 3rd visit. The envelopes will be numbered and
      participants will randomly choose among the envelopes. The co-investigator will note the
      participant name and the envelope number but will not know the content of the envelope with
      the assignment. Another investigator will have noted the assignment to home exercise or
      control and the envelope number in a file that will be saved on a password protected computer
      in the investigators office and backed up on a UW- Madison secured server. A printout will be
      placed in a sealed envelope and kept in a locked ADRC office to be opened upon completion of
      data collection.

      The general philosophy of the yoga classes is to create an environment of safety during all
      poses and avoid a culture of competition or subjects pushing themselves beyond individual
      abilities. Classes will consist of: 1) Centering; 2) Warm up; 3) A variety of simple poses
      with modifications to increase safety and reduce potential for falls (pictures of examples
      included in the manual as described/illustrated below, including 3 home practice poses; 4)
      cool down; and 5) 5 minute relaxation period. Poses will focus on alignment principles, lower
      extremity and core strengthening, and common flexibility deficits thought to be related to
      impaired balance. Modifications for individual range of motion will be provided as necessary.
      Poses will be supplemented or advanced to accommodate individual needs.

      Subjects (intervention group) will also be asked to perform a set of poses at home taking
      approximately 10 minutes each day. The poses will be illustrated with photos in the home log.
      The home exercises will be performed daily each week on days other than class days. Subjects
      will record home activity as below.

      Home Log Book and Data Collection, during the Intervention

      Subjects (intervention group) will be given a home log book at the first yoga class. The log
      book includes general instructions, researcher contact information and specific instructions
      for the 3 home poses including picture illustrations. Subjects will be instructed to record
      the date and length of time each time the subjects do home poses and any discomfort or
      problems that occur with home exercises. Poses will be supplemented or advanced to
      accommodate individual needs. Subjects will be instructed to bring the log books to each
      class so instructors can check to see if the log books are being completed correctly and
      assess for any adverse events (AEs) and unanticipated problems (UPs).

      Subjects will also track falls during the 8 week intervention and the 4 months following the
      completion of the intervention.

      Home Log study control group

      Half of the class will be randomized into either a home exercise group or a control group
      which will not do any yoga exercises outside of the classroom environment. The control group
      will be encouraged to do the yoga poses learned in class at home after the class is complete.

      Instructors will record subject attendance at each class, if the subjects brought log book
      and AEs or UPS. Instructors will also record total class time from start to finish and all
      the poses done during the class into a spreadsheet.

      The investigators anticipate that total twice weekly yoga classes will take 16 hours and the
      home activities will take about (5 x 15 minutes x 16 weeks) 20 total hours for the group
      assigned to home exercises and (5 x 5 minutes x 16 weeks) about 6.5 hours for the control
      group. Total time involvement including 16 hours of class time, enrollment visit and pre and
      post assessment visits is about 40 hours for the intervention group and 26 hours for the
      control group.

      Visit 19- Repeat Physical Assessment and Questionnaire

      Final assessment will occur within 2 weeks of the final yoga class. Instructors and
      investigators will strongly encourage all participants, including drop outs, to complete the
      final assessment. Final assessment will include: 1) A questionnaire with the pre-intervention
      falls related survey questions (including the ABC (Activities-specific Balance Confidence
      Scale), additional questions about the yoga classes, home exercises and use of the logbook;
      2) Post-intervention physical activity assessment. The post-intervention physical assessment
      is the same as the initial assessment except the height and weight are not re-measured. This
      final visit is expected to last about 1 hour.

      A co-investigator will call participants 2 months and 4 months after completing the class, to
      ask questions about falls and yoga practice at home. Each phone call will take about 5
      minutes.

      Sample Size and Analysis:

      Since this is a pilot program to develop the intervention and assessment methods, the
      investigators sample size of up to 60 subjects is based on practicality and limited by
      available time and funding. Based on previous yoga teaching experience, 14 people is a
      manageable class size to allow for personal attention to adjust poses as necessary for
      subject safety for each of the groups. The investigators anticipate 20% drop out rate with a
      final sample size of up to 48 subjects. With this small sample size, and moderate level of
      pre-intervention physical function of the subjects, the investigators may not find
      significant changes in the physical activity measures. The investigators do hope to find some
      trend toward increased ability to maintain balance. Descriptive statistics will be used to
      create summed scores for fall questions. Paired tests and repeated-measures analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) will be used to analyze the pre- intervention and post- intervention
      physical activity measures.
    
  