
    
      Congenital Hyperinsulinism (HI) is a disorder of insulin secretion that causes profound
      hypoglycemia leading to significant morbidity. It is the most common form of persistent
      neonatal hypoglycemia, and the most dangerous. Inappropriate insulin secretion causes not
      only hypoglycemia but also inability to release free fatty acids from adipose tissue and
      inability to release glycogen from the liver. Hence the brain is deprived of all the major
      fuel sources (glucose, beta-hydroxybutyrate and lactate) for energy thus leading to the high
      incidence of brain damage. In up to 50% of cases of congenital hyperinsulinism, medical
      therapy fails and surgical resection of the pancreas is necessary. Previous techniques
      developed to differentiate those patients with focal HI in whom surgery could result in a
      cure are very invasive and put the infants at risk for hypoglycemic brain damage or arterial
      thrombosis.

      It is known that the beta cells in the pancreatic islets, similar to other neuroendocrine
      tissues, contain amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). Beta cells take up L-Dopa and convert it
      into dopamine by AADC. It was proposed that as other neuroendocrine tumors such as
      phaeochromocytoma and carcinoid tumors express AADC and can be very easily visualized using
      Fluorodopa F 18 PET then so also would the pancreas be easily and accurately visualized.
      After initial reports demonstrated the effectiveness, safety and accuracy, there have been
      now over 200 patients with HI reported in the literature who have had Fluorodopa F 18 PET
      scans with suggestions that referral to major HI centers for Fluorodopa F 18 PET CT is now an
      integral part of standard of care management of patients with HI that require surgery.
      Fluorodopa F 18 PET scanning for patients with Hyperinsulinism is now established in Europe
      and Australia, and has close to 95% sensitivity. When linked to Computed Tomography (CT)
      image of the pancreas, Fluorodopa F 18 PET allows the surgeon to image the pancreas in three
      dimensions, to even more accurately identify the site of the focal lesion, increasing the
      chance of a sufficient partial pancreatectomy to cure the patient.

      Similarly, insulinomas are neuroendocrine cell tumors that are typically benign (90%) and
      very rare occurring in 1-4 per million of the population with > 50% occurring in adults >age
      25 years. Biochemical differentiation of insulinomas from congenital hyperinsulinism may be
      aided by the use of the pro-insulin:insulin ratio, by the age of presentation and by the
      history. The standard of care for insulinoma is to remove them once identified, rather than
      long term medical treatment. Current imaging techniques include CT scan pancreas, endoscopic
      ultrasound of the pancreas and MRI pancreas however despite using these modalities in some
      patients the insulinoma may not be found. 18F-DOPA has been shown to be superior than MIBG
      scanning for neuroendocrine tumors such as phaeochromocytoma, but there is very little data
      in patients with insulinoma. Moreover, patients with MEN 1 and insulinoma may have more than
      one tumor, which if missed with conventional imaging could result in failure to cure with
      surgery.

      The objectives of this study are:

        1. To determine, using Positron Emission Tomography, whether or not the uptake of a
           radiopharmaceutical agent, Fluorodopa 18F (18F-DOPA) produced in a cyclotron located at
           a distance far from the imaging center will produce qualitatively adequate pancreatic
           images in patients with congenital hyperinsulinism

        2. To determine, using direct comparisons, whether or not Fluorodopa 18F Positron Emission
           Tomography (18F-DOPA PET) combined with Computed Tomography (CT) will produce pancreatic
           images matching the gold-standard of histopathological findings at surgery for partial
           or complete pancreatectomy in the treatment of patients with congenital hyperinsulinism

        3. To determine, using direct comparisons, whether or not Fluorodopa 18F Positron Emission
           Tomography (18F-DOPA PET) combined with Computed Tomography (CT) will produce pancreatic
           images matching the gold-standard of histopathological findings at surgery for
           insulinomas

        4. To determine the best way to interpret the 18F-DOPA PET scans comparing SUV max:SUV sub
           max at a ratio of the current 1.5, a suggested 1.3 and by using visual inspection of the
           images.
    
  