
    
      Influenza is an acute respiratory infection caused by influenza viruses which circulate in
      all parts of the world. Influenza viruses are causative agents of highly contagious, acute,
      viral infections of the respiratory tract. Influenza viruses are immunologically diverse,
      single-stranded RNA viruses.

      There are 3 types of seasonal influenza viruses, types A, B, and C. Influenza A+B and B
      viruses circulate and cause outbreaks and epidemics. Influenza type C virus is detected much
      less frequently and usually causes mild infections, thus presents less significant public
      health implications.

      Seasonal influenza has an incubation period of approximately 2 days and is characterized by a
      sudden onset of fever, cough, headache, muscle and joint pain, severe malaise, sore throat
      and a runny nose. Most people recover within a week without requiring medical attention but
      influenza can cause severe illness or death especially in vulnerable populations such as
      children, pregnant women and elderlies. Seasonal influenza causes public health concerns as
      it spreads easily, with rapid transmission in crowded areas including schools and nursing
      homes.

      Antiviral drugs for Influenza A and Influenza B are available in some countries and may
      reduce severe complications and deaths. Ideally these antiviral drugs need to be administered
      within 48 hours of onset of symptoms and hence rapid diagnosis of influenza in patients
      displaying influenza-like Illness can reduce the number of severe complications and deaths
      associated with influenza.

      Fluorescent Immunoassay is a biochemical technique used for detecting the binding of the
      "detection" antibody and the analyte molecule. The advantages of a fluorescent detection
      system have been known for many years. These include higher sensitivity detection of the
      analyte, simplified reagents and simpler assay designs. Several breakthroughs have occurred
      over the past few years that have enabled the implementation of a fluorescent based
      immunoassay system at the point of care.

      A modern fluorescent based immunoassay uses a fluorescent compound, which absorbs light or
      energy (excitation energy) at a specific wavelength and then emits light or energy at a
      different wavelength, as the detection reagent. The difference between the wavelength of the
      excitation light and the emission light is called the Stokes shift. The greater the shift or
      difference in the wavelength the less interference there will be by having the excitation
      light detected as part of the emission light. Recently many technical improvements have
      occurred that has enabled the implementation of a high sensitivity immunoassay system. These
      include the availability of narrow wavelength low cost light sources, newer more stable
      fluorophores that have very wide Stokes shifts, stable solid state light detectors and
      microprocessors to process and analyse the data from each test.

      When a fluorescent detection system is linked to a lateral flow assay and matched with a
      powerful analyser like the ALiA Diagnostic Platform, the result is improved assay
      performance, the opportunity for walk away testing along with the elimination of
      misinterpretation often associated with visually-read point-of-care assays.

      Influenza A and Influenza B affect all population, any patients of age 18 or above displaying
      symptoms of respiratory infection will be included as potential participants.

      There will be no restriction on the ethnicity of patients but the majority of patients to be
      recruited are expected to be of Asian origin as the clinical trial is based in Hong Kong.
      However, it has been proved that Influenza strains do not vary / have minimal variation in
      human of different ethnicity.

      Study Design:

      Option for participating in this clinical study will be presented to patients satisfying the
      patient selection criteria. Informed consent will be collected from patients before samples
      (nasopharyngeal swab) are taken.

      Nasopharyngeal swabs are tested using the investigational products, a predicate fluorescence
      immunoassay test, and a molecular-based PCR test will be used as the gold standard.

      Study Duration:

      Considering the seasonal nature of the disease, duration of the study is estimated to be
      approximately 24 months from inclusion of first subject to the day of final analysis of the
      last subject's sample.

      Study Hypothesis:

      When compared to PCR:

      The positive percent agreement (sensitivity) for the investigational product when testing for
      influenza A and influenza B should be at least 85 percent with a lower bound of the 95
      percent confidence interval that is greater than or equal to 70 percent.

      The negative percent agreement (specificity) for the Investigational Product when testing for
      influenza A is at least 90 percent with a lower bound of the 95 percent confidence interval
      that is greater than or equal to 80 percent.
    
  