
    
      This is an open prospective pilot study. We plan to include 12 patients with stroke and to
      assign them into two groups (chosen by lot).

      The patients will be tested to investigate the effect of cueing during slow-wave sleep on
      motor skill learning as well as on the general motor rehabilitation outcome (5 days). The
      study will be conducted in a controlled design while 6 patients will receive cueing whereas
      the other 6 control patients receive no cueing.

      Study design: Effect of motor task-related acoustic cueing and motor recovery over 5 days of
      training On day 1 patient will have to perform different standardized short training tasks
      using the ArmeoSpring® system. Each of these tasks is designed to train speed and accuracy of
      movements whilst a leitmotif melody is played during the performance of the respective task.
      Every task will be performed twice at an easy and twice at a more difficult level. If one
      patient succeeds to reach a defined height of score at level 2 the patient will start with
      level 2 the next day and proceed to level 3 in order not to lose any measurable effect. The
      melody lasts for 5 to 10 seconds (similar to the design chosen by Antony et al 2012). The
      patients' movements will be measured during day and night with movement sensors, and during
      the training and clinical assessment sessions. Information about arm movement in relation to
      trunk movement is sent to a PC by wire transmission. Arm movements are translated into
      movements of an avatar (e.g. an arm-like structure) on the computer screen. Sensor measures
      will be transmitted via wire connection to a receiver, which is connected to a standard
      personal computer. Thus, this kinematic motion analysis system reconstructs all movements of
      the tested arm in real time. By moving this structure, the test subject can therefore fulfil
      a short task in a videogame-like environment (e.g. using technical items presented on the
      screen). Scores are given and visually presented to the patient.

      During the following night patients will undergo electroencephalography (EEG) for the first
      time. Immediately before scheduled regular sleep hours, the EEG-Electrodes and the headphones
      (sleepphones® Classic) will be installed and EEG system (Embla® Titanium) will be started.
      The patients will sleep in their own normal hospital bed at the rehabilitation ward.

      After onset of slow-wave-sleep as confirmed by online EEG, the melody will be played to the
      patients in the cueing group via headphones (sleepphones® Classic) in faint intensity
      (in-sleep-cueing without waking up the patient). Conversely patients of group 2 won't be
      exposed to the melody during sleep. Sound intensity will be similar to that of the background
      noise (approximately 35 dB sound pressure level). Once slow wave sleep finishes, the
      stimulation will also be stopped. Under ideal circumstances, the stimulation will be repeated
      in each slow-wave sleep phase. On day 2 - 5 the same motor tasks will be performed at the
      ArmeoSpring® device, with exposure to the respective melodies. The improvement in Scores will
      be will be measured.

      During the following three nights the abovementioned procedures will be repeated.

      On day 5 the motor tasks will again be performed at the ArmeoSpring® device without exposure
      to the respective melodies. The task scores will again be recorded and also the scores from
      the motor assessments will be taken in order to assess the general motor improvement over
      five days.
    
  