
    
      The perioperative period is characterized by hemodynamic instability. Intraoperative
      hypotension (IOH) can be caused by anesthesia drugs, surgical manipulations, hypovolemia or
      inhibition of the sympathetic nervous system and impairment of baroreflex regulatory
      mechanisms. In a retrospective analysis performed at the Cleveland Clinic, the risk for acute
      kidney injury (AKI) and myocardial injury (MI) increased when mean arterial pressure (MAP)
      was less than 55 mmHg. Further, even short durations of intraoperative hypotension were
      associated with AKI and MI. Salmasi and coll analyzed whether associations based on relative
      thresholds were stronger than those based on absolute thresholds regarding blood pressure.
      They found that there were no clinically important interactions between preoperative blood
      pressures and the relationship between hypotension and ΜΙ or ΑΚΙ at intraoperative mean
      arterial blood pressures less than 65 mmHg. Absolute and relative thresholds had comparable
      ability to discriminate patients with ΜΙ or ΑΚΙ from those without it. The authors concluded
      that anesthetic management can thus be based on intraoperative pressures without regard to
      preoperative pressure. In a retrospective cohort study Sun and coll conclude that an
      increased risk of postoperative stage I AKI occurs when intraoperative MAP was less than 60
      mmHg for more than 20 min and less than 55 mmHg for more than 10 min.

      Hence it is fundamental for the management of any hemodynamically unstable patient the rapid
      assessment of the factors that determine the cardiovascular collapse, followed by prompt
      treatment and, ultimately, reversal of the responsible process. Recently a Hypotension
      Probability Indicator (HPI) algorithm has been developed from Edwards Lifesciences using
      continuous invasively-measured arterial waveforms to predict hypotension with high accuracy
      minutes before blood pressure actually decreases. The HPI algorithm can be integrated with a
      goal-directed hemodynamic treatment (GDHT) to achieve hemodynamic optimization by increasing
      global blood ﬂow and prevent organ failure. We developed a treatment protocol implementing
      HPI with GDHT that can be used in general anesthesia patients to guide clinical practice.
    
  