
    
      Nail psoriasis is one of the risk factors for psoriatic arthritis (PsA), especially with
      distal interphalangeal joints affected. Nail changes in psoriasis have been observed in
      10-55% of patients, and the nail psoriasis-related inflammation can spread to adjacent
      structures, including DIP joints and digital extensor tendons. Enthesopathies are among the
      characteristic features of psoriatic arthritis. In everyday practice, assessment of psoriatic
      changes in nails is based mainly on clinical indices, such as nail psoriasis severity index
      (NAPSI) and modified NAPSI (mNAPSI), while imaging examinations, such as ultrasonography are
      performed much less frequently.

      The findings of this study may assess the reasonableness of systemic treatment of nail
      psoriasis in patients without arthritis as enthesopathy prevention as well as the usability
      of US nail examinations in Ps and PsA patients in assessment of morphological changes and a
      response to treatment.

      A US examination of nails and distal interphalangeal joint extensor tendons are conducted in
      all of the patients twice at an interval of six months. The examination is conducted by a
      rheumatologist experienced in ultrasound examinations of the skeletal and muscular system. An
      assessment of the nails, extensor tendons and DIP joints is made by placing the head on the
      dorsal side. In order to avoid pressure on surface tissues, an appropriate amount of gel
      without gel pads was used. The intensified blood flow, made visible by the PD technique, is
      confirmed by pulsed wave Doppler spectrum. The nail thickness is measured as the maximum
      distance between the dorsal and ventral nail plates. The nail bed thickness is measured as
      the distance between the ventral plate and the bone margin of the distal phalanx. The nail
      matrix thickness is measured at the proximal end of the nail bed.

      The study was approved by the Bioethics Committee of the Warmia and Mazury Chamber of
      Physicians The study are conducted according to the Good Clinical Practice guidelines. Each
      participant signs an informed consent and be coded with unique ID.

      Results of analyses will be saved by indexing with ID code only, personal data with
      individual IDs will be saved in additional file. All hard copy will be archived in secure
      room with coded electronic key.
    
  