
    
      Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a common diagnosis with significant clinical impact.
      Although medical therapy exists, many patients on optimal medical treatment are still highly
      symptomatic. About 1/3 of these patients have a condition known as "dyssynchrony", where the
      walls of the heart beat in an uncoordinated way, causing worsening of CHF symptoms. A newer
      therapy known as cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has been successful in decreasing
      symptoms in these dyssynchronous patients. It involves surgical placement of a pacemaker
      containing 3 wires- one in the top part of the heart (atrium) to coordinate the top and
      bottom parts of the heart beat, and two on the bottom to coordinate the bottom parts of the
      heart beat (ventricles). This treatment, however, does not work for up to 1/3 of patients
      with dyssynchrony.

      Recent studies have found that CHF is associated with increased oxidative stress. This is a
      condition where abnormal oxygen forms are produced. These forms harm the cells of the heart,
      causing them to beat abnormally and causing damage to the heart muscle. We would like to see
      if levels of these forms improve after CRT, and if they can be measured early after surgery
      to predict who will and who will not benefit from surgery.

      In this study, we will compare blood markers of oxidative stress between patients with CHF
      and an already-collected set of control patients to confirm these levels are elevated at
      baseline. Then, we will perform CRT surgery and implant pacemakers in the CHF patients. At 1
      week and 3 months postoperatively, we will measure blood markers again, and see if they have
      improved in patients whose symptoms have improved. Patients will undergo echocardiograms to
      document their abnormal hearts, do a 6 minute hall walk to measure their exercise tolerance,
      and take a standardized questionnaire to measure their symptoms of CHF. These test results
      will be compared pre and post CRT to assess response to therapy.
    
  