
    
      Nowadays, many procedures may need regenerative techniques. Some studies have already
      assessed the patients' opinion regarding soft tissue grafts, some investigators have centered
      their studies on the techniques' efficiency without assessing the patient's perception.

      In addition to grafts harvested from the patient himself (autologous graft), bone graft can
      also be obtained from animals (xenograft), human cadavers (allograft) and synthetic materials
      (alloplastic graft). Patients may have ethical, religious or medical concerns about the
      origin of each bone graft, which could lead them to reject the use of certain types of bone
      graft in their surgery.

      The aim of this multicenter study, which surveys patients from five university clinics in
      Portugal, Italy, Spain, France and Chile, is to analyze patients' opinions regarding the
      source of bone grafts.

      A survey composed of 10 questions is submitted to the patients. They are asked about the
      degree of acceptance/rejection of each graft and their reasons for rejecting it.

      In France, the survey will be presented to 100 patients having dental treatments in the
      "Centre de Soins Dentaires" of Montpellier from december of 2017 to june of 2018.

      Eligibility criterias : adult (18 years of age or older), able to read and write in the local
      language, not under the influence of alcohol or drugs, had not previously undergone any
      surgery involving bone graft or bone augmentation, able to understand and follow the
      indications for the survey completion, willingness to participate in the study

      Data obtained :

      The survey is formed by two parts. The first part records the participant's demographic data,
      such as: gender, age, education level and religion: participants are asked, "Do you profess a
      religious faith?" (yes/no). In case of a positive answer, they are asked to which religion
      they adhere.

      The second part of the survey consists of 10 questions regarding acceptance/rejection of the
      bone grafts. Patients are asked to mark only one answer, which best aligned with their
      opinion.

      Questions are classified as follows:

      Five closed-ended questions (with lists of possible answers) about the level of acceptance of
      each type of bone graft (acceptance, conditional acceptance or refusal).

      Three open-ended questions (i.e., the patients' spontaneous answers were recorded).

      Two mixed questions that aimed to identify the reasons for refusal (if applicable).
    
  