
    
      The planned study profile is to assess the peri-implant tissue outcome of abutment-supported
      restoration and direct implant-fixed restoration. Two treatments, Treatment A which is the
      abutment-fixed supra-structure and Treatment B, the direct implant-fixed restoration, are
      assessed within the scope of this clinical investigation.

      Treatment A: The XiVE® CAD/CAM supra-structure is fixed on abutments. The effect of
      platform-switching which is discussed intensely in the scientific literature is used in order
      to shift away the connection between implant and supra-construction (interface) from the
      implant edge and peri-implant tissue and towards the implant centre. However, the
      implant-abutment-connection area is a potential entry port for micro-organisms which have
      direct influence on the state of the peri-implant hard and soft tissue and consequently on
      the long-term prosthetic and implant success [8]. By using an abutment as a connector between
      implant and supra-structure implies the generation of one more micro-gap (between
      supra-structure and abutment) and possible retention of microbial plaque though located above
      the hard tissue level.

      Treatment B: The XiVE® CAD/CAM supra-structure is fixed directly on the implants. In contrary
      to treatment A, only one entry port (micro-gap) for micro-organisms exists: The interface
      between supra-construction and implant. So, there is one main point where the initial force
      has main influence on the implant and the peri-implant tissue [8-10]. Besides, this interface
      lies directly on the implant shoulder level and by that on the osseous level. There is no
      displacement of the transitional area to the implant centre.

      This study has been designed in order to collect data with regards to the CAD/CAM system used
      on the DENTSPLY Friadent implant system XiVE®. In particular, the peri-implant tissue outcome
      of abutment-supported restoration and direct implant-fixed restoration will be evaluated.
      Therefore a small group of subjects with partly edentulous jaw is selected to show that both
      techniques are efficient and safe and to demonstrate the non-inferiority with regards to the
      peri-implant tissue outcome for any of both techniques.

      Each subject will receive both treatments, treatment A on the one site of the maxilla and
      treatment B on the other. The randomization method which finally defines which subject
      receives one treatment on the left maxilla region and the other on the right maxilla area or
      vice versa is described in section 5.1.

      In conclusion, both treatments might have pros and cons which may affect the peri-implant
      tissue outcome.
    
  