
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the dose of cyclophosphamide, with filgrastim (G-CSF) support, that can be
           safely administered with pentostatin and rituximab in patients with previously treated
           intermediate- or high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia or other low-grade B-cell
           malignancies. (Phase I closed to accrual effective 11/27/2001.)

        -  Characterize the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of response in these patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of cyclophosphamide (CTX).

        -  Phase I: Patients receive CTX IV followed by pentostatin IV on day 1 of course 1.
           Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously once daily beginning on day 3
           and continuing until blood counts recover. During the second and subsequent courses,
           patients receive CTX IV, pentostatin IV, and rituximab IV on day 1. Patients also
           receive G-CSF as in course 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with at least a
           partial response after the third course receive an additional 3 courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of CTX until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      (Phase I closed to accrual effective 11/27/2001.)

        -  Phase II: Patients receive CTX at the recommended phase II dose and treatment as above.

      Patients are followed at least every 3 months for 1 year and then periodically thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-30 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of this
      study. (Phase I closed to accrual effective 11/27/2001.) A total of 14-30 patients will be
      accrued for the phase II portion of this study within 2.5 years.
    
  