
    
      SECTION 1: PROTOCOL SUMMARY Title: Impact of Task Shifting Type II for ART Delivery on
      Patient and Process Outcomes in Uganda Rationale: Health care worker shortages remain a major
      impediment to the scale-up of antiretroviral therapy (ART) in sub-Saharan Africa [1].
      Sub-Saharan Africa suffers from the world's most pronounced crisis in human resources for
      health with 36 of 57 countries currently facing significant health worker shortages [2]. The
      health workforce crisis is further exacerbated by the HIV epidemic which thwarts efforts to
      expand and provide universal access to HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment. The shortage
      of health workers in sub-Saharan Africa presents a great challenge in service delivery,
      particularly in the scale up of antiretroviral therapy. According to the World Health
      Organization the global deficit of trained health care workers needed to provide essential
      health services in order to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, including the scaling
      up of biomedical interventions for HIV/AIDS is greater than 4 million [2]. In an attempt to
      meet the demand for ART services, the World Health Organization is coordinating a global
      effort to strengthen and expand the current health workforce and recommends task shifting as
      one potential strategy to meet the enormous demand for health care workers to provide
      HIV/AIDS care and treatment. This is particularly important at this time when patients are
      staying on ART for longer periods. Task shifting will allow physicians to see only severely
      ill patients thus freeing up their time for other duties. In addition, more patients can
      initiate ART because there are more available health workers to attend to them. There is
      however a need for empirical evidence to support the implementation of task shifting. For
      example, one critical question is whether candidate health worker cadres for task shifting of
      ART initiation and monitoring, will perform as well as doctors/clinicians. Country-specific
      evidence regarding this question is necessary for developing a task-shifting policy before
      initiating policy reforms in Uganda. Under PEPFAR funding a Public Health Evaluation (PHE)
      will be conducted in selected health facilities to determine the impact of implementing the
      WHO Global Recommendations and Guidelines on Task Shifting of HIV treatment from doctors and
      clinical officers to nurses.

      Although task shifting for HIV treatment occurs de facto in several countries [3-10] , it is
      rarely institutionalized or allowed by national policies. Reliable data are necessary to
      better understand how and whether to include this strategy in national policy and operational
      guidelines.

      The Investigators propose to conduct a randomized field intervention study to address the
      question of whether nurse-initiated and monitored ART is associated with inferior outcomes
      compared with clinician-initiated and maintained ART in treatment-naive, HIV positive
      individuals.

      The findings of this study will contribute knowledge of how best to increase access to
      quality life-saving HIV treatment as well as improve health care worker skills and strengthen
      health system efficiency.

      Primary Objectives:

      To compare the following outcomes among HIV-infected individuals on antiretroviral therapy
      initiated and monitored by nurses and those initiated and monitored by clinicians at 6 and 12
      months post ART initiation:

        -  virologic failure (≥ 1000 viral copies/ml)

        -  toxicity failure

        -  patient retention

        -  all-cause mortality

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Compare immunological responses at time points 6 and 12 months post ART initiation

        2. Compare accuracy of staging HIV-infected patients according to the WHO treatment
           guidelines as process outcomes among provider groups

      Tertiary Objectives:

      Test for HIV-1 drug resistance mutations (primary and secondary) among persons newly
      initiated on ART.
    
  