
    
      Acute lung injury (ALI) or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), is a clinical problem
      induced by acute and excessive pulmonary inflammation. Sepsis is the most frequent risk
      factor for ALI/ARDS. Meanwhile, Pulmonary is the most vulnerable organ to fail in response to
      sepsis, and a major cause of death for sepsis patients is respiratory failure. Despite modern
      clinical practices in critical care medicine, there still remains a mortality rate as high as
      45%. In addition, Vascular endothelial dysfunction is a central event in the pathophysiology
      of sepsis. Endothelial cell activation is associated with sepsis severity, organ dysfunction
      and mortality. An improved understanding of endothelial response and associated biomarkers
      may lead to strategies to more accurately predict outcome and develop novel
      endothelium-directed therapies in sepsis.

      The human and mouse R-spondins encode a family of proteins that includes four paralogs
      (R-spo1-4). R-spondins are secreted proteins found primarily in the extracellular region and
      are known to promote β-catenin signaling. Among them, the embryonic lethal vascular
      remodeling phenotype of R-spondin3 (Rspo3) mutant mice suggests a role of EC derived Rspo3 in
      angiogenesis. Former studies demonstrated that endothelial Rspo3 enhances cell autonomous
      non-canonical Wnt signaling, thereby preventing retinal and tumor blood vessel regression and
      EC apoptosis. The mid-gestational lethality of Rspo3-ECKO mice indicated a role of EC-derived
      RSPO3 in controlling blood vessel remodeling. Furthermore, Rspo3 protects tissues against
      mesenteric I/R by tightening endothelial cell junction and improving vascular intergrity.
      However, the role of Rspo3 in sepsis-induced pulmonary endothelial dysfunction remains
      unclear. Thus, it is worthwhile to explore the relationship between Rspo3 and sepsis-induced
      lung injury.

      In the present study, the investigators will analyze the expression of Rspo3 in septic
      patients and sepsis-induced lung injury models and explore whether Rspo3 could protect
      sepsis-associated lung injury, which will be helpful for prevention and treatment of
      sepsis-induced lung injury and endothelial dysfunction.
    
  