
    
      Pregnant women planned for elective surgery will be advised for nil per oral after midnight
      and. After detailed preanesthetic checkup, on arrival in operating room, standard monitoring
      devices will be attached (pulse oximeter, noninvasive blood pressure and 3-lead
      electrocardiography).

      Machine

      A sonosite M-Turbo ultrasound machine will be used for all the examinations. A curvilinear
      USG probe for IVC imaging (1-5 MHz, 21 mm). A linear vascular transuder for IJV imaging (7-13
      MHz, 38 mm) will be used.

      Measurements

      IJV measurement

      All the measurements will be done on Right IJV with the patients initially lying supine at 0°
      and later head end elevated at 30°. With the patients in supine position, the USG transducer
      will be placed on the right side of the neck in the transverse plane over RIJV 2 cm above the
      sternoclavicular joint. The IJV will be identified by the color flow Doppler and
      compressibility. Care will be taken not to compress or obliterate the vein by applying
      minimal pressure. When the whole circumference of the vein will be visible the measurements
      were done. The recordings will be done for four respiratory cycles. The maximum, minimum AP
      diameters, and cross-sectional area will be estimated and, from this, corresponding CI will
      be derived (Maximum diameter or cross-sectional area (CSA)-minimum diameter or CSA/maximum
      diameter or CSA) ×100%. All the above measurements will be repeated with the head end of
      patients elevated to 30° position

      IVC measurements

      The transducer will be placed in the subxiphoid region in a longitudinal position. IVC
      measurements will be made just distal to the IVC-hepatic vein junction, approximately 3 to 4
      cm distal to the right atrium. The IVC will be identiﬁed by Doppler waveform, compressibility
      and phasic collapse with respiration. The maximum (IVCD) and minimum (IVCD) internal
      anteroposterior (AP) diameters of the IVC at the end of expiration and inspiration
      respectively over the same respiratory cycle will be measured. The IVCCI is derived from the
      equation, IVCCI= (IVCD max -IVCD min)/IVCD max × 100.

      The patients will be positioned in sitting position to give the spinal anesthesia at
      L3-L4/L2-L3 intervertebral level in the midline approach. After local infiltration of skin
      and subcutaneous tissue with 2% lignocaine, 25 G B-braun spinal needle will be used to
      administer subarachnoid block (SAB) with 2.5 ml of hyperbaric bupivacaine (5%) and 20 µg of
      fentanyl after confirmation of free flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at the hub of the
      needle. Patients will be coloaded with 10-12 ml/kg (over the period of 15 min) of Ringer's
      Lactate (RL) solution at the time of SAB. Thereafter, patients will be placed in supine
      position with wedge under the right hip. HR, systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood
      pressure (DBP), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and SpO2 will be recorded throughout the
      procedure every 3 min till 15 min of SAB. Level of sensory block will be assessed by response
      to cold touch and surgery will be allowed after sensory blocks reaches to T6 level.
      Hypotension (reduction in MAP more than 20% and/or MAP <65 mmHg) will be treated with 6 mg of
      injection of ephedrine and a bolus of 250 ml of Ringer's Lactate (RL) solution over 10
      minutes. Number of boluses of ephedrine and fluids will be recorded. Bradycardia (Heart Rate
      < 50 beats/ min) will be treated with 0.6 mg of injection atropine.

      Data collection

      The attending anaesthesiologist who will perform subarachnoid block (SAB) and will monitor
      the patient during the study period will be blinded to the ultrasound measurements of both
      inferior vena cava collapsibility index (IVCCI) and internal jugular vein collapsibility
      index (IJVCI) which will be recorded by either of the two investigators pre-operatively.

      Measurements:

        1. Demographic data as age, weight, height and ASA status.

        2. Hemodynamics including heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure every 3 min till 15 min
           of SAB.

        3. Number of boluses of ephedrine and fluids will be recorded

        4. Inferior vena cava collapsibility index (IVCCI) and internal jugular vein collapsibility
           index (IJVCI).
    
  