
    
      Background

      Patients with acute myocardial ischemia receive oxygen as a standard measure of care to
      maintain or improve the myocardial oxygen supply. In 1975 Neil et al. were able to show that
      higher oxygen concentration reduces myocardial blood flow. However, since the oxygen
      concentration in the blood was significantly increased it was/is assumed that the higher
      oxygen supply outweighs the decrease in perfusion. Oxygenation-Sensitive (OS) Cardiovascular
      Magnetic Resonance (CMR) is a newer technology that uses the paramagnetic deoxyhemoglobin in
      the blood as an endogenous contrast. An drop in tissue oxygenation (drop in oxyhemoglobin)
      results in an increase in deoxyhemoglobin, which results in an drop in SI in OS-images. Vice
      versa an increase in tissue oxygenation results in an increase in OS-SI. Therefore, OS-CMR
      can assess myocardial tissue oxygenation changes non-invasively, free of contrast and free of
      radiation. While other diagnostic modalities only give information on myocardial oxygenation
      with surrogate parameters that may indicate ischemia OS-CMR gives local functional
      information of the myocardial oxygen supply. Studies have been performed using OS-CMR for the
      detection of coronary artery disease. More recently breathing maneuvers that change systemic
      blood gases have been suggested as a vasoactive stimulus to detect coronary artery disease
      and measure changes to the myocardial oxygen supply. Guensch et al. were able to show that
      hypercapnia and the combination of hypercapnia and hypoxia lead to a increase of myocardial
      oxygenation that can only be explained by an increase blood flow. However, hypocapnia
      resulted in a decrease in myocardial oxygenation in healthy volunteers. In a porcine model
      the investigators were able to show that the increase in systemic oxygen supply resulted in a
      decrease in myocardial blood flow in healthy and swine with an acute coronary artery
      stenosis, but a decrease in myocardial oxygenation was only observed in the animals with a
      coronary artery stenosis (Abstract Guensch et al: Administration of exogenous oxygen may
      worsen myocardial ischemia, ESC 2014, accepted). The impact of hyperoxia as well as
      hypocapnia and hypercapnia in humans with a chronic coronary artery disease is poorly
      investigated. As the administration of oxygen is part of the treating guidelines in acute
      myocardial ischemia and in certain situations (e.g. anesthesia) higher oxygen concentrations
      are maintained for safety reasons, it is important to further investigate the role of higher
      oxygen concentrations in coronary artery disease. Further the investigators want to shed
      light on transient states of hypocapnia and hypercapnia induced by voluntary breathing.
      Because OS-CMR is a safe diagnostic tool (no radiation, no contrast, no pharmacologic
      vasodilator required) and can give insight on the oxygenation changes of the heart is it
      ideal to test the hypothesis. Therefore the investigators want to invite patients with a
      known coronary stenosis (confirmed by previous coronary angiography) scheduled for a
      percutaneous coronary intervention (staged PCI) or coronary artery bypass surgery to
      participate in this study prior to the intervention and compare the MRI results to healthy
      volunteers. All participants will perform hyperventilation with a consecutive breath-hold as
      well as inhale oxygen for 3-5 minutes while the breathing maneuver is being repeated. For the
      patients the results will then be compared to the findings of coronary angiography (QCA,
      reduction in lumen-diameter of the vessel).

      Objective

      With this study the investigators want to investigate whether the administration of oxygen,
      as well as performing breathing maneuvers (hyperventilation, breath-holding) have a negative
      or positive effect on the oxygenation of myocardium subtended to arteries diseased of
      coronary artery disease, as opposed to healthy subjects.

      Methods

      CAD-patients with a known coronary pathology that are scheduled for a PCI or coronary bypass
      surgery will be recruited for the CMR exam prior to the coronary intervention. A i.v. line
      will be placed for safety reason. During short breath-holds oxygenation-sensitive baseline
      images and cardiac function images will be acquired. The subjects will then be asked to
      hyperventilate for one minute with 20-30 breaths/min. Immediately after a maximal breath-hold
      will be performed in end-expiration as long as the subject can comfortably bear. During the
      entire breath-hold oxygenation sensitive images will be recorded. Whenever the subject feels
      the need to breath, he/she can immediately do so and signal the technician with a call bell.
      After recovery the subject will breath oxygen 12-15L/min through a mask for 3-5 min after
      which oxygenation sensitive images as well as function images will be repeated. The
      hyperventilation-breath-hold will be repeated with oxygen. Healthy volunteers will undergo
      the same protocol.
    
  