
    
      Specific Aims: Recent studies suggest that very early initiation of ART (prior to
      seroconversion) does not prevent the establishment of HIV reservoirs, which eventually expand
      when ART is discontinued (1, 2). Early ART initiation is, however, associated with
      preservation of CD4+ T cells and lower levels of total HIV DNA and cell-associated RNA (3) as
      well as preservation of gut Th17 cells, thereby averting a major driver of HIV-related immune
      activation and limiting the size of the HIV reservoir (4). When, by contrast, ART is
      initiated in Fiebig III (FIII) or later, many HIV-associated changes have already occurred,
      including seeding of HIV reservoirs, damage to GI mucosa, and initiation of inflammatory
      cascades (4). Some if not all of these effects may be related to the development of dysbiosis
      (a markedly different composition of the gut microbiota that might itself drive continued
      inflammation). Since ART initiation within weeks of HIV acquisition is not a viable public
      health strategy, it is important to more completely understand the relative long-term
      benefits of initiating ART at very early times after infection (FI-II) as opposed to after a
      short (during FIII-V) or longer delay (at 24 weeks). The effects of alcohol on microbial
      translocation and pro-inflammatory cytokines are not unlike early changes after HIV infection
      (5-7); however, alcohol's role in HIV pathogenesis and progression is not well defined. Since
      the possibility that high-level alcohol use can mitigate the benefits of early ART is
      emerging as a potentially important public health issue, the investigators will evaluate the
      impact of time of ART initiation as well as alcohol use on HIV pathogenesis in Peruvian men
      who have sex with men (MSM), in whom high-level alcohol use is common. They will study
      outcomes after 2 and 4 years in MSM diagnosed with acute (Ab-, HIV RNA+) or recent (≤3
      months) HIV infection. Three groups based on time of ART initiation will be studied: a)
      immediate: during FI-II (N~30), b) early: during FIII-V (N~50) or c) delayed: at 24 weeks
      after diagnosis (N~80).

      The overarching hypotheses are: 1. Initiation of ART soon after HIV infection will dampen
      perturbations of GI microbiota, reduce HIV-induced inflammatory changes, and decrease seeding
      of the reservoir. Initiation of ART in FI-II will have the greatest benefit. The
      investigators anticipate that CD4 counts and peripheral inflammatory markers in the FIII-V
      group and the group treated at 24 weeks will approach those in the FI-II group at 2 and 4
      years; in contrast, the investigators expect changes in the GI microbiome and the HIV
      reservoir over time will be more modest. 2. Irrespective of the time of ART initiation,
      alcohol use will compound the negative effects of HIV to generate greater levels of
      dysbiosis, microbial translocation, up-regulation of inflammatory pathways, and seeding of
      the HIV reservoir. To investigate these hypotheses, they will address the following two
      specific aims:

      SPECIFIC AIM 1) To determine the relative long-term benefits of immediate vs. early vs.
      delayed initiation of ART. Initiation of ART during Fiebig I-II, while theoretically
      appealing, is infeasible in clinical practice because the duration of FI-II is very short (10
      days) and because antibody-based tests, used almost world-wide, are unable to diagnose FI-II.
      Six months of ART initiated shortly after seroconversion (FIII) can improve many immune
      parameters, although not to the near normal level seen when ART is initiated during FI-II
      (4). Longer-term follow-up of seropositive participants who started ART ~2-8 months after HIV
      acquisition compared to those initiating ART during FI-II is needed to see whether markers of
      inflammation and residual viral load might continue to improve after 6 months, decreasing the
      difference between the groups. Methods: the investigators will evaluate the 3 groups using
      specimens from equivalent times after ART initiation for a total of 4 years of ART, comparing
      CD4 counts, time to reach undetectable VL, the GI microbiota, and inflammatory markers. The
      size of the replication-competent reservoir in PBMCs will be compared using measurements of
      multiply spliced viral RNA (msRNA) and the degree of low-level infection of new cells by
      assessing the production of circular viral DNA (2LTR HIV DNA). They will model the size and
      persistence of the viral reservoir across all ART-compliant study subjects. In a subset of
      individuals from each group, the proviral integration sites will be defined at ART initiation
      and after 2 and 4 years to assess the maintenance of the reservoir by proliferating CD4
      cells.

      SPECIFIC AIM 2) To determine the impact of high-level alcohol use on the relative long-term
      benefits of immediate vs. early vs. delayed ART initiation. High-level alcohol use results in
      changes in the GI microbiome, increasing dysbiosis and gut permeability, and these changes
      are associated with up-regulation of inflammatory pathways (8-13). Dysbiosis is present in
      many HIV-infected patients. The extent of dysbiosis correlates with established markers of
      HIV disease progression and the consequent inflammatory processes contribute to HIV disease
      progression, even in treated individuals. Methods: The investigators will use monthly data on
      alcohol use to assess alcohol consumption as a continuous, time-varying predictor. In all
      participants at the time of diagnosis, and at multiple timepoints prior to ART in those
      enrolled into the deferred group, they will assess VL, GI microbiota and metagenomics,
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, and production of msRNA. They will compare these factors between
      subjects by their reported alcohol use, focusing on events occurring shortly after HIV
      acquisition. Specimens from uninfected and chronically infected subjects are available as
      controls. Finally, among ART-adherent subjects with persistent viral suppression, the
      investigators will assess inflammatory markers and HIV reservoirs in those with and without
      high-level alcohol use at 2 and 4 years after ART initiation.
    
  