
    
      Children with developmental coordination disorder (DCD), who comprise about 6% of the primary
      school population, display marked movement and balance difficulties. Reduced limits of
      stability (LOS), the maximum spatial area in which a standing person can lean, in these
      children is a major concern because it predisposes them to falls and affects their motor
      development.

      The investigator's recent studies demonstrate the underlying causes of impaired LOS in
      children with DCD to include suboptimal volitional control of the center of gravity (COG) and
      reduced leg muscle force production speed. Tai chi (TC) is a particularly suitable exercise
      for improving COG control, yet the speed of movement is too slow to improve muscle power.
      Hence, muscle power training (MPT), which can hasten leg muscle force production, in
      conjunction with TC (TC-MPT) may be an ideal therapy for improving LOS, preventing falls, and
      improving functional performance in children with DCD.

      In the proposed study, the investigators will pioneer the treatment of both COG control and
      leg muscular deficit in children with DCD by incorporating MPT into TC. It is hypothesized
      that the LOS of balance control in these children can best be improved by treating both their
      COG control and muscular deficits. This hypothesis is supported by the prediction that TC-MPT
      is superior to either TC or MPT alone in improving LOS balance performance. Furthermore,
      improved LOS is associated with fewer fall incidents and better functional performance in
      children with DCD.

      Objectives: To compare the effectiveness of TC-MPT, TC alone, MPT alone, and usual care (as a
      control) for improving the LOS of balance control in children with DCD and to explore the
      relationship among LOS, falls, and functional performance in this population.

      Design: A randomized controlled trial. Sample: 156 children with DCD. Interventions: TC-MPT,
      TC alone, MPT alone, or usual care for 12 weeks. Major outcomes: Outcomes will be evaluated
      at baseline, post-intervention, and a 3-month follow-up. An LOS test will give a dynamic LOS
      score, an isokinetic test will quantify leg muscle force production speed, Movement
      Assessment Battery for Children-2 will be used to assess functional motor performance, and
      fall history will be obtained via interviews.

      Anticipated results and significance: The TC-MPT group is predicted to display the best LOS
      balance performance, which is associated with reduced fall incidents and improved functional
      performance. This novel training regime could be readily adopted into school or clinical
      settings to improve physical well-being in children with DCD, an outcome with positive
      socioeconomic implications.
    
  