
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate and compare, in a non-randomized protocol, reduced-dose craniospinal
           radiotherapy alone or combination chemotherapy comprising carboplatin, etoposide
           phosphate, and ifosfamide and local irradiation in patients with intracranial germinoma.

        -  Increase survival with combination chemotherapy comprising cisplatin, etoposide
           phosphate, and ifosfamide followed by focal radiotherapy or craniospinal irradiation in
           patients with intracranial secreting germ cell tumors.

      Secondary

        -  Use the same diagnostic protocol for imaging and laboratory investigations before,
           during, and after treatment.

        -  Establish and use a common documentation system regarding general patient's data,
           including diagnostic tests, clinical evaluation, surgery, histology, radiotherapy,
           chemotherapy, and toxicity.

        -  Collect information about toxicity, prognostic factors, and tumor markers.

        -  Collect epidemiological data, including documentation of incidence and the site and the
           histologic pattern of intracranial secreting and nonsecreting germ cell tumors in
           children and adolescents.

        -  Register associated malformations in the patients as well as the epidemiology of tumors
           and malformations in relatives.

      OUTLINE: This is a non-randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      tumor classification (pure CNS germinoma vs secreting germ cell tumor and embryonal
      carcinoma).

      Patients in stratum I undergo biopsy or surgical resection and then begin radiotherapy with
      or without chemotherapy.

        -  Stratum I (pure CNS germinoma [without elevated markers]): Patients receive 1 of 2
           treatment options based on national/center standard:

             -  Option 1: Patients receive reduced-dose craniospinal radiotherapy 5 days a week for
                3 weeks followed by a boost to the tumor bed 5 days a week for 2 weeks. Patients
                with multifocal or metastatic disease receive additional boosts to the tumor sites.

             -  Option 2: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1, etoposide phosphate
                IV over 1 hour on days 1-3 and 22-24, and ifosfamide IV over 3 hours on days 22-26.
                Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2 courses. After recovery from chemotherapy,
                patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks.

        -  Stratum II (secreting tumors and embryonal carcinoma): Patients receive etoposide
           phosphate IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-5, and
           ifosfamide IV over 22 hours on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4
           courses. Patients whose tumor markers do not return to normal after completion of
           chemotherapy are off protocol. Patients may undergo surgery after chemotherapy course 2
           or 4 if required. After completion of chemotherapy and recovery from surgery, patients
           with nonmetastatic disease undergo radiotherapy to the tumor bed 5 day a week for 6
           weeks, and patients with metastatic disease undergo radiotherapy to the cerebrum, spinal
           axis, and tumor bed for 7 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks and then periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 500 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  