
    
      Study Questionnaire and Photographs:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete questionnaires about your general
      health and how your breast currently looks and feels. This should take about 15 minutes to
      complete. Photographs will also be taken of your breast and your doctor will rate the way
      your breast looks before you begin receiving radiation. You will not be able to be identified
      in the photographs. The photographs will be kept as part of your medical record. You will
      also have a physical exam and your medical history will be recorded.

      Study Groups:

      You will then be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Group

      1 will receive shorter radiation. Group 2 will receive standard radiation.

      For shorter radiation (Group 1), you will receive about 3 weeks of radiation (16 treatments)
      to the entire breast. You will also have 4-5 additional treatments of radiation as a "boost".
      The boost will be delivered to the part of the breast where the disease first started.

      For standard radiation (Group 2), you will receive about 5 weeks of radiation (25 treatments)
      to the entire breast. You will also have 5-7 additional treatments of radiation as a boost to
      the part of the breast where the disease started.

      Study Visits:

      While you are receiving radiation, you will be asked about any side effects you may be having
      each week.

      Follow-up Visit:

      You will return to the clinic for follow-up visits 6 months and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years after
      you have finished receiving radiation. At each follow-up visit, you will fill out the study
      questionnaire, more photographs will be taken of your breast, and you will be asked about any
      side effects you may be having. You will also have a physical exam and your medical history
      will be recorded.

      Length of Study:

      After the 5-year follow-up visit, you will be off study.
    
  