
    
      1. STUDY SITE

           Sydney Children's Hospital High Street Randwick Sydney Australia

        2. FUNDING AND RESOURCES

           Existing funding from the Aiming for Asthma Improvement in Children Program (Chronic &
           Complex Care program, Ministry of Health) general cost centre has been used for the
           development of resources and to support existing staff FTE's.

        3. INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND INFORMATION

           3.1 INTRODUCTION The Aiming for Asthma Improvement in Children (AAIC) program has been
           funded by the Ministry of Health as part of the NSW Chronic Disease Program. Its mission
           is to improve the management of paediatric asthma through provision of standardised
           resources, education and training, and promotion of best practice strategies, resulting
           in a specialist coordinated paediatric asthma management service that facilitates
           continuity of care between hospital and community services.

           AAIC has well established health professional led asthma management training programs
           for hospital clinicians and community groups which include public and private schools;
           childcare services; and out of school hours care services. The School Champion Asthma
           Management Program (SCAMP), implemented in 2010, is one example.

           Based on the work of Professor Richard Henry in the Hunter Region of NSW the SCAMP model
           adopts a train the trainer approach with a designated school staff member attending a
           face to face SCAMP cluster training session and taking on the role as School Asthma
           Champion for their school. With ongoing support from AAIC, the School Asthma Champion
           facilitates feedback of asthma first aid information to staff within their school as
           well as facilitating the implementation and maintenance of best practice school asthma
           management procedures. The designated School Asthma Champion is an important
           communication link between the school, student, parent, & AAIC. To date, 138 schools
           have participated in SCAMP with 77 schools having a current SCAMP trained School Asthma
           Champion.

           Because the train the trainer is resource intensive and presents a barrier to training
           Schools in remote and rural NSW, we have developed an eBook which will be downloadable
           from the Apple iBook store. This has the advantage of being more convenient and
           accessible to any School in NSW (and internationally) if they have an internet
           connection and an Apple tablet or phone. Prior to its launch we propose to undertake
           this this study to evaluate its effectiveness.

           3.2 BACKGROUND INFORMATION

           Asthma is a very common disease affecting children in Australia. There are over two
           million Australians who have been diagnosed with Asthma and 1 in 10 children have been
           diagnosed with the disease. The New South Wales Child Death Review Team found that 20
           children in NSW alone died from asthma between 2004 and 2013 with the number of deaths
           from asthma in children unexpectedly increasing between 2010 and 2012.

           School teachers are functioning as the carer for children with asthma when they are on
           school grounds. As children spend on average 30% of their day in school it is clearly
           vital that these teachers have the necessary knowledge and self-confidence to recognise
           and manage regarding the symptoms of asthma. This requires both a theoretical
           understanding of the disease process and a practical understanding of recognising signs
           of disease and administering first aid treatment.

           It is known that education of both patients and their carers is critical for improving
           clinical outcomes. We currently have a face-to-face SCAMP training session for educating
           school teachers about Asthma in place. However, it is resource intensive and does not
           allow participation of Schools in rural and remote regions. In order to address these
           issues, we have developed an eBook educational tool for school teachers based on this
           SCAMP training session and is planned for implementation in 2016. The SCAMP program
           general feedback has been very positive however we have not formally had the opportunity
           of evaluating the program in a research setting, hence this proposed study is timely.

           A review of the literature demonstrates that education programs targeting school
           teachers can be effective in increasing knowledge and awareness about asthma in school
           children, however formal evaluation of school asthma education programs such as SCAMP,
           particularly in Australia, is lacking.

           Furthermore, no evaluation has been undertaken using technology assisted learning, such
           as an electronic book to train school teachers in first aid asthma management which is
           the aim of this study. There are also no studies directly comparing the efficacy of
           asthma education between face-to-face education and technology-assisted education.

           If this study demonstrates effectiveness then it is likely to help with uptake from
           teachers in Schools in Australia and other English speaking countries. It is crucial to
           undertake the evaluation before publishing the iBook in the Apple store in order to
           reduce bias during the planned study due to potential access of the control group.

        4. STUDY OBJECTIVES 4.1 RESEARCH QUESTION Does technology assisted learning using an iBook
           increase school staff knowledge and confidence in school asthma first aid management
           greater than face-to-face training? The hypothesis of the study is that describing
           asthma first aid knowledge by the SCAMP iBook is superior to standard face to face
           training.

           4.2 PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

           • To determine if the SCAMP iBook increases school staff asthma management knowledge
           more than the current face-to-face training.

           4.3 SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

           • To evaluate the usefulness of the SCAMP eBook as a self-directed multi-media teaching
           resource

        5. STUDY DESIGN

           5.1 STUDY TYPE & DESIGN & SCHEDULE

           This is a prospective randomised parallel study, coordinated by SCH AAIC and conducted
           across NSW schools.

           The target population will be primary and secondary school staff currently employed in a
           NSW public or private school, who meet the inclusion criteria.

           Participants will be recruited to the study as outlined below and randomised into one of
           two training groups:

           Group 1 - a 3 hour face to face School Champion Asthma Management Program training
           session Group 2 - completion of the self-directed SCAMP iBook.

           Randomisation will be done within each school to ensure equal matching of schools
           demographics in both arms of the study.

           To meet the primary objective of the study, the validated Asthma First Aid Knowledge
           Questionnaire will be completed prior to and following training.

           To meet the secondary objectives, a 4 item 10 point Likert Scale asthma management
           self-confidence questionnaire will be completed prior to and following training.

           Surveys will be pre-numbered, consecutively i.e. 1, 2, 3 and randomly distributed to
           participants, therefore any teacher could get any survey number.

           Surveys will be emailed to teachers allocated to Group 2, and the survey number will
           initially be recorded against email addresses however, this will be securely destroyed
           once all surveys are distributed and returned.

           The surveys themselves contain no identifying data.

           All data will only be accessible by the research team, named on this application. Data
           will be saved on a password-protected hospital drive. No identifiable or re-identifiable
           data will be published.

           For Group 1 the appropriate forms will be provided before and after the education
           session. Once completed these forms will be collected and stored as detailed in 11.1,
           11.2, & 11.3 of this protocol.

           For Group 2 the Pre Training questionnaires will be sent via email to all participants.
           These will need to be completed and returned via email within one week of the sent date.
           We will then send the secure link via email to the iBook along with the Post Training
           questionnaires. These questionnaires will need to be completed and returned via email
           within one week of the sent date. Once completed these forms will be collected and
           stored as detailed below.

           This study will predominantly be conducted at centralised health care facility venues
           and some NSW school locations.

           5.2 RANDOMISATION

           Once the participating schools with at least 2 willing participants have been identified
           we will randomize the participating school teachers within each school into either Group
           1 or Group 2 using an online randomization tool (HTTPS://www.randomizer.org).

           5.3 STUDY METHODOLOGY

           This study does not involve clinical or laboratory assessment. Data will be collected
           through self-administered questionnaires, pre and post training. The questionnaires will
           be collected before and after the face to face training.

        6. STUDY POPULATION 6.1 RECRUITMENT PROCEDURE

      Study participants will be school staff currently employed in a NSW primary or secondary
      school, who meet the inclusion criteria as listed elsewhere in the application.

      Recruitment will be coordinated as follows:

        1. Engagement of primary and secondary school education key stakeholders (DEC, AIS, & CEC)
           to assist in the promotion of the study to NSW school principals and encourage staff
           participation

        2. AAIC to send follow up invitational email to school principals outlining overview of
           study, participation involvement and inclusion criteria, and copy of consent form for
           perusal.

        3. On receipt of acceptance by the school principal for school to participate, AAIC to
           forward recruitment form with options of training dates / times / venues, for staff to
           select their preferred training date.

        4. Upon receipt of the registrations one of the investigators will contact the participant
           by phone or email in order to determine whether they are appropriate for the study (ie
           ensure they meet inclusion criteria and do not meet exclusion criteria)

        5. The principle investigator will then randomly assign each participant within each school
           using the on-line random number generator to either Group 1 (Standard training; control
           group) or Group 2 (Technology assisted learning).

        6. Informed consent to participate in study will then be undertaken.

           6.2 CONSENT In addition to receiving HREC approval from SCHN, we will need to receive
           HREC approval from each of the Educational bodies. Informed written consent that reflect
           both the education agency Ethics Committee Policy and the SCHN Ethics Committee Policy
           will be obtained from all participants at the commencement of the study. Participants
           can withdraw from the study at any time.

           Participants who wish to waive their consent at the commencement of training or withdraw
           at any time during the study will not be included in the collection or publishing of
           data but will be able to continue to undertake training in school asthma first aid
           management via SCAMP face to face cluster training.

        7. PARTICIPANT SAFETY AND WITHDRAWAL 7.1 RISK MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY This is a low and
           negligible risk study. It will involve school staff participating in either face to face
           asthma management training or self-directed technology assisted asthma management
           training that they have agreed to undertake for the purpose of professional development.
           They will be required to complete questionnaires immediately prior to commencing the
           training and immediately at the completion of the training. We do not anticipate any
           risks associated with the study as it aims to benefit staff through improved training
           and support of participants. All care will be taken to deliver ongoing support to
           participants during and following school asthma first aid management training.

           7.2 HANDLING OF WITHDRAWALS Should at any stage a participant withdraws from the study,
           the relevant data collected pertaining to the individual will be securely destroyed.

           7.3 REPLACEMENTS Withdrawn participants will be replaced if the number of total
           participants falls below the target number required for statistical significance.

        8. STATISTICAL METHODS

           8.1 SAMPLE SIZE ESTIMATION & JUSTIFICATION

           The hypothesis of the study is that describing asthma first aid knowledge by the SCAMP
           iBook is superior to standard face to face training.

           The primary outcome measure, asthma first aid knowledge, and will be assessed by the
           Asthma First Aid Knowledge Questionnaire which has been developed and validated by Dr
           Bandana Saini and Kate Luckie at the University of Sydney. These validation studies have
           not yet been published and form part of Kate Luckie's PhD's thesis. In collaboration
           with the Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Sydney we will be utilising this
           questionnaire with their kind permission to assess the primary outcome.

           8.2 POWER CALCULATIONS Based on our current data and information from Dr Saini, the
           sample size is 44 participants required both pre and post intervention in both groups.
           This calculation is based on the 14-item version of the questionnaire where the
           pre-intervention score is 11.18± SD 2.5(n=205). Assuming that post face-to-face training
           there is a 10% improvement (i.e. expecting the final score in group 1 to be 12.68± SD
           2.5), and that post iBook there is a further 10% improvement (i.e. expecting the final
           score in group 2 to be 13.95± SD 2.5), 44 participants in both pre and post intervention
           are required to demonstrate a significant change with a 80% power and significant set at
           a 2 sided 5% value.

           Assuming a 15% drop out rate post intervention we aim to recruit 55 participants in each
           arm.

           8.3 STATISTICAL METHODS TO BE UNDERTAKEN A paired t-test will be utilized to assess
           pre-post scores and Likert scales.

        9. DATA SECURITY & HANDLING

      9.1 DETAILS OF WHERE RECORDS WILL BE KEPT & HOW LONG WILL THEY BE STORED Data collected as a
      hard copy will be stored in a locked cupboard, in an office in the Respiratory Department of
      Sydney Children's Hospital Randwick. Data entered electronically will be saved in the AAIC
      folder on the SCHN Network F drive, which is password protected. All data collected will be
      stored for a minimum of 7 years with disposal by secure shredding or electronic erasure
      consistent with the SCHN correct disposal of secure information policy.

      9.2 CONFIDENTIALITY AND SECURITY Information provided by participants and their associated
      schools will only be accessible to members of the research team. Published data will be
      de-identified to maintain confidentiality. Written notification of confidentiality and
      security will be documented on the consent form of which recruited school staff will have a
      copy.
    
  