
    
      Methods In the present prospective study, consecutive sampling is been used to recruit
      elderly patients (age>70 years) hospitalized in the Attikon University Hospital of Athens.
      Patients is included if they sustain orthopaedic operation of the lower limb under spinal
      anaesthesia. This study was approved for ethics and consent by the Institutional Review
      Board/Ethics Committee of the authors' institution.

      Patients' medical history, physical examination, ECG, and X-ray assessment are standard
      practice, supplemented by specific exams or tests (e.g. TTE or pro-BNP levels), are performed
      per the consultant cardiologist's recommendations. All patients included in our study are
      American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology(AHA/ACC) stage II or III with
      ejection fraction (EF) of the left ventricle (LV) between 30 and 50%, and their cardiac
      disease status always in compensated status; also, patients with right ventricle (RV)
      dysfunction and severe valvular diseases are not included in the study.

      A standard intraoperative TTE protocol is used in all patients and included the following
      views: subcostal 4-chamber (SUBC), apical 4-chamber (4CH), apical 2-chamber (2CH), apical
      3-chamber (3CH), parasternal long (LAX) and short axis (SAX).

      All data are saved and stored digitally for off-line, postoperative analysis. The EF is
      determined using the biplane Simpson's method, by performing automated measurements of LV
      volumes in 2CH and 4CH views (GE, Auto-EF system).

      The tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) index is used for the assessment of
      right ventricular function. Patients with right heart dysfunction (TAPSE<16 mm) are excluded
      from further analysis. Stroke volume (SV) and subsequent stroke volume index (SVI=SV/m2) of
      the LV is assessed by using automated measurements of LV volumes, according to the formula:
      SV= EDV-ESV, where EDV=end-diastolic LV volume and ESV=end-systolic LV volume. From these
      data, we also derived values for the assessment of cardiac output (CO =SV x HR), subsequent
      systemic vascular resistance (SVR =MAP x 80/CO), (mean arterial blood pressure=MAP, HR=heart
      rate) and arterial elastance (EA = (SBP × 0.9)/SV).

      IVC measurements included its maximum diameter at the end of expiration (dIVCmax), IVCCI
      during spontaneous, quiet, breathing, [(IVC maximal diameter - IVC minimal diameter)/IVC
      maximal diameter] and the ratio (R) of dIVCmax-to-IVCCI; the IVC diameters is measured in the
      long axis of the IVC and just proximal to the entry of the hepatic veins.

      Anesthetic protocol and measurements. Spinal anesthesia is introduced with a single
      intrathecal injection of 15 mg plain ropivacaine (0.75% solution) using a 22 or 25-gauge
      needle (pencil-point) with the patient in the lateral position. Intraoperative ECG, SPO2 and
      invasive arterial blood pressure (through an indwelling radial artery catheter) monitoring is
      used. Patients who are experiencing a MAP less than or equal to 65 mmHg, or greater than or
      equal to 25% reduction of its baseline preoperative value were considered hypotensive
      (duration of low MAP: 30sec, time-period: from spinal anesthesia induction to the end of
      surgery). Arterial hypotension related to bone cement application, tourniquet deflation,
      overt intraoperative/postoperative bleeding (blood loss>150cc) or patients receiving blood
      transfusion for any reason is not considered in our statistical analysis.

      Data analysis: Quantitative variables and proportions are compared with the student t-test
      and chi-square test respectively. Normality is tested by using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
      ROC curve analysis is performed to evaluate the diagnostic performance of echocardiographic
      parameters in identifying patients who experienced spinal-induced hypotension. The area under
      the curve (AUC) and the respective 95% confidence interval (95% CI) is estimated according to
      Hanley and McNeil.14 AUC curves is compared using the method described by DeLong et al.15 The
      results is expressed as percentage (%) or mean ± SD (standard deviation); a p value of <0.05
      was considered statistically significant. Statistical analysis was performed using
      statistical analysis software (SPSS, 17.0, Chicago, IL; MedCalc Software, Mariakerke,
      Belgium).
    
  