
    
      Group Health's Behavioral Health Service leaders decided to implement alcohol-related care
      along with integration of population-based primary care for other behavioral health
      conditions, including screening for depression, marijuana and other substance use and use
      disorders. Group Health leaders also decided to transition primary care social workers to
      become integrated behavioral health clinicians in 2015.

      Pilot testing of the implementation strategies in 2015 was led by Group Health's Behavioral
      Health Service (BHS) in collaboration with other Group Health departments. State-of-the-art
      implementation methods were used to integrate evidence-based alcohol-related care into 3
      pilot primary care clinics in Group Health. The implementation strategies included:
      participatory design, clinical champions, practice facilitation, performance monitoring and
      feedback, and clinical decision support in the electronic health record (EHR). The
      implementation strategies also included a video and handout designed explicitly to shift
      staff attitudes, in order to make discussions of unhealthy alcohol use routine and less
      stigmatized in primary care. Screening and follow-up assessment for symptoms of AUDs are
      conducted on paper and then typically entered into the EPIC EHR by medical assistants (MAs).
      The implementation strategy was refined based on ongoing formative evaluation.

      Group Health leaders are now prepared to roll out behavioral health integration to the
      remaining 22 primary care clinics. All implementation will be led and conducted by Group
      Health clinical leaders and clinicians. The timing of implementation at the 22 clinics is
      staggered to allow for support from practice facilitators. Leaders randomized clinics to
      different start dates to allow a rigorous evaluation using secondary quality improvement
      data.

      The research team at Group Health Research Institute is supporting implementation and will
      lead the evaluation. The research team will conduct a pragmatic stepped-wedge quality
      improvement trial in the 22 primary care clinics. Implementation will be staggered in 7
      waves, each of which will be 4 months long (3 waves in Year 1; 4 waves in Years 2-3).
      Randomization is stratified by study Year, with 9 sites chosen by Group Health clinical
      leaders to start in Year 1, and the 13 remaining sites to be randomized in Year 2.
      Randomization is stratified primarily because Group Health clinical leaders wanted to choose
      the first 9 clinics. In addition, they may decide remove 3 or 4 facilities in Spokane (a long
      distance from Seattle requiring air travel) from the Year 2 randomization (thereby omitting 1
      of the 7 waves of implementation Year 2).
    
  