
    
      Fifteen male and 15 female recreational athletes between 14 and 17 years old and 15 male and
      15 female recreational athletes between 18 and 30 years old will be recruited to complete the
      study. These age ranges are selected as they show significantly higher injury rates compared
      to other age ranges and allow us to account for maturational effects. Participants younger
      than 18 years old will be primarily recruited through local sports clubs. Adult participants
      will be primarily recruited among the students at the University of Wyoming.

      The researchers who will have direct contact with participants will be fully vaccinated
      against COVID-19 and wear surgical masks. Participants and researchers must pass the Centers
      for Disease Control and Prevention Facilities COVID-19 Screening prior to each training
      session and assessment. Participants will be separated by a minimum of 6 feet when multiple
      participants are trained at the same time. Only one participant will be tested at a time
      during the assessment. The equipment will be sanitized before and after each use.

      Participants will perform one-week training of single-leg falling techniques, a post-training
      assessment, a two-week break, and a retention assessment. A pre-training assessment will not
      be performed, and a control group will not be included because it will be unsafe for
      participants to fall on a hard surface without proper training of falling techniques. The
      post-training assessment will be performed within three days after the one-week training. The
      retention assessment will be performed within three days after the two-week break. The
      one-week falling training will include the forward, lateral, and vertical landing directions
      and mats with different thicknesses. Participants' landing mechanics will be evaluated during
      the post-training and retention assessments, which will include the forward, lateral, and
      vertical landing directions as well as the diagonal landing direction as the novel transfer
      task. Any injuries that occur during the training and assessments will be documented.

      For both post-training and retention assessments, participants will wear spandex clothes and
      standard running shoes provided by the researchers. After a warm-up protocol, retroreflective
      markers will be placed on each participants' 7th cervical vertebra and bilateral
      acromioclavicular joints, greater trochanters, anterior thighs, lateral and medial femoral
      epicondyles, tibia tuberosities, inferior shanks, lateral and medial malleolus, first toes,
      first and fifth metatarsal heads, and calcaneus. Motion data will be captured using eight
      Bonita 10 cameras at 160 Hz (Vicon Motion Systems Ltd, Oxford, U.K.). Ground reaction force
      data will be measured using one FP4060-10 force platform at 1600 Hz (Bertec Corporation,
      Columbus, OH, USA). Kinematic and force data will be collected simultaneously by the Vicon
      Nexus software.

      After a static trial, participants will perform a minimum of two practice trials and three
      recorded trials of single-leg soft landings and falling in the forward, lateral, vertical,
      and diagonal directions. The forward and vertical directions were included in our previous
      study. The lateral direction is added to increase the challenges associated with the frontal
      plane to load the knee. The diagonal direction is incorporated as the transfer task, which
      imposes challenges to both the sagittal and frontal planes as a more complex movement. The
      order of the testing legs (left or right), landing directions (forward, lateral, vertical, or
      diagonal,), and landing techniques (soft-landing or falling techniques) will be randomized. A
      0.5-inch mat with minimal effects of impact absorption will cover the concrete floor for the
      falling conditions.

      A lower extremity model will be established to calculate the three-dimensional internal knee
      joint resultant moments using the inverse dynamic approach and three-dimensional knee joint
      angles characterized by the Cardan angles as previously described. The independent variables
      are the two landing techniques (soft-landing and falling) and two assessments (post-training
      and retention). For each landing direction and each leg, each landing variable will be
      compared among the two landing techniques and two assessments using repeated-measures
      analysis of variables (ANOVA). Significant interactions of ANOVA will be followed by pairwise
      comparisons.
    
  