
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is among the most common cancer forms in Denmark with an approximate
      of 4300 new cases in Denmark annually, of which rectal cancer represents approximately 1400
      new cases each year. It is also well known that synchronous cancer and polyps are present in
      up to 11% and 58% respectively in patients with CRC. It is assumed that adenomas constitute a
      precursor for cancer and it is thus speculated that the detection and removal of the adenoma
      could reduce the incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer. Danish Colorectal Cancer Group
      (DCCG) and the Danish Surgical Society (DKS) currently recommend full colonic investigation
      as part of the preoperative assessment, which also includes MRI of the rectum, ultrasound of
      the liver and chest X-ray (or abdominal /chest CT) to locate possible metastasis or
      synchronous tumors. However, it is often difficult to implement the preoperative colonic
      investigation due to lack of capacity or tumor stenosis. A recent Danish study showed that up
      to 78% of all patients with colorectal cancer had not received the full colonic investigation
      preoperatively. In this instance the recommendation from DCCG & DKS is that patients in the
      absence of complete colonic investigation preoperatively, should undergo colonoscopy within 3
      months postoperatively.

      Within the last 15 years new non-invasive imaging techniques have been developed, this
      includes MR colonography (MRC). Like conventional colonoscopy, MRC requires bowel cleansing,
      since feces can create artifacts that can hide or mimic polyps and abnormalities. After
      cleansing the colon is distended by water using a rectal catheter. Since it is only water
      that needs to pass through a possibly stenotic colon segment, there is a better chance to
      successfully examine the entire colon compared to a colonoscopy. A recent study showed a 98%
      success rate using MRC to examine the entire colon in patients with CRC having colon
      stenosis. The MRC is preformed after the colon is fully distended with water and depending on
      the resolution needed the scan times are between 10 and 15 minutes. Data processing,
      reconstruction and analysis are made at an independent workstation.

      The advantages of MRC are its non-invasive nature, short examination time, and the fact that
      sedation is unnecessary. This makes it possible for patients to be discharged directly after
      the imaging procedure as opposed to the necessity for admission after a colonoscopy until the
      effects of the sedative drugs have worn off. Furthermore, it is assumed that patient
      compliance is much higher in MRC, since almost every patient finds it less unpleasant than
      colonoscopy.

      MRI of the liver is a well-known procedure that has shown good results in the diagnosis of
      hepatic metastases and primary cancers. Several studies have shown that it is equal or better
      than CT and ultrasound of the liver.

      Currently there are no studies, which make the overall preoperative assessment by means of
      one investigating technique, namely MRI. The investigators have previously studied the
      sensitivity/specificity and patient satisfaction by MRI colonography with fecal tagging. In
      this study the investigators want to investigate the quality of MR-colonography with bowel
      cleansing, also assessing the economical aspects of an overall examination of the rectum,
      colon and liver in patients with rectal cancer.
    
  