
    
      The objectives of this study are to

        1. Describe patients' and care providers' satisfaction associated with the use of the
           FreeStyle Precision Neo-Meter

        2. Evaluate the uptake and use of the Meter

        3. Describe the impact of the Meter on primary care diabetes consultation from care
           providers' perspectives.

      In order to achieve the objectives of this study, diabetes healthcare providers and people
      with type 2 diabetes who have been using the Neo meter will be interviewed. Maximum
      variability will be sought for provider discipline and patient demographic characteristics.
      Sampling will continue until theme saturation is reached. A total of up to 20 (10 care
      providers and 10 people with diabetes) will be interviewed for this study.

      Diabetes healthcare provider interview: Two care providers from each discipline including
      physicians, nurses, nurse educators and dietitians in Southwestern Ontario, Canada, who have
      been using the Neo meter will be recruited for interviews. Care providers satisfaction will
      be assessed after the use of the Meter with sample representation of sole and team based
      practices.

      Patient interviews: Eligible patients who agreed to participate in the study will be provided
      with a Neo meter and test strips. Their care providers will provide them with instructions,
      guidance and support in using the device as part of their self-management activities.
      Patients will be interviewed 3 months after (post only) the use of the Meter to assess their
      satisfaction with its functionality, capacity, design and ease-of-use.

      Interviews will take place at a location and time convenient for participants and will take
      approximately 45min-60min in Oct/Nov 2015. Interviews will be audio tape recorded to allow
      for a fluid discussion such that the interviewer does not need to stop the conversation to
      take notes. A letter of information and consent form will be provided to participants.
    
  