
    
      iReadMore is a self-led therapy app for improving single word reading accuracy and speed in
      individuals with acquired reading impairments. iReadMore has been demonstrated to improve
      reading speed and accuracy in pure and central alexias (Woodhead et al., 2013, 2018).
      iReadMore therapy is not expected to improve reading for the remaining alexia subtypes.

      iReadMore includes 590 of the most frequently written words from the SUBTLEX lexical database
      (Brysbaert and New, 2009). High frequency words were chosen to maximise the relevance
      (ecological utility) of the training to everyday life. The therapy mechanism relies on mass
      practice of cross-modal, paired associate learning (Holcomb and Anderson, 1993) based on the
      Triangle Model approach to reading. Untrained words will not be affected, and thus word
      reading improvements are not expected to generalise beyond trained items.

      The therapy utilises gamification and is designed to be accessible in order to drive
      motivation and engagement for the user group. iReadMore is downloadable via the Google Play
      store on Android tablet devices. iReadMore is a CE-marked class 1 medical device that was
      developed by the Neurotherapeutics Group, University College London.

      An online roll-out trial will be conducted to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of
      iReadMore with a study population of real world users. The therapy will be evaluated in a
      clinical population with a reading impairment of any acquired cause (such as stroke or brain
      injury). Participants will self-enrol in the study through the app, which has been
      co-designed to ensure accessibility to this user group.

      A within-participant evaluation of trained versus untrained items will investigate the
      clinical effectiveness of the therapy for improving reading speed and accuracy. The primary
      outcomes are improvements in single word reading accuracy and speed. Interval testing will be
      conducted after every 5 hours of therapy. The secondary outcomes are self-reported Activities
      of Daily Living and a series of qualitative questions.

      Further analyses will be conducted on alexia subtypes and the influence of therapy dose and
      intensity on the therapeutic outcomes.

      Ethical approval for the iReadMore roll-out trial was obtained from the UCL Research Ethics
      Committee (ID: 7609/001).
    
  