
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Ocular inflammatory diseases, including uveitis, scleritis, and mucous membrane pemphigoid,
      are major blinding eye diseases. For some patients, corticosteroid therapy is insufficient to
      control ocular inflammatory disease, such that immunosuppressive therapy is required.
      Immunosuppressive therapy for eye diseases has most commonly employed antimetabolite, T-cell
      inhibitor, and/or alkylating agent therapies. It has been suggested, based on studies of
      patients with severe systemic immunologic or other systemic diseases, that such treatments
      may result in an increased risk of cancer and other long-term morbidities. In these studies,
      it has been difficult to determine whether the excess risk arose from the underlying systemic
      diseases or the treatment.

      AIMS:

      The Systemic Immunosuppressive Therapy for Eye Diseases (SITE) Cohort Study will evaluate
      directly whether immunosuppressive therapy for ocular inflammatory diseases is associated
      with an excess risk of mortality and of cancer. The study is expected to generate critical
      information in deciding whether immunosuppressive therapy is warranted for such patients, and
      whether certain immunosuppressive agents should be avoided. In addition, the study will
      evaluate the frequency of short-term complications with such therapy, and the ocular benefits
      of therapy.

      METHODS:

      The SITE Study will have a classic retrospective cohort design. A database will be
      constructed through a chart review of patients seen here in the Uveitis clinic of the NEI
      since 1977 and 3 other sites. Patients exposed to immunosuppressive therapies will be
      compared to two groups: 1) an external standard, the general United States population; and 2)
      an internal comparison group, patients with the same ocular inflammatory diseases who did not
      receive immunosuppression. Approximately 10000-15000 patients will be accrued from four
      centers which pioneered the use of immunosuppressive therapy for eye diseases, beginning
      19-29 years ago. Patients who received immunosuppressive therapy for eye diseases, and
      patients with the same ocular inflammatory diagnoses who did not, will be identified by the
      chart reviews. Those who subsequently have died will be identified through a search of the
      National Death Index and/or the Social Security Death Index.

      In addition to overall mortality, cause-specific mortality will be evaluated, as obtained
      from death certificate coding. The data collected here at the NIH will be compared to the
      National Death Index separately from the data from the other centers, via a direct query from
      our center. Abstracted data without identifiers other than study number and letter codes that
      could not be used to identify subjects by anyone outside the LI will be sent to the central
      database. The outcomes of mortality, cause-specific mortality, and cancer incidence will be
      analyzed using a relative incidence approach. Description of the short-term complications of
      immunosuppression and of the beneficial effects of immunosuppression on eye diseases also
      will be evaluated. This study's chair is John Kempen at the Wilmer Eye Institute of the Johns
      Hopkins School of Medicine. We will be a participating center.
    
  