
    
      The objectives of this study are to determine the safety/tolerability together with PD
      parameters of an intravenous slow infusion of 3 increasing doses of HAM8101 (Adrecizumab) in
      patients with AHF in a Phase IIa safety clinical trial. Efficacy of HAM8101 (Adrecizumab)
      will be explored secondarily.

      The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate safety and tolerability of increasing
      doses of HAM8101 (Adrecizumab) in patients with AHF. Treatment emergent SAEs will be
      collected and carefully monitored on a continuous basis during the in-hospital stay and the
      3-month follow-up after discharge. Treatment emergent AEs will be collected and monitored on
      a continuous basis during the in-hospital stay. Plasma and urine specimens will be collected
      daily from the first day of treatment until hospital discharge for routine safety assessments
      and to evaluate renal function.

      All subjects will receive phone calls 30 (±7) days from start of study drug infusion to
      assess the occurrence of adverse events and serious adverse events, mortality and hospital
      readmission for HF or renal dysfunction. Patients will be contacted again 60 (±14) days and
      90 (±14) days after infusion of HAM8101 (Adrecizumab) to document survival and episodes of
      re-hospitalization.

      The study is designed primarily to understand the safety and tolerability of increasing doses
      of HAM8101 (Adrecizumab) in AHF patients (NYHA class II-IV) already in treatment and
      hemodynamically stabilized with a therapy that represents the standard of care (SoC) as
      recommended by international ESC 2016 Guidelines and it comprises 3 different patient
      "cohorts" with each cohort receiving one of 3 escalating doses of HAM8101 (Adrecizumab).

      In addition, the study will provide a PD profile of HAM8101 (Adrecizumab) in AHF, in this
      acute condition.

      After signing an Institutional Review Board approved Informed Consent Form, subjects will be
      asked to undergo screening procedures for study eligibility. Patients will be prescreened by
      site staff based on potential entry criteria as soon as possible after admission. Upon
      confirmation of eligibility and informed consent signature, the patient will receive the
      study drug within 48h from hospital admission. All patients will be evaluated daily during
      the hospitalization. In-hospital assessments of symptoms and signs of residual congestion (as
      composite congestion score) will be made daily from start of study drug infusion and up to
      Day 7, unless a patient is discharged earlier or later or dies earlier than Day 7. After
      discharge patients will be followed up for an additional 3 months for safety assessments with
      telephone contacts at months 1, 2, and 3, to document survival and episodes of
      re-hospitalization.

      Thirty (30) patients with AHF (NYHA class II-IV) will be enrolled into 3 sequential
      experimental cohorts during the inpatient setting: 0.5 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg and 8 mg/kg of HAM8101
      (Adrecizumab).

      A control group of 10 patients with AHF will receive only standard of care treatment and will
      be monitored during the inpatient and outpatient settings.
    
  