
    
      Topical hemostatic agents have been introduced as adjunct therapies to standard surgical
      techniques in the management of intraoperative bleeding. They are particularly useful in
      widespread non-anatomic bleeding or bleeding involving sensitive tissues. Topical hemostatic
      agents can be classified into four broad categories based on function: mechanical agents,
      biologic agents, flowable sealants, and fibrin sealants. Mechanical agents derived from
      oxidized regenerated cellulose forms a physical barrier to block blood flow, while providing
      a large surface area for rapid fibrin clot formation. The benefit of this mechanical agent
      includes a favorable risk profile. They are inexpensive, rapidly absorbed, rarely induces a
      local inflammatory response or fibrosis, and no reported potential for inducing immunological
      response or anaphylaxis.

      In current literature, oxidized regenerated cellulose has been shown to reduce the length of
      stay and resource utilization in cardiovascular and neurologic procedures. Although these
      agents are being used with increasing frequency, there is a paucity of evidence to support a
      similar benefit in gynecologic surgery with the exception of a small number of studies on
      myomectomy and ovarian surgery. Although it is known that all of the agents presently
      approved by the FDA are capable of shortening the bleeding time associated with surgical
      incisions, there are limited studies to show comparative efficacy or clinical impact with
      respect to estimated blood loss in the retroperitoneal space. The results of extensive
      bleeding in the retroperitoneal spaces include significant blood loss with dissection along
      the extraperitoneal fascial planes, as well as intraperitoneal collection, hematoma, and
      abscess. Patients with postoperative pelvic collections may present with symptoms of fever,
      rectal pain, or lower abdominal pain. Treatment often requires IR (interventional radiology)
      drainage and readmission for inpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy. The initial approach to
      hemostasis in the pelvis depends on the nature of bleeding encountered. When bleeding is
      encountered during pelvic dissection, evaluation of the extent and sources of bleeding, as
      well as its anatomic location and proximity to vital structures are the first requirements.
      The process of evaluating bleeding requires inspection of the bleeding sites augmented by
      irrigation, suctioning, and blotting with gauze. Through this process, the rate (minimal,
      mild, moderate, and severe) , distribution (local vs. diffuse), anatomic site (i.e., if in
      close proximity to vital structures), and source of blood loss (small arterial, venous or
      capillary) is ascertained.

      In this study, investigators would examine the efficacy of Surgicel Snow, a topical
      mechanical hemostatic agent, versus direct compression in the control of capillary, venous,
      and small arterial hemorrhage when ligation or other conventional methods of control are
      impractical or ineffective in patients undergoing laparoscopic or robotic assisted
      laparoscopic hysterectomy.

      Primary Outcomes:

        -  Time to hemostasis

        -  Failure to achieve hemostasis

      Secondary Outcomes:

        -  Total intraoperative time

        -  Intraoperative blood loss
    
  