
    
      There are a variety of natural family planning (NFP) methods available today that differ in
      algorithm and biomarkers used to identify women's fertile window. This study will directly
      evaluate the NFP system known as the Creighton Model FertilityCare System (CrM). The
      Creighton Model System is a well-established educational system about fertility which
      involves no devices. The CrM teaches women a standardized way of observing and describing
      their vaginal discharge each day during routine use of the bathroom, and interpreting the
      changes in vaginal discharge to determine whether they are likely to be fertile that day or
      not. Vaginal discharge changes as tracked by the CrM are an accurate indicator of the changes
      in secretions from the uterine cervix that relate to the approach of ovulation.

      This study will also examine the relationship between a couple's stated intentions to achieve
      or avoid a pregnancy during each menstrual cycle with their sexual behavior during the same
      cycle. There is growing consensus among researchers that current measures of pregnancy
      intention are simplistic at best, and at worst can be very misleading. One of the purposes of
      the study is to explore the multiple dimensions of pregnancy motivations, intentions, and
      behaviors by newer detailed measures.

      This study will enroll couples who are new or returning CrM users and who are trying to avoid
      a pregnancy at the time they begin use of the CrM. The participants will be recruited from
      CrM FertilityCare Centers. The design is a prospective cohort study, which is the optimal
      study design to assess different measures of effectiveness and intendedness simultaneously in
      a group of NFP users. Several of the key measures of intention and behavior required for this
      study must be assessed prior to the outcome of actual use of CrM over time and the outcome of
      pregnancy, to avoid recall bias. Outcomes for this study require relatively precise
      assessment of the timing of both intentions and behaviors, which is simply unavailable from
      recall. We plan to enroll at least 300 and up to 400 couples in the study. This represents
      60% (300/497) of the estimated available and eligible couples learning the CrM for use to
      avoid pregnancy in one year at the participating FertilityCare Centers.
    
  