
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      Specific Aim 1:

      To determine if Atorvastatin(Lipitor) administration preserves LVEF 24 months after
      initiation of Anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy for adjuvant treatment of breast cancer.

      Specific Aim 2:

      To determine if baseline to 6-month differences in LVEF predict baseline to 24-month
      differences in LVEF after Anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy and concomitant atorvastatin
      therapy.

      To achieve these aims, we will perform a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized
      clinical trial of 0 or 40 mg of atorvastatin/day in 250 women scheduled to receive
      Anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy for treatment of adjuvant breast cancer. We will use
      innovative noninvasive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedures to accurately measure
      LVEF. In addition, we will measure LV volumes, myocardial strain, fibrosis, aortic pulse wave
      velocity (PWV) and wall thickness, all factors that can influence LVEF by altering LV
      pre-load, after-load, and contractility.19,20 Advanced serum biomarkers will be measured that
      assess for the presence of oxidative/nitrosative stress, systemic inflammation and
      circulating neurohormones that also may influence LVEF.

      This study will test a new clinical paradigm to manage breast cancer: primary prevention of
      Anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy-related LV dysfunction using pre-treatment with low-cost
      statins. In addition, this trial will be the first systematic collection of data regarding
      the mechanism(s) and time course by which LV dysfunction and subsequent CHF evolve in women
      given Anthracycline-based adjuvant therapy for adjuvant breast cancer. These data will be
      useful to physicians trying to determine the optimal cardiac protection strategies when
      administering adjuvant chemotherapeutic regimens to their breast cancer patients. The
      objective of this research is to use inexpensive medications to preserve CV health and
      thereby improve overall survival in the growing number of breast cancer patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

      Specific Aim 1:

      To document the effect of Atorvastatin (Lipitor) on cognitive function using a battery of
      neurocognitive tests (HVLT, Rey-Osterreith Figure, COWA, Trail-making Parts A and B, Digit
      Span and Grooved Pegboard) in breast cancer patients receiving an anthracycline.

      Specific Aim 2:

      To document the effect of Atorvastatin(Lipitor) on self-reported quality of life using
      validated questionnaires (PROMIS including: General form, Cog Concerns, Cog Abilities,
      Fatigue, Pain intensity and interference, Sleep Disturbance, Physical Functioning and Social
      Functioning) in breast cancer patients receiving an anthracycline.
    
  