
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of lonafarnib in
           combination with trastuzumab (Herceptin®) and paclitaxel in patients with
           HER2/neu-overexpressing stage IIIB, IIIC, or IV breast cancer.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetic profiles of these drugs in these patients.

        -  Correlate the pharmacodynamics with the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Correlate the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this regimen with observed
           toxicity in these patients.

        -  Determine the response to this regimen in patients with measurable disease.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study of
      lonafarnib.

        -  Course 1: Patients receive a loading dose of trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV over 90 minutes
           on day 1 and over 30 minutes on days 8 and 15. Patients also receive paclitaxel IV over
           3 hours on day 1.

        -  Course 2: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and
           paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 2. Patients also receive oral lonafarnib twice daily
           on days 3-21.

        -  Course 3 and all subsequent courses: Patients receive oral lonafarnib twice daily on
           days 1-21; trastuzumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15; and paclitaxel IV over 3
           hours on day 1.

      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lonafarnib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 8 weeks until disease progression.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  