
    
      There are approximately 9.5 million women in the United States with Absolute Uterine Factor
      Infertility (AUFI).Congenital uterine infertility in women is linked to a malformed or absent
      mullerian system termed MRKH - Rokitansky's or Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser Syndrome).
      Additional causes of acquired uterine infertility include a hysterectomy subsequent to
      life-threatening hemorrhage during childbirth or as a consequence to a hysterectomy related
      to cervical cancer or for large symptomatic fibroids. Additional causes may include
      intrauterine adhesions subsequent to surgical abortion or infection.

      Uterine transplantation will provide a much needed medical option for many women in the U.S.
      and overseas who are unable to carry their own children based on uterine infertility. Centers
      outside of the US have initiated uterus transplant programs. Initial attempts were reported
      from Saudi Arabia. While the deceased donor transplant had been successful, successful
      pregnancies were not achieved. Another deceased donor transplant had been performed in Turkey
      with a uterus procured from a deceased donor. Although several IVF attempts had been
      performed, they had not resulted in live births.

      Uterus transplants from live donors have been successful. In October 2014, Swedish doctors
      treating a woman born without a uterus, announced the world's first live birth of a healthy
      baby boy after a live donor uterine transplantation. Since then, an additional three babies
      have been born in Sweden to mothers who received live donor uterus transplants. A fifth baby
      is at term and a 6th pregnancy has been reported.

      For this study, the investigators plan to screen 30 patients in order to enroll 10 patients,
      5 recipients and their respective donors. Prospective recipients will undergo comprehensive
      medical and psychological evaluation. If deemed an appropriate candidate, In Vitro
      Fertilization would be started with the goal of obtaining 6 normal embryos for implantation.
      The uterus of a suitable live donor would then transplanted into the recipient. The recipient
      would need to take potent anti-rejection drugs and undergo regular assessments for rejection.
      After one year, embryo transfer to the transplanted uterus would be tried. Up to 6 cycles
      would be attempted hopefully resulting in pregnancy. If pregnancy results, the recipient
      would be followed by the high risk pregnancy team. Delivery will be by Caesarian Section. A
      woman may have up to 2 pregnancies with the transplanted uterus. The uterus is later removed
      so the recipient no longer has to take anti-rejection drugs.
    
  