
    
      Subjects and methods:

      A. Cross-sectional study:

      Patients with obesity previously scheduled at the Service of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
      Nutrition (UDEN) of the Hospital "Dr. Josep Trueta" of Girona (Spain) will be recruited and
      studied. Subjects without obesity will also be recruited through a public announcement.

      A blood glucose sensor will be implanted for ten days, as well as a physical activity monitor
      to record physical activity during this period of time. Interstitial subcutaneous glucose
      concentrations will be monitored on an outpatient basis for a period of time of 10
      consecutive days using a glucose sensor validated by the FDA (Dexcom G6 ®). The sensor will
      be implanted in on day 0 and will retire on day 10 midmorning. Glucose records will
      preferably be evaluated on days 2 to 9 to avoid the bias caused by the insertion and removal
      of the sensor, which prevents a sufficient stabilization of the monitoring system. The
      characteristic glycemic pattern of each patient will be calculated on average from the
      profiles obtained on days 2 to 9.

      At the end of the week an magnetic resonance imaging will be done to evaluate the iron
      content in the brain and parameters of "Diffusion Tensor Imaging" in different brain
      territories.

      Cognitive tests will be carried out and feces will be collected for the study of the
      microbiota.

      The project will be carried out in subjects with obesity (20 men, 20 premenopausal women and
      20 women postmenopausal, BMI > = 30kg/m2) and subjects without obesity, similar in age, sex
      and menopausal status (20 men, 20 premenopausal women and 20 postmenopausal women, BMI
      <30kg/m2).

      B. Longitudinal study:

      After one year of follow-up, in which, subjects with obesity will undergo conventional
      treatment (hypocaloric diet and physical activity advise) or bariatric surgery for weight
      loss, a second visit will be carried out.

      For comparison, the same protocol of the cross-sectional study will be done again. See
      information above.

      Data collection of subjects of cross-sectional and longitudinal studies:

        -  Subsidiary data: Age, sex and birth date.

        -  Clinical variables: Weight, height, body mass index, waist and hip perimeters,
           waist-to-hip ratio, blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), fat mass and fat free-mass
           (bioelectric impedance and DEXA), smoking status, alcohol intake, registry of usual
           medicines and registry of antecedent relatives with obesity, diabetes and comorbidities.

        -  Laboratory variables: 15cc of blood will be extracted from fasted subjects to determine
           the following variables using the usual routine techniques of the clinical laboratory
           (hemogram, glucose, bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST/GOT), alanine
           aminotransferase (ALT/GPT), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), urea, creatinine, uric
           acid, total proteins, albumin, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol,
           triglycerides, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), ferritin, soluble transferrin receptor,
           ultrasensitive C reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, lipopolysaccharide
           binding protein, free thyroxine (free T4), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and
           baseline cortisol). An additional 15cc of blood (plasma-EDTA) will be extracted for
           further analyses.

        -  Stool samples collection: A stool sample will be provided from each patient. The sample
           should be collected at home or in the hospital, sent to the laboratory within 4 hours
           from the collection, fragmented and stored at -80ºC.

        -  Magnetic Resonance Imaging: All MRI examinations will be performed on a 1.5-T scanner
           (Ingenia ®; Philips Medical Systems). First, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR)
           sequence will be used to exclude subjects with preexisting brain lesions. Brain iron
           load will be assessed by means of R2* values. T2* relaxation data will be acquired with
           a multi-echo gradient-echo sequence with 10 equally spaced echoes (first echo=4.6ms;
           inter echo spacing=4.6ms; repetition time=1300ms). T2* will be calculated by fitting the
           single exponential terms to the signal decay curves of the respective multi-echo
           data.R2* values will be calculated as R2*=1/T2* and expressed as Hz. In addition, R2*
           values will be converted to μmol Fe/g units as previously validated on phantom tests.
           Brain iron images from control subjects will be normalized to a standard space using a
           template image for this purpose (EPI MNI template). Subsequently, all normalized images
           will be averaged for the determination of normal iron content. Normal values (mean and
           SD) will be also calculated for anatomical regions of interest using different atlas
           masks, addressing possible differences between gender and age. The brain iron comparison
           between control and obese subjects will be performed using voxel-based analysis.
           Obese-subjects images will be normalized to a standard space. The normalized image will
           be compared to normal population using t-test analysis with age and sex as co-variables.
           As result, a parametric map will show individual differences in iron deposition. Based
           on previous observational studies showing increased brain iron load at some specific
           regions and the evidence suggesting hippocampal and hypothalamic changes in association
           with obesity and insulin resistance, the statistical and image analyses will be focused
           on iron differences at the caudate, lenticular, thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, and
           amygdala.

        -  Neuropsychological examination: General cognitive functioning will be measured using the
           Vocabulary and Similarities subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III
           (WAIS-III); attention and working memory by the Forward and Backward Digit Span subtest
           of the WAIS-II; memory using the California Verbal Learning Test II; executive functions
           by the Trail Making Test, the Color-Word Stroop Test and the Verbal Fluency; mood using
           the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 and impulsive behaviors using the Iowa Gambling Task.

        -  Microbiota composition: the microbiota composition will be analyzed according to a
           previous described protocol. 16s rRNA qPCR and LPS-binding protein in blood samples will
           be used for detection of bacterial translocation.

      The information will remain registered in a notebook and will be computerized in the database
      of the study.

      Statistical methods:

      Sample size: There are no previous data showing expected differences for sample size
      estimation regarding glucose variability, physical activity, composition of gut microbiota
      and cognitive function. In a previous study, differences in brain iron content were observed
      in 20 obese vs. 20 nonobese subjects. Thus, the proposed sample size is at least 20
      individuals per group, with balanced age and gender (pre- and postmenopausal women)
      representation.

      Statistical analyses: Firstly, normal distribution and homogeneity of variances will be
      tested. To determine differences between study groups, it will be used χ2 for categorical
      variables, unpaired Student's t-test in normal quantitative and Mann-Whitney U test for
      non-normal quantitative variables. Nonparametric Spearman analysis will be used to determine
      the correlation between quantitative variables. The same tests will also be used to study
      differences before and after follow-up. The significant associations, whether positive or
      negative, will be explored more-in-depth (simple and multivariate linear regression
      analyses).

      The microbiota composition will be analyzed and compared using HeatMaps, Principal Component
      Analysis (PCA) and PLSDA. For multivariate statistics (PLSDA and hierarchical clustering),
      variables comprising morphological tissue characteristics, gut microbiota and functional test
      will be log transformed, filtered using interquartile range estimate and scaled using
      auto-scaling calculation (mean-centered and divided by the standard deviation of each
      variable) by using the Metaboanalyst ® platform, the R ® package ropls and MATLAB ® scripts.
      Alpha and beta biodiversity will be compared according to obesity, insulin resistance and
      iron status. It will also be used SPSS ® statistical software and Minitab ®.
    
  