
    
      Stigma in diabetes has been understudied. Some recent investigations have examined stigma in
      adults with type 1 diabetes through in-depth interviews. Such qualitative evaluations provide
      important insights into the roots and experiences of stigma, but cannot capture the
      prevalence of the problem. This is a key gap that we will address through a national sample.
      We will also assess the relationship of stigma to both glycemic control and patient-reported
      outcomes (PROs) such as mood, self-efficacy, and sense of well-being. PROs are increasingly
      recognized as critical outcome measures. Finally, we will explore potential solutions with
      participants.

      Methods

        1. Selection of questions to capture stigma: As a starting point, we will consider the
           questions included by Mulvaney and colleagues in their validated Barriers to diabetes
           adherence in adolescents questionnaire. This 21-item tool includes 6 questions on stigma
           and 4 other components (stress and burnout, time pressure and planning, social support,
           parental autonomy support) and showed good overall internal consistency (Cronbach's
           alpha 0.88). We will also consider additional questions proposed by our team, related to
           lived experiences with type 1 diabetes and to managing young people with type 1 diabetes
           (e.g., stigma within social media networks).

        2. Creation of on-line questionnaire Based on (1), we will create an online questionnaire
           through FluidSurveys™ (www.fluidsurveys.com). Participants will be able to fill the
           survey directly online or offline on tablets, laptops or cell phones. The survey
           platform also allows participants to upload documents (pictures, videos, text). The
           questionnaires will be available in both French and English and will include close-ended
           and open-ended questions. Participants will be allowed to interrupt survey completion as
           needed and continue at a later time, as convenient.

           In addition to stigma, we will query peer support, quality of life and well-being,
           diabetes history and current treatment, and socio-demographic information.Overall
           well-being will be assessed with the WHO-5 well being index, a validated 5-item
           questionnaire. It is the most widely used questionnaires assessing subjective
           psychological well-being and has been used in people with type 1 diabetes. Demographic
           factors including age, sex, and ethnocultural background will be queried to ascertain if
           the prevalence of diabetes-related stigma is more common in some demographic subgroups
           (e.g., teens vs. young adults, females vs. males, ethnocultural groups). Similarly, we
           will query sexual orientation/gender identification in order to ascertain, for example,
           if being LGBT (i.e., Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender), or subgroups thereof, is
           associated with higher prevalence of diabetes-related stigma. Owing to their potentially
           sensitive nature, however, the questions on sexual orientation/gender orientation will
           be explicitly optional

           Following completion of close-ended questions, participants will respond to open-ended
           questions that seek to capture experiences and perceptions of stigma as well ideas as to
           how stigma may be effectively addressed. They will be permitted to upload explanatory
           materials (e.g., videos, testimonials, pictures, drawings).

        3. Following survey completion, participants will receive a kit for A1c testing
           (DTILaboratories, Inc.) with a pre-paid envelope for mailing the sample back to
           Montreal. The kit includes a sample vial that contains EDTA preservative, a vial holder,
           a single use lancet, a capillary tube device to draw up a small amount of blood after
           lancing, and a Ziploc bag. Participants will receive instructions to place the vial on
           the vial holder, wash their hands, lance a finger tip (they are familiar with this, as
           type 1 diabetes patients), draw up the blood with the capillary tube, and then release
           the blood into the vial. The instructions include pictures. They will then place the
           vial into the Ziploc bag, then into the prelabelled and postage paid box, and then mail
           the package through a Canada Post mail box. The samples are stable for 2.5 months
           without refrigeration. The AccuBase A1c Test Kit is a non-fasting, finger stick, whole
           blood mail-in test requiring a very small blood volume (0.001ml). Samples are stable for
           45 days un-refrigerated once collected. They are analysed using a two step process. The
           screening step detects hemoglobin variants and/or disturbed erythrocyte kinetics by
           ion-exchange high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The second step includes the
           use of an interference-free procedure HPLC-boronate affinity, that provides a hemoglobin
           A1c value free of possible interferences including chemically modified derivatives. It
           is considered one of the most accurate and comprehensive A1c tests available.

      Recruitment Adolescents and emerging adults with type 1 diabetes aged ≥ 14 and < 25 years
      will be recruited. The study will be publicized through Facebook©, Twitter© , and other forms
      of social media as well as websites of organizations such as Canadian Diabetes Association,
      Juvenil Diabetes Research Foundation, Diabète Québec and the Quebec Diabetic Children's
      Foundation. These organizations may be asked to mail out flyers or send email messages
      through any patient contacts. Specifically, the study will be publicized through posters at
      diabetes clinics, Facebook© pages and websites of diabetes organizations and messages on
      Twitter©. As in previous studies, we will include a description of the STIGMA study with a
      link on the websites of diabetes organizations. We will also ask the organizations to contact
      their members directly to inform them about the study, with a link embedded in the email
      message.
    
  