
    
      Aim:

      This study aims to evaluate the wound healing potential of hyaluronic acid (HA) following
      alveolar ridge preservation (ARP), as this has never been performed, yet seems promising from
      a biological point of view.

      Sample size calculation:

      A sample size calculation using a two-sample pooled t-test was performed in SAS Power and
      Sample Size based on a comparison of mean overall wound reduction from baseline to 21 days
      between the control and test group. The calculation was based on finding a mean difference of
      20% between these groups with a standard deviation of 21.6 for the control and 21.6 for the
      test group. A pilot study was executed to obtain these findings as no other data are
      available. With alpha set at 0.05 and a power of 0.08, the sample size calculation indicated
      19 patients to be included per group. To compensate for drop-outs, 25 would be treated with
      hyaluronic acid and 25 would be treated without.

      Clinicians and centers, randomization, allocation concealment and blinding:

      3 clinicians linked to the Department of Periodontology and Oral Implantology at UGent - UZ
      Gent will treat a total of 50 patients. Each clinician will treat at least 10 patients.
      Patients will be randomly allocated to the 'test group (Hyaluronic acid)' or the 'control
      group (No hyaluronic acid). An equal number of sealed envelopes will be prepared internally
      labelled as 'test group' or 'control group'. Just after ARP, a sealed envelope will be
      randomly selected and opened to reveal further treatment. In case the test group comes out,
      instructions for the daily application of HA (Gengigel Forte©) will be given. HA will be
      administered by the patient 3 times per day during 7 days.

      The measuring investigator will not be involved in the treatment of any of the patients and
      will be blinded to allow unbiased registrations.

      Surgical procedure:

      After screening and having obtained informed consent by the patient, the tooth is extracted
      and ARP is performed by placing collagen-enriched deproteinized bovine bone mineral (DBBM,
      Bio-Oss collagen 100 mg or 250 mg, Geistlich Biomaterials, Switserland) in the alveolar
      socket. Subsequently, a collagen matrix (Mucograft seal, Geistlich Biomaterials,
      Switserland), is sutured on top to protect the underlying DBBM. At the end of the surgical
      procedure, the sealed envelope is opened to reveal the allocated treatment and instructions
      to the patients are given (application of Gengigel Forte© 3 times per day during 7 days).

      Intra-surgical registrations:

      Intra-surgically, the dimensions of the buccal bone plate will be registered. Papillae are
      analyzed if they were detached from the bone mesial and distal during extraction.
      Subsequently, the size of the Mucograft seal (Geistlich Biomaterials, Switserland) is
      measured. Immediately after ARP, a conebeam computed tomography (CBCT) of the alveolar bone
      is taken and an intra-oral scan of the soft tissues is performed (for study purposes).
      Afterwards, an occlusal clinical photograph is taken. The wound dimension is registered by
      measuring the maximum mesio-distal and bucco-oral dimension of the wound with a periodontal
      probe to the nearest 0.5 mm (for study purposes).

      One-week post-surgery:

      One week after ARP, patient's compliance concerning the application of HA 3 times a day is
      evaluated, as well as the number of painkillers taken. A Visual Analog Scale (VAS) will be
      filled out by patients to register pain, swelling and bleeding after surgery. (for study
      purposes) Furthermore, a socket wound healing scoring (SWHS, is given to each extraction
      wound and another occlusal photograph is taken at the end of the consultation. To evaluate
      the soft tissue closure, the maximum mesio-distal and bucco-oral dimension of the remaining
      wound is measured with a periodontal probe to the nearest 0.5 mm. (for study purposes)

      Wound closure after 21 days:

      Three weeks post-surgery, the maximum mesio-distal and bucco-oral dimension of the remaining
      wound is measured with a periodontal probe to the nearest 0.5 mm. For each aspect
      (mesio-distal and bucco-oral) the percentage wound reduction is calculated as follows:

      100 - ((Maximum wound dimension after 21 days * 100) / maximum wound dimension immediately
      after ARP)

      The overall wound reduction is calculated as follows:

      (Wound reduction at the mesio-distal aspect + wound reduction at the bucco-oral aspect) / 2

      SWHS is determined for each wound. Finally, an occlusal clinical photograph is taken.

      4 months after surgery: An occlusal photograph is taken to analyze mucosal scarring using the
      Mucosal Scarring Index (MSI, for study purposes). A second CBCT is made to measure
      dimensional changes of the alveolar process. A second intra-oral scan is made to measure
      dimensional changes in buccal soft tissue profile. (standard of care)

      Data analysis:

      Depending on the distribution of the data, an independent samples t-test or Mann-Whitney U
      test will be performed on the following parameters:

        -  Wound reduction after 21 days (primary outcome)

        -  VAS swelling

        -  VAS pain

        -  Number of painkillers consumed

        -  Socket Wound healing score

        -  Mucosal scarring index

        -  Dimensional changes in the buccal soft tissue profile

        -  Dimensional changes of the alveolar process

      For the following categorical variables, a Fisher's exact will be performed:

        -  Compliance

        -  Bleeding
    
  