
    
      Background

      In recent years the scoop stretcher, for a number of reasons, has been advocated by the
      Faculty for Pre-hospital Care (Royal College of Surgeons Edinburgh, United Kingdom) as the
      'Gold Standard' method of extrication and transport in pre-hospital trauma and this has been
      extrapolated to extricating athletes from the field of play in sport who have sustained a
      potential spine injury. In addition they have advised that the conventional long back boards
      should no longer to be used as a stretcher, only a pure extrication device. This has an
      implication to the emergency care currently provided in sport and will affect every sports
      club financially and every medical team who require training in the use of the new device.

      Previous research studies have looked at how much pressure lying on different spinal boards
      (e.g. the long back board or vacuum mattress) causes the athlete. This is because of a
      concern that lying on a board for too long may cause pressure sores or other medical
      complications. However, no research has been done to measure these tissue pressures using the
      scoop stretcher which is now indicated for general use in pre-hospital care in sport. Also
      there is no evidence to compare how comfortable athletes find the different spinal boards.

      Aims

      This observational study aims to measure the tissue interface pressures and perceived levels
      of comfort of rugby players and University participants (staff and students) immobilised on a
      scoop stretcher and on a long back board for forty five minutes. It will also enable the
      changes in pressures and comfort ratings over time to be assessed to evaluate the appropriate
      time cut off for such immobilisation.

      Experimental Protocol and Methods

      A prospective cross-over study. Players from Nottingham Rugby Football Club and the
      University of Nottingham (staff and students) will be invited to participate for the study
      (summer 2016). Participants will be randomly (block randomisation) assigned to start on
      either the scoop or long board. Participants will be log rolled onto each board and fully
      immobilised for forty five minutes. The wash out period will be a minimum of forty five
      minutes. All measurements will be collected on the same pressure mat.

      Measureable end points/statistical power of the study

      The pressure mat (provided by BES Rehab) will be laid on top of the spinal board and will
      automatically measure the tissue interface pressure readings (occiput, scapulae, sacrum,
      heels) every five minutes. Participant reported pain will be measured by a Visual Analogue
      Scale (VAS) and will be used to collect the comfort ratings data (occiput, scapulae, sacrum,
      heels, overall) every five minutes. Age, height, weight, sport team and position played and
      length of sporting participation will also be collected.
    
  