
    
      The recommended treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) includes optimal surgical
      debulking to < 1 cm residual disease, followed by a combination of intraperitoneal (IP) and
      intravenous (IV) chemotherapy for at least 6 cycles. Serous EOC is known to spread
      transperitoneally and is often diffusely disseminated within the peritoneal cavity. It is
      believed that IP therapy via direct contact is effective in treating such small
      intraperitoneal implants. What is not known is whether IP therapy is evenly distributed in
      individuals and to what degree adhesions and formation of scar tissue prevents the even
      distribution of chemotherapy within the belly, potentially impacting efficacy. Few studies
      have addressed the question of adhesions and intraperitoneal therapy in general, and there
      have been no studies specifically in ovarian cancer utilizing current guidelines. Efficacy
      has been proven for IP/IV therapy over IV alone but the range of survival within the IP group
      may be secondary to "tumor biology," patient selection (i.e., disease truly > 1 cm) or lack
      of/poor distribution of IP drug secondary to adhesions. Any product that could be shown to
      decrease those adhesions and increase the area of distribution of IP therapy would prove a
      major advantage.

      The majority of scarring and adhesions take place in the first 7 days after a surgical
      procedure. And the first IP and IV chemotherapy usually commences between 7-21 days after
      surgery. Therefore, the first treatment provides an opportunity to assess intraperitoneal
      adhesions. To assess adhesions, we will inject radiopaque dye (iohexol) via the IP port,
      rotate the patient per the standard practice during IP therapy to distribute the injected
      liquid, and then take 3 views (simple X-rays) of the abdomen. The area of distribution of the
      dye (representing distribution of IP chemotherapy) will be compared in two groups of subjects
      (Seprafilm™ vs. no Seprafilm™).
    
  