
    
      Gut microbiota, known as "unrecognized organs", is closely related to the occurrence and
      development of tumors. Cancer is thought to occur secondary to local chronic inflammation.
      And some bacteria, such as Helicobacter pylori, also have direct genotoxicity, changing
      intracellular signaling pathways and thus causing abnormal cell growth. Systemic intestinal
      dysbiosis may lead to cancer, and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) can be a new weapon
      in anti-cancer treatment. The reduction of intestinal flora diversity may lead to intestinal
      dysbiosis, thereby reducing the body immunity and promoting the formation and development of
      neoplasm. It has been reported that FMT can be used to treat melanoma, liver cancer and
      prostate cancer after immunotherapy failed. But the mechanism of gut microbiota on the tumor
      itself remains to be further explored. In 2019, an Italian study reports the efficacy of FMT
      for diarrhea induced by tyrosine kinase inhibitors in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma,
      suggesting the therapeutic potential of gut microbiota for tumor-related gastrointestinal
      complications [1].

      Fecal Microbiota transplantation (FMT), the most classic way to treat diseases using gut
      microbiota [2], refers to the transplantation of functional microbiota in the feces of
      healthy people into the intestines of patients. It can reconstruct the overall gut microbiota
      of patients, thus treating gastrointestinal diseases and external gastrointestinal diseases
      of patients. In 2013, FMT was for the first time coined into the treatment guidelines on
      recurrent CDI, and now it plays an important role as a key treatment for clostridium
      difficile infection [3]. Washed microbiota transplantation (WMT), a new stage of FMT, is
      based on the automatic microfiltration machine (GenFMTer, Nanjing, China) and the following
      repeated centrifugation plus suspension with support from specific facilities. Compared with
      manual FMT, WMT can reduce the rate of adverse events (such as fever, diarrhea, abdominal
      pain, abdominal distension, nausea and vomiting, etc.) without affecting the efficacy. In
      addition, Zhang et al. have proved that WMT is better than the manual preparation of FMT in
      improving safety, enriching the precise amount of microbiota and quality controllable in
      practice [4]. In December 2019, A panel of 28 experts from 22 hospitals or institutes in 15
      cities has contributed to the "Nanjing consensus on methodology of washed microbiota
      transplantation" according to the international standards, and the consensus is published in
      Chinese Medical Journal in July 2020 [5].

      Therefore, we conducted a prospective, one-arm, open-label study on the efficacy and safety
      of WMT in the treatment of oncotherapy-related intestinal complications. This study aimed to
      exploring the therapeutic potential of WMT in the treatment of oncotherapy-related intestinal
      complications and improving the quality of life of patients.
    
  