
    
      1. Research Hypotheses

           The primary hypothesis of the present study is that the preschool children in the
           i-MaCHeL intervention group would achieve a significant improvement in BMI z-score
           compared with those in the comparison group at 6- and 12-month after baseline
           measurement.

           The secondary hypotheses of the present study, as stated below:

             1. Preschool children in the i-MaCHeL intervention group would achieve significant
                improvements in dietary intake, physical activity, and health-related quality of
                life compared with those in the comparison group at 6- and 12-month after baseline
                measurement.

             2. Parents of preschool children in the i-MaCHeL intervention group would achieve
                significant improvements in parental self-efficacy, parental role modeling, and
                parental policies compared with those in the comparison group at 6- and 12-month
                after baseline measurement.

        2. Study Location

           Two districts, which are Kuala Terengganu and Kuala Nerus, will be included in this
           study. These two districts are chosen based on demographic and logistic factors as it is
           within 35 miles (56 kilometers) of the study center.

        3. Reference Population

           The reference population will be based on a sample population drawn from the MOE public
           preschools in the Terengganu that are registered at the Ministry of Education Malaysia
           (MOE). There are 307 MOE public preschools with a total of 11,600 children in
           Terengganu. All children attending MOE public preschool in the Kuala Terengganu and
           Kuala Nerus districts will be included as the reference population in the present study.

        4. Source Population

           The primary sample consists of 5- and 6-year-olds children (born in the year of 2016 and
           2017) that attending MOE public preschools, and their parents, living in the Kuala
           Terengganu and Kuala Nerus districts. There are 71 MOE public preschools in Kuala
           Terengganu (n=45 preschools) and Kuala Nerus (n=26 preschools), with a total of 1,850
           and 1,175 children, respectively.

        5. Study Participants

           The preschool's child-parent dyads that fulfill the selection criteria of the present
           study will be eligible for inclusion. In total, 12 preschools with 460 child-parent
           dyads will be recruited.

        6. Sample Size Determination

           The present study is a preschool-based cluster-randomized controlled trial that
           evaluates the effectiveness of a 6-month obesity prevention intervention in preschool's
           child-parent dyads. Twelve preschools with approximately 38 child-parent dyads per
           preschool, will be enrolled in the present study at baseline. With at least 90% power to
           identify a small to medium effect size at the 5% significance level, the present study
           needs a sample of size 460 child-parent dyads. The intervention and control group will
           each have 230 child-parent dyads in the sample.

        7. Sampling Frame

           All preschools located in the Kuala Terengganu and Kuala Nerus districts (n=71), with a
           total of 3,025 children, will be assessed for inclusion. The preschools with fewer than
           38 children (minimum cluster size) or preschools with "special measures" (unlikely to
           have the capacity to contribute to the study) will be excluded from the study. After the
           inclusion and exclusion criteria screening, a list of 37 preschools (n= 1,850 children)
           will be expected to be eligible and invited to participate in the present study. From
           the list, only 12 preschools will be recruited in the study. The list of all children
           attending the included preschools will be obtained from the preschool teachers.

        8. Sampling Method

           A cluster random sampling technique (probability sampling) at the preschool level will
           be conducted in the present study. Thirty-seven preschools (expected to be eligible)
           will be randomly ordered using a random number generator to generate a list of random
           numbers, and sequentially will be invited to participate. All the preschools will be
           contacted, and 12 of them will be recruited in the study.

        9. Randomization

           Notably, the randomization into intervention and control groups will only occur at the
           preschool level. Thus, randomization will be carried out at the preschool level rather
           than the child participants level to minimize the possibility of the experimental group
           participants would influence by the participants in the control group. In total, 12
           preschools, 6 per arm, will be randomized into either the experimental or control group
           in a 1:1 ratio. After the baseline measures are completed, the participating preschools
           will be randomized at the start of the preschool year using a randomization computer
           program of Research Randomizer (version 4.0). The data analyst who randomized the
           preschools has no contact with the principal researcher, preschool personnel, or study
           participants.

       10. Overview of the Interactive Malaysian Childhood Healthy Lifestyle Program (i-MaCHeL)
           intervention

           The i-MaCHeL intervention is designed in an innovative approach to delivering a
           health-related behavior change program among preschool's child-parent dyads to prevent
           childhood obesity. The i-MaCHeL intervention encourages children to practice a healthy
           lifestyle and educate parents to shape home lifestyles for optimal child growth and
           development. Furthermore, the i-MaCHeL intervention is unique, given its Web-based
           approach to enhance the tool's adoption with hard-to-reach populations, contributing to
           the long-term goal for childhood obesity prevention. The combinations of the two modes
           of delivery (interactive classroom instruction for preschool children and a Web-based
           program for parents) will have a strong potential to be effective strategies to sustain
           child-parent engagement and participation in the health-related behavior change program.

           In recognition of the value of multiple theoretical approaches, the strong theoretical
           basis consists of Social Cognitive Theory (SCT), Health Belief Model (HBM), and
           Trans-Theoretical Model (TTM) principles will be underpinning the development of the
           i-MaCHeL intervention. These theories' concepts and principles will be ensured to well
           suited with the i-MaCHeL in supporting desired healthy lifestyle behaviors and healthier
           weight outcomes. The main contents of the i-MaCHeL program are healthy eating, active
           physical activity (moderate-intensity exercise), and sedentary behavior (sleep and
           screen time), which are based on evidence-based national recommendations for a healthy
           lifestyle targeting preschool children. Educational and behavior change materials of a
           healthy lifestyle will be developed by following the guidelines from the Malaysian
           Dietary Guidelines for Children and Adolescents.

       11. Intended Statistical Analysis

      Differences in changes over time between the intervention and comparison groups will be
      assessed for each outcome. General linear model repeated measure analysis will be used to
      determine differences between groups over time (baseline, 6-month, and 12-month) with
      adjustment for potential covariates. Intention-to-treat (ITT) principles will be applied for
      parametric data, with all participants analyzed in both intervention and control groups
      regardless of whether they attended all data collection time points or completed the
      intervention. Descriptive statistics will be calculated to describe participants'
      sociodemographic characteristics and scores for each outcome measure by treatment and control
      groups at baseline, 6-month, and 12-month. Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA)
      will be conducted to identify significant differences within-group at 6- and 12-month
      surveys. Whereas repeated measures Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) will be performed to
      determine significant differences between-group at the 6- and 12-month surveys. The measures
      analyses will be controlled for covariate variables known to influence the outcome measures
      (child gender, parent education level, parent aged, and parent income). The significance
      level will be set at < 0.05. Analyses will be performed using Statistical Package for the
      Social Science (SPSS; version 25.0).
    
  