
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between exposure to malaria and
      the risk of developing subclinical and manifest cardiovascular disease. The study is
      conducted in the high endemic malaria zone pertaining to the city of Cruzeiro do Sul, located
      in the state of Acre, Brazil. The city is considered a part of the Amazon basin.

      By invitation of a random sample of patients with a history of malaria, controls with no
      history of malaria, and symptomatic patients with ongoing malaria infection, the aim is to
      elucidate potential pathways linking malaria to cardiovascular disease.

      Aim 1: Determine whether prior exposure to malaria is associated with myocardial dysfunction.
      The investigators hypothesize that adults with a history of treated malaria (cases) will have
      worse left ventricular (LV) diastolic function and systolic strain compared to age- and
      sex-matched controls without a history of malaria infection. The investigators will recruit
      500 cases and 500 controls from Cruzeiro-do-Sul, Brazil. State-of-the-art ultrasonographic
      examinations will be used to asses novel imaging metrics of cardiac function.

      Aim 2: Define the extent to which proinflammatory factors (such as Ang-2, CRP, VEGF) are
      associated with cardiac dysfunction in subjects with a history of malaria. The investigators
      hypothesize that proinflammatory biomarkers will be higher in cases compared to controls, and
      that higher concentrations of inflammatory markers will associate with worse LV diastolic
      function and strain. The investigators will measure inflammatory biomarkers, determine the
      association with cardiac dysfunction, and test whether history of malaria modifies this
      association.

      Aim 3: Determine if echocardiographic parameters of systolic and diastolic function and
      cardiac biomarkers are significantly elevated in patients with symptomatic malaria (N=200).

      Upon conclusion of this study, the investigators will better understand the relationship of
      malaria with subclinical cardiac dysfunction. This will allow development of the scientific
      foundation and necessary infrastructure to expand this project to a longitudinal study to
      prospectively assess associations with relevant clinical outcomes.
    
  