
    
      Rational:

      Activity pacing (AP) can be defined as "the regulation of activity level and/or rate in the
      service of a goal or goals" (Nielson, Jensen et Vlaeyen, 2012). This general coping strategy
      is widely used in chronic pain (CP) management both as a stand-alone treatment and as a
      component of multimodal treatment programs. However its potential benefits remain unproven;
      in fact, there is evidence that in some contexts, pacing may be a maladaptive coping response
      (Gill et Brown, 2009). Thus, more knowledge regarding the effects of this coping strategy is
      needed in order to determine if (and for whom) it is an effective pain management treatment.

      Two models of AP are currently in widespread use. The Operant Learning (OL) approach uses
      positively reinforced activity quotas that are time and/or goal contingent, rather than
      pain-contingent, and these are gradually increased using "activity-rest" cycling (Fordyce,
      1976). In contrast, the Energy Conservation (EC) approach focuses on patient energy
      expenditure, and seeks to achieve a balance between accomplishing important day-to-day
      activities and resting in order to reduce or avoid pain and fatigue (Hammond, 2004). Despite
      the ubiquitous use of these two forms of AP in clinical settings, little is known about
      either their individual or relative efficacy. Similarly, each approach involves multiple
      elements, and it is unclear which of these elements might be responsible for putative
      treatment effects. Two recent studies (Murphy et al., 2011 ; van Koulil et al., 2010) have
      provided some data regarding AP, but described somewhat contradictory results and did not
      provide clear theoretical bases for their interventions. Future research concerning the
      effectiveness of AP should: (a) define the contents of interventions based on theory; (b)
      avoid confounding AP with non-AP treatment elements; (c) examine the relative efficacy of
      these two theoretically different AP methodologies; and (d) identify the clinical populations
      that are most likely to benefit from AP treatment.

      Fibromyalgia Syndrome (FMS) is a condition with a general population prevalence of
      approximately 3-5% and is estimated to have one of the highest psychosocial and financial
      impacts of all rheumatic diseases and chronic pain conditions. The predominant symptoms of
      FMS are chronic widespread pain and fatigue. Although there are no disease-modifying
      treatments available for this condition, Cognitive Behavioural and Multidisciplinary
      Treatment Programs, usually including some form of AP, are evidence-based and widely
      recommended. Because FMS is common, causes considerable suffering (personal, social and
      economic) and has been the frequent target of AP methods, it is particularly important to
      understand the efficacy of AP - both alone and as a part of multimodal treatment packages.
      However, before this step is taken, it is important to assess the efficacy of AP as a
      stand-alone treatment.

      Research objectives:

        -  To examine the effectiveness and relative benefits of OL and EC interventions on pain
           and fatigue and to assess their impact on physical functioning, mental well-being and
           quality of life in patients with FMS.

        -  To investigate factors that are hypothesized to influence AP treatment effectiveness,
           including use of general coping strategies and beliefs/attitudes toward pain.

        -  To Examine the AP treatment with regard to the participant global impression of change
           after the group sessions and at follow-ups.

      Methodology:

      The present study has been designed according to the CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials) statement. A total of 120 participants with FMS will be randomly assigned
      to one of four intervention groups (OL, EC, delayed-OL and delayed-EC). The delayed groups
      will receive the AP intervention 3 months later and will serve as a Usual Care control group.
      All groups will continue to receive any concomitant interventions that they are receiving
      (pharmacological and non-pharmacological) at the time of enrollment. Data will be collected
      at pretreatment assessment (T0,) at the end of the intervention group (3 months, T1), at 3
      months (T2) and 6 months (T3) booster sessions and at 12 months (T4) follow-up. In order to
      obtain a heterogeneous sample that will be more representative of the regional FMS
      population, participants will be recruited from different sources including health
      professionals from primary and tertiary care settings, FMS associations and support groups
      and direct solicitation from the community (e.g., newspapers, posters). Patients will be
      invited to call the AP research phone line if they are interested in participating in the
      study. If they accept and provide their written informed consent, they will be randomly
      assigned to one of the two study conditions (delayed or not delayed). Men (only around 5% of
      FMS population) will be randomized separately in order to insure that similar proportions of
      each sex are included in each of our four study groups. All participants will be blinded as
      to the nature of the research questions involved in this study.

      Sample size calculation: This sample size was determined based on a standard effect size
      calculation (Machin et Fayers, 2010) using effect size estimates obtained from previous,
      related, studies of interventions for FMS (Murphy et al., 2011 ; van Koulil et al., 2010) and
      takes into account an attrition rate of 20%. This calculation resulted in an estimate of 60
      participants per group (OL, EC). Specifically, we based our estimate on data obtained from
      FMS patients referred to the Rheumatology Day Program at St. Joseph Health Care as they are
      representative of the population from which the sample will be recruited for our study. FMS
      patients' referred to the program reported an average pain of 7.11 out of 10 on a numerical
      rating scale within each subject group was normally distributed with a standard deviation of
      1.41. We are planning to use two primary outcome measures (0-10 numerical rating scale for
      each of pain and fatigue). Because between-group differences in non-pharmacological trials
      are small, we chose a between-group difference of 1 on these NRS measures as our estimate. If
      the true difference in the OL and EC means is 1, we will need a total of 51 participants' per
      group to be able to show that one treatment is more effective than the other with power (1-β)
      0.9. The Type I error probability associated with this test α/2 (corrected as we have 2
      primary outcomes: pain and fatigue) is 0.025. We estimated that we will require 20.4
      additional participants (20%) to adjust for study attrition, resulting in a total of 120
      participants.

      Interventions: OL and EC treatment manuals will be developed by two experienced clinical
      psychologists and two occupational therapists. They will be based on the theoretical
      underpinnings of each of the two principal AP interventions. An expert panel of 6 select
      researchers with extensive experience in this particular field will revise and rate the
      manual contents accordingly to Nielson et al. (Nielson, Jensen et Vlaeyen, 2012)review paper
      about activity pacing concepts in chronic pain. This will ensure that the contents of the
      treatment manuals are consistent with the conceptual models underlying both the OL and EC
      interventions. These treatments will be applied as 3 month "stand-alone" interventions that
      will include 10 sessions, each of 120 min duration (1-weekly for 2 months, and 2 every two
      weeks for 1 month). Booster sessions will also be conducted at 3, 6 and 12 months follow-up.
      Both interventions will be administered by two well-trained occupational therapists (OTs),
      who have extensive clinical experience in treating individuals with FMS. All treatment
      sessions will be audio-recorded. Thirty percent of all recorded sessions will then be
      randomly selected and reviewed by two blinded assessors (using a criterion for inter-rater
      reliability, Cohen's κ, of > .80) in order to evaluate: 1) therapeutic alliance (7-points
      Likert scale), and 2) treatment fidelity (therapist adherence to the treatment manual)
      (7-point Likert scale).

      Questionnaires and assessment tools: Questionnaires and measurement tools has been chosen
      according to IMMPACT (Initiative on Methods, Measurement, and Pain Assessment in Clinical
      Trials) and OMERACT (Outcome Measures in Rheumatology Clinical Trials) recommendations.
      Socio-demographic data and information about concurrent treatments will be collected only at
      baseline while participant's global impression of change will only be measured at follow-ups.
      All others questionnaires will be completed at baseline (T0), after the intervention (T1) and
      at booster sessions (T2, T3, T4). Delayed intervention groups will complete T0 once and at 3
      months baseline before starting the intervention.

      Statistical analysis:

      A split-plot factorial design will serve as the basis for this study. A first set of analyses
      (t-tests, chi-squares) will be performed to evaluate possible baseline differences between
      OL, EC and the Delayed groups on the outcome and/or demographic measures. Depending on the
      results of these analyses, a repeated measures (T1,T2, T3, T4) ANOVA (or ANCOVA if there are
      significant between-group differences on baseline measures, e.g. baseline pain) will be
      conducted to compare the three study groups on the primary outcome measures. Similarly,
      repeated measures ANOVAs (and/or ANCOVAs) will be used to evaluate the secondary and tertiary
      outcomes measures. Post-hoc multiple comparisons will then be conducted to evaluate simple
      and simple-simple effects, correcting for the number of comparisons. Secondary objectives
      will be evaluated using multiple regression analyses examining the relationship between
      treatment change and each of the proposed predictor variables.

      Contributions:

      The proposed study will be an important first step in both evaluating the efficacy of the two
      commonly used AP strategies and understanding their relationship with other variables that
      influence treatment outcome. This study will also be the first to base AP interventions on a
      clearly delineated theoretical framework. Assuming that one or both forms of AP show a
      beneficial effect on treatment outcomes, subsequent research will be able to further refine
      the contents of AP interventions. The results will also clarify the appropriateness of using
      AP strategies for individuals with FMS and will provide information as to which (or both) of
      the two approaches provide clinical benefit. Finally, this research also has important
      implications for health care resource allocation and expenditures. From the perspective of
      evidence-based practice, clinical resources and funding can be directed toward what are
      identified as the most beneficial interventions.
    
  