
    
      It is common for individuals who have had a stroke to have deficits in motor and sensory
      function, communication, and cognition. These deficits pose serious barriers for stroke
      survivors to effectively manage their health and well-being over time, and has contributed to
      excessive amounts of sedentary time beginning in inpatient rehabilitation, and continuing
      post-discharge.

      Sedentary behaviours are associated with various health risks. Lying down, sitting for
      prolonged periods of time, or any other activity with an energy expenditure of ≤1.5 metabolic
      equivalent units are associated with an increased incident of chronic diseases, as well as
      with reduced physical function, and increased symptoms of depression and frailty. Moreover,
      sedentary behaviours are associated with all-cause mortality, with each additional hour spent
      sedentary increasing mortality risk. Thus, efforts to reduce sedentary time as inpatients may
      be a promising therapeutic intervention to improve longer term health outcomes of stroke
      survivors.

      Issues with mood after stroke are common. After stroke, depression and depressive symptoms
      are common occurrences with as many as 28% experiencing depressive disorders or symptoms one
      month post-stroke, and 36% between two and five months. Similarly, anxiety symptoms and
      psychological stress are prevalent issues, with 23% reporting anxiety within five months post
      stroke, and 25% experiencing psychological stress. Not only are these issues associated with
      reduced quality of life, poorer functional outcomes after rehabilitation, increased
      healthcare use, and mortality, these psychological factors have also been shown to be
      associated with sedentary behaviour. It is therefore plausible that decreases in sedentary
      behaviours may be achieved via mood improvements.

      Virtual reality (VR) has garnered substantial attention as a cost-effective treatment
      approach in stroke rehabilitation, particularly as a means to supplement existing therapy.
      While the use of VR in stroke rehabilitation has resulted in positive outcomes, the outcomes
      studied have primarily focused on physical and functional rehabilitation. Despite evidence
      that VR is emerging as a method to address issues with mood, the use of VR to improve mood
      among inpatient stroke survivors has yet to be studied.

      Objectives: In this research, the investigators will: 1) evaluate the feasibility (e.g.
      recruitment and retention, administrative and participant burden) of a VR program to improve
      mood and sedentary behaviour in inpatient stroke survivors; and 2) develop an understanding
      of the effects of VR on mood and sedentary behaviours among inpatient stroke survivors.

      Hypotheses: The investigators expect the protocol will demonstrate sufficient feasibility to
      support a subsequent larger randomized controlled trial (RCT). The investigators also
      hypothesize that the VR program will improve the primary endpoints, measures of mood, in
      people with stroke receiving inpatient rehabilitation, and that such improvements will reduce
      sedentary behaviour.

      This 1-year feasibility study will use a parallel group, single-blinded (tester), randomized
      controlled trial that will be registered and adhere to the CONSORT guidelines. Eligible
      participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either: 1) Intervention: 3 times per week to
      discharge of VR-gaming; or 2) Control: usual care.
    
  