
    
      Hypertension affects approximately 50 million individuals in the United States. As the
      population ages, the prevalence of hypertension will continue to increase if broad and
      effective preventive measures are not implemented. According to the World Health
      Organization, hypertension is the most common attributable cause of preventable death in
      developed nations, as uncontrolled hypertension greatly increases the risk of cardiovascular
      disease, cerebrovascular disease, and renal failure. Despite the availability of
      antihypertensive treatments, hypertension remains inadequately controlled; only about one
      third of patients continue to maintain control successfully.

      A major component of blood pressure regulation is the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, a
      system of hormone-mediated feedback interactions that results in the relaxation or
      constriction of blood vessels in response to various stimuli. Angiotensin II, a polypeptide
      hormone, is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin-converting
      enzyme as part of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Angiotensin II is the principal
      pressor agent of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system with a myriad of effects on the
      cardiovascular system and on electrolyte homeostasis.

      Takeda Global Research & Development Center, Inc. is developing TAK-491 (azilsartan
      medoxomil) to treat patients with essential hypertension. Azilsartan medoxomil is a prodrug
      that is hydrolyzed to the active moiety, azilsartan, which is a selective antagonist of the
      angiotensin II type 1 receptor subtype.

      Amlodipine is a slow-channel blocker that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions
      into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle. It is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that
      acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular
      resistance and reduction in blood pressure.

      This study is being conducted to determine whether administration of azilsartan medoxomil in
      combination with amlodipine in participants with uncontrolled hypertension is more
      efficacious in reducing systolic blood pressure than amlodipine alone. Participation in this
      study is anticipated to be approximately 10 weeks.
    
  