
    
      Many patients in intensive care (ICU) need help to breathe on a breathing machine and need
      pain killers and sedatives to keep them comfortable and pain free. However, keeping patients
      too deeply sedated can make their ICU stay longer, can cause ICU confusion (delirium), and
      afterwards may cause distressing memories. Ideally, the investigators want to keep patients
      less sedated, but it is difficult to get the balance of sedation and comfort right.

      For sedation, most ICUs use a drug called 'propofol' that is good at reducing anxiety and
      making people sleepy, but is not a pain killer, so additional pain killers are needed. There
      are two other drugs used less often called 'alpha-2 agonists' that have both sedative and
      pain-killing actions, which may make it easier for patients to be more awake and comfortable
      on the ventilator. The two drugs are called clonidine and dexmedetomidine.

      The investigators want to know whether starting an alpha2-agonist drug early in ICU, and
      using this instead of propofol as much as possible, can help keep patients more lightly
      sedated but still comfortable, and whether patients spend less time on the ventilator with
      these drugs. The investigators also want to know how safe these drugs are and if improve
      important outcomes during ICU stay can be improved (like delirium, comfort, and safety) and
      during recovery (like bad memories, anxiety, and depression). The investigators also want to
      know if they are value for money.

      The trial will include 1737 participants needing to be on a ventilator for at least 2 days.
      Participants will be allocated to one of three groups by chance. One group will continue to
      receive propofol; one group will receive dexmedetomidine; and one group will receive
      clonidine. All participants will receive extra pain relief if needed, and participants in the
      dexmedetomidine and clonidine groups will continue to receive propofol if they need this in
      addition. Nurses and doctors will alter the doses of sedation drugs to try and reduce or stop
      them, but always aiming to have participants lightly sedated and comfortable. The trial will
      compare if participants on dexmedetomidine or clonidine come off the ventilator quicker than
      those just on propofol. The trial will examine whether there was a difference between the
      groups in the number of participants who experienced delirium in ICU, compare how comfortable
      participants were, and measure if participants memories of being in the ICU differed.

      Patients who were in the trial will be followed up for 180 days afterwards because the
      investigators want to compare if there were differences in the after-effects of being ill in
      ICU between the groups. Participants will be asked to complete questionnaires that will
      assess their memories of the ICU experience at 30 and 90 days after entering the trial. At 90
      and 180 days, participants will be asked to complete questionnaires so that the investigators
      can detect how patients feel about their quality of life or if they suffer from anxiety,
      depression or stress.

      Alongside this trial, investigators will be looking at value for money, which is important
      because clonidine, dexmedetomidine, and propofol costs are quite different. Clonidine, in
      particular, is relatively inexpensive. ICU nurses' and doctors' views on how easy or
      difficult it was to adjust and use the drugs will be obtained. This will give valuable
      practical information that can be shared with other ICUs, particularly if alpha2-agonists are
      found to be better and other ICUs want to start using them.
    
  