
    
      Non-randomized crossover clinical trial, in which eligible participants (n= 36) were
      allocated in accordance with their body mass index in two groups, lean (n = 18, 9 women/9
      men) and obese (n = 18, 9 women/9 men). Subjects of both groups intake of one single dose (5
      mL/kg body weight) of isoenergetic beverages in three different phases: (1) fresh-squeezed
      orange juice (FOJ), (2) commercial processed orange juice (POJ) and (3) an energy and
      sugars-matched orange-flavored drink (control), with a washout period of seven days among
      each beverage. Thirty minutes after the intake of each beverage, the participants had a
      flavonoid-free standard breakfast, which contained coffee (infusion), milk, sugar or
      sweetener, white bread sandwich with lean ham and light cream cheese, salted and sweet
      biscuits. Posteriorly, blood samples (10 mL) were collected at 30, 60, 120 and 300 min after
      each intervention with a catheter installed in a vein of the arm. After blood collection, the
      volunteers were instructed to record all meals throughout the day, noting the amount eaten of
      each food. The sample number took into account variations in blood serum glucose with a type
      I error α = 0.05 and a type II error β = 0.2 (80% power). Primary output were the
      modification on glucose or insulin concentration induced by different beverages in some point
      of the curves. The secondary output was the antioxidant activity induced by FOJ and/or POJ.
      Kolmogorov Smirnov and Levene test, respectively assessed normality and homogeneity of the
      data. Area under the curve (AUC0-300 min) was calculated by the clearance of the appetite
      related-biomarkers (glucose, insulin, leptin and adiponectin) during 300 min for each trial
      phase Other parameters, as maximum concentration (Cmax), and time to reach maximum blood
      concentration (Tmax) were also estimated. AUC was determined with the trapezoidal method by
      Microcal Software Inc., Origin® 6.0. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by Sidak
      post hoc was applied to compared the effect of interventions on appetite related-biomarkers,
      anti-oxidant status and beverage composition. P significance was set up ≤ 0.05.
    
  