
    
      The long-term objective of this study is to develop new treatments for obesity and
      obesity-associated disorders such as diabetes and dyslipidemia. The recent finding of active
      brown fat depots in adult humans provides an exciting new strategy for the treatment of these
      diseases. Brown fat is a specialized organ found primarily in small mammals. Brown fat has
      the unique capability to burn fuel at high rates in order to generate heat. The role of brown
      fat in mammals is to defend against cold exposure. Human infants have active brown fat
      deposits located in the intra-scapular region. This brown fat depot regresses with age and it
      was long thought that adult humans had no brown fat tissue. Recent studies have demonstrated
      the presence of brown fat activity in adult humans following exposure to cold. Brown fat in
      adult humans is concentrated in the cervical region and displays some sex-specific
      differences. Furthermore the size of the depot is inversely correlated with BMI and age of
      the subjects. This finding has generated intense interest as it opens up the possibility of
      harnessing brown fat as a means of combating obesity and obesity-related disorders in man.
      Indeed, maneuvers that activate brown fat in humans have been shown to cause reductions in
      fat mass.

      Much of our understanding of brown fat biology comes from work in mice. Of particular
      relevance for the treatment of human disease are several findings. First, increasing brown
      fat activity in mice renders the animals resistant to the development of obesity on a high
      fat diet. Second, levels of insulin sensitivity are directly related to brown fat activity.
      Finally, the transcription factor factor PR-domain containing protein 16 (PRDM-16) is crucial
      for directing the biology of brown fat.

      The overall goal of the study is to translate the findings from mouse studies of brown fat
      into human subjects. This is an important first step in the process of developing brown
      fat-targeted therapies to treat human metabolic diseases such as obesity and insulin
      resistance. In view of this the investigators are interested in answering several questions.
      First, do humans with mutations in PRDM-16 have defects in brown fat activity? Recently,
      humans with mutations in PRDM-16 were identified and found to have a cardiomyopathy
      phenotype. The brown fat function in these individuals has not been described. By employing a
      genetic screen of volunteers the investigators hope to identify subjects in Singapore with
      defects in PRDM-16. Prior studies in humans suggest that the size of the brown fat depot is
      inversely correlated with BMI and age of the subjects and that depot size varies between the
      sexes. In order to eliminate BMI, age and sex as confounding variables the investigators will
      include male subjects of Chinese race between the ages of 21 and 50 and with BMI greater than
      18.5 but less than 30. The investigators will include only Chinese subjects to avoid
      confounding our initial study with variables that relate to race of the subjects. The
      identification of human subjects carrying mutations in PRDM-16 will set the stage for further
      studies that will attempt to several research questions. These include whether humans with
      PRDM-16 mutations have defects in brown fat and the metabolic consequences for humans with
      defective brown fat.
    
  