
    
      Elevated blood pressure (BP) and related cardiovascular complications are the leading causes
      of morbidity and mortality in the modern world. In routine clinical practice, the
      haemodynamic status is commonly assessed by measuring heart rate and blood pressure at rest,
      which provides only limited information about functional haemodynamic status. In addition,
      the haemodynamic changes resulting in similar elevations of BP may differ substantially
      between patients and disorders.

      Therefore, we investigated the haemodynamic changes in primary and secondary hypertension and
      in the control subjects with non-invasive radial pulse wave analysis and whole-body impedance
      cardiography. The method includes the determination of volume status using bioimpedance
      spectroscopy, determination of peripheral and central BP, cardiac function, vascular
      resistance, arterial compliance and indices of pulse wave reflection. Besides the
      measurements performed in the supine position, passive orthostatic challenge is included in
      the protocol to assess the upright functional haemodynamic status.

      The repeatability and reproducibility of the protocol was first examined with a double-blind,
      randomized protocol in 35 subjects (methodological study group), and after that the
      administration of research drugs has been open-label. The effects of single doses of two
      largely endothelium-dependent agents, inhaled salbutamol and intravenous L-arginine, and one
      endothelium-independent agent, sublingual nitroglycerin, were investigated. However,
      challenges with the acute dosing of all medical compounds was terminated at the end of
      December 2016. Thereafter, the measurement protocol has included supine and upright
      recordings on the tilt-table, followed by supine measurements during paced breathing (15
      breaths per minute for 5 minutes, 6 breaths per minute for 5 minutes) that modulate the
      autonomic nervous tone.

      The study population has consisted of subgroups described below. The study protocol of each
      subgroup has been approved by the ethics committee of the Pirkanmaa Hospital District (Ethics
      committee ID's above), and the administration of research drugs has also been approved by the
      Finnish Agency for Medicines (EudraCT-numbers above).
    
  