
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Each cycle is 28 days.

      If participant is found to be eligible to take part in this study, they will receive
      treatment in 2 phases: Induction and Consolidation.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of fludarabine, cytarabine, and erwinase.
      If the doctor thinks it is needed, the study drug doses may be reduced.

      Induction Phase:

      Participant will receive 1-2 cycles during the Induction phase.

      On Days 1-5, participant will receive fludarabine by vein over about 30 minutes and
      cytarabine by vein over about 2 hours.

      On Days 1-7, participant will receive erwinase by vein over about 2 hours or as an injection
      into the muscle.

      If the disease does not respond during Cycle 1, participant may be allowed to receive an
      additional Induction cycle. If the disease does respond to Induction, participant can move to
      the Consolidation phase.

      Consolidation Phase:

      Participant will receive up to 3 cycles during the Consolidation phase.

      On Days 1-4, participant will receive fludarabine by vein over about 30 minutes and
      cytarabine by vein over about 2 hours. If the doctor thinks it is needed, this may be reduced
      to Days 1-3.

      On Day 1 and then every other day for 15 days (3, 5, 7 and so on), participant will receive
      erwinase by vein over about 2 hours or as an injection into the muscle.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 (± 3 days) of every cycle, participant will have a physical exam.

      Induction Cycle(s):

      Every week, blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Days 1, 8, 9, and 12 of Cycle 1:

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine, biomarker, and pharmacodynamic
           (PD) testing. Biomarkers are found in the blood/tissue and may be related to how the
           leukemia reacts to the study drug. PD testing measures how the level of study drug in
           participant's body may affect the disease.

        -  On Days 9 and 12 only, blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for pharmacokinetic
           (PK) testing. PK testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at different time
           points.

      On Day 7 of Cycle 1, blood (about 1-2 teaspoons each time) will be drawn for PK testing
      before the dose and then 8 more times over the next 24 hours after the dose. Some of these
      blood samples will also be used for antibody testing. Antibodies are created by the immune
      system and may attack foreign cells or substances, such as the study drug.

      On Day 21 of Cycle 1, participant will have a bone marrow aspiration/biopsy for biomarker and
      PD testing and to check the status of the disease. If the doctor thinks it is needed,
      participant may have additional bone marrow aspirations/biopsies while on study.

      If participant has a second Induction Cycle and the doctor thinks it is needed, they will
      have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy at the end of the second Induction Cycle for biomarker and
      PD testing and to check the status of the disease.

      Consolidation Cycles:

      Every 1-2 weeks, blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1, blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for PK testing before the dose
      and then 8 more times over the next 24 hours after the dose. Some of this blood sample will
      also be used for antibody testing.

      If participant did not have 2 induction cycles, at the end of Cycle 1 of Consolidation, if
      the doctor thinks it is needed, they will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy for biomarker
      and PD testing and to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Treatment:

      Participant may continue taking the study drugs for up to 3 cycles of Consolidation after
      Induction. Participant will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets
      worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if they are unable to follow study directions.

      Patient's participation in the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      Every 4-8 weeks after participant's last dose of study drugs, blood (about 2-3 teaspoons)
      will be drawn for routine tests.

      Every 6-12 months after the last dose of study drugs, the study staff will check on how
      participant is doing. This will either be done by phone or during a regularly scheduled
      clinic visit. If participant is contacted by phone, the phone call should last about 10
      minutes.

      This follow-up will last until participant withdraws from the study or the study ends.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After patient's participation in this study is over, they will be given the option to enroll
      in a long-term follow-up study (DR09-0223). Participant's doctor will explain this to them in
      more detail, and they will be required to sign a separate consent form.

      This is an investigational study. Fludarabine and cytarabine are FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of leukemia. Erwinase is FDA approved and
      commercially available for use in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Its use in this study is
      investigational. The combination of these drugs is investigational. The study doctor can
      explain how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 20 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  