
    
      Health coaching helps patients gain the knowledge, skills, tools and confidence to become
      active participants in their care so that they can reach self-identified health goals. Health
      coaching: 1) provides self-management support, 2) bridges gaps between health professionals
      and patients, 3) helps patients navigate the health care system, 4) offers emotional support,
      and 5) serves as a continuity figure. The intervention will consist of tailored health
      coaching, goal setting, and behavioral contracting for healthy actions to create a supportive
      context for participants that supports health promoting behaviors (HPBs), with efforts to
      enhance HPB reinforcement through established networks. After baseline assessment, the men
      will participate in a 45-minute educational meeting with the principal investigator (PI) to
      discuss self-reported measures from baseline instruments and the importance of health
      promoting behaviors (HPBs) to overall heart health. Afterwards, a research study team
      (research trained undergraduate and graduate student assistants) will perform case management
      and health advisement (bi-weekly continuity phone calls 2x / month) to support protocol
      adherence and tracking of participant goals over a period of 120 days. The research team will
      be guided by a coaching manual created for the purposes of the study. The M for H study will
      also create and provide health-oriented emails (2x / week), daily tracking text messaging on
      weekdays, monthly face-to-face coaching group meetings during community-based organization
      (CBO) set times (i.e. meetings, events), and access to an optional social media platform
      supporting peer interactions. After 120 days, participants will be reassessed to determine
      impacts related physical activity (PA) measures, knowledge, attitudes, & practices (KAPs),
      and interviewed to discuss M for H feasibility and acceptability. The targeted outcome for
      the 120 day period will be improvement toward the performance of >150 minutes of moderate to
      vigorous physical activity accumulated as indicated by accelerometry, increase in distance
      walked during a six (6) minute walk test, and improvement in theoretical construct measures
      indicative of performance of HPBs among participants.
    
  