
    
      The patient education activities at the center in coronary artery disease, and have shown
      their efficiency, in combination with exercise training. Unfortunately the issue of
      educational care is low and maintaining long-term changes in the lifestyle and adherence to
      drug intake is limited which is a major health challenge because originally a recidivism rate
      too high coronary disease. In this context, therapeutic measures to enable patients to better
      integrate into their daily lives the recommendations in the long term are fundamental.

      As part of the expertise of the Toulouse University Hospital in the field of therapeutic
      education coronary patient, the investigators decided to develop a Smartphone application
      that aims to strengthen and modernize the educational care to the patient. Based on an
      accurate and comprehensive assessment of lifestyle, from the technical elements of Smartphone
      support, but also on providing innovative educational materials (videos, interactive
      software...), the treat ( pharmacological or not: diet, physical activity, toxic consumption
      ) may thus be optimized according to the principle of telemedicine.

      This project will benefit from the results of the concept study conducted from July to
      October 2014 from groups of coronary patients. This first study will help to develop the
      precise contours of Appet HEART application for the production of the prototype version used
      in the clinical feasibility study.

      The objectives of the feasibility study are:

        1. assess the rate of use of the application

        2. to determine the ideal target population of the application

        3. to evaluate the effectiveness of the application

        4. to measure the risks and potential limitations of its use

        5. to determine the medical and economic impact of this application

      This is a single-center study. Patients will be recruited from the Toulouse University
      Hospital in cardiac services when patients came to coronary heart disease. After inclusion,
      patients receive an initial educational diagnosis that will determine individualized
      educational goals on the management of their coronary disease. Patients then receive training
      in the use of Appet HEART application. Using the application is provided on year.

      The evaluation criteria of the study is original because conducted in hetero or self during
      the protocol monitoring time. Chronologically the investigators note:

        -  An initial assessment hetero judgments criteria

        -  A self- evaluation every three months for one year via their smartphone on some of these
           criteria via questionnaires

        -  A final visit is scheduled to perform the same hetero- evaluation at the initial.
    
  