
    
      Irreversible damage to immature permanent teeth as a result of noxious infection or local
      trauma before normal physiological closure of the apical structure represents a real clinical
      challenge. The conventional therapeutic approach is to consider the use of synthetic
      biocompatible materials, such as calcium hydroxide [Ca(OH)2] and mineral trioxide aggregate
      (MTA), to induce apical closure, or apexification, by forming a hard tissue barrier across
      the root apex. However, neither MTA nor calcium hydroxide are currently able either to induce
      or stimulate pulp regeneration, or to ensure that conventional root development continues
      once damage has taken place, so that the inherent risk of root fracture remains.

      Millions of teeth are accidentally avulsed each year due to the serious trauma in sports,
      motor vehicle accidents, criminal assaults, and fist fights, among other incidents. The risk
      is higher in children while their permanent teeth are still immature which may led to lots of
      complications and also more challenges in treatment. Generally, tooth reimplantation is the
      most effective therapy for tooth avulsion, As we know, The success of tooth reimplantation
      depends on the maintenance of vitality of the periodontal ligament, which need the parents
      and teachers act quickly (e.g., within 2 h) and that the avulsed tooth should preserved in an
      appropriate medium, such as milk or physiological saline, because the viable cells in the
      remaining periodontal ligament (PDL) on the root surface play a crucial role in recovering
      the avulsed tooth functions.

      Along with the development of new regenerative protocols to resolve clinical deficiencies,
      continuing advances in the discovery and characterization of stem cells of dental origin-able
      to differentiate into multiple tissue types-have recently broadened possible therapeutic
      horizons towards pulp and periodontal tissue regeneration. Some studies have suggested that
      the recent discovery and characterization of stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth
      (SHED) form the cell source of apexogenesis in immature teeth with periradicular
      periodontitis of endodontic origin. The purpose of this clinical trial is to both clarify the
      efficiency of autologous SHED to regenerate pulp and periodontal tissue in the patients with
      immature permanent teeth and pulp necrosis to confirm the safety of using autologous stem
      cells in clinical endodontic regenerative medicine.

      This is a single-centre, randomized, controlled study. This study has been approved by the
      ethical committees of School of Stomatology, Fourth Military Medical University. The study
      will be conducted according to the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  