
    
      Although after school programs (ASPs) have been recognized as a critical context for
      promoting youth physical activity (PA), with broad reach to underserved communities, research
      by the Principal Investigator and others have indicated that ASPs continue to struggle to
      meet policy guidelines for daily youth PA. Moreover, despite continued increases in obesity
      rates among U.S. adolescents, there have been few ASP interventions focused on underserved
      adolescents, and limited-to-no impact on adolescents' sustained behavior change. Previous ASP
      studies by the PI demonstrate that social mechanisms overlooked in previous interventions
      (e.g., developing friendship and connection to peers and staff through PA; group belonging,
      including positive peer PA norms and tangible support) are key predictors of youth PA. The
      research team recently completed a feasibility trial (NIH R21 HD077357) within 6 ASPs (3
      intervention vs. 3 standard- health curriculum controls) for underserved middle school youth
      that was the first intervention to date to address these youth PA social goals/mechanisms.
      Findings showed positive effects for changing staff behaviors, improving youth PA social
      supports and connections with peers and staff, and increasing youth PA. The proposed study
      will expand on the previous ASP feasibility trial with a novel translational approach that
      works with pre-existing ASPs and targets staff as instrumental for sustainable changes in
      social mechanisms within the ASP setting for increasing the daily PA of underserved
      adolescents. The proposed project will be a prospective, randomized controlled trial
      comparing a staff-based social development PA program to a standard ASP health curriculum
      control. The proposed efficacy trial will enhance the influence of pre-existing ASP staff as
      key change agents and address social developmental needs of adolescents overlooked in
      previous interventions through employing a novel theoretical framework that expands on social
      developmental theory and the social mechanisms highlighted by Self-Determination Theory,
      Achievement Goal Theory, and Social Cognitive Theory. The intervention will target the three
      key social mechanisms of "PA social affiliation goals" for increased and sustained PA of
      staff and underserved middle school youth (i.e., Friendships/connections through PA; Group
      Belonging, and; Staff Connection). All components of the intervention (health promotion
      initiative, comprehensive training, and tailored social PA curriculum) aim to improve staff
      capacity for facilitating a PA context that supports these social goals/mechanisms
      (connections, group belonging) and increases the influence of ASP staff as positive PA role
      models and agents of change.

      Compared to control ASPs, ASPs receiving the 'Connect' program are expected to show greater
      improvements from baseline to post- and 6 mo follow-up in social mechanisms, youth PA, and
      staff PA. The results of this proposed project will demonstrate the efficacy of the
      intervention, and will assist in developing a model of training, motivating, and empowering
      ASP staff to address social mechanisms that promote youth PA for conducting a large scale
      effectiveness trial.
    
  