
    
      Rationale. Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) often has a childhood onset, and is
      characterized by recurrent obsessions and compulsions that are perceived as irrational and
      cause significant interference in daily functioning. Neuropsychological and/or neuroimaging
      investigations have consistently implicated pathways involving the ventral prefrontal
      cortical regions in the pathophysiology of the disorder. In the absence of attention or
      memory loss, OCD patients perform more poorly than controls on tasks requiring inhibition of
      an automatic response. Dysfunction of a frontal-striatal-thalamic circuit in OCD may be
      mediated by abnormalities in glutamatergic-serotonin neurotransmission, and selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the unique class of psychotropic medication with
      demonstrated efficacy for youth (and adults) with the disorder.

      Objectives and hypotheses. The first objective of the study is to examine how executive
      functions, metacognition performance, and regional brain activations differ in adolescents
      with OCD compared to healthy controls. Three specific hypotheses will be tested: (1) in
      adolescents with OCD, the executive functions related to the frontal cortex will be impaired
      compared to healthy controls; (2) the metacognition performance of the OCD group will be
      lower than that of the control group; (3) using fMRI, the OCD group's frontal lobe
      activations during tasks testing response inhibition and working memory, will be higher than
      those in the control group. The second objective is to investigate how treatment with the
      SSRI escitalopram will affect executive functions, metacognition performance, and regional
      brain activations in adolescents with OCD. After pharmacotherapy, three specific hypotheses
      will be tested: (1) there will be significant improvement from baseline in the OCD group's
      frontal executive functions and metacognition performance; (2) the differences on executive
      functions and metacognition performance between the OCD and control groups will no longer be
      significant; (3) on repeated fMRI procedures, the OCD group's frontal lobe activations will
      show a significant decrease from baseline. The third objective is to explore, within the
      patient group, the relationships between the degree of clinical change, and the magnitude of
      pre-post-treatment changes in neurocognitive performance, and regional brain activations. The
      hypothesis is that greater clinical improvement will be associated with greater changes on
      the selected neurocognitive and neurofunctional measures.

      Method. Forty subjects, aged 13-19 years, with a primary DSM-IV diagnosis of OCD, and 40
      sex-, and age-matched healthy controls, will be recruited from Ottawa mental health centers
      and the community. The study will use a pre- post-treatment design, and include three phases.
      Phase I: Pre-treatment, the OCD subjects will be compared to controls on clinical,
      neurocognitive, and functional brain activation measures. Phase II: The OCD subjects will
      receive open treatment with escitalopram (5 mg to 20 mg/day) for 16 weeks. Phase III: The
      clinical, neurocognitive, and functional brain activations measures will be repeated in all
      OCD subjects who completed 16 weeks of escitalopram pharmacotherapy, and the neurocognitive
      measures in control participants after 16 weeks. The Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Stroop
      Test, and a Working Memory Task will be used to assess frontal executive functions. The
      Feeling-of-knowing task and Metacognition Questionnaire will measure metacognition
      performances. To investigate regional brain activations (only in participants aged 15-19
      years), two functional neuroimaging paradigms will be used, a Go/NoGo and a n-Back task, and
      regional brain activations will be measured using fMRI technology. In patients, clinical
      severity and changes with treatment will be assessed using the Children's Yale Brown
      Obsessive-Compulsive Scale, the Maudsley Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory, the State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory for Children, and the Children Depression Inventory. Statistical methods
      will include repeated measures MANOVAS, t-tests, and correlational analyses.
    
  