
    
      The goal of this pilot study is to assess the feasibility and value of using smart phone
      applications to collect objective, quantitative functional data from patients under active
      treatment for chronic pain.

      35 subjects will be enrolled from the Weill Cornell Pain Medicine Center to ensure a total of
      30 completed sets of surveys (15 males, 15 females). The Chronic Pain Registry (a data
      registry utilized to assess the outcomes of chronic pain patients) will provide data
      regarding the patients' demographics, diagnosis, and prescribed medications. The mobile
      applications ("Mobility" and "Ohmage") will be downloaded in the office with a demonstration
      of proper use. "Ohmage" is a data collection application, designed for use on a smart phone
      or tablet, and allows for both passive and active capture of data via a device's internal
      sensing mechanisms and through a user's participation in surveys. "Mobility" is a mobile
      phone sensor application, designed for both android and iPhone devices, that allows a phone
      to passively capture information about its user's activity. The "Mobility" application uses
      an activity classifier algorithm to determine if the user is stationary, walking, running, or
      driving based on how quickly the WiFi and/or GPS signals change, coupled with the strength of
      motion detected by the phone's internal accelerometer. Ohmage aggregates the Mobility
      application's generated data and uploads the data to a secure server for study and analysis.
      Patients will be asked to keep a daily electronic diary via the Ohmage app. Mobility will be
      used to track the patients' movement and level of activity. Telephone assistance will be
      available in case of technical problems (Monday to Friday, 9AM-5PM). An audible alarm
      reminder will be programmed to encourage compliance with use as well as timely completion of
      the compliance diary.

      Two iterative usability cycles will be conducted with assessment of the compliance diary and
      questionnaire administration at the 1 and 2-week endpoints.
    
  