
    
      After enrollment (see detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria below) the patients are
      randomized either to the Placebo or Eltrombopag arm. The randomization is double blinded.
      Randomization will take in account patient's age and disease severity by stratifying into 4
      block combinations to ensure homogeneity between treatment arms. All patients receive
      background therapy with CSA, regardless of randomisation group, to treat MAA according to
      current standard of care.

      Eltrombopag (or Placebo) is given at a daily starting dose of 150 mg orally as 75 mg tablets
      once daily (2 tablets Eltrombopag or placebo per day), (Olnes et al NEJM 2012).

      In Asian patients Eltrombopag (or Placebo) is given at a daily starting dose of 75 mg orally
      (1 tablet Eltrombopag or placebo per day). In Asian-Caucasian patients no dose reduction of
      the starting dose is carried out, but cautious observation of the liver function due to the
      possibility of altered Eltrombopag metabolism is recommended.

      Dose reduction:

      In patients without history of thromboembolism or known risk factors for thrombembolism dose
      reduction (the possibility of an alternating dose schedule is given) is recommended if the
      platelet count is increasing > 150 G/L.

        -  Dosage should be decreased to achieve a platelet count between 100 and 150 G/L after
           reaching a sufficient erythrocyte and granulocyte response (see 10.1).

        -  If the platelet count decreases below 100 G/L the Eltrombopag dose should be escalated
           again.

        -  Eltrombopag should be discontinued if the platelet count exceeds 450 G/L and could be
           restarted with a lower dose after decrease of the platelet count below 150 G/L.

      In patients with history of thromboembolism or known risk factors for thromboembolism (e. g.
      Factor V Leiden, ATIII deficiency, antiphospholipid syndrome, PNH with GPI-deficient
      granulocyte population > 50 %, prolonged periods of immobilization, contraceptives and
      hormone replacement therapy or surgery) dose reduction is recommended if the platelet count
      is increasing > 100 G/L

        -  The target platelet count will be 70-120 G/L after reaching a sufficient erythrocyte and
           granulocyte response (see 10.1).

        -  If the platelet count decreases below 70 G/L the Eltrombopag dose should be escalated
           again.

        -  Eltrombopag should be discontinued in patients with history of and risk factors for
           thromboembolism if the platelet count exceeds 150 G/L.

      Duration of follow up: Last Follow up 24 months after end of study treatment. Patients will
      receive Eltrombopag or placebo within the study for a minimum of 6 months. Exceptions are
      patients with disease progression in Severe or Very Severe AA or patients with inacceptable
      adverse events within the first 6 months.

      Eltrombopag will be administered for a maximum period of 12 months within the protocol.
      Recent data show that the response of hematopoiesis in refractory severe aplastic anemia can
      be sustained on discontinuation of Eltrombopag25.

      As long-term effects of investigational treatments are an objective of the study, the
      follow-up of patients will cover 24 months after the end of the study treatment according to
      the protocol
    
  