
    
      Regarding the mechanisms of unexplained RM, on the basis of animal models and clinical
      studies, many hypotheses were raised:

        -  Reduced ovarian reserve,

        -  Progesterone defect: a double-blind trial did not show any benefit of progesterone
           therapy.

        -  Thrombotic mechanisms and/or endothelial dysfunction: An association with some inherited
           thrombophilias was suggested. A prothrombotic state outside of pregnancy was measured in
           women with previous RM and without known thrombophilia.

        -  Immunological disturbances (high titers of anti-thyroid or APL antibodies, maternal
           carriage of specific HLA alleles and immunological reactions against male-specific minor
           antigens, increased numbers of peripheral blood natural killer, overexpression of TOLL
           receptors, increase of TH1 and TH17 processes). Consequently, immunomodulatory
           treatments were proposed and assessed (no impact of intravenous immunoglobulins and no
           conclusive benefit of corticosteroids).

        -  Miscellaneous: BMI> 30 and chronic endometritis. Besides, the experience gained from
           previous clinical trials in RM leads us to emphasize, that subcutaneous administration
           of heparin limits its assessment among fertile women. Indeed, the treatment could not be
           administrated before conception and consequently the exposure was often too short
           (injections cannot be routinely initiated before 5 weeks).

      Except psychological support, there is no treatment whose benefit has been proved in
      unexplained RM, in the presence or in the absence of an inherited thrombophilia. Moreover the
      absence of benefit of some treatments has been clearly demonstrated. Although the prognostic
      is not so poor (live-birth rates around 70%), proposed therapeutic interventions are
      sometimes excessive (regarding possible side effects and cost): as intravenous
      immunoglobulins, assisted procreation ...anti-TNF.

      Consequently, for the management of these distressed patients, investigating other
      therapeutic options is highly needed.

      Regarding recurrent miscarriage in women with high titers of antiphospholipid but without any
      other previous clinical event listed in the antiphospholipid syndrome, the benefit of
      antithrombotic treatment remains controversial (negative results of the HepASA trial) and
      hydroxychloroquine has never been assessed, although retrospective studies are encouraging.
    
  