
    
      Specific Aims

        -  To determine the effects of a walnut-included diet (with or without caloric intake
           adjustment) versus walnut-excluded diet on diet quality in adults at risk for diabetes.
           Specifically, to show that a walnut-included diet, as compared to a walnut-excluded diet
           will improve overall diet quality as measured by the Alternative Healthy Eating Index in
           adults at risk for diabetes.

        -  To determine the effects of a walnut-included diet (with or without caloric intake
           adjustment) versus walnut-excluded diet on body composition in adults at risk for
           diabetes. Specifically, to show that a walnut-included diet, as compared to a
           walnut-excluded diet for 6 months will improve body fat percentage in adults at risk for
           diabetes.

        -  To assess the effects of a walnut-included diet (with or without caloric intake
           adjustment) for a 6-month period on endothelial function, lipid panel levels, fasting
           glucose level, fasting insulin level and anthropometric measures in adults at risk for
           diabetes. Specifically, to show clinically meaningful improvement in endothelial
           function, lipid panel, fasting blood glucose, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), anthropometric
           measures and endothelial function with inclusion of walnuts in the diet in adults at
           risk for diabetes.

      Hypotheses

        -  A walnut-included diet with or without dietary counseling to adjust caloric intake will
           improve diet quality in adults at risk for diabetes.

        -  A walnut-included diet for 6 months with or without dietary counseling to adjust caloric
           intake will improve body composition in adults at risk for diabetes.

        -  A walnut-included diet with or without dietary counseling to adjust caloric intake will
           improve lipid panel, fasting blood glucose, hemoglobin A1c, endothelial function and
           anthropometric measures in adults at risk for diabetes.

        -  Controlling calorie intake to keep it constant with the addition of walnuts to the diet
           will enhance the beneficial effects of walnut ingestion on diet quality, body
           composition, and vascular function.
    
  