
    
      Study Design :

      This open label, single arm, multinational, first-in-human study consists of 2 parts. Part 1
      consists of dose escalation cohorts and Part 2 is a dose expansion cohort.

      The study population will include adult AML patients (and all subtypes of AML) with relapse
      or refractory disease and newly diagnosed elderly untreated AML patients with high risk
      cytogenetics.

      In Part 1, dose escalations cohorts are followed until dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) or a
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or RecommendedPart2Dose (RP2D) is defined. Dose escalation
      decisions will be made by the Data Review Committee and will be primarily guided by safety
      data observed through the end of Cycle 1, as well as on-going assessment of safety beyond
      Cycle 1 in later cohorts.

      Part 2 will begin once the MTD or RP2D is determined in Part 1. Part 2 will further
      characterize the safety, tolerability, Pharmacokinetic (PK), Pharmacodynamic (PD),
      immunogenicity and to assess preliminary efficacy of MCLA-117. This part will enroll at least
      15 evaluable patients (defined as evaluable for first efficacy assessment).

      For both parts, the study consists of 3 periods: a Screening period (up to 28 days prior to
      the first dose of study drug); a Treatment period (first dose of study drug until the last
      dose of study drug with treatment cycles of 28 days); and a Follow Up period (through 30 days
      after the last dose and quarterly checks for survival data for up to 1 year). Participants'
      safety will be monitored throughout the study. Patients will be permitted to receive MCLA-117
      beyond Cycle 1 if conditions allow this.

      Number of Sites:

      Approximately 8 centers in five countries are estimated to be involved during Parts 1 and 2
      of the study. Additional sites may be added to ensure there is an acceptable enrollment rate
      or to replace non-enrolling/withdrawn sites.
    
  