
    
      This is a prospective, single blind, two arm, randomized, controlled trial to test the
      efficacy of an oral care protocol to treat oral mucositis (OM) in patients receiving
      radiation (RT) or chemoradiation (chemoRT) for head and neck cancer. This trial will also
      measure salivary proinflammatory cytokines, and evaluate other clinical effects of the
      intervention during cancer therapy. In addition, oral mucosal swabs will be collected for the
      future characterization of changes in the microbiome associated with OM severity.

      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to two different oral care protocols within 4
      strata defined by type of RT (Proton beam therapy (Protons)) vs intensity-modulated radiation
      therapy (IMRT) and cancer treatment (RT versus chemoRT). Eligible subjects will be assigned
      to receive either the Oral Mucosal Deterging and Dental Prophylaxis protocol (OMDP) or a
      Standard of Care Oral Hygiene protocol (SOC-OH). Prior to randomization, all enrolled
      subjects will receive a baseline dental prophylaxis and fluoride varnish application prior to
      start of RT or chemoRT to ensure that all subjects enter the study with comparable oral
      health. Subjects assigned to OMDP will receive the OMDP Protocol (Oral Mucosal Deterging and
      Dental Prophylaxis) at weekly intervention visits. Subjects randomized to the SOC-OH will
      receive oral health instructions following the American Dental Association Guidelines1 and
      will have their teeth cleaned (brushed) during weekly intervention visits; no treatment to
      the oral mucosa will be provided to this group.

      At each bi-weekly study visit, study assessments will include the collection of saliva and
      oral mucosal swabs, an oral exam and OM assessment, and the completion of questionnaires.
      During the course of the study, subjects will attend one baseline visit, up to 9 intervention
      visits, and a follow-up visit approximately 3 months after completion of RT. Local supportive
      care, including normal saline rinses, topical anesthetics, mixed medication mouthwashes (e.g.
      Magic Mouthwash), feeding tubes, and pain management will be allowed according to each
      recruitment site's standard of care procedures.
    
  