
    
      Preterm infants matching the inclusion criteria (listed elsewhere) will be enrolled in a
      cross- over trial of two modes of non-invasive respiratory support: nasal intermittent
      positive pressure ventilation (PC-NIV) and NAVA NIV (Sevo-n Neonatal Ventilator, GETINGE,
      Solna, Sweden). Parental consent will be collected prior to the study. A 20-minute
      registration of ventilator parameters during assistance on NAVA-NIV will allow calculating
      the mean PIP (peak inspiratory pressure), in order to compare the two modes at the same level
      of PIP. The ventilator settings other than PIP (i.e. FiO2 (fraction of inspired oxygen), PEEP
      (positive end-expiratory pressure), IT (inspiratory time), RR (respiratory rate), NAVA level)
      will be based on the setting optimized by the attending physicians prior to the study entry.
      FiO2 will be adjusted in order to maintain SpO2 88-93% in infants ≤ 32 weeks of
      postconceptional age, 90-95% in infants > 32 weeks of postconceptional age. Infants will then
      receive a randomized sequence of 1-hour assistance by NAVA NIV and 1-hour assistance PC-NIV
      or vice-versa. Infants will receive respiratory support in a standardized supine position
      during the study period.

      Two, high-resolution, small cameras will be placed in the infant's incubator to detect chest
      and abdominal movements, by means of two markers placed on the infant's chest and abdomen.
      Ventilators parameters (flow, pressure, volume, the electrical activity of the diaphragm),
      vital signs (SpO2, HR (heart rate), ABP( arterial blood pressure)), transcutaneous gases,
      changes in end-expiratory lung volume will be collected continuously. Episodes of apnea,
      bradycardia or desaturations and the number of interventions required by the nurses and the
      attending physicians during the study (e.g. adjustment of the interface, suctioning,
      interventions to provide comfort or optimize the respiratory support...) will be also
      collected during the study. Patients' comfort will be assessed at the end of each sequence by
      the attending nurse by means of the COMFORT scale. Lung mechanics will be measured at the end
      of each sequence by means of the Forced Oscillation Technique.

      Data will be then analysed and compared offline.
    
  