
    
      This is an open-label, Phase 1, dose-escalation study evaluating the safety, pharmacokinetics
      and preliminary efficacy of an intraperitoneally administered suspension of nanoparticle
      paclitaxel (Nanotax) in patients with refractory malignancies principally confined to the
      peritoneal cavity.

      Nanotax will be administered via intraperitoneal infusion once every 28 days (equals one
      treatment cycle), continuing on this treatment schedule until disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity is experienced.

      This study will treat one patient per predefined dose level until one patient experiences a
      dose limiting toxicity (DLT) or until one patient has a Grade 2 or higher non-hematological
      toxicity or a Grade 3 or higher hematological toxicity during the first cycle of treatment.
      At this time, two additional patients will be treated at this dose level. If these 2
      additional patients do not experience a DLT, then the next cohort of three patients will be
      treated at the next highest dose level. If 2/3 or 3/3 patients experience a DLT then the next
      cohort of three patients is enrolled at the next lower dose level. If 1/3 of the patients
      experience a DLT, then the next cohort of three patients is enrolled at the same dose level.
      If 0/3 patients experience a DLT, then the next cohort of three patients is enrolled at the
      next highest dose level. If 2 (or more)/6 patients at a given level experience a DLT, then
      the maximum tolerated dose has been exceeded and another cohort of three patients is treated
      at the next lower dose level.

      The protocol will not treat above the highest dose level of 275 mg/m2.

      Adverse event data will be collected throughout the study. Peritoneal fluid and blood samples
      will be collected prior to Nanotax administration and up to 14 days following infusion for
      Cycle 1 and Cycle 2 only. Evaluation of tumor response using RECIST criteria will be
      conducted following each treatment cycle.
    
  