
    
      Multiple Sclerosis has three main forms: Relapsing Remitting MS (RRMS), Primary Progressive
      MS (PPMS) and Secondary Progressive MS (SPMS) as well as a rarer form called Progressive
      Relapsing MS (PRMS).

      In cases of RRMS an individual will have periods of worsened symptoms followed by periods of
      remission. During remission the individual may make a full recovery or be left with some
      residual impairment. In both PPMS and SPMS an individual will have continuous worsening
      symptoms with a gradual increase in disability with little or no transient recovery. An
      individual with PRMS will have the continuous worsening of disability seen in both PPMS and
      SPMS coupled with occasional relapses as seen in RRMS.

      Currently 15% of those with MS are diagnosed as PPMS, 5% are diagnosed with the rarer form of
      PRMS and approximately 80% are diagnosed with RRMS. However, approximately 65% of those with
      RRMS will go on to develop SPMS. This means that approximately 72% of all individuals with MS
      will be in a progressive phase of the disease at some point in their life.

      Whilst there are disease modifying drugs available for those with RRMS there are currently
      limited pharmacological treatments available for those with the progressive forms of the
      disease. Physiotherapy and rehabilitation services are often used by people with progressive
      MS and access to these are part of the current NICE guidelines for the management of MS.
      Whilst physiotherapy and rehabilitation services are used by people with progressive MS there
      is currently no research investigating how many people with progressive MS use these
      services, who provides them, how they are delivered, how effective the recipient feels the
      treatment is and how they would like their service to be delivered. In addition the
      Progressive MS Alliance has highlighted progressive MS and symptom management and
      rehabilitation as an under-researched area.

      The UK MS Register is funded by the MS Society and operated by the health informatics
      department within the College of Medicine at Swansea University. People with MS can sign up
      to the register and answer pre-set questionnaires online. The purpose of the Register is to
      be a longitudinal research database collecting routine data every three months as well as
      conducting individually commissioned cross sectional studies. It currently has over 11,000
      members and over 2,200 of those registrants have a progressive form of MS. Not only is this
      is the first study with the UK MS register to focus on people with progressive forms of MS
      but also the first to focus on physiotherapy services.

      This is a unique opportunity to access this patient group across a large geographical region
      and gain an insight into how physiotherapy and rehabilitation services are used, delivered
      and perceived. The outcome of this research has the potential to inform future physiotherapy
      interventions and rehabilitation guidelines.
    
  