
    
      Primary research question: Does offering patients an Advance Directive (AD) document (by
      default), in combination with framing the rationale for AD completion (emphasizing either: A.
      patient control; or B. reduction in caregiver burden) improve AD completion as compared to a
      no-intervention control group?

      Study Design: The project will conduct a 3-group randomized trial in which ADs are provided
      to hospitalized patients by default in the two treatment groups. When discussing the benefits
      of AD completion, intervention group A nurses will focus on ADs' potential to promote
      patients' control over the care they receive. In intervention group B, nurses will focus on
      the potential for AD completion to reduce caregiver burden. In the control group, patients
      will receive ADs only if they actively request them (as in standard practice). Specially
      trained nurses will be responsible for conducting the intervention. Training of RNs will
      consist of didactic and experiential learning on applying endowment and focusing effect
      scripts in a consistent manner that are true to the behavioral economic principles.
      Intervention will occur while in the hospital during which the patient will be presented with
      one of three options by the RN depending on their random assignment. Patients in both
      intervention groups will be given an AD by default. Patients who elect to complete an AD can
      have this completed with RN during the hospitalization or during a separate visit hospital
      worker who is trained in Advance Care Planning (ACP).

      Methodology

      Patient Eligibility:

      The research RN will complete the "Selection of Patient Form" to determine eligibility for
      participation in the study (see subjects/sample below). Patients who are determined to be
      eligible for the study, will be asked if they are willing to participate in the study and
      asked to sign a consent form .

      Intervention:

      Patient is assigned into one of the three intervention groups and is provided one of three
      packets (packet includes script , copy of "Your Health, Your Choice: My Advance Directive",
      and self-addressed stamped envelope). The RN will provide the designated script regarding
      advance directives (see "Scripts for Intervention Groups"). Four possible outcomes can occur
      following this visit: A) patient indicates desire to complete AD while in the hospital; B)
      patient indicates desire to complete AD with ACP facilitator as separate visit; C) patient
      elects to complete AD on their own, or D) patient declines to complete AD. A).

      Subjects/Sample: Hospitalized patients who reside in the County will be randomized to one of
      three groups. Eligibility will be determined before discharge. Inclusion criteria are adult
      patients, 50 years and older, who have a serious, life-limiting illness and require
      hospitalization (see below). Eligible patients will be identified and selected concurrently
      from new intakes to Genesys Regional Medical Center.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      A subject will be eligible for study participation if he/she meets the both 1 & 2 criteria:

      1.1 Age 50 years and older 2.0 Subject must have one or more of the following serious life
      limiting illness that requires hospitalization (as determined from review of medical records
      and clinical judgment) 2.1. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or any respiratory
      (pulmonary) disease that requires home oxygen use (e.g. interstitial lung disease,
      sleep-disordered breathing), 2.2. End Stage Renal Disease 2.3. Peripheral vascular disease
      (PVD) 2.4. NYHA Class III or IV Heart Failure (HF) Class III: Marked limitation in activity
      due to symptoms, even during less-than-ordinary activity, e.g. walking short distances
      (20-100 m). Comfortable only at rest.

      Class IV: Severe limitations. Experiences symptoms even while at rest. Mostly bedbound
      patients.

      2.5. Cancer as a discharge diagnosis (any type) Type: 2.6. Neuromuscular/movement disorders:
      Myasthenia gravis, ALS, Parkinson's, and Multiple sclerosis

      Exclusion Criteria:

      A subject will not be eligible for study participation if he/she meets any of the following
      criteria

      3.1. Patient cannot sign legal documents such as consent or AD (Impaired decision-making
      capacity) 3.2. Previously specified written AD 3.3 Patient previously enrolled in this study.

      Data Management and Statistical Analysis:

      Sample Size- Calculated on the primary outcome of AD completion rate, the investigators used
      an estimated baseline completion of 10% for the control group. A two-tailed test for
      comparing completion rates between a default option and the standard, as well as, comparing
      the two framing interventions will require a total of 350 participants (125 in each
      intervention and 100 in the control). This achieves a minimum of 88% power to detect a 15%
      absolute difference between the groups at alpha of 0.05 and accounts for a 5% attrition rate.
      The hypothesis that AD completion rates differ by at least 15% between two groups within each
      arm (default option compared to control; autonomy framing compared to caregiver burden
      framing) will be analyzed using Chi-square analysis.

      Expected Outcomes of the Study:

      It is hypothesized that offering patients an AD document (by default), in combination with
      framing the rationale for AD completion (emphasizing either: A. patient control; or B.
      reduction in caregiver burden) will improve AD completion as compared to a no-intervention
      control group.
    
  