
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess physician-reported acute grade 3 or greater gastrointestinal, genitourinary and
      hematologic toxicities at 12 weeks post-treatment for patients treated with linear energy
      transfer (LET)-optimized, intensity-modulated proton therapy (IMPT) and compare to
      contemporary controls treated with volume modulated arc therapy (VMAT) to determine the
      feasibility of this outcome for a future randomized trial.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility of enrolling patients on a prospective trial delivering
      LET-optimized IMPT for newly diagnosed, non-metastatic anal cancer.

      II. To develop guidelines and workflow to create and deliver anal canal cancer treatments
      using LET-optimized IMPT.

      III. To evaluate complete response rate at 12 weeks and 24 weeks post-treatment.

      IV. To evaluate local progression free survival, distant metastasis-free survival and overall
      survival at 24 and 48 months.

      V. To evaluate rates of patient-reported acute toxicity, function, distress and quality of
      life (QOL) at 12 weeks.

      VI. To evaluate rates of patient-reported late toxicity, function, distress and QOL every 6
      months for 24 months.

      VII. To evaluate the value of proton therapy by comparing Time-Driven Activity-Based Costing
      data from the date of consultation until the date of the 12-week follow up visit
      post-treatment with contemporary controls treated with VMAT.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare dose to the pelvic bone marrow, bowel, bladder and genitalia between
      LET-optimized IMPT, traditionally-optimized IMPT and VMAT.

      II. To assess rates of leukopenia, neutropenia and lymphopenia at 12-weeks post-treatment for
      patients treated with LET-optimized IMPT and compare to contemporary controls treated with
      VMAT.

      III. To correlate white blood cell counts (WBC), absolute neutrophil counts (ANC) and
      absolute lymphocyte counts (ALC) with dose to the pelvic bone marrow for patients treated
      with LET-optimized IMPT.

      IV. To encourage optional co-enrollment on study 2014-0543 so that tumor deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA), rectal microbiome and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) imaging-based biomarkers
      can be assessed for patients receiving LET-optimized IMPT and compared with other patients
      enrolled on 2014-0543 receiving VMAT-based radiation.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo linear energy transfer-optimized intensity modulated proton therapy 5 times
      per week for 5-6 weeks. Patients also receive standard cisplatin and fluorouracil
      intravenously (IV) weekly for up to 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12 weeks.
    
  