
    
      Specificity A total of 280 serum samples and 300 plasma samples from a low-risk population
      (e.g. blood donors) will be collected at Houston Gulf Coast Regional Blood Center (Houston,
      TX). All serum and plasma specimens will be previously screened and found non-reactive with
      FDA licensed or approved HIV-1/2 assays (a population of samples that would not normally be
      tested with the Avioq VioOne™ HIV Profile™ Supplemental Assay). The number of serum samples
      will be supplemented up to 300 with the inclusion of 20 pediatric samples; 10 from children
      aged 2 - 11 and 10 from children aged 12-18 for a total of 600 samples for specificity
      testing. Samples will be tested with one of three validation kit lots of the Avioq VioOne TM
      HIV Profile™ Supplemental Assay manufactured at Avioq.

      The samples will be tested at 3 external sites in proportions based on the manufacturing size
      of the individual validation lots. At Site 1 the samples will be further divided
      approximately 70% I 30% between Validation lots 1 & 2. At Site 2 the samples will be divided
      approximately 70% / 30%, between Validation lots 2 and 3. At site 3 the samples will be
      tested entirely with Validation lot 3. The study design calls for the use of at least one lot
      in common at all 3 clinical sites based on a request from the FDA.

      For the Specificity Study, any indeterminate or reactive samples will be tested with either
      the FDA approved Bio-Rad Geenius assay or Western Blot to determine the true classification.
      Specificity and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated.

      Sensitivity Serum or plasma (n= 757) repository samples from individuals infected with HIV
      will be tested at four external sites and at Avioq with up to four validation kit lots. The
      samples will be tested at all sites in proportions based on the manufacturing size of the
      individual validation lots. At Site 1 the samples will be further divided approximately 75% I
      25% between Validation lots 1 & 2. At Site 2 the samples will be divided approximately 75% /
      25%, between Validation lots 2 and 3. At sites 3 and 4 the samples will be tested entirely
      with Validation lot 3. A fourth lot (Validation lot 5) will be used to test a few HIV-1 Group
      O samples at Avioq. The study design calls for the use of at least one lot in common at all 4
      clinical sites based on a request from the FDA.

      The sensitivity samples will consist of 400 HIV positives, a minimum of 200 HIV-2 positives,
      50 AIDS positive, 40 pediatric HIV positive, a minimum of 15 HIV-O positives, 10 HIV-1/HIV-2
      coinfected positives and a minimum of 27 samples from pregnant females (samples from all
      three trimesters) infected with HIV.

      All specimens are expected to be positive for HIV-1 and/or HIV-2 antibody representing the
      types of specimens expected to be tested with the Avioq VioOne™ HIV Profile™ Supplemental
      Assay. Samples with VioOne™ HIV Profile™ assay results discordant from this expectation will
      be resolved by testing the same samples in FDA approved confirmatory assays such as the
      BioRad Geenius or Western Blot.
    
  