
    
      This is a Phase 2a, placebo-controlled, single-blind study in up to 24 patients with major
      depressive disorder (MDD).

      Subjects will sign consent form prior to any study related procedure and will complete
      screening assessments. Subjects will be randomized to either the treatment group or the
      placebo group at a ratio of 1:1.

      The study will be conducted in two parts. Titration period On Day 1, subjects will complete
      all baseline assessments prior to the 1st dosing.

      Pramipexole group: Consenting individuals meeting accession criteria will start pramipexole
      2.0mg daily dose (1.0mg twice a day) with ondansetron 16mg daily dose (8mg twice a day).
      Pramipexole will be titrated up daily or every two days depends on each patients'
      tolerability up to the first intolerable dose (FID) or maximum allowed dose (5 mg/day)
      according to titration schedule (Table 1). Once subjects reach their FID, their maximum
      allowed dose (MTD) will be defined as 1 mg below their FID.

      During titration, subjects will be admitted to the clinic (subjects will be discharged on the
      day following their pramipexole FID or Day 8 if subjects reach to 5 mg/day of pramipexole.

      Placebo group will take 3 placebo tablets twice a day. Maintenance period During the
      maintenance phase, patients will be treated with pramipexole MTD or MAD with ondansetron
      16mg/day for the remainder of the 8-week treatment.

      Placebo group is taking 3 tablets of placebo twice a day during the trial. Exit visit After
      the Week 8 visit, study medications will be discontinued, and subject will return for Exit
      visit at Week 9.

      After the Exit visit, all subjects will return to their prior treatment for depression or
      started on a new therapeutic regimen as medically appropriate.

      At study completion (or at other times in accordance with Stopping Rules given below), and
      all study participants will return to their pre-admission therapeutic regimen or started on a
      new therapeutic regimen as medically appropriate. Higher doses of pramipexole IR may be
      tapered off at rates deemed medically appropriate by PI.

      In this modified single blind study, efficacy raters will be kept unaware of the
      participants' treatment status.

      An independent data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) will be appointed to have
      responsibility for safeguarding the interests of the trial subjects and assessing the safety
      and tolerability of the study treatments during the trial.
    
  