
    
      Background Acute appendicitis (AA) is the most common condition requiring emergency surgery
      in children. The potential for morbidity and mortality from perforation of the appendix
      necessitates prompt diagnosis.2 Acute appendicitis scoring systems such as pediatric
      appendicitis score (PAS) use elements of history, exam findings, and lab tests to identify
      patients at high risk of having acute appendicitis.3 Despite having limited use for this
      intent 4,5 these scores are often used to stratify patients by risk for continued
      observation, imaging or operative care. 6 While CT scans may have higher diagnostic yield,
      its use is not without risk. CT- related radiation exposure has been shown to increase cancer
      risk. There have been US first strategies published by the American College of Radiology7 and
      the American College of Emergency Physicians.8 However, nearly 50% of appendix US
      examinations are equivocal, which poses a dilemma for EM physicians and results in variation
      in clinical care.

      Various strategies exist for the diagnostic approach to the patient after equivocal US with
      symptoms of AA. While select patients may be safely discharged based on clinical judgment,9
      emergency providers often obtain CT or admit patients for clinical observation. In a study
      conducted by Garcia et al., they concluded that a protocol of US followed by CT in children
      with negative or equivocal US exam results in beneficial management as well as cost
      savings.10 In a study by Gregory et al., they concluded that a clinical decision rule
      followed by staged imaging was found to be the most cost-effective approach for diagnosis of
      AA in children.11 Bachur et al. integrated PAS score with US findings and concluded that
      patients with high risk (PAS 7-10) but negative US or low risk (PAS 0-3) benefit from serial
      exam or further work up. 12 The addition of US to the strategy reduced CT utilization.11
      Standardized radiology reports have also been shown to reduce CT scans and admissions for
      observation.13 At a network of institutions nationwide a tool called the pediatric
      appendicitis risk calculator (pARC)1 is being studied to assess patient's true risk of
      appendicitis and provide guidance for clinical management to ER physicians. Preliminary
      studies have found the pARC to be more accurate at predicting risk of appendicitis in
      children when compared to PAS score.

      The study objective is to assess acute care charges and clinical outcomes among children with
      appendix US and pARC < 25%. To the investigator's knowledge, this is the first study to do so
      in a tertiary care pediatric hospital.
    
  