
    
      Objective: The objective of this study is to identify genetic causes of inherited eye
      conditions through whole exome or whole genome sequencing. This includes identifying
      mutations in known genes or novel genes for recognized conditions, as well as identifying
      mutations in novel genes for previously uncharacterized genetic conditions involving the eye.

      Study Population: We plan to recruit 810 participants, to include both probands with an eye
      condition under study and unaffected family members. Ideally unaffected family members will
      be parents of a proband.

      Design: Participants will be recruited through other pre-existing NIH protocols, such as the
      NEI Screening protocol (08-EI-0102), the NEI Ocular Natural History protocol (16-EI-0134),
      the Genetics of Inherited Eye Disease protocol (15-EI-0128), and the Genetics of Uveal
      Coloboma protocol (13-EI-0049). Self-referred patients or patients referred by an outside
      clinician will be screened for eligibility under a pre-existing NIH protocol. Phenotyped
      patients eligible for participation and their unaffected family members will undergo genetic
      counseling and will provide a blood sample and/or saliva sample for exome or genome
      sequencing. Biological relationships will be confirmed prior to exome or genome sequencing.
      Sequence data will be analyzed for primary variants associated with the proband s eye
      condition and secondary findings (SFs), unless participants choose to opt-out of this part of
      the analysis and reporting. All sequence variants deemed clinically relevant will be
      validated in a CLIA-certified laboratory and the results will be returned to the participant
      in-person or by telephone.

      Outcome Measures: This is an etiologic study that will generate molecular information about
      previously-recognized conditions for which participants did not have a molecular diagnosis,
      as well as molecular information for previously uncharacterized conditions involving the eye.
    
  