
    
      Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in U.S. men. There are
      approximately 1 million prostate biopsy performed annually in the U.S. Almost all biopsies
      are performed as an office based procedure in under 15 minutes. The precision of biopsy has
      improved over the last decade with the introduction of MRI guidance/targeting of suspicious
      lesions within the prostate.

      However, significant limitations remain with this approach, including a significantly
      increasing risk of post-biopsy infection. This arises because more than 97% of all prostate
      biopsy are performed via a transrectal approach that introduces rectal bacteria with each
      pass of the biopsy needle into the sterile urinary tract. The current risk of
      post-transrectal biopsy infection, even with antimicrobial prophylaxis, is high at
      approximately 7% overall with 3% (30,000 men) requiring hospitalization annually.

      Transperineal biopsy is an alternate approach that eliminates the direct introduction of
      bacteria from the rectum to the prostate. This approach, which is perfomed without
      antimicrobial prophylaxis, instead passes the biopsy needle through the perineal skin and
      pelvic floor.

      Transperineal biopsy has not been widely adopted for several reasons. Historically, it has
      been considered too painful for patients in the clinic and thus was traditionally performed
      under general anesthesia. The added time, inconvenience and cost has limited its national
      adoptance. Second, when transrectal biopsy was initially adopted over 40 years ago,
      antibiotic resistance of rectal flora was not a challenge.

      Beyond the potential for in-office transperineal biopsy to significantly reduce or eliminate
      biopsy infections, transperineal biopsy may also improve cancer detection: studies of
      transperineal biopsy (performed under general anesthesia) demonstrate higher detection rates
      for prostate cancer, particularly for anterior zone tumors, compared to transrectal biopsy.
      This is notable, as anterior tumors are difficult to sample with transrectal. Anterior tumors
      are also twice as likely to occur in African American men. In fact, our research demonstrates
      that some of the outcomes disparities in African American men may stem from an underdiagnosis
      of anterior prostate cancers.

      Although transrectal biopsy is used widely, it is associated with a significant and
      increasing risk of biopsy infections due to growing antibiotic resistance, highlighting the
      urgent need for a safer alternative approach to prostate biopsy. The study investigators have
      refined a transperineal approach under local anesthesia with MRI-targeting/guidance without
      the need for antibiotic prophylaxis. The investigators hypothesize that transperineal MRI
      targeted biopsy will: (1) largely eliminate post-biopsy infections and costly
      hospitalizations for urosepsis; (2) be performed in the office with similar discomfort and
      non-infectious complications compared to transrectal MRI targeted biopsy; and (3) have
      significantly better detection of prostate cancer.

      This multi-center randomized controlled trial will be conducted to evaluate in-office
      transperineal MRI targeted vs. transrectal MRI targeted biopsy, the current gold standard.
      This has transformative impact to change current standard of practice.
    
  