
    
      Cervical cancer is the leading cause of new cancer cases among women in Africa. Preliminary
      evidence suggests a single-dose of the HPV vaccine would be over 95% effective in preventing
      vaccine type-specific HIV infection, supporting HPV vaccination as a scaleable intervention
      for cervical cancer prevention. The overall aim of the study is to provide timely results of
      both single-dose HPV vaccine efficacy and estimates of the cost, cost-effectiveness, and
      budget impact for dissemination and translation to policy. Several HPV vaccines are
      available. The KEN SHE Study will determine the efficacy of two HPV vaccines: bivalent and
      nonavalent vaccines.

      At the start of the study, young women will be randomly sorted into three arms. In arm 1, the
      women will receive the bivalent HPV vaccine. In arm 2, the women will receive the nonavalent
      HPV vaccine. And in arm 3, the women will receive a meningococcal vaccine. At the end of the
      study, those in arms 1 and 2 will receive the meningococcal vaccine, while those in arm 3
      will receive either the bivalent or nonavalent HPV vaccine. The three-arm study structure
      makes it possible to compare the women who received an HPV vaccine to those who did not
      receive an HPV vaccine during the study.

      The principal results of the study will demonstrate whether the single-dose HPV vaccine
      strategy prevents incident persistent HPV vaccine type specific infection among young women,
      by comparing the rate of new HPV infections among women who receive the vaccine immediately
      to those receiving delayed vaccination. Further, among the women who receive immediate HPV
      vaccine, investigators will estimate the durability of the bivalent and nonavalent HPV
      vaccines by measuring the antibody response and cumulative incidence of persistent cervical
      HPV over the duration of follow-up. Specifically, investigators will compare the incidence of
      high-risk vaccine HPV types overall and the distribution of HPV types by study arm.
      Investigators will assess the immunologic response to single-dose HPV vaccination,
      specifically regarding long lasting B cell responses to support the durability of the
      single-dose vaccination approach. Data on the magnitude of the antibody response at months 1
      and 24 will support immunobridging analyses to young girls and adolescents. The 24 month
      antibody result will be used to assess durability of the response and will be directly
      comparable to other studies of the single-dose HPV vaccine which are uniformly using the
      month 24 antibody result as the primary outcome. Costing analyses will assess the resources
      required for scale-up of single-dose HPV vaccination.

      Enrollment is anticipated to take 12 months, with 37 months of follow-up for each
      participant. A formal interim analysis will be conducted after 18 months of follow-up to
      provide early evidence on single-dose HPV vaccine efficacy. The endpoint-driven trial design
      among women at risk of HPV acquisition will provide interim results after 18 months of
      follow-up, and, with the extended follow-up, evidence on durability over three years. The
      study duration is 60 months.
    
  