
    
      The main procedures will occur during three consecutive days, before randomization and 3 days
      before 12 weeks. In the first day, the patients will begin the 24hour urinary collection; the
      ultrasonography will be made in fasting state and they will place the sensors (CGMS and
      MAPA). In the second day, the blood samples will be collected and the patients will undergo
      sub-maximal exercise test; in the third day the sensors will be removed. The sub-maximal
      exercise test will occur on day 2 after a standard breakfast (500 kcal; 60% carbohydrate, 30%
      fat and 10% protein) after 8 hours overnight fast. After the three days of the first
      assessments, the selected patients will be divided into two groups, the group 1 receiving
      vildagliptin and the group 2 receiving glibenclamide for 12 weeks. There will be follow up
      visits on week 4 and 8. The variables in response to exercise (sub-maximal test) will be
      compared between the groups after 12 weeks.

      The sample estimated will be 20 patients (10% drop out included) with DM2, from outpatient
      clinics of Serviço de Endocrinologia do Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA) or from
      public health. Patients will be randomized to metformin plus vildagliptin (MET + vilda),
      which will receive an additional vidagliptin dose of 50 mg twice a day and metformin plus
      glibenclamide group (MET + gliben) that will receive an additional glibenclamide dose of 5 -
      20 mg once a day. Based on Marfella et al (13) study on the evaluation of the efficacy of
      treatment with Vildagliptin or Sitagliptin on blood glucose in patients with DM2 inadequately
      controlled with Metformin, a sample size with a 90% power and one alpha (α) of 0, 01 was
      calculated. Vidagliptin had a serious effect (51% reduction in MAGE), since the average
      difference was 25mg/dl with a 16 and 7mg/dl SD. After 20 subjects were analyzed, the
      calculated sample will be redone for confirming the sample efficacy for evidence of the
      expected effect evidence.

      Adverse events, including serious adverse events or pregnancies will be collected and
      reported in the medical report of the study (Annex IV).

      The reports containing serious adverse events or pregnancies will be forwarded to the
      respective manufacturer laboratory within 24 hrs after their knowledge, and the health
      authority according to the local law.
    
  