
    
      Blood samples will be collected from three populations: preterm infants, term infants and
      healthy adult controls. In addition, a collection of meconium (<1mL) from the diaper of these
      term and preterm neonates;

        1. Term neonates (gestational age 37-42 weeks) between birth and 72 hours of life who have
           blood collected for the following clinical indications:

           a. Blood will be collected at 0-72 hours of life from neonates that are undergoing state
           metabolic screens or for clinical evaluation jaundice. The sample will be obtained
           during the standard of care state metabolic screen or for clinical evaluation of
           jaundice. The neonate will only have an extra drop of blood placed (500-700
           micro-liters) in a tube during the heel sticks. Neonates will only have 1 sample drawn
           throughout the duration of the study.

        2. Preterm neonates (gestational age 24-37 weeks) consisting of two populations between
           birth and 72 hours of life who have blood collected for the following clinical
           indications:

             1. Blood will be collected at 0-72 hours of life from neonates that are otherwise
                healthy and do not require additional laboratory testing who are undergoing state
                metabolic screens or for evaluation of jaundice. The neonate will only have an
                extra drop of blood placed (500-700 microliters) in a tube during the heel stick.
                Neonates will only have 1 sample drawn throughout the duration of the study.

             2. A second group of premature neonates will have blood drawn for complications
                related to prematurity (sepsis work-up). The neonate will only have an extra drop
                of blood placed (500-700 micro-liters) in a tube during one of these clinical blood
                draws.

        3. Healthy adult controls will have (4milleters) blood collected by way of vein puncture.

      For all infants, term and preterm, the following data will be collected at the time of blood
      collection: gender, gestational age, weight, mechanism of birth (vaginal vs cesarean
      section), evidence of infectious complication (chorioamnionitis, prolonged rupture of
      membranes, maternal group B strep colonization, hypoglycemia), use of perinatal antibiotics
      or steroids, laboratory values available in the electronic medial record (CBC, CMP, Lactic
      acid, CRP) and Apgar scores will be collected from each patient. Additionally the clinical
      outcomes of these patients, term and preterm,will be collected until time of discharge but
      not to exceed 90 days.
    
  