
    
      Background: Denosumab is an antibody against receptor-activator of nuclear factor kappa-B
      ligand that prevents recruitment and differentiation of osteoclasts. Treatment decreases bone
      resorption and fracture risk. After discontinuation, however, bone resorption increases and
      the bone mass gained during 2 years of therapy is lost within 1 year. At present denosumab
      treatment is considered to be life-long.

      Aim: To investigate if infusion of zoledronic acid can prevent increases in bone turnover and
      bone loss in patients previously treated with denosumab and if there is difference between
      infusing zoledronic acid at six or nine months after the last injection of denosumab or when
      bone turnover is increased.

      Methods: A randomized open label, interventional study in 60 patients investigating if
      treatment with zoledronic acid prevents bone loss after denosumab treatment when
      administrated six or nine months after last injection of deno-sumab or when bone turnover is
      increased. Forty patients will be allocated to the two intervention groups and 20 patients
      will be followed without treatment for up to 12 months after the last denosumab treatment.
      The patients in the observation group and the nine months group will be monitored monthly and
      if s-carboxy-terminal collagen cross-links (s-CTX) increases above 1.26ug/l (50% above the
      normal range for postmenopausal women and elderly men) infusion of zoledronic acid will be
      administered. Furthermore, a DXA scan (lumbar spine and hip sites) will be performed after
      three months in the observation group. If BMD has decreased more than 5% at any site,
      infusion of zoledronic acid will be administered. Finally, if a patient in the 9 months group
      or the in the observation group suffers an osteoporotic clinical vertebral or hip fracture,
      infusion of zoledronic acid will be administered.

      The patients will be monitored with DXA 6, 12 and 24 months after the infusion of zoledronic
      acid. Zoledronic acid will be re-administered if BMD has decreased more than 5% at the lumbar
      spine, total hip or femoral neck. If s-CTX in-creases above 1.26 ug/l during the 2nd year a
      second infusion of zoledronic acid will be administered.

      Perspectives: Many patients will reach osteopenic BMD levels on treatment with denosumab,
      however the treatment effect on bone turnover and BMD has been demonstrated to be reversible
      and it is therefore important to find out if denosumab treatment can be discontinued and bone
      mass maintained by other measures. This study will show if the bone mass can be maintained by
      administrating zoledronic acid and if timing of the first dose of zoledronic acid after last
      dose of denosumab matters. If bone loss can be prevented by zoledronic acid expenses on
      otherwise life-long denosumab treatment can be saved and long-term side effects of denosumab
      (atypical femur fractures and osteone-crosis of the jaw) can be prevented.
    
  