
    
      Ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy(ICM) is defined as abnormally enlarged left ventricular (LV)
      cavity with documented poor LV function as a result of severe coronary artery disease (CAD).
      LV remodelling which is inevitable after an infarct has been postulated to contribute largely
      to the poor outcome of patients with ICM, therefore prevention of LV remodelling is the goal
      for the treatment in patients with severe CAD. Cell therapy represents a novel therapeutic
      strategy for treating cardiac diseases including severe CAD and heart failure. A type of stem
      cells known as mesenchymal stem cells(MSCs)can be isolated from bone marrow. Experimental and
      clinical studies to date have shown that mesenchymal stem cells represent the most suitable
      cell type for regeneration therapy after myocardial infarction (MI). After injection into
      ischemic myocardium, bone marrow-derived MSC (BM-MSC) from various animal species can
      differentiate into multiple cell lineages, including endothelial cells and cardiomyocytes,
      thereby improving LV function.

      In Malaysia we have previously demonstrated our capability in isolating and extracting MSC
      from a small volume of bone marrow aspirates.The isolation, expansion and feasibility of
      storage, transport and differentiation of human MSC for clinical application has been
      performed locally. The researchers used autologous BM-MSC, ex vivo expanded, on three
      patients with end-stage ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy who were on the heart transplant
      waiting list and each patient was injected with MSCs directly into the myocardium during open
      heart surgery. After twelve months, all patients remained alive and well with significant
      improvement in cardiac function, quality of life and other parameters including reduction of
      myocardial scar volume as seen from cardiac scans.

      The same group of researchers further carried out a study on ten patients with severe dilated
      cardiomyopathy and refractory cardiac function despite maximum medical therapy to receive
      autologous BM-MSC implantation via intramyocardial or intracoronary route. All patients
      remained alive at 1 year while recorded significant improvements in LV ejection fraction and
      other LV parameters from baseline to 6 and 12 months. Reduction in scar was also noted in six
      of the patients by 12 months.

      Following these results, this study aims to test the differentiation potential and
      therapeutic capacity of MSC from severe CAD patients after intracoronary implantation in an
      ischemic myocardial environment in Malaysian population.
    
  