
    
      Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) are low intensity alternating electric fields, which are
      tuned to interfere with the division process of cancer cells. TTFields are delivered to the
      region of cancer using an investigational device, called the NovoTTF-200A system. The device
      is portable, light weighted, battery operated device designed to deliver TTFields to brain
      metastases from small cell lung cancer (SCLC).

      TTFields are a novel, non-invasive regional anti-mitotic treatment modality. Pre-clinical
      studies and clinical data in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) have demonstrated a favorable
      safety profile and clinical superiority when treating the brain with TTFields. In addition,
      durable response have been demonstrated with 200kHz TTFields monotherapy for supratentorial
      tumors of the brain.

      The development of brain metastases is devastating for SCLC patients and their families.
      Treatment options in this setting are limited to SRS or WBRT or a combination thereof. Few
      clinicians treat SCLC brain metastases with SRS alone because intracranial recurrence is high
      due to the fact that the entire brain is not treated. WBRT treats the entire brain and
      improves intracranial control, but at the risk of neurocognitive complications. Thus, new
      therapeutic options are needed, particularly ones that allow for greater intracranial control
      while minimizing the risk of neurocognitive adverse events. As such, TTFields following SRS
      may allow for sufficient regional treatment of the brain to eliminate any remaining tumor
      cells following radiosurgery as well as micro-metastases that remain untreated, and
      ultimately prolong intracranial control. Due to the favorable safety profile seen in phase
      III recurrent and newly diagnosed glioblastoma trials and in which the patients reported
      improved neurocognitive and emotional functioning, NovoTTF-200A is not expected to have
      neuro-toxic effects seen with WBRT.

      Thus, the investigators hypothesize that the use of NovoTTF-200A applied to the brain
      following SRS for SCLC brain metastases will have cerebral control comparable to WBRT with
      less neurocognitive effects.

      The patient will undergo stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). Radiosurgery is a single treatment
      and will be done as an outpatient procedure.

      Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) will be followed by continuous TTFields treatment using the
      NovoTTF-200A. The patient will start using the NovoTTF-200A device within 7 days of SRS. The
      NovoTTF-200A treatment will be started by the device support specialist (DSS), trained by
      NovoCure, or by your study doctor. The patient will be educated and trained on how to
      properly use the device in the clinic or by a separately scheduled home visit. During this
      visit, the patient will be told how to operate the device, replace depleted batteries,
      recharge them, and connect to an external power supply. All patients will be required to
      shave their head, so the transducer arrays can be placed. Patients will wear 4 electronically
      insulated transducer arrays (sticky pads) on the top of the patient's head (based on the
      patient's tumor location) for the time the patient is using the device.

      After this visit, the patient will continue treatment at home where participants can maintain
      regular daily routine. The patient must use the device for at least 18 hours a day per day on
      average. Breaks are allowed for personal needs (e.g. showering/bathing, array exchange).
      Patients will be instructed to replace the Transducer arrays 2-3 times a week with help of a
      caregiver. Patients will be instructed to use the device for a minimum of 4 weeks from the
      time of initiation. The NovoTTF-200A device will be inspected, either by the study doctor,
      research nurse, or by a Novocure representative, on a monthly basis to assess the patient's
      compliance with treatment. Each course of using the device will consist of continuous
      NovoTTF-200A use for one month. Multiple courses will be offered as long as the patient's
      tumor(s) in the brain have not come back. If the patient's tumor(s) do come back, the patient
      will need to terminate use of NovoTTF-200A. If tumors do not return in the patient's brain,
      the patient will be able to stay on NovoTTF-200A for up to 1 year.

      Patients will be asked to visit the study doctor for follow-up care at several monthly
      intervals (1, 3, 6, 9, an 12 months after completion of stereotactic radiosurgery), or until
      the tumor(s) in the patient's brain return.
    
  