
    
      Patients will be recruited from the general practices of Drs. Rechtine, Rubery, Molinari, and
      Zeidman. An epidural catheter will be placed under direct vision at the conclusion of
      surgery. The catheter will be advanced at least 4 cm to L1 level prior to injection. Two
      milliliters of air will be injected through the catheter to ensure patency. Aspiration will
      then be done to ensure no intradural injections. Then the undiluted (1 or 1.5 cc) DepoDurTM
      will be injected.

      The type of surgery will be recorded as to

        1. The number of levels of surgery.

        2. The number of levels fused

        3. The number of levels instrumented.

        4. The number of levels with an interbody fusion

        5. Time to ambulate

        6. Time to use oral analgesics

        7. The time of DepoDur injection.

        8. The amount of pain medications used in the 0-2 hour time interval after injection, 2-4
           hours, and each subsequent 4 hour interval.

        9. Pain scores will be recorded with vital signs. (The pain score is from 1 to 10 and is
           asked orally to patients. This is part of the standard of care).

      In a one-to-one randomization, patients will receive either a 10 or 15 mg dose of DepoDur at
      the time of surgery

      Each patient will be provided with a morphine PCA (patient controlled analgesia) system
      postoperatively and then oral analgesics as appropriate. Analgesic requirements in morphine
      equivalents will be recorded. Comparison between the 10 and 15 mg dose will be done as to
      analgesic effectiveness and safety.

      Post-operative orders (for 48 hours) will include epidural narcotic protocol to include. The
      following post-operative orders are standard of care.

        1. Patient's bedside and chart will be identified as "spinal narcotic".

        2. Head of bed maintained at 30 degrees of elevation.

        3. 0.4 mg of Narcan (naloxone) will be added to each liter of IV fluid

        4. Counted respirations and pupil size to be included with vital signs

        5. Pain scores with vital signs (The pain score is from 1 to 10 and is asked orally to
           patients. This is part of the standard of care).

        6. Continuous pulse oxymetry measurement

        7. Call House officer for respiratory rate of <8 minute or changes in saturation as
           measured by pulse oxymetry.

      Current post-operative PCA orders usually start with 1 mg of morphine per cc with a seven to
      ten minute lockout. Based on work by Rawal [2-3], who demonstrated that small doses of
      Naloxone could help eliminate nuisance side effects of epidural narcotics such as localized
      pruritis, 0.4 mg of Naloxon will be added to each liter of IV fluid. Continuous pulse
      oxymetry should be used to monitor the patient's respiratory function for 48 hours after the
      last dose of the epidural narcotic. Post-operative vital signs will be obtained in the
      recovery room by anesthesia policy. Once the patient is transferred to the floor, vital signs
      would be obtained every hour for the first four hours and every four hours after that.

      The standard of care involves providing patients after lumbar surgery with the best pain
      relief possible. This can be done in a number of different ways. The use of Duramorph has
      been possible for many years. It has not been used recently only because of the need to
      re-dose. The pain relief provided by the epidural narcotic is detailed in the literature.
      What will be altered through this study is the addition of the long acting epidural narcotic,
      DepoDur. This will potentially provide for sustained pain relief for 48 hours. Usually by 48
      hours postoperatively, the patient is starting to improve to a point of being able to be
      maintained on oral analgesics. The remainder of the study is consistent with standard of care
      for epidural narcotics.
    
  