
    
      Cardiovascular diseases carried on being the leading cause of disability due to
      noncommunicable diseases from 1990 to 2016. Within cardiovascular diseases, it has been
      estimated that heart failure (HF) has a prevalence in the population of approximately 2% to
      3%. However, it is the only cardiovascular disease that is increasing in incidence and
      prevalence due to the aging of the world population, since the prevalence of this disease
      increases with age. Furthermore, heart failure represents the most important hospital
      diagnosis in older adults, being the main cause of hospital admissions for people older than
      65 years and contributing to the increase of medical care costs.

      Subjects with HF use to show a reduced aerobic capacity, a decreased muscle strength in the
      lower limbs, low weekly physical activity, intolerance to exercise and a lower walking speed
      than healthy subjects of the same age. In general, patients with heart failure have altered
      functional capacities and experience a decline in the ability to carry out activities of
      daily living and suffer a reduced quality of life. When it is assessed functional parameters
      in patients with heart failure, the maximum oxygen consumption (V0₂ max) obtained from a
      cardiopulmonary exercise test is considered the gold standard measure of cardiovascular
      functional capacity. Moreover, some functional tests have been used, such as the 6-Minute
      Walking Test, which provides an indirect measure of cardiovascular functional capacity, and
      the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), which also provides a useful and indirect
      indication of muscle functional capacity. However, at the time of diagnosing or classifying
      patients with heart failure, the functional assessment does not use to be considered. The
      implementation of diagnostic guidelines or a functional assessment based on evidence can be
      important to improve prognosis and quality of life in patients with HF.

      Therefore, there is a need to identify functional markers related to functionality that are
      indicative of heart failure. For this, it is necessary to use instruments to measure
      functional variables that must be valid and reliable, as established by the COSMIN taxonomy.
      Kinematic measurements allow quantifying normal and pathological movements, quantifying the
      degree of deterioration, planning rehabilitation strategies and evaluating the effect of
      various interventions. Inertial sensors and depth cameras are accurate and reliable methods
      for the kinematic analysis of human movement, in addition to presenting a good correlation of
      kinematic data between them.

      Currently, it can be used the Simmer3 Inertial Sensor and 3D motion capture systems with a
      camera to analyse kinematics and these instruments are being integrated as a rehabilitation
      tool in patients. The use of Shimmer3 Inertial Sensor and 3D motion capture cameras would
      help to find fast and cheap assessment methods for professionals.
    
  