
    
      BACKGROUND

      Physical weakness is a common during and after critical illness. Weakness can develop for
      multiple reasons, but it can be generally be grouped into three overlapping categories:

        1. Nervous system dysfunction - weakness can result from impairments in the nervous system
           control of muscles;

        2. Muscle size reductions (i.e. sarcopenia) - muscles become smaller with disuse, and;

        3. Muscle force reductions (i.e. dynapenia) - muscles develop contractile impairments.

      In critical care, diagnostic criteria have been developed for a syndrome of weakness called
      intensive care unit-acquired weakness (ICU-AW). ICU-AW has important clinical implications.
      It is associated with delayed ventilator weaning, increased mortality, and longer lengths of
      stay in the hospital. ICU-AW can also have consequences for patients after they leave the
      hospital. ICU-AW can be implicated in impairments in quality of life and physical function
      such as difficulty climbing stairs, and delays in returning to work.

      Diagnosing ICU-AW is not trivial and it is centered on assessments targeted primarily to
      assessing dynapenia. The diagnostic criteria are clear but making the diagnosis relies on the
      active participation of patients, and the reliable subjective assessment by clinicians at the
      bedside. Factors such as sedation, restraint use, paralytic medications, pain, and dressings
      can all confound the assessment of a patient's strength.

      To augment patient assessments, it is possible that assessments of sarcopenia might be
      helpful in highlighting who might be at risk for muscle dysfunction in the ICU.

      RESEARCH QUESTION AND OBJECTIVES Do serial measurements of tibialis anterior muscle
      cross-sectional area (a muscle in the leg) using bedside ultrasound correlate with clinical
      weakness in people admitted to the ICU for sepsis?

      Primary Outcome:

      Determine if the rates of decline of tibialis anterior muscle cross-sectional areas (%/day)
      measured by bedside ultrasound on participants admitted to an ICU for sepsis correlate with
      bedside clinical measures of strength using the medical research council (MRC) sum score (a
      score between 0 and 60).

      Secondary Outcomes:

      Determine if rates of decline of tibialis anterior muscle cross-sectional areas correlate
      with:

        1. Ankle dorsiflexion strength, measured using the Medical Research Council (MRC) Scale for
           muscle strength (a score between 0 and 5);

        2. Illness severity at admission to the ICU, measured by the Sequential Organ Failure
           Assessment (SOFA) score (a score between 0 and 24);

        3. Duration of mechanical ventilation (days),

        4. Duration of ICU length of stay (days), and;

        5. Duration of hospital length of stay (days).

      METHOD Each day, new admissions to a mixed medical-surgical ICU will be screened. Any person
      admitted with a diagnosis of sepsis will be considered for invitation to the study. Potential
      participants will be excluded if they are children (age < 18 years), if they have preexisting
      diagnoses that would plausibly affect the size of the muscles in their leg, or if they have
      medical conditions that would preclude an assessment of their strength. Participants who are
      appropriate for inclusion in the study will be approached for informed consent.

      For participants who consent, every second day the cross-sectional area of the tibialis
      anterior muscle bulk on each leg will be measured (cm^2) using bedside ultrasound. These
      measurements will be accompanied by a clinical assessment of strength using the Medical
      Research Council (MRC) strength scale on six muscle groups bilaterally (shoulder abduction,
      elbow flexion, wrist extension, hip flexion, knee extension, and ankle dorsiflexion).
      Participants will continue to be evaluated every other day until they leave the ICU, or until
      their 14th day of admission to the ICU. Chart reviews will supplement these data to allow for
      the determination of the secondary objectives (e.g. SOFA scores, hospital lengths of stay).
    
  