
    
      Psoriasis is a disease difficult to cure and is usually recurrent and therefore, a continued
      management is crucial. An evidence-based approach is important for appropriate treatments of
      patient with psoriasis. However, there is a lack of response data for the topical treatments
      in Asian patients with psoriasis, and no treatment guidelines available. Therefore, routine
      topical treatments, instead of patient-specific treatments, are usually applied, which may
      result in treatment failure. In this regard, it is imperative to conduct a study to assess
      topical treatments in Korean patients with psoriasis vulgaris in terms of efficacy and side
      effects.

      Furthermore, psoriasis patients in Korea, mostly small plaque types, may exhibit different
      disease activities and response outcomes and accordingly require different treatment options
      as compared to Western populations whose dominant psoriasis type is large plaque type. Thus,
      a study in Korean patients with psoriasis may reveal an interesting finding.

      In order to investigate optimal maintenance regimens for the topical treatment of Korean
      patients with psoriasis vulgaris, we are planning this study which evaluates the efficacy of
      three 8-week maintenance regimens containing Xamiol速 gel (PRN treatment group, Continuous
      treatment group and Twice weekly treatment group) in patients who have become "Responder"
      after 8-week induction therapy with Xamiol速 gel ("Responder").

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the percentages of "Responder"* at week
      16, as assessed by Investigator's Global Assessment of Disease Severity (IGA), in three
      different 8-week maintenance regimens of Xamiol速 gel after 8-week induction treatment with
      Xamiol速 gel in patients with psoriasis vulgaris.

      * Responder is defined as subjects with "clear" or "almost clear" according to IGA.

      Secondary study objectives is to evaluate efficacy, % of Relapse and time to Relapse, PGA,
      Patient Compliance, Safety and Quality of Life (DLQI and TSQM) in three arms with
      calcipotriol/betamethasone dipropionate combination gel treatment in Korean patients with
      chronic plaque psoriasis of the body.
    
  