
    
      The study is designed in 2 cycles.

      Cycle 1 will incorporate 20 participants and include a screening / enrollment visit and 1
      study visit. The study visit will be 30 hours and involves SQ administration of placebo
      (n=10) or MANP 2.5 ug/kg (n=10). Cycle 2 will incorporate 10 participants and include a
      screening / enrollment visit and 1 study visit. The study visit will be 30 hours and involves
      SQ administration of MANP 5 ug/kg (n=10). Studies will be performed at either the CRU of Mayo
      Clinic's CCaTS in Rochester, Minnesota or the University of Mississippi CRU in Jackson,
      Mississippi.

      All participants will have a screening / enrollment visit where a medical history will be
      obtained and physical examination performed. At this visit informed consent will also be
      obtained. Hypertension validation as described above will follow. Once hypertension is
      validated, subjects will be scheduled for the study visit where either placebo or MANP will
      be administered at Mayo Clinic's or the University of Mississippi's CRU. Three days prior to
      the study visit, subjects will be initiated on a moderate sodium (3.0g/day) diet. Fluid
      intake will be restricted to 2.5 liters per day for all subjects. A 24-hour urine sodium
      collection will be obtained on the 24 hours prior to the study visit to establish adherence
      to the low sodium diet. Subjects will be maintained on their standard anti-HTN treatment for
      the entire duration of the study. At the study visit, subjects will be admitted at 07:00 to
      the CRU fasting. For safety purposes, all subjects will remain in the CRU a total of 24 hours
      following dosing. The study will be single blind.

      Cycle 1:

      At the study visit, either SQ placebo (n=10) or SQ MANP 2.5 ug/kg (n=10) will be
      administered.

      Subjects will also be admitted at 07:00 to the CRU in the fasting state. Subjects will take
      their usual antihypertensive medications in the CRU at time "0 minutes". Over the next 60
      minutes, blood pressure, heart rate, renal clearance, neurohumoral and cGMP assessment will
      be performed as outlined in Table 2. Ninety minutes after administration of the participant's
      usual antihypertensive medications, SQ placebo or SQ MANP will be administered if the
      systolic blood pressure is ≥ 120 mm Hg. Blood pressure and heart rate will be measured before
      and at several intervals after SQ placebo or SQ MANP administration. Four clearances of 6 hrs
      for total of 24 hrs after the dosing will be performed. At the end of each clearance, the
      patients will be asked to drink an amount of water equivalent to the sum of blood losses and
      urinary volume. During each clearance, urinary, hormonal, and hemodynamic measurements will
      be obtained and averaged for analysis. Subjects will be discharged from the CRU 24 hours
      after SQ placebo or SQ MANP administration.

      If ≤2 study participants who received SQ MANP 2.5 μg/kg experience any of the adverse events
      listed below then cycle 2 will be initiated. If >2 study participants who received SQ MANP
      2.5 μg/kg MANP experience one of the above events then the study will be terminated and we
      will not proceed to cycle 2.

        -  Clinically significant hypotension, defined as a decrease from baseline in clinical SBP
           ≥ 30 mmHg, or a decrease in sitting SBP to < 90 mmHg, or lightheadedness or dizziness or
           visual symptoms for 5 minutes.

        -  Any other safety results or adverse experiences that, in the opinion of the
           investigator, raise concerns about the safety or tolerability of a higher dose.

      Cycle 2:

      Cycle 2 will commence only if subjects in cycle 1 tolerated SQ MANP 2.5 μg/kg without
      clinically significant hypotension or other adverse events (as defined above).

      In cycle 2, SQ MANP 5 ug/kg (n=10) will be administered at the study visit.

      Subjects will also be admitted at 07:00 to the CRU in the fasting state. Subjects will take
      their usual antihypertensive medications in the CRU at time "0 minutes". Over the next 60
      minutes, blood pressure, heart rate, renal clearance, neurohumoral and cGMP assessment will
      be performed as outlined in Table 2. Ninety minutes after administration of the participant's
      usual antihypertensive medications, SQ MANP will be administered if the systolic blood
      pressure is ≥ 120 mm Hg. Blood pressure and heart rate will be measured before and at several
      intervals after SQ placebo or SQ MANP administration. Four clearances of 6 hrs for total of
      24 hrs after the dosing will be performed. At the end of each clearance, the patients will be
      asked to drink an amount of water equivalent to the sum of blood losses and urinary volume.
      During each clearance, urinary, hormonal, and hemodynamic measurements will be obtained and
      averaged for analysis. Subjects will be discharged from the CRU 24 hours after SQ placebo or
      SQ MANP administration.
    
  