
    
      This 5-year randomized intervention study uses an advanced practice nurse, with the
      assistance of an interdisciplinary rehabilitation team, to provide education, support, skill
      training, counseling, and social and community linkages to stroke survivors and their spouses
      for 6 months post-hospital discharge. The intervention will be delivered using previously
      tested protocol guidelines. Stroke survivors and their spousal caregivers will be assessed to
      determine whether or not the intervention is successful in (1) improving function, quality of
      life and perceived health and decreasing depression in the stroke survivor; (2) decreasing
      unplanned clinic and emergency room visits, reducing rehospitalizations and admissions to
      nursing homes; (3) decreasing depression, burden, stress and improving the health of spousal
      caregivers and (4) decreasing cytokine imbalances related to the chronic stress of caregiving
      among spouses. Assessments will be made at baseline and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months
      post-discharge on the stroke survivor and on the spousal caregiver by a nurse who is masked
      to the group assignment. To determine the effect of the intervention on cytokine imbalance,
      the researchers will: (1) generate cytokines from cell cultures (mitogen-induced and antigen
      specific T-cell lines) and (2) analyze culture supernatants and plasma samples for their
      immunoregulatory cytokine content. The laboratory technician and immunologist will be masked
      to the intervention group. All covariates (i.e., sociodemographic characteristics, severity
      of the stroke, dyadic relationships, family functioning, co-morbid health conditions, etc.)
      will be evaluated to determine which are significantly related to the outcomes and only those
      will be included in the model. Hierarchical Linear Models (HLM) will be used to model change
      over time for individual participants using a polynomial form. Depending on the nature of the
      change function, individual parameter estimates of the intercept, slope, and if necessary,
      curvature will be compared across groups.
    
  