
    
      The investigators will recruit 100 women who are undergoing IVF with egg retrieval and
      delayed embryo transfer to consent to endometrial biopsy 1 week after egg retrieval.
      Currently most women in the Stanford's IVF program undergo egg retrieval with delayed embryo
      transfer (ET) with preimplantation genetic testing of embryos. This delay allows most to
      avoid the condition known as ovarian hyperstimulation and allows time for genetic screening
      (PGT-A) performed on embryos. Such a delay also opens the window for endometrial assessment
      for proteins like SIRT1 and BCL6 that have been suggested to be associated with
      endometriosis. Endometriosis is thought to cause IVF failure (Littman et al., 2002); by
      treating endometriosis in the future, clinicians might avoid IVF failure due to an unexpected
      non-receptive endometrium (Littman et al., 2002). This study design will provide for the
      first time, an opportunity to compare endometrial biopsy material from hyperstimulated
      (gonadotropin treated) subjects after egg retrieval. If successful, it would provide a new
      protocol for women with unexplained infertility or those with known endometriosis to avoid
      poor IVF outcomes.

      There is some evidence that endometrial scratching (biopsy) may enhance embryo attachment in
      future cycles (Vitagliano et al., 2018), although not all studies agree (Lensen et al.,
      2019). The endometrial biopsy taken in the secretory phase will be tested for BCL6 and SIRT1
      expression, two proteins highly associated with the presence of endometriosis (Yoo et al.,
      2017). The samples of endometrium will be processed (put into formalin and paraffin blocks or
      saved in RNA later and not be analyzed until after completion of the ART cycle. Patients as
      well as the clinicians will be blinded to results and until the conclusion of the ART cycle
      following embryo transfer and subsequent pregnancy testing. This will be done to avoid
      interfering with the current ART cycle and to avoid the introduction of bias. Patients will
      be provided with test results after completion of the first embryo transfer if they wish to
      know.
    
  