
    
      There is a high level of evidence that suggests cognitive and behavioral factors play an
      important role in colorectal cancer patients' abilities to cope with pain, fatigue and
      distress. Patients with multiple persistent symptoms may be particularly likely to have low
      confidence in their ability to control their symptoms (i.e., self-efficacy for symptom
      management). Cognitive behavioral coping skills protocols can enhance patients' abilities to
      cope with their symptoms in the context of age-related challenges; to date, these protocols
      have been tested in older patients and neither intervention content nor delivery modality
      meet the needs of younger patients.

      Intervention protocols aimed at young and middle-aged patients dealing with age-related
      stressors and high time demands must be adapted to meet the needs and challenges (e.g.,
      coping skills practice strategies within the context of competing demands, communication with
      others about symptoms and limitations, relaxation for managing stoma-related pain, activity
      pacing to manage fatigue due to cancer and the demands of multiple life roles; cognitive
      restructuring negative thoughts surrounding managing time off work for treatment while
      maintaining health insurance and arranging childcare) of younger adults with cancer and
      delivered in a format (e.g., videoconferencing, adjunctive mobile app) that is acceptable and
      does not incur further demands.

      The investigators propose to use a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test an innovative
      mHealth Coping Skills Training for Symptom Management (mCOPE) intervention designed to target
      pain, fatigue, psychological distress, and quality of life with unique content adapted for
      young and middle-aged colorectal cancer patients. mCOPE will be delivered with convenient
      mHealth modalities (videoconferencing, mobile app supported). Young and middle-aged adults
      with colorectal cancer that endorse multiple symptoms will be randomized to: 1) mCOPE or 2)
      standard care. mCOPE includes 5 videoconferencing sessions of a cognitive behavior
      theory-based protocol that teaches coping skills (e.g., relaxation, activity pacing,
      cognitive restructuring) relevant to managing pain, fatigue and distress, and improving
      quality of life in the context of the unique challenges facing younger patients. mCOPE uses
      mHealth technology, including a mobile app, to capture daily symptom and coping skills use
      data and provide personalized support and feedback to patients. The central hypothesis is
      that mCOPE will result in decreased pain, fatigue and distress, and increased quality of
      life.

      Specific study aims are:

      Aim 1: Test the efficacy of mCOPE for improving symptoms and quality of life.

      Aim 2: Examine improved self-efficacy for symptom management as a mediator of symptom
      severity.
    
  