
    
      A prospective randomized controlled study was conducted between April-2013 and June-2014, in
      the Department of Cardiac Surgery, Chaudary Pervaiz Elahi Institute of cardiology (CPEIC)
      Multan, Pakistan. The CPEIC is a tertiary cardiac care center and is presently performing
      over 600 coronary artery bypass surgery annually. The study was conducted in strict
      compliance of the rules established by the revised Helsinki convention and had approval from
      the ethical committee of the institute.

      Patients undergoing isolated conventional CABG were included in the study except; The redo
      CABG, those who required 2 or less than 2 grafts, patients who had major postoperative
      neurological complications like stroke, 2nd arterial graft along with LIMA, patients who need
      CABG within a week of STEMI or NSTEMI and Patients with calcified or diseased aorta in which
      single cross clamp technique was used for proximal aorto-coronary anastomosis.

      The patients were randomized into two groups by using draw randomization technique. The
      investigators made 112 sets, each set containing four patients. The staff nurse on duty was
      requested to pick up the two folded papers from four containing hidden identity of the
      patients. The patients chosen by draw were included in the study group, others in the control
      group.

      Group I: Patients who received multiport antegrade cardioplegia and continuous controlled
      warm blood perfusion through vein grafts (Study Group) and Group II: Patients who underwent
      routine conventional CABG with antegrade aortic root cardioplegia without warm blood
      perfusion (Control Group).

      All operations were carried out by two consultant surgeons at the investigators institution,
      who are certified cardiac surgeons with sufficient experience. Patients were premedicated
      with oral dose of 3mg bromazepam the night before surgery. Anaesthesia was induced with
      intra-venous morphine (0.1mg/kg), midazolam (0.05-0.1 mg /kg), and propofol (1.0-2.5 mg/kg
      titrated according to the response. They were given atracuronium (1mg/kg) before endotracheal
      intubation. The anaesthesia was maintained with sevoflorane/isoflurane.

      In all patients the standard cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was established with an ascending
      aortic arterial cannula and a two stage single venous cannula in the right atrium. The CPB
      circuit was primed with crystalloid Ringer's solution. Heparin was administered in a dose of
      400 U/Kg. The body temperature was lowered to 30-32°C. The local cooling was achieved with
      ice cold saline. Cold blood cardioplegia was used in each group. The first dose of
      cardioplegia was 10-15 ml/kg and further doses were given as 5-7ml/kg repeated after each
      graft or after 20 minutes. Cold blood cardioplegia was given by using cardioplegia delivery
      system including heat exchanger in both groups. A cardioplegia delivery cannula with a
      separate vent line (DLP Medtronic, Grand Rapids, MI, USA) was inserted into the ascending
      aorta. The pump flow rate was kept between 2.0 and 2.4 L/min/m2 to maintain a mean arterial
      pressure of 55 - 70 mmHg. In both groups, myocardial protection was achieved by an initial
      antegrade infusion of cold (4 °C) blood cardioplegic potassium solution followed by
      intermittent antegrade cold blood cardioplegia at the completion of each distal anastomosis
      via a cardioplegia delivery cannula from the aortic root. Whereas in Group I, a multiple
      perfusion set was used to deliver cardioplegia simultaneously in aortic root and vein grafts.
      After the distal anastomosis of each vein graft had been completed, the proximal ends were
      connected to the free branch of the multi- perfusion set. In this way, simultaneous
      intermittent antegrade graft cardioplegia was administered in addition to aortic root
      cardioplegia (named as multiport antegrade cardioplegia).

      LIMA and great saphenous vein were used as conduits. LIMA was anastomosed to LAD and other
      coronary vessels received greater saphenous vein grafts as conduits.

      Just before the removal of the aortic cross-clamp, warm blood shot (normo-kalemic) was
      started through multi-perfusion set attached to cardioplegia cannula in the aortic root and
      vein grafts in Group I. As contraction of heart started the multiport limb attached to
      cardioplegia cannula was off and cross clamp was removed .The warm perfusion through the vein
      grafts was continued at controlled pressures of about 50-70 mmHg, flow rate of
      10-30ml/min/graft and temperature of 35-37 oC. Proximal anastmosis was performed in both
      groups using partial occluding clamp.

      The necessity of inotropic support and the choice of inotropic drugs to be administered
      during weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) were determined by a cardiac anaesthetist
      team, who were blinded and independent with respect to the study.

      The CK-MB levels were determined at five points of time i.e. before operation, immediately
      after shifting to ICU, at 12, 24 hours and 36 hours after shifting of patient to ICU. The
      reagent used for determining the serum CK-MB levels was the product of Merck (Merck, France)
      and the designated reference value for detection of myocardial damage were >25 units/liter
      for CK-MB.

      448 patient characteristics were prospectively entered in the investigators electronic
      database (CASCADE DATABASES, Lahore, Pakistan). The study specific data not included in the
      database were separately entered in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet (MS Excel, version 2007,
      Microsoft Co USA). The statistical analysis was carried out using SPSS (SPSS version 20, SPSS
      Inc, Chicago, IL). The preoperative, operative and postoperative characteristics were
      summarized using means and standard deviation for the numeric variables. The groups were
      compared using Student's t-test for numeric variables and Chi-square test for categorical
      variables.

      The significance of differences between the groups was expressed as p-value and a value of
      <0.05 was considered significant.
    
  