
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial of vaginal estrogen cream for postmenopausal women with
      microscopic hematuria (AMH). Potential subjects will be screened with a dipstick urinalysis
      of a catheterized urine specimen, followed by microscopic urinalysis and urine culture if
      urine dipstick is positive for trace blood or greater. Women who are identified as having
      asymptomatic microscopic hematuria (>3 red blood cells (RBC) per high powered field (hpf)) on
      a single urine microscopy specimen in the absence of urinary tract infection or other benign
      cause will be eligible for enrollment.

      Women meeting inclusion criteria will be randomized to either conjugated equine estrogen
      cream (Premarin, 0.625mg conjugated estrogens) or placebo cream for 8 weeks. Microscopic
      urinalysis of a catheterized urine specimen will be re-checked at 8 weeks to check for
      reduction, resolution or persistence of AMH. During the 8 weeks of vaginal estrogen or
      placebo, women will complete the recommended AMH workup as dictated by the American Urologic
      Association (AUA) guidelines (cystourethroscopy, serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine
      levels, and computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis with and without
      intravenous contrast).1

      Validated questionnaires to assess vaginal atrophy and symptoms of urinary urgency and
      frequency will be completed at time of randomization and again at 8 weeks. Cost analysis of
      the standard AMH workup (cystourethroscopy and CT scan) versus empiric treatment with 8 weeks
      of vaginal estrogen cream will be calculated based on Medicare reimbursement, as well as
      market price for vaginal estrogen cream Additionally, patients will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire to assess the level of bother associated with completing the current AMH workup
      of CT scan and cystoscopy as compared to completing a treatment course of vaginal estrogen
      cream.

      Secondary analyses will determine whether there are additional benefits to a trial period of
      vaginal estrogen cream in postmenopausal women with AMH prior to reflexively screening for
      urinary tract abnormalities. We will compare the cost of a standard AMH workup to a treatment
      course of vaginal estrogen cream, to determine whether vaginal estrogen with potential
      resolution of AMH is associated with any savings prior to pursuing further workup.
      Additionally, questionnaires will ask study participants whether they would prefer to undergo
      the current AUA AMH workup or a treatment course of vaginal cream, in order to assess bother
      and anxiety associated with these interventions.
    
  