
    
      Objective:

      As the proportion of elderly population increasing over the last years, polypharmacy and
      drug-drug interactions (DDI) has been a common health care problem. However, very limited
      epidemiologic data are available describing polypharmacy, potentially DDIs, and potentially
      inappropriate medications and their consequences in elderly Turkish patients. Therefore, this
      study will be performed to find out to prevalence of polypharmacy, inappropriate drug use and
      DDIs in elderly patients presenting to a outpatient cardiology clinics.

      Methods:

      The EPIC (Epidemiology of Polipharmacy and Potential Drug-Drug Interactions in Elderly
      Cardiac Outpatients) study will be the first large-scale, observational, real-world
      multicenter study to evaluate DDIs ve polypharmacy in elderly cardiac outpatients conducted
      in Turkey. We will enroll all consecutive patients (aged≥ 65 years) admitted to the
      outpatient cardiology clinics from January 30, 2018, through June 30, 2018, provided written
      informed consent. Approximately 5000 patients will be enrolled in this non-interventional
      study. All the data will be collected at one point in time and current clinical practice will
      be evaluated.

      Results:

      Patient demographics, disease characteristics, laboratory test results and medications used
      willl be collected by self reports and medical records. The severity of comorbid diseases
      will be recorded and scored according to Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) and patients will
      be divided into three groups: mild, with CCI scores of 1-2; moderate, with CCI scores of 3-4;
      and severe, with CCI scores ≥5. Polypharmacy will be defined as being on five or more
      medications at one time, DDIs will be checked with Lexicomp® and and potentially
      inappropriate medications will be defined with 2015 update of Beers criteria. Severe drug
      interactions will be defined with category D or X DIs.

      Conclusion:

      EPIC will be the first study evaluating polypharmacy, potentially inappropriate medications
      and DDIs in elderly cardiac outpatients in a real world clinical setting.
    
  