
    
      It is well established that clinical research should focus on streamlining treatments in ways
      that maximizes their potency and ease of implementation. The application of technology has
      been increasingly utilized as an effective and acceptable way to rapidly disseminate
      evidence-base treatment. However, these methods are used infrequently for individuals deemed
      too high risk for computerized psychotherapy. This atheoretical approach to participant
      exclusion broadens the treatment gap among those in dire need of treatment. Along these
      lines, the primary goal of this project is to establish a proof of concept for developing and
      evaluating an efficacious and acceptable intervention for heavy episodic drinkers who are
      suicidal.

      This scope has been selected to increase feasibility for this pilot trial and to allow
      comparison with a wait-list control condition, providing important groundwork for a
      subsequent randomized control trial. The proposed research will take place in one phase and
      will fall within Stage 1a and 1b of the updated Stage Model for Behavioral Therapy Research.
      This project will consist of a randomized controlled pilot trial, an initial "strong test" of
      efficacy of cDBT for the treatment of HED and suicidal behaviors, using a between groups
      design. This method of intervention delivery (e.g. computerization) will allow for ease of
      transition to subsequent stages that fit the updated scope of Behavioral Therapy Research
      which highlight the need for dissemination and implementation. The overall aim of this
      project is not to demonstrate that cDBT works better than other interventions in improving
      outcomes, but rather to provide preliminary evidence that the intervention is feasible and
      efficacious in producing change when delivered through an easily disseminated and acceptable
      method.

      The primary goal of computerized DBT Skills Training will be to eliminate HED and suicidal
      behavior that function to regulate emotions while simultaneously increasing behavioral
      control through the use of functional, skillful behavior. cDBT-ER is an existing 8-week
      computerized skills intervention that targets difficulties in emotion regulation and includes
      numerous skills that explicitly target modifying emotional states. DBT skills translate well
      into computerized interventions, as they are based on learning models in which patients are
      taught reproducible skills to be used in their environment. The proposed intervention will
      require adding the DBT addiction skills to target heavy drinking as well as including a
      computerized version of a risk assessment protocol to assess suicidal urges electronically.
      The DBT addiction skills draw largely from relapse prevention and include DBT adaptations of
      Harm Reduction (via "Dialectical Abstinence") and Urge Surfing (via "Burning Bridges). The
      addiction skills have been implemented in numerous DBT studies that explicitly target
      addictive behavior with positive outcomes in reducing substance and alcohol use. Thus, cDBT
      would teach clients ways to reduce and eliminate alcohol consumption, along with skillful
      behaviors to effectively manage negative emotions.
    
  