
    
      The implant-prosthetic rehabilitation of the atrophic maxilla requires the creation of
      sufficient volumetric quantity of bone, through regeneration techniques, necessary to
      position the implants.

      Maxillary sinus augmentation (MSA) is probably the most predictable and best performing
      technique.

      The present randomized controlled study aims to evaluate and compare, histomorphometrically
      and clinically three different bone substitutes such as: ABBM, Tricalcium Phosphate (TCP)
      with or without the addition of hyaluronic acid (HA) that were used for lateral MSA. This
      study population will be followed until the 3rd year. This study describes histological
      differences between the three groups at 9 months.

      All the patients enrolled in the study received a session of oral hygiene and a periodontal
      examination before the surgical procedure to obtain a more favorable oral environment for
      wound healing. A CBCT was mandatory for all included cases to verify that the maxillary sinus
      was clear and that the residual bone height was 3 mm or less. All the enrolled patients
      received 2 gr. of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid (or 600 mg. of clindamycin for those who
      were allergic to penicillins) as a pre-medication one-hour before surgery. All patients
      rinsed for 1 minute with 0.2% chlorhexidine mouthwash (and twice a day for the following 3
      weeks). Local anesthesia was administered, a mid-crestal incision with mesial and distal
      release were performed to access the lateral bone wall of the maxillary sinus, subsequently,
      ultrasound bone surgery (Piezosurgery ®, Carasco, Italy) with specific tips was used for the
      bone window osteotomy (Figure 1-A). The Schneiderian membrane was reflected and lifted up
      medially with flat sinus curettes. Once the sinus membrane was completely lifted a
      bioabsorbable pericardium membrane (Smartbrane, Regedent AG, Zurich, Switzerland) was applied
      to protect it (Figure 1-B). The randomization sealed envelopes were opened and the clinician
      allocated the patients to one of the three experimental groups:

        1. Control group that received Demineralized Bovine Bone Mineral (Bio-Oss Cancellous,
           Geistlich, Wolhunsen, Switzerland);

        2. Test group 1 that received TCP with particle size ranging from 250 to 1000 µm (Osopia,
           Regedent, Zurich, Switzerland);

        3. Test group 2 that received TCP as in test group1 plus crosslinked Hyaluronic Acid
           (Hyadent BG, Regedent, Zurich, Switzerland) with a ratio 2 to 1.

      the bony window was repositioned, stabilized and covered with a resorbable pericardium
      membrane. Nine months after the MSA a CBCT analysis was required to evaluate the total bone
      height gain.

      Depending on the treatment plan, between one and three implants, bone level (BL) or tissue
      level (TL), of two different manufacturers (Institut Straumann AG, Basel, Switzerland and
      Sweden & Martina, Due Carrare, Italy) were positioned. While preparing the osteotomy implant
      site a bone biopsy was harvested using a trephine. The implant insertion torque was measured
      in Ncm for each implant.

      All patients were prescribed 1gr amoxicillin + clavulanic acid twice daily for 7 days (for
      those who were allergic to penicillin 300mg clindamycin 3 times daily for 7 days) as
      post-operative prophylaxis. All patients received 8mg of dexamethasone immediately after
      surgery and 4 mg of dexamethasone per day were prescribed for the following 5 days.
      Analgesics were prescribed (1gr paracetamol 3 times daily) according to patients' need. The
      use of removable temporary restorations was not recommended during the healing period.

      After an osseointegration period of 3 months, the implants were restored. The prosthetic
      procedures were similar for all groups, impressions were taken with a polyether rubber
      material (Impregum, Espe Dental AG, Seefeld, Germany) and a customized impression tray. Final
      Zirconia screw-retained restorations were delivered after a period of 2/3 weeks, peri-apical
      radiographs were taken and oral hygiene instructions were given to all participants in the
      study.
    
  