
    
      The objective of this research will be to make a gastric tube similar to that obtained in
      surgical gastroplication however it will be created using intragastric endoscopic sutures.
      The secondary objective will be to correlate demographic, endoscopic and laboratory data with
      the results of this procedure.

      Patients and Methods: Patients with class I obesity with or without comorbidities and
      patients with class II obesity without comorbidities, irrespective of gender and ethnic
      background, from the state of São Paulo and other states of the country will be submitted to
      vertical endoscopic gastroplasty. The procedures will be performed at the Endoscopy Service
      of the Mario Covas Hospital in São Paulo, SP. Data collection will be performed at the same
      location.

      Information will be obtained during the outpatient follow-up at the Hospital Mario Covas
      including demographic (gender, age), clinical (height, weight, time after procedure, systemic
      arterial hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, smoking, alcohol consumption) and operative
      data (complications).

      Preparation for the procedure: All the exams will be performed at the Hospital Mario Covas
      after the patients have fasted for at least 8 hours. The procedure will begin with the
      patient in left lateral decubitus under general anesthesia performed by an anesthesiologist.
      Endoscopic sutures will be performed using 2-0 prolene thread until a tubular-shaped stomach
      is formed similar to a vertical gastrectomy.

      Recovery after the procedure: After the procedure and recovery from anesthesia, all patients
      will be discharged but only together with a companion. All patients will receive guidance and
      will remain in touch with a physician to report any adverse signs or symptoms.

      Outcomes Primary outcome: To confirm the efficacy of endoscopic sutures in the primary
      treatment of obesity.

      Secondary outcome: To evaluate the use of the endoscopic sutures in relation to demographic
      data.
    
  