
    
      In older (65 years of age or older) patients with congestive heart failure, we propose to:

        1. Assess: a) Peak aerobic capacity (peak VO2) during a monitored, standardized treadmill
           test; b) Oxygen uptake kinetics and heart rate during a standardized submaximal
           treadmill test; c) Performance on a set of functional mobility tasks; d) Self-report of
           physical disability and difficulty in performing daily tasks, and physical activity.

        2. Conduct a 12-week randomized controlled trial, comparing changes in these assessed
           measures in patients randomized to three different groups: 1) standard cardiac
           rehabilitation using bicycle exercise; 2) group functional circuit training focusing on
           exercises that involve functional mobility tasks and a home-activities exercise
           component; 3) a chair-based, flexibility and "toning " (low level resistance) group
           control exercise.

        3. Reassess all groups after an additional 12 weeks in the measures identified above to
           identify how well the three groups maintain their function.

        4. Examine the mechanisms underlying change in functional mobility performance and
           self-reported function as a result of the interventions

      Primary hypothesis 1: Compared to chair-based exercise controls at the end of week 12, both
      the cardiac rehabilitation and functional circuit training groups will show improvements in
      measures of peak aerobic capacity, submaximal oxygen uptake kinetics, functional mobility
      performance, and self-reported function.

      Primary hypothesis 2: Compared to the other two groups that are given exercise instructions
      only, the functional circuit training group, who continue their home activities exercise
      program, show less decline by week 24 in measures of peak aerobic capacity, submaximal oxygen
      uptake kinetics, functional mobility performance, and self-reported function.

      Secondary hypothesis: Measures of submaximal oxygen uptake kinetics are better predictors of
      changes in functional mobility performance and self-reported function than peak aerobic
      capacity, muscle strength, joint range of motion, balance, and behavioral factors (such as
      depression).
    
  