
    
      Brachial plexus nerve blocks (BPBs) for upper extremity surgery provide superior analgesia
      and reduce opioid consumption. Supraclavicular block anesthetizes the brachial plexus where
      it is in its most compact form, thus providing a complete and reliable block for upper
      extremity surgery. Ultrasound guided single injection (SI) and triple injection (TI)
      techniques were found to provide the same degree of surgical anesthesia at 30 minutes while
      the TI technique needed more time to perform.

      Many studies were conducted to examine the effect of perineural Dexamethasone as a local
      anesthetic adjuvant in low volume peripheral nerve blocks were it was found to increase the
      mean duration of analgesia (sensory block) with short, medium and long acting local
      anesthetics as well as the duration of motor blockade, with a reduction in pain scores at
      rest during the intermediate (8-12 h) and late (24 h) postoperative periods and in movement
      at all times. At 24 postoperative hours, cumulative morphine consumption and the rate of
      nausea or vomiting were also reduced without any reported related serious adverse effects,
      also the value of its concomitant intravenous use in prolonging the duration of analgesia
      after regional blocks was studied with promising results that can sometimes be compared to
      the perineural route but more short-lived and associated with higher increase in blood
      glucose levels. Dexamethasone's mechanism of action may result from decreased nociceptive
      C-fibre activity via a direct effect on glucocorticoid receptors and inhibitory effect on
      potassium channels.(8) Other authors suggest a local vasoconstrictive effect, resulting in
      reduced local anaesthetic absorption or a systemic anti-inflammatory effect following
      vascular uptake of the drug.

      A debate exists whether perineural corticosteroids are harmful or not, but reports of
      neurotoxicity seem to be related mainly to the preservative benzyl alcohol and the vehicle
      polyethylene glycol found in some preparations, also may be related to the presence of
      insoluble steroid particulate matter in the injectate. Dexamethasone is non-particulate and
      can be found in a preservative-free formulation. In addition, no significant long-term
      electrophysiological, behavioural or histological effects for corticosteroids were identified
      on rat sciatic nerve tissue even some data suggest dexamethasone may actually be
      neuroprotective. In reality, perineural corticosteroid injections with and without
      preservative are widely used throughout the world.

      Various doses of Dexamethasone were used in local anaesthetic mixtures in regional blocks in
      various studies, including 4, 5, 8 and 10 mg. In a recent review & meta-analysis by E.
      Albrecht and his colleagues, sub-group analysis revealed no association between the total
      dose of perineural Dexamethasone and the mean increase in duration of analgesia showing that
      Dose-finding studies are needed to better define the optimal balance between dose, effects
      and side-effects, particularly at doses lower than 4 mg.
    
  