
    
      There is little evidence in the literature to guide the choice of closure material for
      Pfannenstiel laparotomy. Currently this decision is based primarily on physician preference.
      Physicians differ greatly in their view on which is better. This is based on personal habit
      and experience and not on scientific evidence. Specifically in the field of obstetrics and
      gynecology there has only been one randomized trial of approximately 60 patients undergoing
      cesarean section comparing subcuticular suture vs surgical staples for closure of their
      Pfannenstiel skin incisions (Frishman et al., 1997). This study showed that Pfannenstiel skin
      incisions closed with subcuticular closure following cesarean section result in less
      postoperative pain and are more cosmetically appealing as compared to incisions closed with
      staples.

      This randomized controlled study will compare closure of Pfannenstiel incisions using either
      subcuticular absorbable suture or surgical staples. It will examine two separate populations
      - those undergoing cesarean section and those undergoing gynecological surgery such as
      hysterectomy. These patient groups will be analyzed separately as their demographic
      characteristics tend to be quite different. The primary outcome will be postoperative pain.
      Cosmetic result will be a secondary outcome. Cosmesis will be rated both by the patient and
      the physician. Infection rates are also of great interest although it is unlikely that this
      study will achieve adequate power to show a statistically significant difference in results.
      Other outcomes of interest include overall patient satisfaction, total operating room time
      and length of hospital stay. Patient's body mass index will also be recorded and analyzed to
      determine whether it affects results in both intervention groups.

      There will be a minimum of 144 patients total in the cesarean section group and 144 patients
      total in the gynecological surgery group - 72 randomized to staples and 72 randomized to
      subcuticular suture for each group. Thus the entire study will involve approximately 288
      patients.
    
  