
    
      All these cases will undergo:

      1. History taking Patients are randomly arranged in 2 groups Group (A):- Palmer's point is
      the primary entry site. The stomach will be emptied of secretions and air following
      endotracheal intubation. (This is most easily performed using a nasogastric tube.) The left
      upper quadrant will be inspected for scars and the upper abdomen palpated for hepatomegaly or
      splenomegaly. A 10-mm incision will be made over Palmer's point. Veress needle first will be
      used for insufflation and tests of safety will be considered.

      A 10-mm port will be held vertically and the layers observed via a 10-mm laparoscope. A
      gentle rotating action in a vertical direction was used to allow the bladeless tip to
      separate the tissues.

      The layers of the abdominal wall seen at Palmer's point are as follows:

        -  skin,

        -  subcutaneous fat,

        -  external oblique aponeurosis,

        -  internal oblique aponeurosis,

        -  transversalis muscle fibres,

        -  (sometimes) extraperitoneal fat,

        -  peritoneum. Once the peritoneum will be breached, the introducer will be carefully
           removed from the port. The laparoscope will be then reintroduced.

      An extra 360° check was then performed to exclude a through-and-through bowel injury. The
      umbilicus was then inspected and any adhesions cleared using one or more 5-mm ports inserted
      under direct vision. At the end of the operation, the skin was closed using a single
      subcuticular suture Group (B):- The umbilicus is the primary entry site. First of all, the
      umbilicus is well cleaned with a piece of gauze with betadine or alcohol then small incision
      is done (10mm) in the umbilicus, veress needle is then inserted and tests of safety of
      intraperotineal insufflation are considered. 10 mm port is then introduced with gentle
      rotating action in a vertical direction to allow the bladeless tip to separate the tissues.

      The layers of the abdominal wall seen at Palmer's point are as follows:

        -  skin

        -  linea alba

        -  peritoneum. Once the peritoneum is breached, the trocar will be carefully removed from
           the port. The laparoscope will then reintroduced.

      An extra 360° check was then performed to exclude a through-and-through bowel injury. At the
      end of the operation, the skin will be closed using a single subcuticular suture
    
  