
    
      The ultrasound-guided erector spinae plane (ESP) block has been recently described for the
      successful management of thoracic neuropathic pain. The erector spinae muscle is formed by
      the spinalis, longissimus thoracis, and iliocostalis muscles that run vertically in the back.
      The ESP block is performed by depositing the local anaesthetic in the fascial plane, deep to
      the erector spinae muscle, at the tip of the transverse process of the vertebra. Indirect
      access to the paravertebral space is gained providing analgesia without the risk of needle
      injury to structures in close proximity. Cadaveric studies have shown both ventral and dorsal
      rami of thoracic spinal nerves are affected when local anaesthetic is injected deep to the
      erector spinae muscle. The erector spinae muscle extends along the thoracolumbar spine
      allowing extensive cranio-caudal spread. The ventral ramus (intercostal nerve) is divided
      into the anterior and lateral branches. Its terminal branches provide the sensory innervation
      of the entire anterolateral wall. The dorsal ramus is divided into 2 terminal branches and it
      gives the sensory innervation to the posterior wall. Anterior spread of the local anaesthetic
      to the paravertebral space through the costotransverse foramina and the intertransverse
      complex provides both visceral and somatic analgesia.

      While recent evidence supports statistically significant reductions in pain and opioid
      consumption among patients who receive an ESP block compared to systemic analgesia alone, the
      clinical significance of these differences are questionable the effect of ESP block on the
      patients' quality of recovery following ambulatory breast cancer surgery remains unclear.

      Therefore, our objective is to determine whether or not the addition of an ESP block provides
      both superior analgesia and quality of recovery in patients undergoing ambulatory breast
      cancer surgery compared to systemic analgesia alone. We hypothesis that patients who received
      a preoperative ESP block will afford superior postoperative analgesia and improve the quality
      of recovery over the first 24 hours following surgery compared to those who receive a sham
      block for their ambulatory breast cancer surgery.
    
  