
    
      The study compared 12 weeks of explosive high-speed power training with traditional
      slow-speed strength training. Outcome measures included muscle performance: leg press (LP)
      and knee extension (KE) one-repetition maximum (1RM) and LP peak power (PP), velocity at peak
      power (PPV) and force at peak power (PPF) from 40%-90% of the 1RM. Measures of function
      consisted of the 400-meter walk (400-m W), Berg Balance Scale (BBS), timed chair rise (TCR)
      and self-reported function and pain using the WOMAC.

      Participants reported to the laboratory for 2 weeks of baseline measurements. On visit 1,
      subjects were explained the study and completed an informed consent document. On visit 2 and
      3, muscle performance and functional measures were obtained. The following week, all muscle
      performance and functional measures were repeated to establish reliability. At the end of
      baseline testing, participants were randomized to treatment. Following the 12-week RT
      intervention, post-training muscle performance and functional measures were obtained.

      Resistance Training Protocol. Volunteers randomized into high-speed power training (HSPT) and
      slow-speed strength training (SSST) exercised 3 times per week for 12 weeks using
      computer-interfaced Keiser a420 pneumatic leg press and knee extension RT equipment (Fresno,
      CA). For HSPT, each training session consisted of 3 sets of 12-14 repetitions at 40%1RM.
      Participants performed an explosive movement at high speed during the concentric phase of
      each repetition, paused for one-second, and performed the eccentric portion of the
      contraction over 2 seconds. Volunteers randomized into SSST also exercised 3 times per week
      for 12 weeks with each training session consisting of 3 sets of 8-10 repetitions at 80%1RM.
      The participants performed each movement at a slow velocity (2 s for concentric phase of the
      repetition), paused for one second, and performed the eccentric portion of the contraction
      over 2 seconds. CON met three times a week for warm-up and stretching exercises, but
      performed no RT. HSPT and SSST participated in the same warm-up and stretching exercises as
      CON.

      Measures Maximal strength and power. Leg press and seated knee extension 1RM were obtained
      using Keiser pneumatic RT equipment fitted with a420 electronics. The seat of both the
      recumbent LP and KE apparatus was positioned to place the hip and knee joints between 90 and
      100 degrees of flexion. The 1RM was obtained by progressively increasing resistance until the
      subject was no longer able to push out one repetition successfully. The Borg Scale was used
      to assist in evaluating when 1RM (combined with perceived maximal effort) was reached. Peak
      muscle power was obtained at 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% and 90% of the 1RM approximately 30
      minutes after 1RM testing (8,9). Participants were instructed to exert "as fast as possible"
      at each relative percentage of the 1RM. Three attempts were made at each resistance and the
      greatest PP output obtained at each resistance was used in the analysis. The corresponding
      PPV and PPF were obtained for each external resistance from 40%-90% 1RM. The 1RM was measured
      bi-weekly in HSPT and SSST only and relative training intensity was adjusted accordingly to
      ensure adequate overload during training. Post-training muscle performance measures were
      obtained using loads relative to the initial baseline 1RM as well as the post-training 1RM.

      400 meter self-paced walk (400-m W). Participants were instructed to walk at a pace they
      could maintain without overexerting themselves until they complete the 400-m W or could no
      longer continue. Standardized verbal encouragement was given at 30-second intervals during
      the walk. Participants taking longer than 15 minutes to complete the 400-m W were considered
      unable to successfully perform the test.

      Berg Balance Scale (BBS). The BBS consists of 14 tests of balance scored on a 0-4 scale that
      are summed to obtain an aggregate balance score (range=0-56).

      Timed Chair Rise (TCR). Volunteers placed their folded arms across their chests and stood up
      from a sitting position as an initial assessment. If subjects were able to accomplish this
      task, they were then asked to complete a timed bout of five repetitions with the instructions
      to complete the activity as fast as they can. Subjects completed the activity from the same
      armless chair (height of seat 43.18 cm). TCR was reported as the number of repetitions per
      minute calculated from the time required to complete five chair stands.

      WOMAC Function and Pain. Self-reported function was assessed by the WOMAC function subscale,
      a 17-item Likert scale questionnaire (0=none, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe, 4=extreme) and
      pain was assessed by the WOMAC pain subscale, a 5-item Likert scale questionnaire (0=none,
      1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe, 4=extreme). Self-reported function was represented by summation
      of the component item scores (range: 0-68; higher scores indicate greater functional loss)
      and pain was represented by summation of the component item scores (range: 0-20; higher
      scores indicating greater levels of pain).
    
  