
    
      There are flagrant shortcomings in the health care pathways of patients with TB, with a
      significant proportion of unknown treatment outcomes, including a large number of those lost
      to follow-up secondary transmission, tuberculosis recurrence, and emergence from
      tuberculosis. resistances. Unknown treatment outcomes are treatment outcomes not reported at
      12 months of treatment initiation (lost to follow-up, transfer, no information). Health
      actors must mobilize to better understand the characteristics of patients with incomplete
      treatment outcomes and to provide solutions for better control of tuberculosis in our region.
      This study also want to evaluate the relationship between plasma concentrations of major
      antituberculosis drugs (rifampicin and isoniazid) and treatment outcomes. This study propose
      to constitute for the first time in France a cohort of patients presenting a TB disease in
      order to meet these objectives.The original study would recruit 200 patients per year for 5
      years associated with 5 years of follow-up for a total duration of the study estimated at 10
      years. Given the economic stakes involved in such a study, a pilot feasibility study is carry
      out, which is the subject of this research protocol. This smaller cohort over a shorter
      inclusion and follow-up period will make it possible to evaluate the feasibility of the
      large-scale cohort, to propose possible improvements of the protocol if problems are raised
      at the end of the study and launch the cohort at the same time if the study is considered
      feasible. A cohort should be as representative as possible of the population and the
      pathology studied. Thus, the population to be studied here corresponds to any adult patient
      or child with TB disease confirmed, consulting or hospitalized in one of the six
      participating services, and initiating treatment in the center. As part of the pilot study, a
      1-year follow-up will be conducted to assess the feasibility of the original study. This
      duration is appropriate and sufficient for a first evaluation of the distribution of
      treatment outcomes at 1 year follow-up in the context of a study, in accordance with World
      Health Organisation (WHO) recommendations. Nevertheless, this one-year follow-up will only
      partially capture the risk of tuberculosis relapses, as part of the pilot study. This,
      however, will indirectly reflect the quality of the patient management system and thus assess
      the feasibility of the original study. It is an observational study of prospective
      multicentric cohort type, initially piloting, then intended to be extended by a larger
      original study, if it is considered feasible.
    
  