
    
      Weight loss and loss of lean body mass are common and associated with adverse outcomes such
      as loss of strength, reduced immune- and pulmonary function and increased disability in
      advanced cancer. Progressive weight loss interferes with cancer therapy and is responsible
      for reduced quality of life (QoL) as well as shorter survival irrespective of tumour mass or
      presence of metastases. Weight loss in advanced cancer is regarded as a major clinical
      challenge because of its serious consequences, its varying aetiology and the contribution of
      multiple pathophysiological mechanisms that are poorly disentangled.

      The main contributor to weight loss in advanced cancer is considered to be development of
      cancer cachexia. The term refers to a syndrome of progressive loss of body weight and muscle
      atrophy involving two parallel pathways, i.e. negative energy balance and inflammation-driven
      catabolism. The negative energy balance may be a direct result of malnutrition caused by
      cancer and treatment related symptoms that interfere with food intake and routine assessment
      of nutritional status is therefore advocated. The interaction and relative contribution of
      these pathways in the development of cancer cachexia are, however, poorly understood. Through
      novel use of traditional clinical data and biological markers, we propose to investigate the
      interplay and magnitude of the processes involved in the development of cancer cachexia. This
      will contribute to a new understanding that may lead to more precise identification of
      remediable factors and improved treatment. In this context, we will also investigate the
      relevance of using screening tools for nutritional status, as advocated by the Norwegian
      Health Authorities. However, in advanced cancer the identifying ability of the recommended
      screening tools is poorly documented.

      The present study is part of a larger project by our group. The overall project includes two
      parallel studies based on the same comprehensive data collection, targeting patients with
      non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Tumours of the lung are one of the most common causes of
      cancer related weight loss. These patients are therefore an ideal target for studying the
      mechanisms and impact of nutritional problems and cachexia, as proposed in the present study.
      The other parallel study, which is approved by the Regional Committee for Medical and Health
      Research Ethics (REC), Region South East (2012/830), aims at describing the frequency and
      development of weight loss in NSCLC patients, and its relation to tumour stage, response and
      side effects of chemotherapy.

      This study also makes part of a larger research effort focusing on cachexia and changes in
      body composition in cancer patients by our group. A study on the impact of sarcopenia (severe
      muscle loss) in NSCLC is ongoing as well a prospective study on cachexia in pancreatic
      cancer, using the same assessments as the present study. The present study will significantly
      contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms of weight loss and cachexia in advanced
      cancer in general and in NSCLC in particular, and will provide knowledge that is needed to
      improve medical treatment and follow-up of a large group of patients. Thus, the study is in
      line with the research strategy from the South-Eastern Norway Regional Health Authority
      (South-Eastern Norway RHA). Furthermore, the study emerges from a multidisciplinary research
      network representing several areas of medical and nutritional expertise and with an
      established international partnership.
    
  