
    
      Investigators have observed that patients at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Head
      and Neck Survivorship clinic with symptoms of radiation-induced xerostomia expressed verbal
      preference for Biotene and Refresh mouth sprays (spray form of mouthwash) compared to other
      oral products such as gel, toothpaste, and chewing gum. Investigators have designed this
      study to specifically assess the effectiveness of mouth sprays on xerostomia in patients who
      have completed radiation for head and neck carcinoma. While there have been clinical trials
      to evaluate the effectiveness of Biotene oral products for xerostomia, Refresh
      mouthwash/mouth spray is a newer oral rinse formula that has not undergone any randomized
      controlled trials to evaluate its efficacy compared to other agents of its kind. The
      investigators have put forward this randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy of
      both sprays to each other and to water. Biotene spray is cleared by the FDA as a medical
      device product. Currently, Refresh mouth spray falls under the FD&C Act.

      There is preliminary data on the effectiveness of Biotene mouthwash for xerostomia in
      patients who have had radiation of the head and neck. A phase II study of Biotene products
      (mouthwash, chewing gum, and toothpaste) were effective at improving many symptoms of
      post-irradiation xerostomia. Numerous other studies have shown that mouthwash and topical dry
      mouth products improve xerostomia symptoms.

      Xerostomia, or mouth dryness, is a frequent side effect of head and neck cancer radiation
      therapy, as the salivary glands are often damaged during therapy. Radiation therapy can be
      successful in treating cancer, but post-irradiation xerostomia can cause oral discomfort as
      well as issues with eating, speech, and oral hygiene, leading to significantly decreased
      quality of life. While treatment of xerostomia has limited benefit, various mouthwashes have
      led to major symptomatic improvement in some patients. This study will add to existing
      literature by commenting on efficacy of a popular and established mouth spray used for
      xerostomia as well as a new mouth spray that has not been compared to existing formulas. A
      double-blinded randomized controlled trial evaluating these mouth sprays will add information
      about value of both formulas for head and neck carcinoma survivors with radiation-induced
      xerostomia.
    
  