
    
      Parkinson´s Disease (PD) affects between 4.1 and 4.6 million people in the world. The
      diagnosis of PD is currently clinical and based on its motor manifestations (bradykinesia,
      rest tremor, and rigidity). However, non-motor symptoms such as pain, fatigue, and
      neuropsychiatric manifestations are present in more than 70% of subjects. Pain affects about
      85% of patients but is paradoxically under-reported and consequently under-treated in PD
      patients with a great impact on their quality of life. Levodopa, which is the election
      treatment in PD, has shown controversial results regarding pain sensitivity and has been
      shown ineffective for enhancing the endogenous pain modulation system. Furthermore, there is
      a lack of management protocols and nonpharmacologic treatments for pain in PD. Several
      syndromes are hypothesized to be involved in PD pain generation. Generally, PD patients
      suffer from alterations in peripheral transmission, sensitive-discriminative processing, pain
      perception, and pain interpretation in multiple levels, due to neurodegenerative changes in
      dopaminergic pathways and non-dopaminergic pain-related structures. Therefore, central
      mechanisms are proposed to be crucial for the development and establishment of pain in PD
      patients. Regarding pain processing features, PD patients have reduced pain thresholds, an
      augmented Temporal Summation (TS) after repetitive nociceptive stimulus, and the impairment
      of their Conditioned Pain Modulation (CPM) is correlated with greater severity and premature
      onset of the disease. Cortical excitability reduction is common in patients with pain.
      Therefore, diverse therapies are being developed to counteract this cortical excitability
      reduction and obtaining, consequently, effective pain relief. In consonance with these
      findings, in PD condition, especially in off state, there is also evidence of cortical
      excitability decrease but, to the best of investigators´ knowledge, there are no studies
      targeting cortical excitability to treat pain in PD. Thus, the present study proposes mental
      representation techniques for the treatment of PD-related pain. The mental representation
      techniques included in the protocol will be Action Observation (AO) and Motor Imagery (MI).
      The combination of AO and MI has shown to synergically increase cortical excitability,
      influencing the activation of cortical areas such as M1 and DLPFC. Specifically in PD, AO and
      MI have also demonstrated to produce corticomotor facilitation. In addition, mental
      representation training can produce neurophysiological activity similar to actual exercise
      training, which has shown to decrease the intensity and severity of pain in PD patients. The
      main aim of this study is to conduct an independent parallel randomized controlled trials
      based on AO+MI-BCI targeting changes in 1. validated general and specific PD related pain
      scales and 2. psychophysical measurements of pain modulation mechanisms. The investigators´
      main hypothesis is that AO+MI-BCI will be superior to their respective control placebo
      intervention.
    
  