
    
      The relation between cancer and nutrition has been well established; cancer builds upon
      damage to cellular DNA resulting from carcinogenic environmental factors, in which nutrition
      plays a major role. Many diet and lifestyle factors can influence the development of cancer,
      a disease expected to affect worldwide more than 1 in 3 people. Population studies associate
      a higher intake of cruciferous vegetables with a reduced risk of cancers at several
      locations. In 1977, a study in laboratory animals showed the potential effect of phenylethyl
      isothiocyanate (PEITC) to inhibit carcinogenesis. Recent studies identified several active
      isothiocyanates in watercress extract that may have more significant anticarcinogenic
      activity than PEITC alone. Potential anticarcinogenic mechanisms include: preventing
      carcinogen activation by inhibiting phase I enzymes such as cytochrome P450s, by increasing
      cells' resistance through detoxification/antioxidant enzymes; e.g. phase II enzymes (quinone
      reductase, glutathione S-transferases, UDP glucuronosyltransferases);, by inhibiting cell
      cycle progression and/or by inducing apoptosis.

      Several watercress components have antigenotoxic effects in vitro resulting in reduced DNA
      damage and have anti-proliferative effects. These components include flavonols such as
      quercetin, hydroxycinnamic acids such as ferulic acid and p-coumaric acid. In HT29 colon
      cancer cells, an extract of watercress juice was associated with inhibition of the three
      stages of carcinogenesis: initiation, proliferation and metastasis. In MDA-MB-23 human breast
      cancer cells, watercress extract inhibited metalloproteinase-9 activity, thus suppressing the
      invasive potential of cancer cells. In breast cancer, epidemiological studies suggest that
      cruciferous vegetables may reduce cancer incidence. In animal studies, a 9-week PEITC-NAC
      supplemented diet vs a non-supplemented diet was significantly associated with reduction in
      tumour size and weight.

      A recognised mechanism by which PEITC inhibits the growth and survival of established cancer
      cells is through the inhibition of angiogenesis. A study explored the impact of PEITC on a
      specific pathway central to angiogenesis by exposing human MCF7 breast cancer cells to PEITC
      and measuring hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) signaling activity. PEITC was shown as an
      effective inhibitor of HIF activity which may contribute to its anti-angiogenic and
      anti-cancer properties. A follow up to this experiment demonstrated that, similar to PEITC,
      crude watercress extracts inhibited cancer cell growth and HIF activity in vitro. Furthermore
      6 to 8 hours after a significant amount dietary intake of watercress by four healthy
      participants, peripheral blood cells demonstrated significantly reduced HIF signalling
      activity, suggesting that dietary intake of watercress may be sufficient to modulate this
      potential anti-cancer pathway.

      Of further relevance, a blind, randomized crossover study was carried out in 60 healthy
      volunteers instructed to consume one pack (85g) of raw watercress daily for 8 weeks. Compared
      to the control phase, watercress supplementation increased lymphocytes' DNA resistance to
      free radicals, thus reducing DNA damage. The hypothesis set out was that watercress may
      reduce cancer risk via decreased damage to DNA and possible effects on antioxidant status by
      increasing levels of plasma carotenoids.

      These findings are justifiably interesting for the primary care setting and cancer primary
      prevention. Yet, these cellular effects of watercress supplementation may further prove
      useful in the modulation of cancer progression and disease recurrence, a not yet explored
      area. Of note, that the role of nutrition intervention in medium and long term outcomes in
      cancer has been demonstrated. It is today acknowledged as grade A evidence that
      individualized nutritional counseling and education plays a central role in improving
      long-term outcomes in cancer, by prolonging survival, reducing late RT toxicity and improving
      QoL. The present clinical trial of nutritional supplementation in cancer, intends to further
      explore the effects of therapeutic diets supplemented with nutraceuticals via watercress that
      may prove useful in DNA damage modulation, as well as in the global disease prognosis.
    
  