
    
      Adult patients attending the emergency department and diagnosed with acute cholecystitis will
      be asked to participate. Those considered not suitable for surgery will be admitted in a
      medical department and assigned to conservative treatment or cholecystostomy, according to
      their acute cholecystitis severity. In patients suitable for surgery, risk of concomitant
      choledocholithiasis will be assessed and patients will be assigned to low risk or
      intermediate-high risk. The latter will be admitted in a medical department, and
      choledocholithiasis will be ruled out and treated if present. The former will be offered
      cholecystectomy or cholecystostomy according to their surgical risk and acute cholecystitis
      severity. A flowchart with extended information is attached.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

      • To harmonize the management of acute cholecystitis with a multidisciplinary protocol based
      on the most recent guidelines.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        -  To analyze the compliance with this protocol.

        -  To evaluate the validity of the criteria used in the decision-making process.

        -  To assess the morbidity and mortality of different groups of patients according to the
           selected treatment, severity of cholecystitis and baseline characteristics of the
           patient.

        -  To estimate the resource use in each group of patients.

        -  To compare current data with a previous period.

        -  To adapt and modify the protocol according the study results. INCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Patients aged 18 or older who agree to participate (an informed consent signature is
           required)

        -  Patients attended in the emergency department of our hospital and diagnosed with acute
           cholecystitis according to the Tokyo criteria.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Patients under 18 years or patients who refuse to participate in the study

        -  Patients diagnosed with acute cholangitis during admission for other causes.
    
  