
    
      Bimaxillary osteotomy is a surgical procedure in the field of orthognathic surgery (from
      Latin, "ortho" straight and "gnatho" jaw) for the correction of dentofacial deformities, both
      for functional and aesthetic reasons. The incidence of this deformity is estimated to be
      around the 5-10% of the population. Genetic, environmental and embryonic factors are
      postulated to be the origin of such deformity, though its origin is still unknown. The
      surgical technique is complex, with the performance of mandibular and upper jaw osteotomies
      that allow to advance, retrude, impact and rotate these bones, to align the facial axes. For
      all these reasons, the anesthetic management of these patients is a challenge. First, the
      foreseeable difficulty of managing the patient's airway; and second, the control of the
      patient's pain in the perioperative period.

      Therefore, bimaxillary osteotomy is a frequent surgery and potentially painful in adults.
      Bimaxillary surgery under general anesthesia is the common practice. And peripheral
      non-ultrasound-guided peripheral nerve blocks are widely used by surgeons. These minor
      blockades are used to avoid the undesired effects of anesthetics and analgesics; mainly the
      adverse respiratory effects of opioids. The practice of loco-regional anesthesia provides a
      control of perioperative pain in a multimodal way showing effective postoperative analgesia
      and minimizing the respiratory depression caused by the excess use of opioids.

      In general, during bimaxillary surgery the surgeon performs the infiltrations with local
      anesthetic (LA) in a pre-incisional manner for the blockade of the terminal branches of the
      maxillary and mandibular nerve intranasally and intraorally. The choice of LA is influenced
      by considerations such as the start of action, duration and toxicity. A wide range of LA has
      been used in maxillofacial surgery, such as lidocaine and ropivacaine among others. Both LA
      produce a reversible blockade of the sodium channel of the neuronal membrane, and are
      synthetic derivatives of cocaine. Both possess three essential functional units (hydrophilic
      tertiary amide chain, linked by an intermediate amide chain, to another lipophilic aromatic
      ring-portion). This means, both LA are amide type; but even if they belong to the same group
      of LA there is still great differences in the beginning of action, duration of action and
      toxicity. Lidocaine has a faster start of action (short latency) than ropivacaine, and has an
      antiarrhythmic effect. Ropivacaine is more potent, the action last longer than lidocaine, has
      vasoconstrictor effect by itself and is less cardiotoxic than other equipotent LA such as
      bupivacaine and levobupivacaine.

      The investigators avoid the use of a combination of LA for maxillary and mandibular nerve
      block. The combination of several local anesthetics in the same nerve block is sometimes used
      in perioperative anesthesia with the intention of compensating the short duration of action
      of some agents whose start of action is fast, such as lidocaine, and the high latency of the
      agents that present a more lasting action, such as ropivacaine. The combination of lidocaine
      and ropivacaine offers clinical advantages (rapid onset, long duration). However, to date,
      indications for combining LA are scarce because of the use of catheters in many forms of
      regional anesthesia that allow to prolong the duration of the block. This is nevertheless not
      an extended practice among anesthesiologists in maxillofacial surgery. On the other hand, it
      is important to also remember avoiding the use of maximum doses of two LA combined, which is
      based on the erroneous belief that their toxicities are independent; on the contrary, the
      toxicities have an additive character.

      Multiple drugs have been used to increase the time of action of LA, such as adrenaline,
      clonidine, dexamethasone, ketamine and dexmedetomidine, among others. In the investigator's
      patients, adrenaline is always administered along with physiological serum pre-incision by
      the surgeon at the local level to improve the surgical field. The use of clonidine is ruled
      out because it is not supplied in the hospital center where the researchers will carry out
      the study. The use of dexamethasone and ketamine is ruled out, because they will be
      administered intravenously in the patient's perioperative period as anti-inflammatory agents
      and anesthetic adjuvant, respectively. And the use of dexmedetomidine is also ruled out in
      order to prolong the effect of the nerve blockade as this indication is not in the technical
      file.

      Thus, the investigators propose to use firstly lidocaine and adrenaline pre-incision
      (antiarrhythmic effect and short duration of action). And secondly, they propose to use
      ropivacaine without adjuvant before extubation (vasoconstrictor effect and longer duration of
      action).

      The control of postoperative pain is a primary factor to achieve greater patient
      satisfaction, better rehabilitation and shorter hospital stay. The current clinical
      guidelines recommend the management of postoperative pain control in a multimodal manner; and
      this includes the use of local anesthetics.
    
  