
    
      What is this about? Prescription for Health (P4H) is a national initiative funded by the
      Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Nine projects have been funded nationally in this second
      round to advance the goals of improving health behavior identification and delivery in
      primary care practice. Each project is conducted through a practice-based research network
      (PBRN). In Michigan, our PBRN is called the Great Lakes Research In Practice Network (GRIN).

      What is the purpose of the CHERL project? In our study, we want to find out if providing a
      Community Health Educator Referral Liaison (CHERL) helps practices help their patients change
      risky behaviors (tobacco use, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet, and risky drinking) by
      connecting patients to available services in the community or directly providing behavior
      change support.

      Primary care providers play a key roll in encouraging patients to choose healthy behaviors.
      However, effective behavior change requires long term follow up and support that may not be
      readily available within the office practice. CHERL can help provide or link to those
      services thus helping the healthy message promoted by the clinician to have a more powerful
      and lasting effect.

      What is the CHERL intervention? With this funding, we will hire and train a CHERL to work
      with practices. The purpose of the CHERL is for him/her to help secure behavior change
      support for your patients either by referring to an available resource within the community
      or directly providing the service. This service is available to patients with or without
      chronic disease diagnoses (i.e, patients with diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, obesity,
      back pain, lung disease, or generally healthy with opportunities to change unhealthy habits).

      Patients are referred to the CHERL and he/she will determine an appropriate next step for
      your patient - either referral to a community program or the CHERL will provide brief
      telephone counseling. The health care provider will receive feedback specifically on each
      patient referred.

      In addition, some practices (consultant-enhanced) will receive additional assistance from the
      CHERL, as he/she serves as a consultant to the practice, helping the practice to identify
      systematic mechanisms for identification and referral of at risk patients to the CHERL.
    
  