
    
      We will perform a clinical trial to test the effectiveness of a community health worker (CHW)
      and primary-care coordinated intervention to provide outreach, education and support to
      diabetes patients and their families. The outcomes at a one-year follow-up will include
      glycosolated hemoglobin (HbA1c), CVD risk factors, diet and exercise behaviors, and adherence
      to diabetes care guidelines. The intervention builds upon best practices to date with CHWs,
      by translating effective strategies to Samoans, an ethnic minority population with no prior
      intervention research, while also extending prior CHW research, by using a model that is
      potentially replicable anywhere that uses outreach strategies in the context of primary care.
      This application builds on the current more limited activities of CHWs at the Tafuna Family
      Health Center (TFHC), a primary care health center established in 1998, operated by the
      American Samoa Government Department of Health, and designated as a community health center
      by the U.S. Bureau of Primary Health Care in 2003.

      We will conduct a randomized controlled trial to test the effectiveness of a CHW outreach
      intervention, compared to usual care (UC) in a wait-list control group. The specific aims
      are:

      A.1. To improve control of diabetes: We hypothesize that the CHW outreach intervention group
      will have greater one-year reductions in glycosolated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels compared to
      the UC group.

      A.2. To improve cardiovascular risk factors: We hypothesize that the CHW outreach
      intervention group will have greater one-year reductions in systolic and diastolic blood
      pressure, BMI, and abdominal circumference compared to the UC Group.

      A.3. To improve diet and physical activity behaviors: We hypothesize that the diabetes
      patients randomized to the CHW intervention will have a greater one-year increase in
      favorable dietary and physical activity behaviors associated with self-management of their
      diabetes compared to the UC group.

      A.4. To improve adherence to processes of diabetes care. The CHW group will have a higher
      percent of diabetes patients with the following American Diabetes Association (ADA) standards
      of care: 1) at least two HBA1c tests in the last year (at least 3 months apart), 2) percent
      of patients with documentation of self-management goals in the past 12 months, 3) percent of
      patients with a dental exam in past year, 4) percent of patients with a dilated eye exam in
      the past year, 5) percent of patients with a documented foot exam in the past year. We
      hypothesize that the CHW intervention will outperform UC on these variables over one year.
    
  