
    
      Design:

      This will be a multicenter (6 centers), prospective, randomized, intervention study. Eligible
      patients will be randomized for percutaneous vertebroplasty or analgesics.

      Study population:Two hundred patients will be included.

      Patient selection:

      Patients will be referred from the GP to the radiology department for acute back pain. The GP
      will order an X-ray of the thoracic and lumbar spine to establish an osteoporotic vertebral
      fracture(s). Subsequently, the hospital radiologist will pick out the cases with vertebral
      fracture(s). Subsequently, the general physician/ geriatrician will confirm the diagnosis of
      'osteoporotic' vertebral fracture, and exclude other causes of vertebral fracture (e.g.
      tumour, major trauma). Finally, the patient and their GP will be asked to participate in our
      study.

      Eligible patients will be randomized for percutaneous vertebroplasty (and pain medication if
      necessary) or only analgesics.

      Procedure:

      The treatment consists of a transpedicular injection of polymethylmethacrylate bone cement
      into the collapsed vertebral body (maximal 2 vertebrae in 1 treatment session) using
      fluoroscopic guidance. The procedure is performed under the use of local anesthetics and the
      patient can be discharged the same day or after 1 night of hospital stay.

      Conventional treatment (analgesics):

      The internist optimizes the use of analgesics in ascending order: (1) Paracetamol, (2)
      Tramadol, (3) Tramadol and Paracetamol, (4) Morphine.

      All patients receive osteoporosis medication.

      Outcome parameters:

      The primary outcome for the clinical study as well as the economic evaluation will be
      adequate relief of pain. Pain intensity will be measured by means of a visual analogue scale
      (VAS). Relief of up to 3,0 to 4,4 scale points (scale 0-10) is associated with a clinically
      relevant pain reduction (Beurskens et al 1995). The main goal of the economic evaluation is
      to assess the balance between costs and effects of percutaneous vertebroplasty and pain
      medication as compared to usual care (analgesics, physiotherapy, visits to general
      practitioner) after 4 weeks and after 1 year.

      The clinical research objectives are to compare the effects (1 day,1 week, 1 month, 3 months,
      6 months,12 months and 24 months) of vertebroplasty with conventional therapy on a) back
      pain, b) activities of daily living (ADL), c) mood, d) general health and e) quality of life
      in patients with painful osteoporotic vertebral fractures. Other objectives are to study the
      1 and 2-year incidence of recurrent fractures, especially adjacent to treated levels of

      Measurements:

      a), b), c), d) and e) are measured by using the visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain
      intensity, the Roland Disability Questionnaire (RDQ) for functional status, while, the EQ6D
      and the Qualeffo-41 focus on quality of life, mood and general health. Data will be collected
      about units of resource utilization with an explicit clause asking whether it can be related
      to the vertebral fracture.

      (New) osteoporotic vertebral fractures are assessed at baseline by conventional radiography
      and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. The incidence of recurrent fractures will be determined
      by conventional X-rays at 1,3,12 and 24 months.

      Economic evaluation:

      The goal of the economic evaluation is to assess the balance between costs and effects of
      vertebroplasty as compared to usual care.

      We will initially perform a cost-effectiveness analysis with a one month time horizon. Given
      immediate pain relief in a majority after vertebroplasty, already a cost-effectiveness ratio
      can be calculated.

      Estimates of other relevant outcomes such as costs and quality of life will also be entered
      in the model to allow a full economic evaluation. We will estimate incremental costs per
      additional year freed of pain of immediate vertebroplasty as compared to vertebroplasty after
      one month and (synthetic scenario of) care as usual. As the latter does involve extrapolation
      using estimates not actually observed in the trial we can not use bootstrap simulation to
      assess uncertainty. Accordingly, multivariate probabilistic sensitivity analysis (Monte carlo
      simulations) will be used to evaluate uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness ratios. As we
      will take into account a time horizon up till one year costs nor effects will be discounted.
      Finally, a cost-utility analysis is foreseen based on utility scores obtained over the first
      month of observation after randomization.

      The direct medical costs will be estimated from a societal perspective. This implies that
      resource use such as GP visits, analgesics, physiotherapy and consultation of orthopedic
      surgeons or general physicians will be recorded in the CRF and in patient diaries. In
      parallel, actual costs of the resources, i.e., unit costs, will be estimated. The majority
      will be based on the estimates gathered in the Dutch guidelines for economic evaluation
      published by CVZ. Subsequently, multiplication of units costs with resource use will yield
      cost estimates on an individual patient level. With regard to costs due to losses in
      productivity we pose that the majority of patients does not have a paid job. Time spent by
      spouses, family and friends taking over certain household activities or other unpaid
      activities will be accounted for using shadow prices.

      The primary outcome for the economic evaluation will be adequate relief of pain. Pain will be
      measured by means of a visual analogue scale (VAS). Relief of up to 3,0 to 4,4 scale points
      is considered adequate. Time until this outcome is attained will explicitly be accounted for
      in the economic evaluation.

      In addition to pain, health related quality of life will be measured. Subsequent summation
      over the period of follow up will yield overall QALYs up to a year for each arm of the trial.

      In the cost effectiveness analysis we will take care of the differences in the Belgium and
      Dutch healthcare system.

      Statistical analyzes All analyzes will be performed on an intention to treat principle. In
      addition, analyzes will on the different outcomes will be compared between the two groups
      with the Student's t-test for continuous normally distributed variables, with the
      Mann-Whitney test for variables that are not normally distributed and with the chi² test for
      categorical variables. In addition, subgroups (e.g. long/shot duration of complaints) will be
      examined in which vertebroplasty has a more (or less) pronounced effect by introducing
      interaction terms in linear regression models with change in pain and quality of life as
      outcome variables.

      The one-year cumulative incidence of new fractures adjacent to the treated/old fracture
      levels will be compared between patients who were treated with vertebroplasty and those who
      were not with Cox-proportional hazards analyzes, adjusting for confounders.

      Power calculations:

      The planned number of subjects will be 200 in total, 100 in each intervention arm. This
      number is based on conventional assumptions of alfa=0.05 and ß=0.20, withdrawal from
      intervention of 20%. Based on pilot data and literature we expect a difference of 25% in
      significant pain relief. If we assume that 20% withdraws from intervention we need
      approximately 100 patients in each group.

      Time schedule:

      The total study will take 36 months.

      Recruitment of patients (200) has been completed. In May 2009 the 1 year follow-up will be
      finished.
    
  