
    
      Aim 1: Conduct a single site randomized controlled feasibility trial of a decisional support
      intervention to reduce ADRLLS by improving providers' adherence to GID prevention measures.
      Approximately 20 primary care providers (caring for approximately 100 veterans on chronic
      steroids who have not been screened for diabetes in the last year) will be randomly assigned
      to receive decisional support for GID prevention measures (automatically-derived orders for
      hemoglobin A1C, to be co-signed by providers). These providers will be compared with 20
      providers (caring for 100 veterans not screened for diabetes in the last year) who are
      randomly assigned to not receive decisional support for management of GID (i.e. the control
      group). The trial will be conducted at the VA's Eastern Colorado Health Care System (ECHCS)
      and will last approximately 6 months. Study administration will be coordinated through the
      Colorado Research Award Enhancement Program (Colorado REAP).

      Aim 1a) Procedural Endpoints: As a feasibility trial, this study includes multiple procedural
      endpoints, such as provider participation rates, to assess the viability of the intervention,
      rather than a single primary efficacy outcome measure (for details, pages 6-7).

      Aim 1b) Preliminary Estimates of Efficacy: We will determine the Delay Interval-the number of
      days from when a provider is randomized until the provider orders the GID prevention measure.
      Use of this continuous measure will maximize the power of this feasibility study, though we
      will also determine proportions of patients for whom these measures were ordered at six
      months, so that we may estimate the sample size for a subsequent multi-center randomized
      control trial.

      Aim 1c) Post-trial de-briefing: Using structured interviews, we will examine the opinions of
      providers after they have participated in the GID feasibility trial, in order to gather
      additional qualitative data regarding the ADRLL framework and refine the intervention for a
      subsequent randomized controlled trial. Providers will also complete a brief survey assessing
      their preference for the intervention.
    
  