
    
      A multicentre randomised clinical trial where three tertiary referral hospitals recruit
      patients.

      Patients and their parents receive information about the study at their paediatric clinic and
      at the trial web page (www.amos2.se). Standardised procedure, including signed informed
      consent.

      Interventions

      At the end of day of baseline examination patients are randomised to either of two arms:

        -  Bariatric surgery with regular follow up

        -  Optimised conservative treatment starting with an 8-week Low Calorie Diet period
           followed by tailored support and treatment by the multidisciplinary team with an
           intensity of at least one visits a month over at least 2 years

      Patients in the conservative arm will be reassessed regarding interest of undergoing
      bariatric surgery two years after inclusion.

      Sample Size A sample size of 50 (25+25) leaves a power of more than 95% to evaluate a
      possible superiority of >10% weight difference between the two groups, assuming a 15%
      standard deviation in weight loss over follow-up at 2.5% significance level.

      This number also allows assessment for differences in cardiovascular risk factors with
      sufficient power and acceptable power for demonstrating differences in quality of life and
      cognitive functions.

      3.6 Randomization The computerized random allocation is performed during the day of baseline
      examination and patients were informed of their assignment. Forty-nine patients have been
      included until May 2017, and the last patient will be operated on June 14th. Stratification
      has been performed according to the recruitment centre

      3.8 Statistical Methods & Additional Analyses Safety & Efficacy Outcomes: Analyses will be by
      intention to treat, including all randomised patients. Difference in treatment effect will be
      evaluated with hazard ratio between the treatment groups, and the corresponding confidence
      interval will be calculated. For secondary outcomes, the incidence of comorbidities during
      follow-up will be evaluated using time-to-event models, and for continuous variables mixed
      models will be used to evaluate differences between the treatment groups.

      Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted by calculating the incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER; dividing the between-group difference in costs with the
      between-group difference in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) as well as life-years).
      Probabilistic sensitivity analysis will be conducted and results presented in an ICER
      scatterplot and cost-effectiveness acceptability curve.

      Follow-Up Clinical Data Collection: Study point are 6 weeks, 1 year, 2 years, and 7 years
      after the start of intervention. Weight, quality of life, and adverse events, as well as
      clinical data regarding treatments for co-morbidities. Blood sampling for assessment of
      nutritional deficiencies, glucose control, blood lipids and inflammation will be collected at
      baseline and 1, 2 and 7 years.

      Cognitive functions: Assessments will be performed at baseline and 1 and 2 years after start
      of intervention.

      Register-Based Data Collection and Health-Economic Outcomes: Collection and analysis of
      Swedish national health care and other official registries
    
  