
    
      This study seeks to answer three important questions about the role of ovine (sheep-derived)
      antivenom in the treatment of people bitten by copperhead snakes (Agkistrodon contortrix):

        1. Although ovine antivenom has been approved by the FDA for treatment of copperhead
           envenomation, copperhead victims were excluded from the previous clinical trials. Animal
           experiments and retrospective human data suggest that the antivenom probably does work
           for copperhead snakebite, at least in the short term. This study will determine whether
           the antivenom is actually effective in reducing pain, swelling, and other immediate
           effects of copperhead snakebite.

        2. Deaths from copperhead snakebite are extremely rare, but survivors often report long
           term problems with pain and swelling in the envenomated limb. No study has formally
           measured the long-term outcomes in untreated snakebite, nor whether antivenom has any
           benefit in reducing the duration or severity of these complications. This study will
           answer this question through formal assessments of limb function up to 12 months after
           treatment.

        3. After initial control of the signs and symptoms of snakebite is achieved with antivenom
           therapy, some patients develop recurrent swelling or blood clotting problems. A
           randomized controlled trial in rattlesnake victims showed that the frequency of these
           problems is reduced by administration of 6 additional vials of antivenom over 18 hours
           ("maintenance therapy"). However, blood clotting problems are uncommon in copperhead
           snakebite even without antivenom treatment, and a retrospective trial suggested that
           maintenance therapy may have no effect on the frequency of delayed swelling in
           copperhead victims. In the typical copperhead victim, maintenance therapy increases the
           cost of treatment by more than 100%. This study will determine whether maintenance
           therapy is necessary in mild to moderate copperhead snakebite.

      Patients are eligible for enrollment if they have been bitten by a snake positively
      identified as a copperhead within 6 hours of enrollment, if they have signs of mild or
      moderate severity envenomation, and if contraindications are not present.

      After appropriate informed consent, patients are randomized to receive:

      A. initial stabilizing dose of antivenom, followed by maintenance therapy,

      B. initial stabilizing dose of antivenom followed by placebo in lieu of maintenance therapy,
      or

      C. placebo for both initial dose and maintenance.

      All laboratory testing, pain medication, hospitalization, and other therapies are standard
      for snakebite of this severity. If at any time the envenomation becomes severe, antivenom is
      administered.

      In addition to the standard assessments performed on all snakebite victims (swelling, pain,
      vital signs, blood clotting, complications of therapy), patients in this study receive formal
      assessments of the function of the envenomated limb. This assessment uses the AMA disability
      rating system and the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons' Normative Outcomes Study
      questionnaire do determine how well the limbs function and how well the limbs perform and how
      much any remaining problems interfere with the patients' long-term happiness and ability to
      perform common activities of daily living.
    
  