
    
      The primary aim of this investigator-blinded, randomized, controlled trial (RCT) will be to
      compare the efficacy, tolerability and acceptability of two PMC dosing regimen (standard
      regimen vs split-dose regimen).

      The secondary aims are the following:

        -  evaluation of adverse events;

        -  assessment of symptoms associated to colonic lavage solutions;

        -  monitoring the ease of taking the preparation;

        -  identification of patients' willingness to repeat the procedure;

        -  evaluation of the amount of preparation voluntarily taken by patients.

      Endpoints

      Primary end-points will be the overall colon cleansing defined as the rate of "successful"
      cleansing (excellent and good scores in the BBPS, i.e. ≥ 6 points) of the two preparation
      regimen.

      Secondary end-points will include: 1) the rate of adverse events, 2) the rate of specific

      symptoms associated to colonic lavage solutions, 3) the rate of children who declared that
      the intake of the solution was easy, 4) the rate of children who declared that they would be
      willing to repeat the same preparation regimen if needed, 5) the rate of children taking an
      amount of solution ≥ 75%.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS

      Study design

      This will be a multicenter, randomized, non-pharmacological, observer-blind, parallel group
      study conducted in Italy.

      The study is considered non-pharmacological because we'll use the standard dose administered
      with two different timing (assumption of the whole preparation on the day prior to
      investigative procedure vs assumption of the first half of oral doses the day before
      colonoscopy and the second one on the morning of the day of colonoscopy).

      The patients enrolled will be randomized in one of the two arms that provide the following
      treatment:

      Group A: they will receive PCM standard-dose which provides for the assumption of whole dose
      of preparation on the day prior to investigative procedure; Group B: they will receive PCM
      split-dose administered the previous day and in the morning of the day of colonoscopy.

      Study period

      The total duration of this study is expected to be 18 months from the approval of the ethical
      committee assuming an expected enrollment duration of 16 months.

      Adverse events will be assessed on the day of colonoscopy by direct questioning and by
      telephone interview 48-96 hours after colonoscopy.

      Participants

      Eligible participants will be all consecutive children aged 2-18 years undergoing elective
      colonoscopy in the involved institutions with informed consent signed by the parent/
      guardian. Exclusion criteria are: 1) requirement for urgent colonoscopy, 2) bowel
      obstruction, 3) known or suspected hypersensitivity to the active or other ingredients, 4)
      clinically significant electrolyte imbalance, 5) prior intestinal resection, 6) known
      metabolic, renal and cardiac disease.

      Written assent from young patients and informed consent from the legal guardian and patients
      over fourteen years will be obtained

      Interventions

      Group A (PMC standard-dose): patients will receive two oral doses of sodium picosulphate plus
      magnesium oxide and citric acid (Picoprep), each diluted in 150 ml of water, at 17:00 and 4
      hours later in the evening prior to the colonoscopy (¼ sachet for children < 6 years, ½
      sachet for children 6-12 years, and one sachet for children >12 years). Intake of at least
      40-50 ml/kg (maximum 2 L) of clear fluids (cold tea, gatorade etc..) will be recommended
      after each dose. The age-adjusted dosage is dictated by the instructions of the manufacturing
      company. No solid food intake will be allowed during the 24 hours prior to the examination
      according to the instructions of the manufacturing company.

      Group B (PMC split-dose): patients will receive the first oral doses of PMC diluted in 150 ml
      of water (Picoprep; Ferring Italia, Milan, Italy) at 19:00 of the day before colonoscopy and
      the second one at 06:00 hours on the morning of the day of colonoscopy (¼ sachet for

      children < 6 years, ½ sachet for children 6-12 years, and one sachet for children >12 years).
      Intake of at least 40-50 ml/kg (maximum 2 L) of clear fluids (cold tea, gatorade etc..) will
      be recommended after each dose. The age-adjusted dosage is dictated by the instructions of
      the manufacturing company. No solid food intake will be allowed during the 24 hours prior to
      the examination according to the instructions of the manufacturing company.

      In both groups a nasogastric tube will be inserted if the child failed to drink the
      prescribed amount of cleanout preparation within the first hour.

      The preparations will be dispensed by a nurse who carefully explained how the products should
      be taken, emphasising the importance of complete intake of the solution to ensure a safe and
      effective procedure. Moreover, each patient will be provided with dietary instructions: low
      residue diet for 3 days before colonoscopy. During and after bowel preparation, solid food
      will not be allowed. Clear liquid could be taken until 2 hours before the procedure. All
      colonoscopy will be performed between 11:00 and 15:00 by two endoscopists.

      Evaluation of bowel preparations

      Efficacy. Preparation efficacy will be evaluated by the blinded endoscopist according to the
      Boston Bowel Preparation scale (BBPS) (14) consisting of four-point scoring system applied to
      each of the three broad regions of the colon: right colon, transverse colon, and left colon
      In addition, overall cleansing of the colon will be scored by summing up the scores of each
      segment. For the study, the total score ranging from 0 to 9 will be divided into four
      different classes: excellent cleansing (total score 8-9), good cleansing (total score 6-7),
      poor cleansing (total score 4-5) and inadequate cleansing (total score 0-3). For the primary
      efficacy variable, excellent and good cleansing will be considered as "successful" and poor
      or inadequate as "failure".

      According with a normal clinical practice, all examinations will be performed with a
      pediatric colonoscope under general anesthesia.

      Safety. Vital signs, complete physical examination and routine blood tests will be performed
      at the time of patient enrolment and on the day of colonoscopy and included liver and kidney
      function test, potassium, magnesium, sodium, chlorides and calcium. Adverse events will be
      assessed on the day of colonoscopy by direct questioning and by telephone interview 48-96
      hours after colonoscopy. All new symptoms will be considered to be treatment related and have
      been included in the analysis. Any symptom that manifested following the treatment (except
      those expected and included in the evaluation of GI- tolerability) and exacerbations of
      preexisting symptoms will be assumed to be related to the bowel preparation regimen.

      Tolerability, acceptability and compliance. On the morning of colonoscopy, immediately before
      the procedure, a nurse questioned each patient about his/her experience by using a
      standardized questionnaire (see below). Patients will be inquired about tolerability, need
      for nasogastric tube placement, acceptability and compliance. The endoscopist will not be
      allowed to take part in the questioning or to supervise the clinical interview before
      colonoscopy.

      Tolerability assessment will be based on the recording of occurrence and severity of GI
      symptoms such as nausea, bloating, abdominal, pain/cramps and anal discomfort. A 5-point
      scale (1 = severely distressing, 2 = distressing, 3 = bothersome, 4 = mild and 5 = none),
      will be used to score the tolerability (10). The need for nasogastric tube insertion will
      also be assessed.

      The easiness of taking or swallowing the solution will be graded according to the following
      scale: very severe distress = 4, severe distress = 3, moderate distress = 2, mild distress =
      1, no distress = 0.

      Willingness to repeat the same type of bowel preparation if necessary will also be evaluated.
      Compliance will be scored on a 3-point scale according to the percentage of drunken solution
      (excellent: intake of the whole solution; good: intake of at least 75% of the solution; poor:
      intake of < 75%).

      Randomization and blinding

      A randomised computer-generated list in blocks of six will be prepared by a biostatistician
      and eligible children were allocated to receive one of the two bowel preparations, stratified
      by three age groups; 2-7 years, 8-13 years and 14-18 years. A clinic nurse will assign
      treatment regimen only after written consent will be obtained by one of the investigators.
      The cleanout regimen will be dispensed directly to the family.

      The study will be observer blind: the endoscopists will not be allowed to perform any
      activities associated with study preparation prior and after colonoscopy and will avoid any
      discussion with the patients and the staff, which could disclose the type of bowel
      preparation.

      Statistical Analysis

      Based on results from previous studies on bowel preparation with PMC on adults patients, a
      success rate of about 75 % was assumed (15) difference in efficacy of 10% (80% in split-dose
      vs. 70% in single dose) between the two groups, with power of study 80%, alpha error 0.05 and
      confidence interval 95% calculated sample size will be 290 patients in each arm.

      For univariate analysis, comparisons between groups will be performed using the Student's t
      test, the chi-squared test, or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. The Mann - Whitney test
      will be used to compare non-paired, nonparametric variables. Multivariate analysis will be
      used for the primary outcome variables, in a logistic step- wise regression model. The
      statistical analysis will be performed using absolute and relative frequency tables and
      contingency

      tables. The statistical significance will be set at p < 0.05. The analysis will be conducted
      using SPSS, release 23.0 version.
    
  