
    
      Like in adults, children with spinal cord injury (SCI) in children suffer from neuromuscular
      paralysis which results in the inability to sit, stand, and walk. Current therapeutic
      interventions, e.g. leg braces, wheelchairs, largely aim to compensate for paralysis based on
      the assumption that damage to the central nervous system is permanent and irreversible.The
      discovery of the "intelligent" spinal cord, known as the central pattern generator (CPG), has
      demonstrated that complex neuronal networks are capable of generating rhythmic and
      coordinated motor patterns and has set forth a major paradigm shift in the investigators
      expectation of the possibility for recovery even with severe SCI. Studies have demonstrated,
      first, that after SCI, the CPG can be "accessed", reactivated, and retrained via sensory
      feedback arising from the muscles and joints during activity-based locomotor training
      (AB-LT). Second, application of epidural and transcutaneous stimulation (TcStim) to the
      spinal cord below the level of lesion can augment the neuromuscular capacity for voluntary
      movement, standing and stepping in adults with chronic motor complete SCI. While neural
      mechanisms for stepping regulation have been demonstrated in adults testing single vs.
      multi-site stimulation, this inherent capacity must be examined in children with SCI.
      Similarly, the addition of stimulation during AB-LT in adults with motor complete SCI has
      resulted in remarkable recovery of over ground walking. The immediate and long-term response
      of such combined therapeutic exposure and subsequent training has yet to be examined in
      children. Children with SCI may not only benefit from these novel therapeutic approaches but
      also demonstrate greater improvements in neuromuscular recovery due to inherent plasticity.
      The investigators' preliminary work has demonstrated the safety and feasibility of TcStim in
      children with SCI. Therefore, the specific aims of this proposal are to 1) investigate the
      spinal mechanisms for regulation of locomotor circuitry in children with SCI using TcStim, 2)
      assess whether the combination of task-specific AB-LT and TcStim can acutely potentiate lower
      limb muscle activity during facilitated stepping, and 3) assess training effects of TcStim
      combined with AB-LT to promote stepping capacity in non-ambulatory children with SCI.

      For this pilot study 8 participants, ages 4-12 years with chronic, acquired SCI, T10 and
      above and non-ambulatory will be recruited.

      For Aim 1, n=8, TcStim will be used to stimulate a single or multi site spinal levels to
      produce stepping/locomotor activity in lower limbs. Knee, hip, ankle kinematics and
      electromyography (EMG) of the lower limb muscles in response to stimulation will be recorded
      during the experiments. The investigators will determine the stimulation parameters that
      produce rhythmic movements with the greatest increase in lower limb joint excursions as well
      as EMG amplitude.

      For Aim 2, n=8, TcStim will be delivered while participants attempt to take a step overground
      and while stepping on a computerized treadmill with an overhead partial body weight support
      (BWS) system. The participants will be stepped at age-appropriate speeds and BWS optimizing
      the stepping kinematics. The speed and the amount of body weight support provided during the
      assessment as well as full body kinematics and EMG signals from trunk and lower limb muscles
      will be recorded during facilitated stepping with and without TcStim.

      For Aim 3, n=6, participants will receive 60 sessions of AB-LT+Tcstim. Ability to initiate
      and complete a step overground with and without stimulation along with full body kinematics
      and electromyographic (EMG) signals from trunk and lower limb muscles will be recorded at
      baseline, 20, 40, and 60 sessions of the combined therapy of AB-LT plus TcStim.
    
  