
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, phase II, open-label study of two reduced busulfan dose
      levels in newborns identified at birth with SCID of appropriate genotype/phenotype and
      clinical status, undergoing either haploidentical related or well-matched unrelated donor
      TCRαβ+/CD19+ depleted HCT. Subjects will be enrolled on either of 2 strata according to
      genotype (defects of cytokine receptor function i.e. IL2RG or JAK3 and defects of receptor
      recombination i.e. RAG1 or RAG2). Thus up to 32 subjects on each of 2 strata or 64 subjects
      total would be enrolled over 4 years with 3 years follow-up.

      Patients with IL2RG/JAK3 would be randomized to receive busulfan targeted either to
      cumulative exposure of 25-35 mg*h/L or 55-65 mg*h/L with Thymoglobulin. Patients with RAG1/2
      would be randomized to receive busulfan targeted to cumulative exposure of 25-35 mg*h/L or
      55-65 mg*h/L, in conjunction with fludarabine, thiotepa and Thymoglobulin. Safety/feasibility
      of the novel TCR αβ+/CD19+ depleted allogeneic HCT strategy will be monitored on an ongoing
      basis using stopping rules for lack of neutrophil engraftment and other important short-term
      toxicities.

      Donor selection would be determined clinically at the discretion of the treating clinicians
      at each site. Pharmacokinetic monitoring of busulfan exposure will be performed per local
      practices at CLIA-certified laboratories. Patients will receive busulfan and pharmacokinetic
      measurement to individualize dosing. Time-concentration data of the initial dose and
      subsequent doses will be reviewed centrally (Dr. Janel Long-Boyle) using a cloud-based
      application (InsightRx) to guide dose adjustment in real-time (Long-Boyle, Chan, Keizer,
      2017, ASBMT Tandem abstract accepted). Clinical and laboratory data will be collected at
      defined time points over 3 years and entered in an electronic data capture system using
      study-specific case report forms. These data will be used to measure the outcomes including
      the primary outcome (cAUC of busulfan that promotes humoral immune reconstitution at 2 years
      post HCT with acceptable regimen-related toxicity at 42 days post HCT) and secondary outcomes
      (the quality of donor cell engraftment and immune function achieved in B and T cell
      compartments and survival). Mechanistic studies supporting the exploratory endpoints will be
      conducted centrally in designated laboratories.
    
  