
    
      Objective The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether patients post PCI receiving
      clopidogrel who are carriers of at least one CYP 2C19 loss-of-function allele may achieve
      improved pharmacodynamic efficacy of clopidogrel when treated with the CYP 2C19 enzyme
      inducing agent, St. John's wort, as compared with placebo.

      Specific Aims

        1. To identify the difference in platelet reactivity in patients receiving St. John's wort
           or placebo

        2. To characterize the difference in platelet inhibition in patients receiving St. John's
           wort or placebo

      Hypothesis

        1. Reduced platelet reactivity is present in patients receiving St. John's wort as compared
           to placebo when utilized in combination with clopidogrel

        2. The combination or St. John's wort and clopidogrel results in enhanced platelet
           inhibition

      Study Design The study is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      cross-over study of patients post PCI who require dual-antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and
      clopidogrel. Approximately 84 patients will be enrolled and undergo pharmacogenetic testing
      to assess clopidogrel responsiveness utilizing CYP P450 2C19 genotyping (Plavitest®). Based
      upon an assumption of 30% genetic non-responsiveness and a dropout rate of 20%, to achieve a
      final sample size of 20 subjects in the randomized crossover portion of the study, the
      investigators need to enroll approximately 84 subjects. Patients identified as carriers of at
      least one CYP 2C19 loss-of-function allele (i.e. clopidogrel reduced-metabolizers) will
      remain in the study and be randomly assigned to receive placebo or St. John's wort. Patients
      not carrying a CYP 2C19 loss-of-function allele (i.e. clopidogrel normal metabolizers) will
      not require any further follow-up as these patients are considered to display a normal
      response to clopidogrel. On day 7 following the initiation of the study drug, platelet
      function testing will be performed. Following a 7 day washout period, patients will be
      crossed over into the other study group to receive 7 days of study medication. On day 21, the
      patients will undergo platelet function testing and the study medication will be
      discontinued.
    
  