
    
      Impaired gait and balance (referred to as impaired postural stability) is one of the most
      significant causes and consequences of falls. Persons with osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee
      represent one of the largest patient populations with impaired postural stability.
      Specifically, knee OA has been shown to reduce walking speed, shorten stride length and
      prolong the stance phase of the gait cycle. Patients with knee OA also have less range of
      motion of the hip, knee and ankle joints. Functional Exercise Training (FET) has been shown
      to improve gait and balance, and decrease falls and associated fall-related injuries in the
      general elderly populations. While traditional exercise programs have not been well-tolerated
      in persons with knee OA (due to pain), we are interested in whether a tailored FET
      intervention would be effective in this patient population. Immediate Objectives: O1:
      Characterize the etiology and mechanisms of postural instability in persons with knee OA; O2:
      Refine the clinical protocol for FET in veterans with knee OA; O3: Refine the sampling plan;
      O4: Refine the data collection protocol. This 1-year feasibility study uses a prospective
      cohort design, including data collection at baseline and three points post intervention (10
      weeks {end of intervention}, 15 weeks, and 20 weeks). Subjects with knee osteoarthritis are
      enrolled. Inclusion Criteria: Age 60 and older; Corrected vision not worse than 20/50;
      Ability to ambulate household distances without an assistive device - minimum functional
      status for ambulation as primary mode of mobility; presence of knee OA based on clinical and
      radiological criteria. Sample size: 36 subjects. Intervention: Participants attend FET class
      twice weekly for 10 weeks. Our primary outcome is a composite measures of postural stability
      (gait and balance) and OA symptoms/physical disability. Secondary outcome measures include
      fall self-efficacy and quality of life. We also collect case histories on postural
      instability and falls as well as data on key mediating variables, including level of
      participation (dose of intervention), body mass index (BMI), analgesic use, tolerance of
      intervention, and number of joints affected by OA. Measurement tools: Balance is measured
      with Sensory Organization Test and Limits of Stability test using Neurocom Smart Balance
      Master and Berg Balance Test; Gait is measured with multiple kinetic and kinematic variables
      using VICON 3-D Motion Analysis System; OA symptoms/physical disability are measured using
      Western Ontario and McMaster University Arthritis Index (WOMAC) Osteoarthritis Index; Fall
      self-efficacy by Modified Fall Self Efficacy Scale; and Quality of life by Short Form 36v
      (SF-36v).
    
  