
    
      This will be an open label, Phase IIa safety study recruiting about 15 patients from at least
      two sites. All patients will have 32P BioSilicon implanted into the pancreatic tumour as a
      single implant, using endoscopic ultrasound. The study will examine the safety of an injected
      activity equivalent to an absorbed dose of 100 Gy (which is considered to be an initial low
      risk radioactivity level), administered intratumourally to patients with pancreatic cancer.
      All patients will receive gemcitabine treatment within 2 weeks prior to or within 3 days of
      implantation. Any dose adjustments to the gemcitabine treatment will be made according to the
      clinical judgement of the oncologist in the team and this will be made in accordance with the
      current approved prescribing receommendations. Implantation of 32P BioSilicon will be
      performed endoscopically by a trained endoscopist and a nuclear medicine physician. The 32P
      BioSilicon will be prepared by a designated personnel licenced to handle radioactive products
      and all radioactive waste will be handled and managed as per the institution's guidelines and
      in compliance with local regulatory requirements. Bremsstrahlung imaging will be performed
      post implantation as a preliminary indication of localisation of the implanted 32P
      BioSiliconTM.

      Assessments will be performed for haematology, biochemistry, CA19-9 marker, performance
      status and any adverse event observed or reported will be graded according to the CTCAE. To
      minimise inter-observer variation, the patient should be assessed by the same investigator
      throughout the study. Tumour assessment and tumour volume calculation will be performed by
      designated radiologists who are independent of the study. To standardise, the CT scans will
      be performed according to an agreed scanning protocol and the images will be captured in a
      DICOM format at site for assessment by the independent radiologist. Tumour response will be
      evaluated only for target tumours using RECIST.

      Pain assessment using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) pain score will be recorded by the
      patient.

      Patients who have clinically and/or radiologically stable or responding disease have the
      option to continue gemcitabine, at the discretion of the investigator. Following
      discontinuation from the study, patients will be followed up for progression-free, and
      overall survival.

      A Data Monitoring Committee will review the study data at regular teleconference throughout
      the study.
    
  