
    
      1. Background of the Study: Genomic Nursing Care is highly in demand and highly important
           in the healthcare delivery service, however, there are research gaps of integrating this
           new approach in nursing education research and clinical practice. Genomic data, sequence
           data and the like nowadays are quite large transforming the way we provide care to our
           clients. Nurses are in a unique position to assist with the integration of
           genetics-genomics into everyday practice. The delivery of a world-leading genomic
           medicine service will not be possible without the work carried out by nurses across the
           healthcare service. However, is the nursing workforce ready for this new transformation
           in healthcare approach? Is the next generation of nurses prepared for delivering
           genome-based healthcare? What can we do and how we can prepare the future of nursing
           workforce?

           Current evidence shows some of the major challenges like ensuring that nurses have
           adequate training and support in learning about genetics-genomics concepts. The lack of
           adequate preparation of nurses to incorporate and utilize the recent advances in genomic
           healthcare. There are disparities in integrating genomic concepts in the nursing
           curriculum and general confusion, widespread lack of knowledge, and shared
           misconceptions about foundational genetic-genomic concepts.

        2. Problem Statement/ Aims: The aim of this research project is to develop a Web-based
           Genomic Nursing Education Intervention and investigate its effectiveness in increasing
           the level of knowledge of undergraduate nursing students in genetics-genomics
           fundamental concepts.

        3. Methods: Randomized controlled trial, cross-over design of two-group pretest and
           repeated posttest is proposed. Based on G*Power calculation, 200 undergraduate nursing
           students will be needed as sample size. With the help of the University statistician, he
           double checked it using R -program in calculating the required sample size and shows the
           same result as the G*Power solution. The research material will be collected from
           Finland and the Philippines.

           CURRENT STAGE The University of Eastern Finland Committee on Research Ethics has given a
           supporting statement for the proposed research - STATEMENT 21/2018 date 16th October
           2018. Research permissions has been secured from the universities and institutions who
           will be participating in this research study. I have already a great international
           network in my research like collaborators from experts in the field of genomics/genetics
           nursing in USA, New Zealand, Philippines, Czech Republic, and Finland.

           The Finnish translation of the research material is done with the help of language
           experts. Evaluation and validation of the two Finnish versions of Genomic Nursing
           Concept Inventory (GNCI) is currently undergoing using the Mandysova's decision tree
           algorithm for translation and linguistic validation of instruments. Drafting of the
           contents of Web-based Genomic Nursing Education Intervention in collaboration with USA
           and New Zealand co-investigators is ongoing.

           Research Tool A valid and reliable 31-item scale Genomic Nursing Concept Inventory
           (GNCI) beta-revised version will be utilized to measure the level of knowledge and
           understanding of undergraduate nursing students in nursing genetic-genomic concepts.
           Research tool was obtained from partners in the United States, translated to Finnish and
           will be back-translated. Pilot testing will be conducted in Finland on
           September-December 2019. In Philippines, English version will be used and data
           collection will be conducted September-December 2019. Furthermore, the feedback of the
           participants with their experiences in using the web-based genomic nursing education
           intervention will be collected using a survey questionnaire. Data will be collected
           electronically using the University of Eastern Finland electronic data collection
           platform during the period of September 2019- September 2020. IBM SPSS Statistics
           Version 21 will be used to analyze the descriptive and inferential statistics.

        4. Research Design: At Period 1, research participants will be randomly assigned into two
           groups. Group 1 will receive the Genetics Education Program for Nurses (GEPN) which is
           available online for more than 20 years. Group 2 will receive the Web-based Genomic
           Nursing Education which will be designed by the research team based on the results of
           Pre-test Genomic Nursing Concept Inventory (GNCI). After 4 weeks, post-test of Genomic
           Nursing Concept Inventory (GNCI) will be implemented and wash out period to deal with
           the carryover effect or the effect of the treatment from the previous time period on the
           response at the current time period which can cause bias the interpretation of data
           analysis. At period 2 is the cross-over. Then another post-test of Genomic Nursing
           Concept Inventory (GNCI) for evaluation. Single Blind technique will be use, this means,
           research participants are not aware which educational intervention group they belong.

        5. Research Impact: Web-based Genomic Nursing Education Intervention for undergraduate
           nursing students may be an effective way to prepare future nurses with genetic-genomics
           nursing competencies. The outcome of this research can be utilized globally for
           educating undergraduate nursing students. The web-based intervention can be included in
           the nursing curriculum and/ or the course and/or syllabus content of different
           countries. Preparing future nurses in genetic-genomic competencies is the fundamental
           step for clinical application.

        6. Funding plan/ resources: This project is planned for 4 years and will require the salary
           of the researcher (via University of Eastern Finland fund). Technical support from
           university services include statistical services, IT services, open access and language
           editing services. The research team comprises of interdisciplinary experts in the field
           of genetics/genomics nursing.

        7. Relevance: This research project may help shape the future of the nursing profession in
           career development by preparing future nurses to emerging advance technologies in
           genetics-genomics.

        8. Supervision team/collaborators:

      Supervision: Katri Vehviläinen-Julkunen, Project Leader, Main Supervisor,University of
      Eastern Finland Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Nursing Science;
      katri.vehvilainenjulkunen@uef.fi; Carsten Carlberg, PhD, Professor of Biochemistry,
      University of Eastern Finland, School of Medicine, Institute of Biomedicine,
      carsten.carlberg@uef.fi

      Collaborators: Dr. Linda Ward (expert in nursing genomics and genetics, Clemson University,
      USA); Dr. Bobbi Laing (expert in nutrigenomics, University of Auckland, New Zealand); Dr.
      Anecita Gigi Lim (expert in pharmacogenetics, University of Auckland, New Zealand); Prof.
      Erlinda Palaganas (nurse scientist, University of the Philippines, Philippines); Peter James
      Abad (Genetic Counsellor, University of the Philippines, Philippines); Ofelia Valdehueza
      (nursing expert, Don Mariano Marcos Memorial State University, Philippines); Marjo Palovaara
      (nursing expert, Jyväskylä University of Applied Sciences, Finland); Hannele Saunders
      (nursing expert, South-Eastern Finland University of Applied Sciences, Finland); Petra
      Mandysova (nursing expert, University of Pardubice, , Czech Republic); Matti Estola
      (Statistician, University of Eastern Finland)
    
  