
    
      The overarching goal of this research project is to revise and enhance a multimedia
      computer-based multiple risk factor intervention for cancer prevention, using the internet to
      reach a general population. Two innovative, individualized, easily disseminated, low-cost,
      and interactive interventions, both for multiple behaviors (sun protection and exercise
      adoption), will be developed and evaluated in comparison to a control condition. The first
      intervention involves adapting our effective multimedia expert system interventions to the
      internet environment. The second intervention builds on the first with the additional
      inclusion of a Relational Agent, a recently developed computer-based approach to establishing
      a personal relationship typically missing on internet sites. Both systems will employ the
      same theoretical model of behavior change, the Transtheoretical Model, as the deep knowledge,
      and all systems will employ empirically based decision rules. The design is a 3 Group
      (Control, Internet, Internet plus Relational Agent) x 3 Occasions (0, 12, 24 • Months) with
      intervention occurring during the first 12 months. A representative national sample of 1639
      individuals at risk for both behaviors will be recruited. The primary aims are: (1) To
      develop and assess the effectiveness of a tailored internet intervention on a national
      sample; (2) To develop and assess the effectiveness of the internet intervention enhanced by
      a relational agent; and (3) To determine if the intervention with the relational agent can
      outperform the regular tailored internet intervention. The secondary aims are: (1) To
      determine if the two interventions are differentially effective with each behavior and with
      different subgroups, and (2) To determine if the relational agent intervention is utilized
      more often for increasing exercise than for sun protection. This study targets two major risk
      factors for cancer; is designed to treat the behaviors on a population basis, using proactive
      recruitment strategies; intervenes on multiple behaviors simultaneously, thereby producing
      greater impacts for cancer prevention; utilizes one of the most promising approaches to low
      cost population based interventions for health-related behavior change, namely the internet;
      and develops and tests a promising new approach to increasing the utilization and
      effectiveness of internet-based interventions, relational agents.
    
  