
    
      Distal radius fractures are the most common long bone fracture and the incidence appears to
      be increasing worldwide. They have been found to account for approximately 17% of all
      fracture-related emergency department visits. These types of injuries have a bimodal age
      distribution. The first peak represents young patients involved in high energy traumas, and
      the second peak represents elderly patients with lower to moderate energy injuries secondary
      to osteoporosis.Surgical treatment for distal radius fractures varies, as there are numerous
      techniques for fixation. The goals of fixation are anatomic reduction and stability, as this
      has been shown to result in improved chances for functional recovery . The use of volar
      locking plateshas become the standard for treatment of the majority of distal radius
      fractures requiring surgery . However, adequate fixation for high energy comminuted fractures
      with or without metadia-physeal extension remains a major treatment challenge. Severely
      comminuted articular fractures are technically challenging in terms of obtaining an adequate
      reduction and achieving stabilization with a standard periarticular volar plating technique.
      The small fracture fragments are often not able to be stabilized with the screws from the
      volar plate, and the proximally-oriented tension from the forearm musculature acts to pull on
      the carpus causing further collapse of the articular surface. As an alternate to the volar
      plate, these types of injuries have been historically treated with an external fixator with
      or without Kirschner wires. However, it has been reported that highly comminuted distal
      radius fractures are associated with a 52%-63% complication rate when treated with external
      fixation . Therefore, despite poor fixation capabilities withthese
      fracturetypes,thevolarplate remainsthego-to devicefor most surgeons when faced with
      comminuted articular distal radial fractures. In these circumstances, the dorsal distraction
      plate (also called dorsal "bridge" plating technique) can serve as an improved fixation
      technique by allowing comminuted articular fragments to reduce under ligamentotaxis and
      provide a buttress for the dorsal cortex of the distal radius. In addition, a long dorsal
      plate can bridge past metaphyseal comminution, which cannot be so easily addressed with
      standard volar plating . The bridge plate can also be left in place for an extended period of
      time without the risk of the aforementioned complications of prolonged external fixation use
      . Finally, the dorsal distraction plate is technically a much easier operation to perform
      than volar plating for complex articular fractures. Recently, there has been increased use of
      dorsal distraction plating for these types of injuries .
    
  