
    
      Introduction

      Embryo transfer (ET) is the final and critical step in the long pathway of in vitro
      fertilization (IVF) treatment. Implantation is a complex process and, as yet, one not fully
      understood. Aside from the quality of the embryos replaced and the receptivity of the
      endometrium, the embryo transfer procedure itself might impact the implantation process.

      The procedure has changed very little since the first descriptions. Numerous data suggest
      that difficult transfers should be avoided, as they are likely to reduce the chances of
      implantation and subsequent pregnancy rates.

      It has been proposed on the basis of small studies that traumatic embryo transfer can induce
      uterine contractions capable of displacing the embryo or induce unwanted endometrial damage.
      The evidence is unclear, however, as whilst several studies support this concept, others do
      not.

      Free hand embryo transfer with soft catheters under ultrasound guidance is considered the
      best option in transferring embryos. Many retrospective trials have reported higher Pregnancy
      Rates (PR) with soft catheters compared with hard catheters. However in technically difficult
      ET, where difficulties are met in negotiating the cervical os, the use of harder catheters is
      needed. The change from soft to hard catheters in these transfers, along with the difficulty
      of the transfer itself, may account for differences in pregnancy rate.

      On the other hand it is likely that the experience of the clinicians and their confidence
      with the catheter are the main variables involved in this 'artistic' skill.

      On the basis of a large recent RCT, variations in the PR may depend on variations between
      operators and their confidence with different type of catheters.

      The investigators work in a large teaching hospital where many different operators with
      different levels of experience perform ET. The rate of difficult ET varies considerably
      between operators (between 15% and 42%, median 30%) although the overall PR does not vary
      significantly. With this study the investigators would like to point out whether or not there
      is a catheter that is able to significantly reduce the difficult transfer rate. The secondary
      outcome is to assess if one of the catheters is able to sensibly minimize the differences in
      difficult transfer rate between operators.

      Objective

      Assessing differences in terms of difficult embryo-transfer rate among two different type of
      catheter: Cook k-soft-5000 (or K-J-SP-681710 and K-J-SPPE-681710) and Cook K-JETS-551910-S.
      In order to achieve a measurable difference in the ease of use of the two catheters we
      decided to compare the median percentage of 'difficult transfer' for all the operators
      performing the included ETs with the two different catheters. Moreover we aim to study the
      percentage of difficult ET among operators with the two ET catheters in order to highlight if
      different catheters may be associated to different interoperator variability in difficult ET
      rate.

      Materials and Methods 352 consecutive women undergoing frozen/thawed blastocyst transfer will
      be selected for this prospective, randomized controlled trial. The frozen blastocysts result
      from supernumerary embryos or from 'freeze all policy' in patients at high risk of Severe
      Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS).

      The randomization of the single patient to one of the two study branches will be done by the
      nurse or the embryologist just before the procedure.

      Endometrial preparation (modified spontaneous cycle and pharmacological endometrial
      preparation) Modified Spontaneous cycle In patient with regular menses, the endometrial
      thickness and dominant follicle diameter are monitored with transvaginal scan beginning on
      day 8 since period onset. When preovulatory follicle reaches the mean diameter of at least 16
      mm a vial of hCG (human Chorionic Gonadotropin) 5000 IU is administered subcutaneously,
      intravaginal Progesterone is started 2 days later and the blastocyst transfer is scheduled 7
      days after hCG injection.

      Pharmacological Endometrial preparation In patient with irregular menses, endometrial
      preparation with oral or transdermal oestradiol is prescribed and started on day 2 of the
      period. Endometrial thickness and ovarian quiescence are monitored via transvaginal scan
      starting on day 10-12 since the period onset. When endometrial thickness reaches a minimum of
      7,5 mm, intravaginal progesterone is started and blastocyst transfer is performed 5 days
      later.

      Technique of ET On the day of ET, patient will be asked to come with a full bladder. ET will
      be done with patient in lithotomy position. No anesthesia will be used for the procedure.
      Under sterile condition, speculum is inserted to expose cervix, cervix will be cleaned with
      sterile physiologic solution and gently draped.

      The Et procedure itself is standardized as far as possible amongst the participating
      physicians to eliminate bias.

      Description of Transfer technique with the two different catheters.

        -  Catheter Cook K-Jets-551910-S consists of an outer firm and an inner ultrasoft catheter.
           The outer guiding catheter (17 cm long) is slightly stiff, with a preshaped curve and a
           rounded bulb tip to help negotiate the cervical canal. It has a depth marker at 4 cm
           from the tip, which can be pulled back to a second marker at 5 cm. The inner catheter
           (23 cm long) is made of a soft material with a rounded bullet tip. In general, the inner
           catheter does not negotiate the cervical canal directly but rather is introduced into
           the uterine cavity through the outer catheter.

        -  Catheter Cook k-soft-5000 (or K-J-SP-681710 and K-J-SPPE-681710): this catheter system
           consists of an outer firm and inner soft catheter. The outer guiding catheter (15,4 cm
           long) is straight and made of flexible material. The inner catheter (23 cm long) is made
           of a very soft and flexible polyurethan. The inner catheter is introduced directly
           through the cervix.

      Easy transfers are defined as follows:

        -  Cook k-soft-5000 catheter: straight-forward advancing of the preloaded inner catheter
           through the cervix, the internal os and the uterine cavity up to the site of embryo
           release, chosen on the basis of an acceptable Ultrasound vision.

        -  Cook K-JETS-551910-S catheter: straight-forward advancement of the outer catheter
           through the cervix up to the internal os followed by straight-forward advancement of the
           inner loaded catheter from outer catheter tip to the site of embryo release, chosen on
           the basis of acceptable Ultrasound vision.

      Difficult transfers are defined as follow:

        -  Cook k-soft-5000 catheter (or K-J-SP-681710 and K-J-SPPE-681710): advancement of the
           outer sheath, multiple attempts, force, required manipulation, use of a stylet or
           tenaculum, dilatation;

        -  Cook K-JETS-551910-S catheter: required manipulation, multiple attempts, force, the use
           of a stylet or tenaculum, dilatation.

      Pregnancy assessment Clinical pregnancy will be defined as follows: a pregnancy diagnosed by
      ultrasonographic visualization of one or more gestational sacs or definitive clinical signs
      of pregnancy. It includes ectopic pregnancy. Live birth was defined as delivery of a living
      baby after at least 24 weeks of gestation.

      Numerosity The sample size has been calculated on the basis of historical difficult Et rate
      registered in years 2014 and 2015.

      In the period 01/01/2014-31/12/2015 a total of 1014 ET were performed. We calculated a 28 %
      of difficult ET with a 30% median of difficult transfer rate among all operators and the
      number of operators performing the procedure was 22.

      In order to detect a 50 % difference in difficult ET rate (90% power), 352 patients need to
      be enrolled in the study (176 patients per group).

      Data Management The data collected on the ET will be registered in a specific database in
      which each patient will be identified by an identification code.

      Patients enrolled in this trial will have consented in writing that their medical records
      could be used for research purposes, as long as the patients' anonymity was protected and
      confidentiality of the medical record was assured.
    
  