
    
      The purpose of this longitudinal study is to evaluate a developmentally-oriented
      bio-neuropsychological model of adjustment in youth and young adults with spina bifida (SB).
      The theoretical framework for the study is a developmentally-oriented bio-neuropsychosocial
      model of psychological adjustment. Extensive multi-source (i.e., youth, peers, parents,
      teachers, health professionals, and medical chart) and multi-method (i.e., questionnaires,
      interviews, neuropsychological testing, and observational) data are collected across several
      predictor variable domains: (1) biological (i.e., severity of disability, current and past
      health status, pubertal development), (2) neuropsychological (i.e., executive functions and
      attention, language pragmatics and inference making skills, emotion recognition), and (3)
      social (i.e., observed and perceived social behaviors with peers and family). A
      multidimensional perspective on adjustment will is adopted insofar as the following
      constructs are assessed: internalizing symptoms (e.g., depression), externalizing symptoms
      (e.g., aggression), social adjustment, romantic relationship involvement, quality of life and
      functional status, school performance, vocational achievements, autonomy development,
      independent living, medical adherence, and the transition to adult medical care. Within the
      context of this model, several mediation and moderation models are being tested to identify
      underlying mechanisms for associations between variables and to determine whether variables
      within one domain can compensate for deficits in another domain.

      This longitudinal study of youth with SB includes the following innovations: (1) videotaped
      social interactions between youth with SB and their close friends, (2) a comprehensive
      assessment of socially-relevant neuropsychological factors, (3) an extensive multi-respondent
      questionnaire- and interview-based evaluation of the targets' social adjustment, (4) an
      interview-based evaluation of the transition to emerging adulthood, and (5) an oversampling
      of Hispanic families.

      Currently, the investigators are collecting Times 4, 5 and 6 longitudinal data on a cohort of
      140 youth with SB (ages 8-15 at Time 1, ages 10-17 at Time 2, ages 12-19 at Time 3, ages
      14-21 at Time 4, ages 16-23 at Time 5, ages 18-25 at Time 6). Parents and a close friend
      participate when youth participants are under 18 years of age; when participants are 18 years
      and older, they are the sole participator. Data is collected via trained research assistants
      during home visits.

      Because of our efforts to select variables that are modifiable, findings of this study will
      inform interventions designed to address the social difficulties of youth with SB,
      interventions that facilitate young adults' full participation in the milestones of young
      adulthood, and the manuals of care that will be developed by the investigators. Moreover,
      findings will provide policy-relevant information to improve the transition to adult medical
      care for individuals with this debilitating birth defect.
    
  