
    
      Emerging evidence suggests that HIV infection is associated with a 1.5-2-fold higher risk of
      cardiovascular disease. This may be due, in part, to an increase in cardiometabolic risk
      factors related to the toxic effects of HIV medications, immune activation, and chronic
      inflammation. Interventions to prevent cardiovascular disease, accounting for the unique
      medical and psychosocial needs of HIV-infected adults, are needed.

      Exercise has been shown to improve cardiometabolic risk and decrease cardiovascular disease.
      It has further been shown to improve cardiometabolic risk factors in some groups of
      HIV-infected adults in brief and intensely supervised trials. However, how to sustain
      exercise in this population with practical and scalable interventions that can be implemented
      in the home setting (i.e., free-living exercise) is unknown. The purpose of this is to test a
      novel, evidence-based intervention, SystemCHANGE-HIV, which holds promise for improving
      exercise in HIV-infected adults.

      SystemCHANGE-HIV is a new behavior-change program that is based on a systems re-design model,
      in which the individual's daily routines are composed of a set of habits (behaviors) that can
      be changed. The intervention engages participants in a series of self-designed experiments to
      test ways to change their behaviors. The program involves six weekly group sessions to teach
      behavior-changing and exercise-improvement strategies, followed by monthly telephone booster
      sessions to encourage maintenance of beneficial effects. SystemCHANGE has significantly
      improved exercise adherence and cardiovascular risk factors in HIV-uninfected adults. The
      specific aims of our study are to (1) evaluate the 3-month and 6-month effects of
      SystemCHANGE-HIV on the amount and intensity of free-living exercise, and (2) describe the
      impact of SystemCHANGE-HIV on fitness (VO2 max) and cardiometabolic health.

      To accomplish these aims, this is a longitudinal, randomized controlled trial (n=105)
      comparing the effects SystemCHANGE-HIV to those of an attention-control condition. The
      outcomes will be assessed for efficacy using biological and behavioral evaluations including:
      actigraphy, fitness assessments, and clinical laboratory assessments.
    
  