
    
      Central venous lines (CVL) are placed in various in-hospital settings like operation
      theaters, emergency departments, oncology departments, and intensive care units for various
      purposes. Like any invasive procedures, placement of central lines is invariably associated
      with certain risks of inadvertent complications which are often life-threatening which occur
      because of the intricacy of the structures around the vascular access site like pleura,
      arteries, nerves, heart, etc. Measures such as landmark guidance, electrocardiographic
      guidance, fluoroscopy/C-arm-guided, and recently ultrasound image guidance have been in place
      to prevent and/or minimize the occurrence of such complications. Although the incidence of
      such complications have decreased considerably4, the rates have not reached the nadir.

      Failure of confirmation of the correct placement of a CVL can have serious consequences. The
      consequences of an inadvertently misplaced catheter are grave for the patient be it the
      failure to elicit the vasopressor effect, unnecessary delay in starting of caustic substances
      like hypertonic fluids, parenteral nutrition, concentrated agents, etc., these will
      ultimately increase the morbidity and mortality. Thus, it becomes imperative that we confirm
      the accurate placement of CVL before infusing anything through these lines.

      The confirmation of accurate placement of CVL is usually done by performing a post-procedure
      chest x-ray (CXR) which is done at the point of care if possible like in ICU or after
      shifting of patient to a post-operative ward in an operation theater setup. The most
      important constraint in obtaining CXR after CVL placement is the considerable amount of time
      it takes before a film is obtained even in center where there is a dedicated portable CXR for
      that purpose. For CVL placed in the operating theater, it is not always possible to do a
      portable CXR immediately after the procedure and at many times we have to immediately start
      infusion/medications through it even before confirmation of their proper placement. Secondly
      the very well-known problem of radiation hazard is a potential deterrent to the use of CXR
      each time a CVL is placed. When a large volume ICU is compared, the risk of radiation is
      inadvertently extended to all of the patients even though lines are placed in some. The
      hazard of the radiation to the ICU and ED staffs is always a concern considering the
      difficulty they face in escaping the hazard when they are taking care of sick patients.
      Thirdly, it is difficult to obtain an accurate CXR film in critical care unit setups where
      the patient are sometimes unable to hold breaths at inspiration (for the proper x-ray film)
      and the film so obtained may not be reliable enough to read. Fourthly, the overall costs in
      obtaining CXR for each and every single central lines placed will add to the overall
      healthcare costs at a time when the investigators are looking for reasons to cut down on
      health expenses.

      Considering the fact that these lines are placed under ultrasound guidance, the rate of
      inadvertent complications are very few. But subjecting every single individual to an x-ray
      cannot always be justified. Nevertheless, this is not to say that central lines should not be
      confirmed for their proper placement, but certainly there is an imminent need of a simple,
      reliable, and more cost effective alternative to CXR. The very same ultrasound machine at
      point of care can be utilized for this purpose addressing most of the limitations of the CXR.

      With simple, directed teaching it is possible for anyone with basic knowledge in ultrasound
      to do a focused point of care ultrasound to evaluate the accurate placement of CVL. This
      simple approach has several potential benefits. The first one being the saving of precious
      post-procedure time that is lost in obtaining a chest x-ray. The potential radiation hazard
      due to CXR is virtually eliminated. The same ultrasound can also be utilized for scanning the
      thorax to exclude pneumothorax and hemothorax and avoid potential delay in their management.
      If the sensitivity and specificity of ultrasound in accurately delineating the position of
      CVL is comparable to the chest x-ray, then obtaining of chest x-ray for confirmation can
      virtually be eliminated.

      Although, it is possible to see the intravascularly placed CVL by scanning the respective
      vessel and visualizing the acoustic shadow in transverse axis and following the same in
      longitudinal axis, there is a limitation to the extent these lines can be followed to. The
      user who is usually positioned just above the head has access to scan the neck veins and
      follow the vessels until the bony structures like clavicle and ribs limit further
      interpretation unless we are using a transesophageal echocardiography. Thus, experts have
      devised a noble technique of using agitated saline as contrast agent to check the accurate
      location of central line. When performed properly, the contrast agent which is injected
      through the distal most port of central line will create a wave of microbubbles appearing to
      enter the right atrium from superior venacava and the relative time it takes for these
      bubbles to appear help interpret the position of CVL with a relatively high degree of
      sensitivity and specificity. This simple yet effective method is not expected to take a long
      time to perform. However, not all the studies thus performed so far have been consistent in
      obtaining a conclusive evidence of its effectivity and sensitivity. Most of the studies done
      till date have been relatively underpowered by a small sample size to draw a major conclusion
      as to justify the use of ultrasound in detection of CVL placement. This very finding dictates
      the necessity of conducting even more studies in diverse groups of population before a
      concrete conclusion is drawn. Unlike previous studies where the ultrasound was compared as an
      absolute method to completely replace the CXR in confirmation of CVL which still seems to be
      far-fetched idea, the investigators seek to see that ultrasound guided agitated saline method
      of confirmation is not inferior to chest x-ray in confirming or refuting the accurate
      placement of CVL. By this study, the investigators do not at all seek to completely eliminate
      chest x-ray in confirmation of CVL but at least make an interpretation by using appropriate
      tests that ultrasound has the potential to be effective in decreasing the necessity of CXR in
      post-CVL insertion confirmation. The investigators believe that rather than subjecting every
      single person to radiation hazard after CVL, it is justifiable to obtain CXR only in those
      cases where there is confirmatory dilemma with agitated saline. Till date, there are also no
      specific guides to accurately predict the length at which the CVL should be fixed at skin
      before any form of confirmation can be done. The investigators assume that with this study,
      they will be able to better able to tell what is the most appropriate length of CVL fixing
      which can be extended to other patients of similar population group. Also, the investigators
      presume that it is possible to virtually eliminate a large numbers of unnecessary x-rays
      including all of their hazards and also cut down the healthcare costs. The investigators also
      believe that in the due course of time, with this and other similar and sufficiently powered
      studies, it will be possible to draw a firm conclusion and use ultrasound as an effective
      tool for its varied purposes in intensive care and emergency settings.
    
  