
    
      The goal of this study is to establish the effect of the compensation of vitamin D deficiency
      in the treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy with a high level of evidence in a large
      population. For that, the investigator aim to perform a controlled multicentre prospective
      double-blind randomized study in 400 patients.

      Experimental design

      After a reference period for the collection of clinical data and seizure frequency, all
      eligible patients will undergo biological analyses including serum vitamin D levels, calcium,
      creatinine and albumin. In case of proven deficiency (25(OH)D <30ng/mL), patients will be
      randomized into two arms:

      Experimental group: drug-resistant epileptic patients supplemented with vitamin D. The
      vitamin D administered corresponds to the scheme described below. Control group:
      drug-resistant epileptic patients supplemented with placebo, administered placebo dose is
      equal to therapeutic dosing scheme of vitamin D. Randomization will be centralized and
      stratified by center (considering local disparities) and according to the results of serum
      level, retaining the threshold of 10ng/mL to define severe deficiency, 20 ng/mL for moderate
      deficiency and 30 ng/mL for slight deficiency of vitamin D.

      The drug evaluated is vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol), administered in the form of oral solution
      (2 mL) containing 100,000 IU, manufactured by the laboratory CRINEX and marketed under the
      name UVEDOSE®. The therapeutic indication is the treatment and/or prophylaxis of vitamin D
      deficiency. The usual supplementation in adult is 1 to 2 doses per month depending on the
      severity of the deficiency, the maintenance ranging from 1 dose every month or every 2 to 3
      months.

      Administration in the experimental group and control group The supplementation scheme is
      based on the usual recommendations but does not take into account the severity of the initial
      deficiency, that would be impossible to implement in the context of a double-blind study
      (with in particular the need to adapt each placebo dose in the control group, risking the
      feasibility study). To address this potential bias, the investigators choice a
      supplementation scheme corresponding to a moderate deficiency (25(OH)D >10 and <20ng/mL)
      considering that this is the most common in clinical practice and there is no risk of
      overdose for 25(OH)D level between 20 and 30ng/mL.

      The dosing schedule is as follows:

      UVEDOSE: 1 dose of 100,000 IU every 15 days for 2 months, then 100,000 IU the 3rd month (5
      doses during the first 3 months). Dosage of 25(OH)D will be conducted at 3 and 6 months in
      order to verify the compensation of the initial deficiency and to avoid the risk of overdose.
      Monitoring of serum calcium, albumin and creatinine will be performed at the same time.
      Maintenance therapy in the treatment group will be set at 100,000 IU per month for 6 months
      (11 doses for 12 months followup). After the blind period, the same will be applied to the
      control group (5 doses in 3 months and 1 dose per month for 3 months, 8 doses for 12 months
      follow-up).

      Apart from an overdose, no side effects are expected. An overdose of vitamin D may be
      suspected in case of occurrence of one or more of the following signs: headache, asthenia,
      anorexia, weight loss; nausea, vomiting; polyuria, polydipsia, dehydration; high blood
      pressure; calcium lithiasis; renal insufficiency. Biological signs reflecting the vitamin D
      overdose are hypercalcemia with hypercalciuria. Serum levels of 25(OH)D from 100 to 150 ng/mL
      are exceptionally accompanied by hypercalcemia. High risk of hypercalcemia with clinical
      consequences are reported for levels around 250ng/mL whereas no toxic effects are described
      for serum levels <150 ng/mL. To avoid any risk, the supplementation will be stopped if the
      dosage of 25(OH)D is >100ng/mL and/or serum calcium levels >2.70mmol/l; if the serum calcium
      is >2.60 and <2.70mmol/l, a control will be done and the treatment stopped if >2.60mmol/L.
      Vitamine D treatment will be stopped also if creatinine is >200μmol/L. Vitamin D causes no
      known drug interactions. However its metabolism is accelerated when combined with
      enzyme-inducing drugs, including antiepileptic drugs.

      The entire treatment will be provided to each patient using a kit of 5 doses of UVEDOSE after
      randomization in the experimental group and the unblinding in the control group according to
      the protocol established. The treatment scheme will be clearly explained and dates of
      treatment indicated on the attached schedule. Maintenance therapy will be provided on the
      same terms.

      Patients will note on this calendar the effective date of each dose and bring empty
      containers during the visit at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months. The labeling will be
      performed by the laboratory CRINEX, the kits will be delivered to pharmacy centers. The
      pharmacy of each participating center will handle the management of returns and the
      destruction of processing units. Patients in the control group will receive placebo of
      vitamin D in the same manner as experimental patients.

      The study entails a screening-visit followed by a 3 months reference period, an inclusion
      visit followed by randomization, two follow-up visits (3 and 6 months) and an end-study visit
      at 12 months. The duration of study for each patient is 12 months following the 3 months
      reference-phase. The double-blind phase is between the randomization (V1) and the 3 month
      visit (V2), followed by a 9 month open phase for the 2 groups Eventually, all patients with a
      vitamin D deficiency will be compensated with a 3-month higher dose treatment phase and a
      6-month maintenance phase for the experimental group. The control group will receive the
      placebo for 3 months, then a vitamin D treatment including a 3-month higher dose and a 3
      month maintenance phase.

      The duration of the inclusions is scheduled for 12 months, for research duration of 24
      months. All eligible patients who meet ILAE (International League Against Epilepsy) criteria
      of drug-resistance and inclusion criteria will be informed of the opportunity to participate
      in this research. If accepted, the participants will be asked to fill out a precise seizure
      diary for 3 months before their inclusion in the study (V0). The antiepileptic treatment
      should not be changed during the reference period. The patient cannot receive vitamin D
      during this period.

      Inclusion visit (V1):

      After obtaining informed consent and verification of inclusion criteria, seizure frequency is
      noted and determination of serum 25(OH)D level is done. The vitamin D serum concentration is
      determined with the same technic in each center (immunoluminometric CLIA (Chemiluminescence
      Immunoassay Analyzer) - Liaison XL). The concentration serum calcium, albumin and creatinine
      is determined at the biochemistry laboratory of the participating center. The
      self-questionnaires (Fatigue impact scale : FIS, Hospital anxiety depression scale :HAD,
      Quality of life in epilepsy : QOLIE 31) are completed and handed to the investigator.
      Clinical and demographic data are collected on the case report. After receipt of 25(OH)D
      level results, patients in whom deficiency is objectified (25(OH)D <30ng/mL) are randomized
      between control and experimental group. It is expected 10% of non-deficient patients who are
      not randomized and followed out of the protocol. Treatment appropriate to the protocol for
      each group (vitamin D or placebo) is delivered by the center pharmacy. The results of biology
      (serum calcium, albumin, creatinine) are first referred to the investigator, the treatment
      being delivered in absence of contra-indication (see above).

      3 month-visit (V2): Clinical examination, seizure frequency, determination of 25(OH)D levels,
      serum calcium, albumin, creatinine) and scales (FIS, HAD, QOLIE 31); monitoring of compliance
      (ratio of packaging and check-up of dates); lifting of the blinding phase. Introduction of
      vitamin D supplementation in the placebo group according to the initial plan, pursuit of
      vitamin D supplementation in the experimental group, stop if the serum level is>100 ng/mL
      and/or serum calcium>2.70mmol/L and/or creatinine>200 μmol/L. Control of serum calcium if
      between 2.60 and 2.70 mmol/L, stop if> 2.60 mmol/L.

      6 month-visit (V3): similar to V2, maintenance supplementation in the 2 groups: 1 dose per
      month for 3 months, except if biological contraindication.

      End-study visit (V4, 12 months) similar to V1-V2, vitamin D trial stop. In case of
      deterioration of the clinical situation requiring modification of the antiepileptic treatment
      (excluding one-time treatment with benzodiazepines), the patient will be considered
      not-responder but will not be excluded from the study. The seizure frequency in this case for
      the primary judgment criterion will be the one before the treatment change (LOCF method).
    
  