
    
      Cannabis has been used for medicinal purposes across many cultures for a range of disorders
      for thousands of years. The plant is comprised of a variety of components, such as
      phytocannabinoids, which include (among others) the major intoxicating constituent of
      cannabis, delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-intoxicating
      constituent of cannabis. Increasing evidence indicates that CBD in particular may have
      significant medicinal properties and benefits; experimental studies in both animals and
      humans have demonstrated that CBD can act as an anticonvulsant, antipsychotic, and muscle
      relaxant. Several studies have demonstrated that CBD produces acute anxiolytic effects in
      animals and humans, although thus far no clinical trials of CBD have been conducted in
      patients with anxiety. As a growing number of states are legalizing medical cannabis, a gap
      exists in the scientific literature regarding the effects of CBD on anxiety.

      This investigation is composed of two phases. Phase 1 is comprised of a four-week, open-label
      clinical trial of a high-CBD containing compound in individuals with anxiety. Participants
      will be pre-screened by phone in order to evaluate their eligibility for the study. If
      approved, participants will come to the hospital for a baseline/screening visit, and will
      complete a structured clinical interview, clinical and quality of life questionnaires, and
      cognitive assessments. Enrolled participants will be given CBD solution to use for the
      duration of the study; participants will be instructed to self-administer 1 milliliter (ml)
      of the tincture under the tongue three times per day for four weeks. Throughout the treatment
      period, participants will return to the hospital on a weekly basis to complete questionnaires
      about their mood and quality of life. Participants will also return to the hospital for a
      final visit after four weeks of treatment to complete additional questionnaires and cognitive
      assessments. Phase 1 of the study was completed in early 2020.

      Phase 2 of the study is a double-blind clinical trial of this solution in patients with
      anxiety. This double-blind trial began after the open-label trial was completed. In the same
      manner as the open-label trial, participants will be pre-screened by phone, and approved
      participants will come to the hospital for a baseline/screening visit to complete a
      structured clinical interview, questionnaires, and cognitive assessments. Eligible
      participants will also have the option to complete an hour-long MRI scan at the baseline and
      final visits. Enrolled participants will receive either full-spectrum CBD solution,
      single-compound CBD solution, or placebo solution to self-administer throughout the four week
      treatment period, as described above. Participants will return to the hospital weekly during
      the treatment period to complete questionnaires about their mood and quality of life.
      Participants in this phase of the study will also return for a final visit after four weeks
      of treatment to complete additional questionnaires, cognitive assessments, and an optional
      hour-long MRI scan. We are currently recruiting for Phase 2 of the study.
    
  