
    
      During the last decade a considerable clinical experience has been accumulated with the use
      of drug eluting coronary stents with durable polymers, that permanently cover the metallic
      stent scaffold, allowing the local delivery of anti-restenotic agents. However durable
      polymers have been associated with an increased risk of late and very late stent thrombosis
      and the anticipated development of in stent neo-atherosclerosis. Since permanent polymer
      coatings may have pro-inflammatory effects, with delayed healing and prolonged endothelial
      dysfunction, current research on DES has focused on the use of biodegradable polymer
      coatings, which disappear after a short period of drug-release (3-4 months). Current clinical
      guidelines recommend at least 6-12 months of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) after DES
      implantation,in order to prevent ST. Recent data obtained by pooled analyses of ZES, support
      a significant reduction of the DAPT to the same range used with bare metal stents. The
      substantial delays in DES healing observed from multiple human pathology series and in-vivo
      studies using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) were not assessed as risk factors for
      prolonged used of DAPT. However different patient cohorts might have different responses to
      stent implantation. In addition, there is no comparative evidence on long term development of
      neo-atherosclerosis in bioabsorbable versus permanent polymer DES. OCT allows precise
      assessment of stent strut apposition and coverage and accurate measures of different tissue
      components of neoatherosclerosis. This study is the first attempting to characterize the
      early and late vascular responses to novel bioabsorbable polymer EES (SYNERGY™) compared with
      a permanent polymer benchmark novel generation ZES (RESOLUTE INTEGRITY™) .The stent
      comparator has been selected due to the large use across the interventional cardiology
      community and the recent approval from European Regulators Authorities to update the CE
      (Conformité Européenne) mark labeling to only one-month duration of dual anti-platelet
      therapy.
    
  