
    
      1. / OBJECTIVES

           The main objective of our study is, using the DTI realized 3T to:

           1.1 Main Objective

           - Highlight changes in brain connectivity induced by the occurrence of transient global
           amnesia in acute and monitor these remote anomalies (up to 1 year after the initial
           episode IA).

           1.2 Secondary Objectives

             -  Correlate brain connectivity abnormalities identified data of neuropsychological
                examination

             -  Correlate brain connectivity abnormalities identified o Brain morphological data
                (volumes of gray matter, white matter, hippocampal structures and LCS) o potential
                hippocampal hyperintensities visible in the acute phase of the diffusion images
                (number and laterality)

           1.3 Methodology

           DESIGN: biomedical, prospective single-center on topics of AI episode as part of their
           medical care within the hospital group Paris Saint-Joseph, 185 Rue Raymond Losserand
           75014 Paris.

           Study duration: 2 years from May 2015 in the rate of inclusion estimated to average 2-3
           patients per month (ie inclusion period of one year: from May 2015 to May 2016 and last
           follow-up in May 2017 ).

           start and end dates: May 2015 to May 2017 Number of topics to include: This is an
           exploratory study, single center, on a rare disease, the incidence of stroke is
           estimated amnesia of 3 to 8 patients per 100 000 per year according to recent studies.

             -  Based on a feasibility study previously carried out within the department,
                Investigators estimate that approximately 30% from refusal to participate in the
                study.

             -  Only 3T MRI allows for the proper sequences: it is only available every other day
                to practice brain MRI In this context, Investigators therefore believe about 45 the
                number of subjects may be recruited during the period of inclusion (2 years)

        2. / COURSE OF STUDY

           2.1 Patients and MRI

           Only patients referred for achieving their brain MRI as part of a typical transient
           global amnesia in the Radiology Department of the Paris Saint Joseph Hospital Group will
           be included in succession.

           For each subject, the following clinical data will be collected:

           - Age, sex

             -  Medical background

             -  Duration of AI, date and circumstances of occurrence

             -  Current Treatments

           In the acute phase, there is no change in the usual care of the patient. The patient has
           a consultation with a neurologist at D0 / D1 which ensures the typical character of the
           clinical presentation.

           An MRI is performed on day 2 of the onset of symptoms to confirm the diagnosis.

           The usual course of MRI is not modified in any way, it includes the reception of the
           patient, information on the MRI scan and search against-indications. The images are
           acquired using a 3T MRI (GE Discovery MR 750) with 32 elements antenna head. The
           conventional imaging protocol includes the DTI sequences, FLAIR and 3DT1 without
           gadolinium (or 15 minutes of acquisition). As part of the study, it is not directed
           modification of the imaging protocol.

           Changes in the management of patients related to the application of this protocol are:

           - To carry out a neuropsychological examination in the acute phase

           - Renew for one year the episode AI

           o neurological consultation with neuropsychological evaluation

           o brain MRI with the same protocol or an acquisition time of 15 minutes without
           gadolinium.

           Study design in Annex 2.

           2.1 Post processing

           The post processing of the data will be conducted at the research platform of the Lille
           University Hospital, which specializes in advanced imaging techniques (Prof. Xavier
           Leclerc, Mr Renaud Lopes), and include the following steps:

             -  From 3D T1 sequence: the parcellation of the cortex regions of interest is
                necessary for the evaluation of connectome, volume measurements of SG, SB, LCS and
                seahorses using the software " Freesurfer "

             -  From the DTI sequence: obtaining connectivity maps for each subject with
                measurement of MD and FA

             -  Statistical comparison of different groups of subjects (patients vs controls J2
                (healthy subjects) patients at 1 year vs controls, patients at Day 2 vs 1 year) and
                obtaining connectivity graphs showing the significant differences between these
                groups in terms of FA and MD. The controls (healthy subjects) are obtained from the
                database "1000 connectomes" available online.

        3. / IMAGE ANALYSIS

      Image analysis is done in two stages.

        1. / interpretation "clinical" images, immediately with the aim to answer the following
           questions:

             -  There is a stroke? another injury? whether the patient is excluded from the study

             -  Vascular leukopathy according to the scale of Fazekas? stigmata of ischemic or
                hemorrhagic lesions?

             -  Typical hippocampal hyperintensities AI? laterality and the number of injuries will
                be collected for each subject.

        2. / post processing of images (see above).

      4 / STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

        -  Descriptive analysis of results

        -  Comparison of connectivity graphs representing the values of FA and MD among the three
           groups of subjects: normal subjects, patients explored D2, explored patients at 1 year

        -  SG volume comparison, SB, LCS and seahorses among the three groups of subjects: normal
           subjects, patients explored D2, explored patients at 1 year

        -  Search correlation between connectivity and anomalies o 1 / lateral abnormal hippocampal
           signal,

             -  2 / volumes measured from the sequence and 3DT1

             -  3 / abnormal neuropsychological examination

                5 / ETHICS / REGULATORY:

      This protocol presents no added risk to the patient. The initial MRI examination D2 is
      routinely performed as part of routine monitoring of patients with IA.

      Changes in the management of patients related to the application of this protocol is to renew
      1-year episode of AI:

        -  Neurological consultation with neuropsychological evaluation

        -  Brain MRI with the same protocol as for acute MRI performed an acquisition time of 15
           minutes without gadolinium.

      Data processing will be carried out within the research platform of the Lille University
      Hospital of anonymized way. Collaboration is already underway with this research center with
      several joint publications in the field of inflammatory and vascular diseases. The principal
      investigator (Dr. Hodel) exercises in both structures.

      To start searching the CRC GHPSJ, as a promoter must submit a permit application to the
      competent authority (ANSM for biomedical research out health product).

      In accordance with Article L.1123-6 of the Public Health Code, the research protocol must be
      submitted by the proponent to the Patient Protection Committee of choice (CPP Ile de France
      II). The opinion of the committee is notified to the competent authority by the developer
      before the start of the research.

      When the protocol has a quality control of the data by a CRA representative promoter and
      enters the scope of the CNIL simplified procedure, the developer will ask the head of the
      computer file (investigator-coordinator research) to commit to compliance with the
      methodology of reference MR001 simplified.

      The inclusion of patients will occur after the patient's information and collection of
      written consent; its information and consent will be traced in his file.

      The patient's consent is sought:

        1. / for the use of data acquired in the acute phase for research purposes

        2. / to make a new MRI and a consultation of Neurology at 1 year of onset of symptoms
    
  