
    
      This is a Phase IV randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study in 1000 individuals,
      aged 18 years or older, with community acquired pneumonia (CAP) who meet all eligibility
      criteria in endemic regions. This study is designed to provide data on the effectiveness of
      early antifungal treatment (Fluconazole, 400 mg/day) for coccidioidomycosis pneumonia (also
      referred to as Valley Fever (VF) Pneumonia or acute onset valley fever) vs. placebo in
      subjects with coccidioidomycosis pneumonia. Patients who are prescribed antibacterials by
      their health care provider for acute CAP will be randomized to receive either placebo or 400
      mg/day of fluconazole for 42 days. Blood work for serologic determination of
      coccidioidomycosis infection will be drawn at the time of randomization (Day 1), and again on
      Days, 22, 29, and 43. On Day 43, subjects will be informed of their treatment assignment and
      results of serologic testing from Days 1, 22 and 29. At Day 43, those subjects who did not
      meet the protocol defined case definition for CAP caused by acute coccidioidomycosis and who
      did not receive fluconazole will be dismissed from the study and referred to a health care
      provider with the results of their serology testing and their treatment assignment. All
      subjects who received fluconazole will be evaluated for safety follow up at Day 49. At Day
      49, those subjects who did not meet the protocol defined case definition for CAP caused by
      acute coccidioidomycosis will be dismissed from the study and referred to a health care
      provider with the results of their serology testing and their treatment assignment. Subjects
      who did meet the protocol defined case definition for CAP caused by acute coccidioidomycosis
      infection will be referred to a healthcare provider with the results of their serology
      testing and their treatment assignment for further treatment as indicated and will be
      contacted by telephone on Days 90 and 180. The study duration will be approximately 72
      months, and the subject participant duration will be from 42 days to approximately 6 months.
      The primary objective is to assess the clinical response of early empiric antifungal therapy
      with fluconazole at Day 22 in subjects with coccidioidomycosis pneumonia who are adherent to
      the study intervention. The secondary objectives are: 1) To assess the clinical response of
      early empiric antifungal therapy with fluconazole at Day 22 in subjects with
      coccidioidomycosis pneumonia regardless of adherence with the study intervention; 2) To
      assess the clinical response of early empiric antifungal therapy with fluconazole at Day 43
      in subjects with coccidioidomycosis pneumonia regardless of adherence with the study
      intervention; 3) To compare the clinical response and its individual components over time, by
      treatment group, in subjects with coccidioidomycosis pneumonia; 4) To assess the impact of
      early empiric antifungal therapy with fluconazole on days lost from work or school and
      responses to the SF-12v2 and PROMIS Item Bank v2.0 - Ability to Participate in Social Roles
      and Activities - Short Form 4a in subjects with coccidioidomycosis pneumonia; 5) To assess
      the effect of early empiric antifungal therapy with fluconazole through Day 43 in subjects
      with coccidioidomycosis pneumonia on all-cause mortality by treatment group; and 6) To assess
      whether early empiric antifungal therapy with fluconazole at Day 22 is non-inferior to
      placebo as defined by clinical response at Day 22 in all randomized subjects, regardless of
      coccidioidomycosis pneumonia status or adherence with study intervention, with baseline and
      follow-up FLEET-CAP scores.
    
  