
    
      Our goal is to advance palliative care with children and their families aimed at relieving
      suffering (psychological, spiritual, physical) and maximizing quality of life. Left
      unprepared for end-of-life decisions, miscommunication and disagreements may result in
      families being charged with neglect, court battles and even legislative intervention. We
      propose building on our R34, evidence based model, the Family Centered (FACE) Advance Care
      Planning intervention, to test our full theoretical model examining the putative mediators
      and moderators, and spiritual struggle (negative religious coping) with a sicker group and
      adolescents with AIDS in an adequately powered randomized, clinical, 2-arm, controlled trial.
      FACE is a culturally sensitive and developmentally appropriate, manualized family
      intervention based on transactional stress and coping theory, which prepares adolescents with
      HIV/AIDS and their families for end-of-life decision-making through problem solving.
      Theoretically, threat appraisal is related to Lazarus' concept of primary appraisal,
      particularly the way in which an event threatens the child's goals or values. Spiritual
      struggle (negative religious coping) may be a source of distress, causing disparities in
      palliative care and outcomes. We will test the efficacy of the FACE intervention for
      increasing communication and congruence in end-of-life treatment preferences between teens
      with AIDS and their surrogates, and determine if increased congruence can be maintained over
      time. We will also examine the impact of the FACE intervention on decisional conflict,
      quality of communication, and patient quality of life. We will also evaluate hypothesized
      mediators (threat appraisal, HAART adherence) and moderator (spiritual struggle) of study
      outcomes, including hospitalizations. We will recruit from hospital-based clinics and
      randomize 130 adolescent/surrogate dyads (N=260 subjects) to either Control (N=65 dyads) or
      FACE Intervention (N=65 dyads). Participants with HIV dementia, severe depression,
      suicidality or homicidality or in foster care will not be allowed to participate. Three 60-
      to 90-minute sessions will be conducted with a certified interviewer at weekly intervals:
      FACE: Session 1: Lyon Advance Care Planning Survey© - Adolescent and Surrogate Versions:
      Session 2: The Respecting Choices Interview® Session 3: Completion of The Five Wishes©.
      Control will also be administered in a family group format to control for time, attention,
      and Hawthorn effects: Session 1: Developmental History, Session 2: Safety Tips, and Session
      3: Safety Tips. Standardized self-report measures will be administered at baseline, immediate
      post intervention (3 month), and 6, 12 and 18 month post intervention. Generalized estimating
      equation (GEE) will assess outcomes.
    
  