
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      Phase II, prospective, two-arm, single-blind randomized controlled study.

      SETTING:

      Up to 64 patients (56 + 15% loss to follow-up) suffering from chronic lateral epicondylosis
      will be recruited by one of two orthopedists working in a specialized outpatient clinic, at
      the Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM), a tertiary care academic center.
      Ultrasound examination of the elbow will be performed before the interventions.

      RANDOMIZATION:

      Using a computerized randomization list, the subjects will be randomized into the 2 treatment
      arms to be treated either by an US-guided tendon fenestration technique or by mini-open
      surgery. Randomization will be stratified by block sizes of 8.

      FOLLOW UP Subjects' follow-up will extend over a period of 12 months - i.e., at 6 weeks and
      3, 6 and 12 months post-intervention. The primary outcome will be the PRTEE score. Secondary
      outcomes will evaluate the impact of each procedure on: Pain-free grip (dynamometer),
      Medication Quantitative Scale, working activity (QuickDASH general and work modules; RA-WIS),
      Patient Global Impression of Change and Patient Satisfaction. The ultrasound examination will
      be repeated at 6 and 12 months. The predictive value of various B-mode parameters, color
      Doppler and elastography will be explored.

      ANALYSIS:

      The primary endpoint will be the proportion of subjects in each intervention arm presenting a
      reduction of at least 11/100 of the PRTEE score at 6 months post-intervention. The Fisher's
      exact test will be used to compare the proportion of subjects in each treatment group. The
      primary analysis will follow the intention-to-treat principle. Regarding the secondary
      endpoints, an ANOVA for repeated measures with two factors (time and group), a Fisher's exact
      test or a recursive partitioning analysis will be performed as appropriate.
    
  