
    
      Background: Providing mental health care to rural Veterans in geographically accessible
      Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) is a major priority of the Office of Rural Health.
      Likewise, integrating mental health into primary care is one of the highest priorities of the
      Office of Mental Health Services and the Office of Mental Health Operations. The Uniform
      Mental Health Services Handbook mandates the blending of the two predominant, evidence-based
      models of integrated care (the Care Management model and the Co-Located model) at VAMCs, very
      large CBOCs, and large CBOCs. Because there is no scientific evidence to support its
      implementation, the "Blended model" is not mandated at medium CBOCs or small CBOCs that serve
      rural Veterans. At most smaller CBOCs, on-site mid-level providers and/or off-site
      tele-psychiatrists and tele-psychologists deliver traditional referral-based specialty
      treatment (Referral model) rather than integrated care.

      Objective: This project contributes to Specific Aim 3 (Test clinical interventions to improve
      quality and outcomes of mental health care at CBOCs) of the Little Rock CREATE application.
      The goal of this proposed Hybrid Type 2 pragmatic effectiveness-implementation trial is to
      generate the scientific evidence needed to justify the national dissemination of the Blended
      model adapted using telemedicine technologies to accommodate the clinical context of smaller
      CBOCs that lack on-site psychiatrists and PhD psychologists. The resulting Telemedicine
      Blended model will be compared to usual care (Referral model) in a pragmatic trial, where the
      intervention will be delivered via interactive video by centrally located clinical staff and
      fidelity will be monitored but not controlled. Specific Aim 1: Use an expert panel comprised
      of clinical providers and managers who are applying telemedicine to provide a Blended model
      for CBOCs lacking on-site PhD psychologists and psychiatrists to document the core components
      of a Telemedicine Blended model and using a PDSA process, implement this model in six CBOCs.
      Specific Aim 2: Conduct a Hybrid Type 2 pragmatic effectiveness-implementation trial of the
      adapted Telemedicine Blended model by assessing RE-AIM outcomes including: provider Reach
      into the patient population, Effectiveness at improving clinical outcomes, Adoption by
      providers and Implementation Fidelity.

      Methods: In conjunction with national, regional and local partners, including providers and
      managers who have experience with the Telemedicine Blended model, the Blended model will be
      adapted for smaller CBOCs using telemedicine technologies and pilot tested to generate a
      standardized treatment protocol. We will use a stepped wedge design with randomization of
      sites to sequential implementation steps, and CBOC patients who screen positive for
      depression or alcohol disorders will be recruited and consented to participate in the Hybrid
      Type 2 pragmatic effectiveness-implementation trial. Data about Reach and Adoption will be
      obtained from the Corporate Data Warehouse. Data about Implementation Fidelity will be
      obtained from chart review. Data about clinical Effectiveness will be obtained from telephone
      survey.

      Impact: If the Telemedicine Blended model improves clinical outcomes compared to usual care,
      results will be used to justify and facilitate the implementation of the Telemedicine Blended
      model at smaller CBOCs.
    
  