
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a malignant tumor originates from colorectal mucosa epithelium. It
      is one of the most common malignant tumors in the world. Incidence rate of lung cancer is
      second only to lung cancer and breast cancer worldwide. In recent years, with the continuous
      improvement of people's living standard, changes in diet and diet structure and aging of
      population, the incidence rate and mortality rate of colorectal cancer in China have been
      increasing. A significant proportion of colorectal cancer patients have no characteristic
      clinical symptoms and reported symptoms. Many colorectal cancers have reached the middle and
      late stage when they are discovered, and their prognosis is poor. It can be seen that early
      prevention of colorectal cancer is very important. Timely screening for colorectal adenomas
      and endoscopic resection are the most effective measures to prevent colorectal cancer.
      Colonoscopy is currently recognized as the gold standard for colorectal cancer screening,
      which can not only detect early precancerous lesions, but also remove precancerous lesions
      and block the formation of colorectal cancer.Colonoscopy is an important means of screening,
      diagnosis and treatment of colonic diseases. The accuracy of diagnosis and the safety of
      treatment are closely related to the quality of intestinal preparation. Adequate intestinal
      preparation can make patients obtain higher intestinal cleanliness, ensure the integrity and
      correctness of colonoscopy, improve the detection rate of polyps and adenomas, increase the
      rate of cecal intubation and reduce the follow-up time The occurrence of adverse events such
      as shortened interval, intestinal perforation and missed diagnosis is of great significance
      for the realization of high-quality enteroscopy diagnosis and treatment.Bowel preparation is
      not a simple cathartic process, it involves all aspects of communication between patients and
      doctors. Good intestinal preparation includes following dietary restrictions before
      examination, applying adequate amount of appropriate cathartic drugs during intestinal
      preparation, waiting for the appropriate time interval between colonoscopies after intestinal
      preparation, and appropriate amount of active drinking water, etc. Strict dietary restriction
      and bowel cleaning are the necessary conditions to improve the quality of bowel preparation.
      Kang x et al. Showed that 18% to 30.5% of patients had insufficient bowel preparation [.
      Clinically, there may be more patients with poor bowel preparation. Inadequate bowel
      preparation will lead to longer operation time, more difficult catheterization of cecum,
      lower detection rate of adenoma and shorter follow-up time, which will increase the cost of
      colonoscopy. At present, Boston scale is widely used to evaluate the quality of intestinal
      preparation. The Boston scale divides the colon into three segments (cecum and ascending
      colon; hepatic, transverse and splenic flexure; descending, sigmoid and rectum). According to
      the worst-case to clean score, it is divided into four grades (0-3), with a total score of
      0-9. Boston scale ≥ 6 points indicates that the intestinal preparation is qualified.There are
      many factors that lead to poor bowel preparation. Recently, a number of studies at home and
      abroad have evaluated the risk factors related to insufficient bowel preparation. Obesity,
      men, older age, previous colon surgery history, accompanied by other diseases (such as
      diabetes, Parkinson's disease), taking antidepressants and other factors can affect the
      effect of bowel preparation. Combined with the literature at home and abroad and the
      characteristics of Chinese people, the guidelines for gut preparation related to the
      diagnosis and treatment of digestive endoscopy in China suggest that the following factors
      are the risk factors for inadequate gut preparation in China: chronic constipation, failure
      to prepare the gut in strict accordance with the requirements (such as high fiber diet before
      operation, insufficient peg intake), body mass index > 25 kg / m2, age > 70 years old, colon
      surgery history With other diseases (such as diabetes, Parkinson's disease, history of stroke
      or spinal cord injury, etc.), application of tricyclic antidepressants or anesthetics.In
      addition, the guidelines for gut preparation related to the diagnosis and treatment of
      digestive endoscopy in China suggest that if the patient's gut preparation is not sufficient
      during the endoscopic examination, it should be actively evaluated and remedial measures
      should be taken or the endoscopic examination should be rescheduled. For the patients with
      the risk factors of insufficient intestinal preparation, other auxiliary measures can be
      taken to improve the intestinal preparation, such as the 4L peg program, low residue diet
      three days before endoscopic diagnosis and treatment, gastrointestinal motility promoting
      drugs, etc.; in addition, it is also of great value to further strengthen the education
      related to the optimization of intestinal preparation for the patients.In recent years, with
      the continuous development of China's economy, the continuous improvement of people's living
      conditions, and the continuous strengthening of patients' health awareness, colonoscopy has
      become one of the necessary items for many people's routine physical examination. However, in
      most medical institutions, when guiding patients to prepare for intestinal tract, there are
      some problems, such as lack of management, lack of detailed explanation, and complex process.
      These problems lead to the lack of understanding of intestinal tract preparation process for
      patients, thus affecting the preparation work before patients' examination and the follow-up
      treatment plan. Therefore, it has become one of the most important issues to study how to
      improve the intervention and guidance methods of patients' intestinal preparation and improve
      the quality of patients' intestinal preparation.Although the research of intestinal
      preparation intervention and education methods has made a lot of progress, various methods of
      intervention and guidance for patients before colonoscopy have been proposed at home and
      abroad to improve the quality of intestinal preparation. However, in a series of reports,
      there are still a considerable number of patients in the colonoscopy problems of intestinal
      preparation.At present, there are few researches on individualized intervention aiming at the
      risk factors of inadequate bowel preparation in China, so it is urgent to explore
      individualized bowel preparation programs suitable for different populations. Therefore, in
      this experiment, we designed individualized intervention for patients with insufficient bowel
      preparation (mainly from the following aspects: chronic constipation, not strictly in
      accordance with the requirements Bowel preparation, body mass index > 25 kg / m2, age > 70
      years old, with other diseases such as diabetes, Parkinson's disease, history of stroke or
      spinal cord injury, application of tricyclic antidepressants or anesthetics). The purpose of
      the study is to study the effect of individualized intervention on the quality of intestinal
      preparation for patients with insufficient intestinal preparation, and to provide reference
      for improving the quality of intestinal preparation for patients with insufficient intestinal
      preparation.
    
  