
    
      Rationale. Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a major public health problem. D-dimer (D-Di) assay is
      useful to exclude VTE (DVT and PE) but not specific, requiring irradiating and expensive
      imaging tests. Preliminary results suggest that the Soluble Fibrin (SF) assay has a
      sensitivity comparable to the D-Di one, but a higher specificity and thus would limit the use
      of imaging tests.

      Main objective. To evaluate the performances of Soluble Fibrin assay in terms of sensitivity,
      specificity, negative and positive predictive values for exclusion of Pulmonary Embolism and
      Deep Venous Thrombosis, in comparison with the D-Dimer test. To determine the threshold value
      from the ROC curves.

      Patients. Inclusion criteria: patients 18 years or older, referred to the Emergency or
      Internal Medicine Units, for clinically suspected of PE or DVT.

      The study was conducted in compliance with French regulation after ethics approval, the
      authorization for processing personal data (Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des
      Libertés, 8, rue Vivienne CS 30223 75083 Paris Cedex 02) decision DR-2015-174 was obtained in
      April 2015. A preliminary study was performed from April 2015 to September 2015 to define the
      exclusion criteria.

      Comparison with the D-Dimer test. Plasma D-dimer (D-Di) and soluble fibrin are measured in
      case of low and intermediate clinical probability.

      Patients will be classified in two groups, as having or not having PE or DVT on predefined
      criteria according to the recent guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology by
      physicians who will be unaware of the SF assay result. PE and DVT have to be confirmed or
      excluded by the reference algorithm combining clinical probability, D-Dimer, and imaging
      tests with three month-follow up. The patient who could not be contacted after three months
      are included in the study and taken into account with the mention "without follow up".

      SF Assays. Soluble fibrin is measured by one site, using prototype assays, on both citrated
      and heparinized frozen plasma taken at baseline. Staff in charge of the assays are not aware
      of the clinical and diagnosis decisions.

      Statistical Analysis of results. The results of D-dimer and Soluble Fibrin assays for the
      exclusion of PE and DVT will be interpreted on the basis of sensitivity, specificity,
      negative and predictive values. The ROC curve will be built, the area under the curve will be
      calculated with its confidence interval. The most suitable threshold will be determined from
      the curve. Then the diagnosis performances of SF assay will be calculated according to the
      usual calculations.

      The patients under anticoagulant treatment or with an activation of coagulation from known
      cause are included in the study but analyzed separately.

      Number of participants required. A statistical analysis was realized before starting the
      study. The inclusion of 50 patients with a positive diagnostic of PE or DVT and about 350
      patients with an exclusion of PE or DVT will allow calculation of the diagnosis performances
      of the SF assay and of the area under the ROC curve with an accuracy of 5%. Duration of the
      study. The total duration of the study is 12 months and up to 18 months if the number of
      patients could not be obtained.
    
  