
    
      [INTRODUCTION]

      The failure to use isoniazid (INH) preventative therapy (IPT) in HIV-infected individuals in
      Sub-Saharan Africa represents one of the single biggest implementation gaps between evidence
      and practice in today's response to the HIV epidemic. The proposed study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of a multi-component intervention to improve IPT uptake in two regions of
      Uganda. The overall objective of this study is to determine if a multi-component
      implementation intervention (SPIRIT) that targets District Health Officers (DHOs) can
      increase IPT initiation and completion among HIV-infected persons, and decrease TB incidence,
      as compared to country standard practices, in a cluster randomized trial in Uganda.

      [OBJECTIVES]

      Aim 1: Determine if the SPIRIT intervention increases IPT initiation. The investigators will
      form 14 groups of 4-7 District Health Officers and randomize half to the SPIRIT intervention
      and half to control (country standard) in a cluster randomized trial. The primary outcome
      will be the proportion of HIV-infected adults newly enrolled in HIV care over the 36 months
      following intervention start who receive a prescription for INH in health facilities overseen
      by DHOs participating in the SPIRIT trial. In all DHO groups the primary outcome will be
      measured over three years. The investigators will use health information systems already in
      place to collect data about visits, IPT eligibility and IPT initiation. For secondary
      outcomes, the investigators will conduct pre-/post-intervention surveys and focus group
      discussions to assess changes in knowledge, attitudes and practices regarding IPT among the
      DHOs, TB support staff, and front line health workers in intervention and control groups, to
      assess mechanisms through which the intervention achieves outcomes.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the effect of the SPIRIT intervention on IPT completion and TB incidence.
      Even if the intervention increases IPT initiation, quantifying actual use of IPT by patients
      and downstream effects on population health status (e.g. reduction in TB incidence) are
      important to assess impact and thereby enable policy makers to prioritize this intervention
      more widely. A subset of adult patients who received a prescription for IPT will be randomly
      sampled to measure adherence through hair levels of INH (direct measure of IPT completion)
      and TB incidence (population health measure). IPT completion and TB incidence will also be
      measured on the overall population of HIV-positive adults in care at health facilities
      overseen by the DHOs. Within the SPIRIT intervention arm, there is a nested trial for single
      pill combination (SPC) of INH/B6/Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) vs. no-SPC for IPT.

      Aim 3: Evaluate for indirect effects of the SPIRIT intervention on the prescribing of IPT to
      child (≤14 years of age) household contacts of active TB cases, and HIV-infected children (12
      months to 14 years of age). The investigators hypothesize that IPT prescribing for child (≤14
      years of age) household contacts of adults with active TB disease and for HIV-infected
      children (12 months to 14 years) will increase in SPIRIT intervention compared to control
      groups, as an indirect effect on DHO support for IPT implementation, IPT prescribing
      practices and patient perceptions of IPT.

      Aim 4: Evaluate the cost and cost-effectiveness of SPIRIT. Using effectiveness measures
      obtained in Aims 1 and 2, and standard time and motion and costing methods, the investigators
      will estimate the cost and cost-effectiveness of SPIRIT vs. standard of care in our sampled
      population from Aim 2. Outcomes of interest will include program costs per: a) IPT initiation
      b) IPT completion and c) TB case averted.
    
  