
    
      1. Study design - Randomized controlled trial.

        2. Inclusion criteria- All mothers who deliver at term at Deen Dayal Upadhayay Hospital
           [DDUH ]whether booked or unbooked.

        3. Exclusion criteria -

             1. Sick mother who is unable to communicate

             2. Congenital malformation

             3. Babies admitted in neonatal intensive care unit

             4. HIV positive mother

             5. Mother on chemotherapy/planned for chemotherapy.

        4. Setting of the study - The study will be conducted at postnatal wards of DDUH, New Delhi

        5. Period of study-January 2009 to December 2009.

        6. Sample size- We did a pilot study to see the baseline exclusive breast feeding rates at
           six weeks in mothers who delivered at DDUH. The baseline exclusive breast feeding rates
           at six weeks is 60%. Expecting a 10% absolute increase in exclusive breast feeding rates
           and alpha=0.05 and power beta=80% our sample size is 376 per group. Taking into account
           the loss to follow up of 20% we plan to enroll 470 mothers per group. So our sample size
           is 1410 mothers.

        7. Ethics and consent-Ethical clearance will be obtained from ethical committee of DDUH.
           Written and informed consent will be taken from the mothers before enrolment.

        8. Randomization - It will be an open-label randomized controlled trial. Random numbers
           will be obtained from a computer generated table. Mothers will be grouped into three
           groups: counseling group, video group and control group. The codes will be kept in
           sealed opaque envelopes. There will be allocation concealment since the mothers and the
           principle investigator will be unaware of the group to which they will be randomized.

        9. Methods- The principle investigator will visit the postnatal wards daily except on
           holidays and look for the eligible mothers who will be asked for written and informed
           consent. Those who give the consent will be enrolled and randomized to counseling group,
           video group and control groups. The mothers in the intervention group will be counseled
           along with the husband and mother/mother-in-law/female caretaker. The mothers in the
           video group will be shown a video on breast feeding. The baseline characteristics of the
           three groups will be recorded. The mothers in the control group will receive standard
           care.
    
  