
    
      Using Landspatientregisteret (LPR) (the National Patient register) the investigators will
      identify patients who have received a thoracoscopic pleural-biopsy using the SKS-codes KGAC01
      and/or KGAA31 and/or KGAC00. From LPR and Cancerregisteret (the National Cancer-register) the
      investigators will receive diagnosis and additional descriptive data. From
      dødsårsagsregisteret (the National cause-of-death-register) death date and further
      descriptive data will be acquired.

      Patients with NSP will be identified as patients with no diagnosis six months after
      pleural-biopsy, despite a thorough investigation.

      Patients with a malignant effusion and non-malignant effusion (with known cause) will be used
      for survival analysis and comparison.

      Data Data will be registered in the individual patients CRF (Case Report File) (digital) and
      will be transferred to a database-program for further processing. Background-variables will
      be used to describe the study population. Only study-coordinators will have access to data.
      All data including back-up will be stored and kept in a locked cupboard in a locked room.
      Only study coordinators possess relevant keys.

      Statistics The investigators define significance level (α) as 0.05, and power (β) as 0.80.
      Descriptive data will be analysed using nonparametric statistics: Chi2-test for categorical
      data and Mann-Whitney for discrete data. Statistical significance is defined as: p-value <
      0.05.

      The overall survival of patients with NSP will be analysed using a Caplan-Meier plot and
      comparison of NSP patients to patients with malignant pleural-effusion the investigators use
      the Logrank test.

      All statistical tests is conducted using STATA14 (4905 Lakeway Dr., College Station, TX
      77845).

      Ethics This study will not require the approval from Videnskabsetisk komité (the Health
      Research Ethics Committee), but approval will be sought from Datatilsynet (the Danish Data
      Protection Agency).

      All results will be stored and analysed by computer, and the patients' anonymity will be
      secured according to the national laws. The data will be stored (anonymised), after
      completion of the study: data containing cpr.-numbers will be stored behind double-lock at
      the department.

      No patients or investigators have economic incentives for completing the project.

      Economy

      Expenses related to gathering of data including contact with LPR, Dødsårsagsregisteret and
      the Danish Cancer Register are already financed through primary investigators PhD-project.

      Publication The results from the study will be presented at international scientific
      congresses and published in international journals. Positive as well as negative results will
      be published. The scientists right to freely publish the results cannot be limited. All
      information will be passed anonymously.

      The order of authors will follow the Vancouver Declaration, and will thus reflect the amount
      and significance of work relevant to the specific manuscript.
    
  