
    
      Breast cancer is the most common malignant tumors occurring in women worldwide. Treatments
      include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, and target therapy. As
      multidisciplinary treatment improves breast cancer survival, there is a growing interest in
      the quality of life of breast cancer survivors. Common symptoms that patients with breast
      cancer continue to complain of during or after their treatment include fatigue, pain,
      depression, sleep disorders, weight gain and hot flashes.

      There are only a few studies investigating sleep problems in breast cancer patients, which
      mostly relied on surveys. A commonly used survey evaluation method is the Pittsburg Sleep
      Quality Index (PSQI). Using PSQI, one study reported that 66% of the Chinese breast cancer
      survivors had sleep disorders and 49% had significantly reduced sleep efficiency and time in
      bed. The group with sleep disorder had lower quality of life, more depression and higher
      overall stress than the group without sleep disorder. Another survey of breast cancer
      patients over 69 years old found that pain, fatigue and depression were related to sleep, and
      that fatigue was the strongest predictor of sleep disorders.

      A recent study found that postmenopausal breast cancer patients, starting hormone therapy
      with aromatase inhibitor, total sleep time and sleep efficiency declined without statistical
      significance. However, 58% of Korean breast cancer patients are pre-menopausal patients aged
      49 or younger, and thus, most patients take tamoxifen and goserelin instead of aromatase
      inhibitors after surgery. In this reason, results of aromatase inhibitor can not be applied
      in this population. As previous studies on the effects of tamoxifen on sleep were conducted
      retrospectively, objective comparisons of before and after applying tamoxifen are difficult
      and the long-term effects of tamoxifen are difficult to understand.

      The aim of this study is to observe the sleep and activity patterns of pre-menopausal breast
      cancer patients taking tamoxifen using a wrist-worn internet of things device and
      questionnaires.
    
  