
    
      Objectives:

      1a) to quantify patient-reported disability measured using the 12-item WHO Disability
      Assessment Schedule (WHODAS) after noncardiac surgery

        1. b) to assess the impact of preoperative comorbidities (and frailty in patients aged ≥65
           years) and procedural risk, and of postoperative complications on 365-day
           patient-reported disability after noncardiac surgery;

        2. a) to quantify days alive and out of hospital (DAOH), a recently proposed, integrative,
           easily collected and statistically-efficient outcome after noncardiac surgery;

      2b) to validate (construct [convergent] validity) DAOH at 30 and 365 days after noncardiac
      surgery, i.e. to assess impact of preoperative risk factors/procedural risk and postoperative
      complications on DAOH; 2c) to assess in a subcohort of patients ≥ 65 years, the construct
      (convergent) validity of DAOH in terms of frailty (Clinical Frailty Scale);

      3a) to evaluate the criterion (concurrent) validity of DAOH for patient-reported disability
      at 30 days and 365 days; 3b) to evaluate the criterion (predictive) validity of DAOH at 30
      days for patient-reported disability at 365 days.

      In addition to the main study, patients≥ 65 years may opt to participate (separate consent)
      to a nested cohort study to assess the impact of delirium detected by Confusion Assessment
      Method (CAM) on 365-day patient-reported disability after noncardiac surgery and on DAOH.

      Design:

      prospective multicentre cohort with nested subcohort (Delirium)

      Eligibility:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  aged ≥50 years

        -  non-cardiac, non-neurosurgical surgery (thoracic, vascular, abdominal, urinary tract, or
           orthopaedic/trauma)

        -  inhospital procedure

      Patients will be excluded if:

        -  they are unwilling or unable to provide informed consent,

        -  the procedure is cancelled

        -  they are submitted to a procedure requiring only local anesthetics or analgosedation,

        -  they were submitted to ≥1 surgical procedure in the 7 days prior to enrollment

        -  they are unable to complete the WHODAS questionnaire (e.g. language or literacy
           barriers);

        -  they were previously enrolled in PACORUS.

      Endpoints:

      For objectives1a-b and 3a-b, the main endpoint will be "new onset clinically significant
      disability" at 365 days, defined as an increase in WHODAS score of at least 5% from baseline
      to a final WHODAS score of at least 35% (Shulman Anesthesiology 2020).

      For objectives2a-c, the main endpoint will be days alive and out of hospital. The time
      horizon will be 30 days (primary) and 365 days.

      Additional endpoints will include "new onset clinically significant disability" at 30 days
      and "clinical relevant disability" at 30 and at 365 days, defined as 12-item WHODAS exceeding
      35% (Shulman Anesthesiology 2020); the continuous WHODAS score at 30 days and 365 days;
      disability defined at 25%.
    
  