
    
      Two hundred & forty patients aged from 40 to 50 years complaining of heavy menstrual bleeding
      (i.e. pictorial blood loss assessment chart score >150) that is unresponsive to hormonal
      lines of treatment & requesting conservative surgical approach. Participants were randomized
      into 3 groups; group A (Surgicel group) in which 80 patients underwent formal curettage
      followed by insertion of 4 pieces of Surgicel inside the uterine cavity, group B (Thermal
      balloon ablation group) in which 80 patients underwent thermal balloon ablation using bipolar
      radiofrequency electrical energy (Novasure), group C (Endometrial resection group) in which
      80 patients underwent transcervical Hysteroscopic endometrial resection. Randomization was
      done using computer generated random numbers.

      Inclusion criteria included uterine length <12 cm, FSH level > 40 IU/L, normal Pap smear &
      benign endometrial pathology. Exclusion criteria included active form of PID, uterine scars,
      uterine malformation, uterine organic lesions (e.g., fibroids, polyps & Adenomyosis) &
      previous history of endometrial ablation. In addition, patients seeking fertility
      preservation, suffering coagulopathies or receiving anticoagulant treatments were excluded.

      For all patients, full history was taken followed by complete physical examination (with
      emphasis on speculum examination to exclude cervical or vaginal wall lesions) & laboratory
      investigations (FSH, coagulation profile & routine preoperative investigations). History of
      Pap smear schedule was obtained and a Pap smear was scheduled if it was due. Transvaginal
      ultrasound (TVUS) was done using a 7.5 MHz vaginal probe of the General Electric Voluson E8
      ultrasound unit (GE Healthcare Austria GmbH, Seoul, Korea) to assess uterine size and to
      exclude organic lesions of the uterus or ovaries. All participants were subjected to an
      endometrial biopsy (either before the procedure or intraoperatively followed by a frozen
      section). Patients, who were found to have atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrial
      malignancy, were excluded from the study.

      In the Surgicel group (group A), each SURGICEL® (oxidized regenerated cellulose - Ethicon US,
      LLC.) knitted fabric (5 x 10 cm) was divided into four equal pieces. A formal cervical
      dilatation & curettage was done followed by packing the uterine cavity with the four
      SURGICEL® strips to ensure that the SURGICEL® is in contact with the basal endometrium all
      over the cavity.

      In group B, Thermal balloon ablation was done using bipolar radiofrequency electrical energy
      (Novasure). The cervix was grasped with a tenaculum then dilated to 6 mm. The disposable
      device was inserted in the uterine cavity until the distal end of the sheath touches the
      fundus then withdrawn backwards approximately 0.5 cm. The cervical collar was slided forward
      until it forms a seal against the external cervical os. The ablation cycle starts
      automatically, upon successful completion of the cavity integrity assessment (CIA), & ends
      automatically as well. In group C, Transcervical hysteroscopic endometrial resection was
      done. Bipolar resectoscope is used & endometrium is resected in successive passes under
      direct hysteroscopic vision. Each pass of the U-shaped loop electrode removes a layer of
      tissue of approximately 3-5 mm.

      All patients were followed up over duration of 18 months following the procedure (at 3,6,12 &
      18 months). Primary outcome included amenorrhea rates & secondary outcomes included
      complication (intra- or post-operative), PBAC score (pictorial blood loss assessment chart
      score), dysmenorrhea rates, patient satisfaction & the need for re-intervention
      (hysterectomy).
    
  