
    
      Surgery and trauma are the most common reasons for major blood loss, and blood transfusion
      provide guarantee for massive hemorrhagic surgery, especially orthopedic, cardiac, liver, and
      gynecologic procedures. On the other hand, blood transfusion is associated with many risks
      including hemolytic and nonhemolytic reactions, transfusion related acute lung injury, and
      others. Besides, blood is insufficient worldwide. How to eliminate allogeneic blood
      transfusion is an important part in clinical practice.

      Guidelines for blood transfusion have been issued by many health institutions or
      organizations in different countries. According to these guidelines, red blood cells (RBCs)
      transfusion should be given when the hemoglobin level is less than 6g/dL or 7g/dL and is
      unnecessary when the level is more than 10g/dL. However, in all the guidelines, the
      determination of whether RBCs should be administered when the hemoglobin level is in the
      range of 7~10g/dL is based on the judgment from anesthesiologists or surgeons on the
      patient's condition including intravascular volume status, ongoing bleeding, any risk factors
      for vital organs ischemia or hypoxia, and so on. Index of transfusion trigger for patients
      with hemoglobin level between 7/dL and 10g/dL is necessary and important in clinical
      practice.

      The aim of blood transfusion is to provide sufficient oxygen for the whole body, and to
      maintain the balance of oxygen supply and oxygen consumption. Factors associated with oxygen
      supply are hemoglobin level, cardiac output (CO), and oxygen saturation. Oxygen consumption
      is increased by the increase of metabolism, which could be reflected by increase of heart
      rate, blood pressure, and body temperature. If a patient's oxygen supply is decreased or
      oxygen consumption is increased, he will need a higher hemoglobin level to maintain the
      balance. Based on these findings, the investigators hypothesize that index of transfusion
      trigger for patients with hemoglobin level between 7/dL and 10g/dL could be calculated by
      their CO (reflectd by the use of adrenalin), and routine monitoring parameters including
      pulse oximetry and core temperature.

      West China Perioperative Transfusion Score (WCPTS)

      The initial score is 7.

      If a patient's cardiac output (CO) is normal without contineous infusion of adrenalin, or his
      SpO2 is more than 95%, or his core temperature is less than 38℃, he doesn't have any bonus
      point factor, and his score is 7.

      If a patient's CO is maintained in normal range by contineous adrenalin infusion with
      concentration of less than 0.05μg/kg.min, or his SpO2 is 85~94%, or his core temperature is
      38~40℃, his score should be added 1 point for every item mentioned above.

      If a patient's CO is only maintained by contineous adrenalin infusion with concentration of
      more than 0.05μg/kg.min, or his SpO2 is less than 84%, or his core temperature is above 40℃,
      his score should be added 2 points for every item mentioned above.

      For example, if a patient's CO is normal, his SpO2 is more than 95%, and his core temperature
      is 39℃,his WCPTS should be calcultaed as 7 plus 1 (core temperature is 39℃), and his final
      score is 8.

      Here's another example, if a patient's CO is normal, his core temperature is less than 38℃,
      but he has COPD and his SpO2 is less than 84%, his score could be calculated as 7 plus 2(SpO2
      is less than 84%), and his final score is 9.

      Value of SaO2 is evaluated 5min after endotracheal intubation with inhalation of compressive
      air.

      The initial score is 7，and the patient's score is calculated by 7 plus the sum of every item.

      Score 7：To maintain the patient's Hb level not less than 7g/dL

      Score 8：To maintain the patient's Hb level not less than 8g/dL

      Score 9：To maintain the patient's Hb level not less than 9g/dL

      Score 10 or >10：To maintain the patient's Hb level not less than 10g/dL
    
  