
    
      1. Baseline visit prior to initiation of IVF cycle:

           Review nature of study, confirm surgical diagnosis of endometriosis, obtain informed
           consent, confirm absence of exclusion criteria

        2. Standard IVF and preimplantation genetic screening (prior to study entry):

           Subjects will undergo standard ovarian stimulation, monitoring (serum and ultrasound),
           oocyte aspiration, in vitro fertilization (IVF), intracytoplasmic sperm injection
           (ICSI), embryo culture to the blastocyst stage of development, trophectoderm biopsy,
           comprehensive chromosomal screening of embryos (CCS) and embryo vitrification as per
           protocols of CCRM and as determined by the primary CCRM physician.

        3. Initial study entry visit performed within 4 weeks of initial medication administration
           after confirmation of presence of euploid embryo(s): Complete blood count, chemistry,
           renal and liver function panels. Computer generated randomization Obtain serum sample
           for micro RNA evaluation (results will not impact treatment and will only be analyzed
           retrospectively) Cycle Day2-4 serum FSH, estradiol, LH, progesterone, hCG level and
           transvaginal ultrasound examination to evaluate endometrial lining and the
           presence/absence of ovarian cysts All patients will be instructed to avoid pregnancy
           through use of barrier contraception while on study drug

        4. Initial dosing Once screening evaluation has been cleared by the investigator, subject
           will be administered Lupron Depot 3.75 mg intramuscularly on cycle day 2-6 or will
           self-administer elagolix 200 mg orally twice daily beginning 2-6

        5. Week 4 (30 days after initial dosing) Subjects will have repeat FSH, estradiol, LH,
           progesterone, and hCG levels drawn Subjects will be interviewed by study coordinator
           regarding presence or absence adverse outcomes/side effects including incidence and
           severity of hot flushes, vaginal bleeding, headache, nausea and vomiting Unless subject
           wishes to discontinue trial or is experiencing significant adverse events necessitating
           drop-out, patients in Lupron group will receive a second dose of Lupron Depot 3.75 mg
           intramuscularly and those in the elagolix dose will continue 200 mg twice daily oral
           dosing for an additional 30 days which will be dispensed at this visit

        6. Week 8 (60 days after initial dosing) Subjects will have repeat FSH, estradiol, LH,
           progesterone and hCG levels as well as CBC and chem panel including liver function tests
           drawn Serum sample will be obtained for follow-up microarray analysis Transvaginal
           ultrasound examination will be performed to evaluate endometrial thickness and
           presence/absence of ovarian cysts Interview with study coordinator regarding
           presence/absence of adverse events/ side effects as described above

        7. First menses after completion of study drug/ Endometrial preparation for embryo transfer
           Initiation of standard endometrial preparation with exogenous trans-dermal estradiol in
           conjunction with oral and/or intramuscular preparations per standard CCRM protocols and
           as determined by the primary physician to achieve an endometrial thickness of 7.0-15.0
           mm with a trilaminar pattern. Standard monitoring with serial ultrasound examination and
           assessment of serial estradiol, LH and progesterone levels will be performed per CCRM
           protocols. Once appropriate endometrial development has been achieved after a minimum of
           10 days of preparation, both intravaginal and intramuscular progesterone will be added
           to the estradiol with planned embryo transfer on the sixth day of progesterone
           administration

        8. Embryo transfer Vitrified euploid embryo(s) selected for transfer will be warmed on the
           day of transfer which will be performed under ultrasound guidance using standard CCRM
           protocols. No more than 2 euploid embryos may be transferred and all patients will be
           encouraged to undergo a single transfer. Indication for a two embryo transfer will be
           documented. Best quality embryo(s) will be transferred preferentially choosing day 5
           euploid blastocysts over day 6 or 7 euploid blastocysts. Embryos will be graded using
           the classification system of Gardner et al. (see reference section)

        9. Luteal support Subjects will receive standard luteal support with both injectable and
           intravaginal progesterone with doses adjusted per CCRM guidelines.

       10. Pregnancy diagnosis and monitoring Subjects will have an initial serum hCG level
           obtained 9 days after embryo transfer in their local clinic. Estradiol and progesterone
           levels will also be measured if hCG is positive. Repeat hCG level will obtained two days
           after the first level if the first level was positive. First pregnancy ultrasound will
           be obtained 2-2.5 weeks after initial positive hCG level unless there is a clinical
           indication for an earlier evaluation. If all is normal with first pregnancy ultrasound
           examination, a second ultrasound examination to evaluate pregnancy will be performed
           2-2.5 weeks thereafter unless clinical circumstances require earlier evaluation.
           Progesterone and estradiol supplementation will typically be tapered using CCRM
           guidelines beginning at 10 weeks of pregnancy and be discontinued entirely no later than
           the end of the 13th week of pregnancy. Subjects will be referred to their primary
           obstetricians after the second pregnancy ultrasound examination at 8 weeks of pregnancy

       11. Pregnancy outcome data collection The outcomes of all pregnancies shall be obtained from
           the patient and recorded. If live birth, all data required by Center for Disease Control
           will be collected including gestational age, birth weight, immediately diagnosed
           anomalies and pregnancy complications. The gestational age, management, and pathology
           reports (if available) from pregnancy loss, ectopic pregnancy and still birth shall also
           be collected.

      Any pregnancies that occur while on study drugs or which occur after completion of the drugs
      but prior to embryo transfer will be recorded and monitored in the same fashion as described
      above
    
  