
    
      With the increasing prevalence of obesity, diabetes mellitus and the metabolic syndrome in
      the general population, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become the most common
      cause of chronic liver disease. NAFLD refers to a wide spectrum of liver damage, ranging from
      simple steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis as well
      hepatocellular carcinoma.

      Several large cross-sectional population and hospital-based studies involving both diabetic
      patients and patients without diabetes have consistently shown that the prevalence of CKD is
      increased in people with NAFLD . NAFLD and CKD share some common features, including visceral
      obesity,T2DM, hypertension and metabolic syndrome . The possible link between NAFLD and CKD
      has recently attracted considerable scientific interest. Establishing a link between liver
      and kidney injury would enhance the earlier identification of kidney disease and allow for
      the selection of treatments targeting both liver and kidney disease with potentially relevant
      preventive and therapeutic implications . The ultimate goal of identifying patients with
      established but also with early kidney damage is to prevent disease progression and minimize
      complications, to promote quality of life and improve survival .

      Many recent studies, including the meta-analysis from Musso et al. suggest that individuals
      with NAFLD should be screened for CKD by estimation of GFR and urinalysis even in the absence
      of classical risk factors for CKD, particularly if NASH and/or advanced fibrosis are
      suspected . Early recognition of impaired kidney function in patients with NAFLD, may also
      allow drug dosage adjustment, thus preventing drug accumulation especially in those being
      treated for obesity associated co-morbidities.

      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is defined by the presence of reduced glomerular filtration rate
      (GFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2)and/or evidence of kidney damage (usually indicated by albuminuria or
      proteinuria) for 3 or more months . On the other hand kidney failure is defined as a GFR of
      less than 15 mL/min per 1.73 m2,or the need for treatment with dialysis or transplantation .
      In clinical practice the most common tests for CKD diagnosis include eGFR estimated from the
      serum creatinine concentration and albuminuria from the urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio
      (ACR). The importance of eGFR and albuminuria as diagnostic tools becomes obvious by their
      use in classification of CKD patients in stages .On the basis of GFR the disease is
      classified into five stages:more than 90 mL/min per 1.73 m2(stage 1), 60-89 mL/min per1.73
      m2(stage 2), 30-59 mL/min per 1.73 m2(stage 3), more specific 45-59 mL/min per 1.73 m2(stage
      3a) and 30-44 mL/min per1.73 m2(stage 3b), 15-29 mL/min per 1.73 m2(stage 4) and less than 15
      mL/min per 1.73 m2(stage 5) .

      Albuminuria as a marker of kidney damage is characterized by increased glomerular
      permeability and urine ACR > 30 mg/g. The normal urinary ACR in young adults is <10 mg/g.
      Urine ACR categories 10-29, 30-300and >300 mg are high normal, high, and very high,
      respectively.Urine ACR >2000 mg/g is accompanied by signs and symptoms of nephrotic syndrome
      (low serum albumin, edema, and high serum cholesterol)
    
  