
    
      Patients with cirrhosis who had spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) and who are admitted
      from March 2006 to a single university hospital were evaluated for inclusion in the study.
      The study was approved by the investigational review boar, and patients gave written informed
      consent to participate. Inclusion criteria were a cytological diagnosis of SBP, in the
      absence of findings suggestive of secondary peritonitis; age between 18 and 80 years; no
      antibiotic treatment within one week before the diagnosis of spontaneous bacterial
      peritonitis (except for prophylactic treatment with norfloxacin or
      trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole); the absence of other infections, shock, gastrointestinal
      bleeding, grade 3 or 4 hepatic encephalopathy, cardiac failure, and any disease (e.g.,
      advanced neoplasia) that could affect the short term prognosis; a serum creatinine level of
      no more than 3 mg per deciliter 265 µmol per liter); and the absence of potential causes of
      dehydration (such as diarrhea or an intense response to diuretic treatment) within one week
      before the diagnosis of peritonitis.

      Patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups: standard regimen (SR) vs dose reduced
      regimen (DRR). Randomization was performed independently with the use of sealed envelopes
      containing the treatment assignments, which were based on random numbers generated by
      computer. All the investigators were unaware of the treatment assignments.

      Physical examination and routine laboratory tests (blood-cell counts and liver and renal
      tests) and measurement of plasma rennin activity were performed on day 1 of therapy in all
      patients. Laboratory measurements were repeated every three days until discharge. Rennin
      activity was repeated on day 7. Intravenous cefotaxime was given daily in doses that varied
      accordingly to creatinine. Albumin was given at a dose of 1.5 or 1 g per kilogram of body
      weight on day 1, followed by 1 or 0.5 g per kilogram on day 3 (SR vs DRR). Albumin was
      diluted in saline solution until total volume of 1000 ml on day 1 and 500 ml on day 3.
      Albumin was prepared in a bottle with same color, volume and aspect in both groups. Diuretic
      treatment was not give until day 5 of treatment and therapeutic paracentesis > 3 liters was
      not allowed until the infection had resolved. Response to cefotaxime was considered when the
      polymorphonuclear-cell count in ascitic fluid reduced by at least 50%. Antibiotic treatment
      was modified when no response to cefotaxim occurred according to the in vitro susceptibility
      of the isolated organism or was modified empirically in patients with negative blood and
      ascitic-fluid cultures. Prophylactic norfloxacin or trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole therapy was
      initiated after the resolution of infection and was maintained throughout the follow-up
      period. Renal failure at the time of enrollment was diagnosed when the serum creatinine level
      was more than 1.5 mg per deciliter. Renal impairment was defined as a nonreversible
      deterioration of renal function during hospitalization. In patients without renal failure at
      enrollment, renal impairment was diagnosed when serum creatinine level increased by more than
      50 percent of the pretreatment value, to level higher than 1.5 mg per deciliter. In patients
      with preexisting renal failure, an increase in serum creatinine level by more than 50 percent
      from base line was required for a diagnosis of renal impairment. After the resolution of
      infection, patients with tense ascites were treated with total paracentesis and the
      administration of albumin, regardless of treatment assignment, followed by sodium restriction
      and diuretic therapy, and those with moderate ascites were treated only with sodium
      restriction and diuretics. After discharge from the hospital, patients were followed until 90
      days after enrollment.
    
  