
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux is considered to be a common cause of cricopharyngeal dysfunction and
      Zenker's diverticulum. In patients with severe symptoms of dysphagia, we perform a
      cricopharyngeal myotomy to release the tension at the upper esophageal sphincter. There has
      been some speculation that if the upper esophageal sphincter is severed, there could be an
      increase in reflux into the pharyngeal and laryngeal structures. The current gold standard
      for measuring laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR) is 24 hour monitoring with a dual-electrode pH
      catheter. A newer device specifically measures LPR by sitting in the nasopharynx. The probe
      has been verified as accurate by several studies, with some postulating that since its
      recording intervals are closer together, it may be more accurate for measuring LPR. We aim to
      measure LPR with the new pH probe in patients with gastroesophageal reflux before and after
      cricopharyngeal myotomy to see if LPR becomes present or worsens after surgery.

      All patients presenting with cricopharyngeal dysfunction or Zenker's diverticulum with a
      diagnosis or symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux or laryngopharyngeal reflux will be asked to
      participate in the study. If they meet the inclusion criteria, agree to participate, and wish
      to undergo surgery for their dysphagia, a baseline 24 hr laryngopharyngeal reflux study will
      be obtained using the Restech probe. Additionally, baseline dysphagia and reflux
      questionnaires will be obtained and an exam with flexible nasopharyngoscopy will be done.
      This exam is considered part of a standard exam for this condition and would be performed
      even if patients were not part of the research study. The surgical procedure will treat their
      dysphagia no differently than if they were not participating in the study. The patient will
      have their standard postoperative visit at 4 weeks, where their reflux and dysphagia symptoms
      will be assessed with questionnaires and a reflux finding score will be calculated via
      nasopharyngoscopy. At 3 months, an additional 24 laryngopharyngeal reflux study will be
      conducted with the Restech probe, and the patient will be seen in clinic for their final
      postoperative visit shortly thereafter. The questionnaires and the flexible nasopharyngoscopy
      for a reflux finding score will be repeated. The nasopharyngoscopy exam is standard of care
      for this patient visit. The patient would undergo the same number of nasopharyngoscopies even
      if they were not part of the study. During the study, if the patient is already on medication
      for reflux, they will be taken off their medication for 7 days in order to better detect
      changes in their LPR before and after cricopharyngeal myotomy. This is the standard protocol
      for patients being tested for LPR by the 24 hr pH probe study with the Restech probe. The
      patients will serve as their own controls as we are looking for significant increases in the
      amount of laryngopharyngeal reflux after cricopharyngeal myotomy. The data will be maintained
      in a database until the end of the study.
    
  