
    
      Glaucoma is the second leading cause of blindness in the US. The diagnosis and monitoring of
      glaucoma are important problems, not only because of its prevalence, but also because of its
      silent and irreversible nature. However all of the current diagnostic tests have serious
      limitations. Although elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) is a risk factor, most glaucoma
      patients actually have IOP within normal range. Visual field (VF) tests are poorly
      reproducible, and a series of 3 tests are needed to establish diagnosis or confirm
      progression. Although ophthalmoscopic examination can detect optic nerve head (ONH) and nerve
      fiber layer (NFL) defects, reliability in diagnosis and tracking is hampered by its
      subjective and semi-quantitative nature. Although quantitative imaging with optical coherence
      tomography (OCT), scanning laser polarimetry (SLP), and confocal scanning laser
      ophthalmoscopy (cSLO) can more objectively detect ONH and NFL defects, their diagnostic
      accuracies are still not sufficient to be relied on alone for diagnostic screening. It has
      been estimated that about half of glaucoma patients in the US do not know that they have the
      disease. Thus, there is a need for improvements in glaucoma diagnostic technologies. One
      approach that deserves further exploration is blood flow imaging.

      There is much circumstantial evidence that vascular factors play important roles in the
      pathophysiology of glaucoma:

        1. Systemic vasculopathy increases the risk of developing glaucoma. Hypertension, diabetes,
           and vasospastic conditions are all known risk factors. Normal tension glaucoma has also
           been linked to peripheral endothelial dysfunction and erectile dysfunction. This
           suggests that poor circulation may be a causative factor or a facilitative factor that
           predisposes the ONH to damage by elevated IOP.

        2. Decrease or fluctuation in ocular perfusion pressure was identified as an independent
           risk factor for progression in the Collaborative Normal-Tension Glaucoma Study and other
           studies. Nocturnal hypotension is also a risk factor for glaucoma progression.

        3. Medications that improve ocular perfusion appear to have protective effects that are not
           explained by the lowering of IOP.

        4. Optic disc hemorrhage and peripapillary atrophy are both associated with accelerated
           glaucoma progression. These finding may support a role for focal ischemia.

        5. Animal experiments show that increased IOP causes decreased ONH blood flow in the
           presence of low systemic blood pressure.

      Despite the evidence, the management of glaucoma remains focused on the lowering of IOP, the
      one causative factor that responds to treatment and can be easily measured. Blood flow
      measurement is a research topic, but currently has no clinical role in the diagnosis,
      prognostic evaluation, or treatment of glaucoma. Therapies aimed at improving ocular
      circulation cannot be effectively developed without a practical method for quantitative and
      reproducible evaluation of ONH and retinal perfusion. Thus there is a great need to develop
      better technology for the evaluation of ocular circulation.

      Using high-speed OCT systems, we have developed new methods to image and measure optic nerve
      head (ONH) and retinal blood flow. Preliminary results showed that VF loss was more highly
      correlated with retinal blood flow as measured by OCT than any neural structure measured by
      OCT or other imaging modality. Accordingly, the goal of the proposed project is to improve
      the diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of glaucoma by further developing novel functional
      OCT measurements using ultrahigh-speed (70-100 kHz) OCT technology.

      Retinal blood flow, ONH circulation, optic disc rim volume, peripapillary nerve fiber layer
      volume, and macular ganglion cell complex volume are all pieces of the same glaucoma puzzle.
      This project will develop novel imaging methods that allow us to look at the whole picture
      using one tool - ultrahigh-speed OCT.
    
  