
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the acute effect of wearing a Bionic Leg on:

        1. The Physiological Cost Index (PCI) and Biomechanical measures (gait, postural sway) of
           stroke patients compared to when they do not wear a Bionic Leg.

        2. Whether after wearing a Bionic Leg for 30-minutes during a training session influences
           the Physiological Cost Index (PCI) and any Biomechanical measures (gait, postural sway)
           of stroke patients

      Individuals who volunteer to participate in the present study will be asked to engage in 4
      sessions in the laboratory. Firstly, participants will be asked to take part in two
      familiarisation sessions, which will be delivered on two separate occasions. These sessions
      will last one-hour each and will allow participants (stroke patients) to become accustomed to
      wearing and using the Bionic Leg. Sessions will consist of sit to stand, walking and stairs
      exercises, which will allow individuals to become familiarised with the Bionic Leg device.
      They will then be asked to complete 6x 10m walks to identify their self-selected walking
      pace. In session 3, individuals will be randomly assigned to either use the Bionic Leg, or
      not. Participants will initially be asked to stay seated and rested for 5 minutes so a
      resting heart rate can be taken. If participants are assigned to the Bionic Leg condition
      first, they will conduct all the following tests with the Bionic leg on, however, if not,
      they will perform all the tests without wearing the Bionic Leg. They will then partake in a
      3-minute walk test, which will include walking at their self-selected pace (found in session
      1) for 3 minutes. Following this a 15-minute rest period will be taken, and 3 x timed-up and
      go tests will be conducted (see outcome measures). Next, participants will be asked to take
      part in a balance test, and then a 6-minute walk test (see outcome measures). Following a
      15-minute rest, participants will complete 10 x sit-to-stands.

      During the testing session where participants are not wearing the Bionic Leg, once they have
      finished all of the above testing, participants will engage in further testing during this
      session. Following a 15-minute recovery period participants will take -part in a 30-minute
      training session whilst wearing the Bionic Leg. The training programme will ask participants
      to engage in a variety of walking, balance and stair exercises. Following this, individuals
      will be given a further 15-min rest period, and the original tests (PCI, TUG, postural sway,
      6-min walk, sit-to-stand) which were detailed above, would be re-assessed. These tests will
      be undertaken whilst not wearing the Bionic Leg. It is anticipated that this session will
      last approximately 2 hours.
    
  