
    
      Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a validated procedure, used
      in many French and international centers for the treatment of severe forms of Parkinson's
      disease (PD). The improvement of parkinsonian motor symptoms by stimulation of the STN is 50
      to 80% on average. The main advantage of DBS is that the surgery has low morbidity and
      mortality, it is adaptable to the patient's symptoms and that its effect is reversible. This
      treatment is now a routine and more than 85,000 patients worldwide have benefited from the
      installation of this system. Since 1997, this treatment is available to patients followed in
      the Pitié Salpêtrière (GHPS).

      The quality of the implantation of stimulating electrodes into deep brain structures to
      achieve, particularly in the NST for PD patients, is crucial to obtain an excellent result.
      Accurate identification of these deep nuclei and especially the NST on MRI of each patient to
      be operated is an essential step and directly affects the smooth running of the surgery and
      the final clinical outcome.

      The visualization of the NST on MRI remains difficult, variable between patients, requiring
      specific sequences or even sequences dedicated to this activity. In GHPS the investigators
      opted for the realization of an efficient particular sequence for viewing the NST but the
      latter has several disadvantages the first being its duration. Indeed, the patient needs to
      keep still, head fixed for 40 minutes, and this major constraint is sometimes impossible due
      to the importance of abnormal movements. The second is the variability between patients with
      visualization being sometimes inconspicuous. The third is the susceptibility of this sequence
      to flow artifacts at the level of the third ventricle that significantly disrupt viewing NST.

      The new MRI techniques available for some years, especially at 3 Tesla should allow better
      visualization of the deep nuclei of the brain and NST in particular. Indeed, the high-field
      MRI has become an indispensable tool for both define the morphological and structural
      features but also functional and metabolic deep nuclei of the brain, particularly the NST.

      The accuracy of preoperative anatomic targeting in stereotactic neurosurgery will improve
      with the use of high-field MRI. However, several new issues and inherent in that high-field
      MRI should be evaluated before the images can be used directly.

      The chosen sequence must be short to be feasible, minimizing patient discomfort, and
      evaluated several patients to ensure the low interindividual variability. In addition, the
      quality of the display on all of the sections should provide a reliable three-dimensional
      information. Finally, the quality of targeting and its possible improvement should be
      checked.
    
  