
    
      Particulate matter (PM) is a leading cause of respiratory tract and cardiovascular disease in
      the United States and world-wide. Wood smoke particles (WSP) derived from wild land and other
      fires account for a significant fraction of ambient air PM. Health effects associated with
      WSP include acute bronchitis, asthma exacerbation, pneumonia, cough and systemic
      inflammation. While these effects are seen in both healthy and asthmatic individuals, many
      studies indicate that asthmatics have increased susceptibility to the effects of WSP. Though
      WSP-related effects on cardiovascular (CV) disease are less well documented, WSP do
      contribute to PM levels, and PM exposure is linked to CV health effects (changes in heart
      rate variability, vascular reactivity, and lipid profiles). WSP from wild land fires can
      cause abrupt increases in ambient air PM 2.5 levels (mean levels ~250µg/m3, peak levels >1000
      µg/m3). Avoidance of rapidly increasing PM air pollution due to wild land fires is not
      feasible, as many people cannot leave the burn region.

      This is a screening protocol to ensure that there ultimately will be adequate subjects
      available for testing gamma tocopherol in an appropriate population. It will identify
      volunteers who have a ≥10% increase in %PMNs following WSP challenge over baseline values
      (SA1). This screening procedure will identify various risk factors that may increase risk of
      experiencing airway inflammation and related adverse health outcomes following WSP exposure.
      The GSTM1- genotype is a risk factor that has been extensively explored. Researchers at the
      CEMALB have reported that GSTM1- healthy volunteers (HVs) have increased inflammatory and
      systemic responses to O3 and various components of PM (LPS70 and Diesel exhaust particles).
      Using the 10% increase in %PMNs to define PMN responsiveness, results showed that GSTM1-
      volunteers had a 13 fold higher risk of being PMN responders to 0.06 ppm O3. When examining
      %PMNs as a continuous measure, it was observed that GSTM1- volunteers have increased airway
      PMN response O3 as well as increased airway and systemic PMN response to LPS70.

      The researchers at the CEMALB have also examined various response features of 27 individuals
      (13 healthy, 4 allergic non asthmatics, 10 allergic asthmatics) defined as being responsive
      (R, n=18) or non-responsive (NR, n=9) to O3 based on airway PMN influx (%PMNs). Among the
      factors explored were inflammatory responses, baseline characteristics and gene expression
      profiles in recovered sputum cells. The researchers have also observed that within
      individuals, PMN response to O3 and LPS correlate, and anticipate that WSP will induce
      inflammatory responses via mechanisms similar to those for these pollutants.
    
  