
    
      This study seeks to enroll women with breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy to
      evaluate the efficacy of an investigational imaging technology known as Diffuse Optical
      Spectroscopy Imaging (DOSI) in predicting patient response to chemotherapy treatment. DOSI is
      a noninvasive imaging method that uses harmless near-infrared light using simple wearable
      probes held against the skin by transparent dressings to predict tumor metabolic activity. It
      uses nonionizing radiation, requires no external contrast agent and uses low light exposure
      to human tissue. DOSI scans can be performed frequently at the bedside in settings such as a
      doctor's office or infusion center.

      DOSI has already shown promise in monitoring breast cancer patients undergoing preoperative
      chemotherapy. Several groups have demonstrated optical changes predictive of response in the
      course of weeks to months of treatment. The investigators group has begun to show that DOSI
      measurements during drug infusions and at early time-points (first 24 hours) correlate with
      tumor final pathological response. While this data is provocative, significantly more work is
      needed to confirm that early time-points are predictive in different treatment groups and
      tumor molecular subtypes.

      In this study, breast cancer patients will receive DOSI scans at a subset or all of the
      following time-points: baseline, during drug infusion, early therapy, mid-therapy and
      post-therapy. DOSI results will be compared to standard of care pathology results determined
      after surgery. Additionally, the investigators will correlate DOSI parameters with any
      additional biopsy specimens taken during treatment (typically for patients on adaptive
      treatment trials). Each DOSI scan will take about 30-60 minutes/ session, although infusion
      measurements will take longer. DOSI can potentially help doctors to gain information
      necessary to make evidence-based changes in treatment strategies of individual patients. The
      investigators long-term goal is to provide oncologists with a relatively simple, risk-free
      bedside tool that can help predict response early, thereby maximizing therapeutic response
      and minimizing unnecessary toxicity.

      A cohort of 10 additional patients with breast cancer who are not receiving neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy (NAC) who will only be measured at baseline has been created. Complete
      characterization of baseline properties in patients is essential for understanding subsequent
      changes from baseline in response to chemotherapy. Adding an additional 10 patients who are
      not receiving NAC to be enrolled will allow for better characterization of baseline
      properties, which in turn will allow for a better understanding of the changes in properties
      seen in those patients who are undergoing NAC.
    
  