
    
      Primary Objective: To evaluate the molecular changes which occur in human breast cancer
      tissue after short-term exposure to dasatinib.

      Secondary Objectives:

      " To evaluate the molecular effects of short term dasatinib exposure in peripheral blood and
      on SRC (an oncogene) and EPHA2 signaling pathways in non-tumor cells (peripheral blood).

      " To correlate the pharmacokinetic parameters with molecular changes detected in breast
      cancer tissues and peripheral blood " To evaluate the tolerability and safety of short-term
      exposure to daily dose of 100 mg twice daily of dasatinib administration

      Study Design:

      Eligible patients will be registered to receive dasatinib 100 mg orally twice daily starting
      within 8 days from the time of registration and continuing to the time of the definitive
      surgery.

      Duration of Treatment " No more than 8 days should elapse from the time of registration to
      the time of the first dose of dasatinib " No more than 28 days should elapse from the time of
      the initial diagnosis to the time of the first dose of dasatinib " Minimum duration of
      treatment with dasatinib is 14 days with a minimum of 10 consecutive days of treatment
      immediately prior to the definitive surgery " Dasatinib shall be administered until the day
      prior to the definitive surgery " No more than 45 days should elapse from the time of the
      initial diagnosis to the time of the definitive surgery i.e. maximum duration of treatment
      with dasatinib is 45 days.

      Core Biopsies: Tumor sample must be collected at the time of the initial diagnosis (or in a
      subsequent procedure) either by core needle or incisional biopsy. Excisional biopsy will not
      be allowed. A minimum of 4 core biopsies (or the equivalent with an incisional biopsy) is
      required to perform the molecular analyses. Once the core biopsies have been removed, the
      samples must be immediately snap-frozen, then stored in liquid nitrogen or at -70 to -80 C at
      the site. Samples will be shipped to the UCLA laboratory within 30 days of collection.

      Tumor Tissue at the time of Definitive Surgery: A second tumor sample (post-dasatinib) must
      be collected at the time of the patient's surgery in the same manner as above.

      Unstained paraffin slides: While most analyses will be performed on the frozen tissue, some
      molecular testing may require paraffin embedded tissue. The pathology department will be
      asked to send 4, 5 micron thick, unstained paraffin slides of each the pretreatment
      (diagnosis biopsy) and from the definitive surgery (8 slides in total) Definitive Surgery:
      The type of definitive surgery performed will be according to the institution's guidelines.
      In the event that a sentinel node biopsy procedure is performed, the dye can be injected into
      the tumor bed after tumor removal. The dye should not be injected into the tumor itself as
      this may alter the tissue and affect the molecular analyses.

      Pharmacokinetic plasma samples and peripheral blood mononuclear cells samples will be
      collected at the following time points (5 samples each):

        1. Baseline, prior to the first dose of dasatinib. Timing of collection: anytime between
           registration and the first dose of dasatinib.

        2. Last day of dasatinib (= on the day prior to surgery) Timing of Collection: patient
           should be asked to come into the clinic before taking her last morning dose of
           dasatinib. Blood can be drawn immediately prior to her taking the tablet in the clinic.

        3. Last day of dasatinib (= on the day prior to surgery) Timing of Collection: 2-3 hours
           after the last morning dose

        4. Last day of dasatinib (= on the day prior to surgery) Timing of Collection: 6-8m hours
           after the last morning dose

        5. On the day of surgery Timing of Collection: as close as possible to the surgery (+/- 1
           hour) Patients will be requested to document the date and time of each dose consumed as
           well as any details concerning a drug holiday in the patient diary.

      Samples from all patients are required to all for the relatively large variability in
      dasatinib pharmacokinetics (interpatient coefficient of variation is approximately 65 %) The
      samples will be centrifuged, processed, and shipped. Results from the pharmacokinetics
      analysis will be correlated with the molecular data.

      Number of Patients: 60 evaluable patients

      Statistical Analysis:

      The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate molecular changes occurring in breast
      cancer tissue following short-term dasatinib administration. Based on pre-clinical data
      supporting the role of Src in "triple-negative" breast cancer, the study will aim for 50% of
      evaluable patients be of this subtype defined as being negative for ER, PR, and HER2
      amplification. In cases where HER2 amplification is not determined by FISH at diagnosis, HER2
      staining by IHC of 0 or 1+ will be considered negative for enrolment purposes. After 30, 40,
      and 50 evaluable patients have been accrued, enrolment may be adjusted to reach the goal of
      30 triple-negative patients.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to compare the pre- and post-treatment molecular
      findings. A statistical Analysis Plan (SAO) will be finalized at the latest prior to database
      lock and the analysis details will be provided in the SAP. Descriptive statistics will be
      used to describe the incidence of adverse events and toxicity, as well as the number of
      patients in who the study medication was permanently stopped.

      Stopping Rules:

      Enrolment is completed according to protocol planned sample size, and assessments and
      requirements are completed as per protocol, the stated objectives of the trial are achieved,
      recommendation by DMC. Patients may withdraw from the trial at any time at their own request,
      or they may be withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the investigator or sponsor if
      continuation of the study would be detrimental to the patient's well being, such as objective
      disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, noncompliance, second primary malignancy, or
      logistical considerations
    
  