
    
      Working hypothesis and aims:

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of restrictive versus standard
      intraoperative fluid regimen on cardiopulmonary mordibity and mortality after VATS for lung
      resection. Our study hypothesis is that restrictive intraoperative fluid administration in
      patients undergoing VATS, will lead to better outcomes compared to a liberal fluid regimen.

      Methods:

      After obtaining informed consent, patients will be randomly assigned to one of two
      groups-liberal-protocol group (LG) or restricted-protocol group (RG). Anesthetic and surgical
      management will be performed similarly and according to standards for both groups, with one
      exception: patients in the RG group will receive 2 ml/kg•hr whereas patients in the RL group
      will receive 8 ml/kg•hr of Ringer Lactate (RL) solution throughout the intraoperative period.
      Hemodynamic changes during this period will be treated pharmacologically unless indicated
      otherwise. Blood loss, in both groups, will be replaced with RL solution in a 3:1 volume
      replacement, and blood and/or blood products will be transfused when required.
      Postoperatively, pain and fluid management will be standardized for both groups, according to
      departmental routines. Patient assessment will be performed by a blinded assessor. The
      primary endpoints of the study will combine: the incidence of post-operative complications
      (pulmonary, cardiovascular, others), re-intubations, and readmitions to the ICU during
      primary hospitalization; number of patients readmitted to the hospital within 30 days of
      surgery.

      The secondary endpoints will include length of hospital stay, differences in hematocrit,
      urea, creatinine concentrations and oxygen saturation immediately postoperatively, in the
      first and third postoperative days and with discharge, and the number of patients receiving
      transfusion of blood and blood products; time to extubation, time to sit/stand/walk/eat/drink
      (recovery data).
    
  