
    
      Over the course of the year, we have observed that recombinant leptin has the potential to
      act as an insulin-sensitizer in subjects with lipoatrophy and leptin deficiency. The exact
      mechanisms of this effect are not known. We would like to test whether leptin will work as an
      insulin-sensitizer in a situation where the mechanism of insulin resistance is known, namely
      in a situation where there is a known defect on the insulin receptor. This will allow us to
      learn if leptin can overcome a receptor defect by activating some of the down-stream
      molecules in insulin signaling cascade.

      We would like to begin exploring this question in two patients with mutations on their
      insulin receptor, who are in need of improved treatment. In fact, in these two patients, the
      conventional therapeutic options have not provided adequate control of blood sugar levels.
      Furthermore, the circulating leptin concentrations in these two patients are lower than the
      15th percentile of normal population. Therefore, a strategy to achieve physiological
      concentrations of leptin hormone using recombinant leptin (A100, recombinant methionyl-human
      leptin) will be justified.

      We also plan to keep the initial observation period short. Since we have observed
      insulin-sensitizing effects of leptin in lipoatrophy within 4 months, we will limit the
      initial treatment period to 4 months. The regime will be similar to the regimen used in
      lipoatrophic patients. The starting dose will be 50% of replacement dose and this will be
      incrementally increased to 200% replacement dose within the course of two months. The
      medication will be administered subcutaneously in two divided doses. Plasma glucose
      concentrations and HbA1c are designated as primary outcome measures. Data on the effects of
      leptin hormone on appetite, insulin secretion and sensitivity and other pituitary hormones
      will also be collected as pilot data. At the end of 4 months, we will make a decision to
      continue therapy and to broaden the study by opening recruitment to other similar patients.
    
  