
    
      Introduction Preeclampsia is a multifactorial disease that is responsible of important
      adverse maternal and perinatal outcomes. Recently, it has been suggested that soluble
      fms-like tyrosine kinase 1, s-Flt1, induces preeclampsia-like phenotype in experimental
      models and circulates at elevated levels in human preeclampsia.

      The aim of our study is to see whether removal of s-Flt1 may improve perinatal death in women
      with very early severe preeclampsia at less than 26 weeks' gestation Patients and methods
      Phase II trial. Women with singleton pregnancy having severe preeclampsia at 23-256/7 weeks'
      gestation. Women under 18 years, with multiples, or severe fetal growth restriction (less
      than 5th centile), or abnormal fetal heart rate, or maternal complications (abruption,
      eclampsia, HELLP syndrome, pulmonary edema, DIC, liver hematoma) are excluded from the study.
      After blood pressure and maternal stabilization, women are approached for information and if
      they agree, to sign the trial consent.

      They will then be admitted to the department of Renal intensive care of Tenon Hospital. LDL
      apheresis will be performed twice weekly, during 90 minutes per session, using the DALI 750
      Kit and the ART device (Fresenius). sFlt1 will be measured in peripheral blood before and
      after each session. The treatment will end when delivery is indicated (whether because of
      threatening complications or because a viable term of pregnancy is achieved).

      Primary endpoint or success of the procedure: a live born baby alive at 6 month after birth.

      Secondary endpoints: days of pregnancy prolongation, blood pressure during apheresis, fetal
      heart rate monitoring after apheresis, maternal levels of s-Flt1, PlGF, and s-endoglin.

      Maternal adverse outcomes: eclampsia, HELLP syndrome, DIC, pulmonary edema, abruption
      placentae, renal failure.

      Neonatal outcome: gestational age at delivery, birth weight, Apgar score, patent ductus
      arteriosus, RDS, PVL, IVH, NEC, days in NICU.

      Statistical procedure Simon minimax plan; P0: 60%, P1, 90%, alpha error: 5%, beta power; 90%.
      First step: number 8 patients. If success equal or less than 5, the study is stopped.

      Second step: if success of 6 or more, the study is continued for 9 more patients.

      Overall, a maximum of 17 patients will be included. The final success of extracorporeal
      removal of s-Flt1 will be considered if 14 or more babies will be alive at 6 months after
      birth
    
  