
    
      This study is for adult patients with Diamond Blackfan Anemia who are currently being
      transfused every 3- 4 weeks.

      The drug will be given as a subcutaneous injection within one of three dose levels. The first
      dose level (0.1 mg/kg) will include 3 subjects who will receive the same dose of the drug
      monthly for a total of 4 doses, as long as there are no dose- limiting toxicities (DLTs). A
      Dose limiting toxicity is defined as inability to deliver the scheduled doses because of
      toxicity >/= Grade 3, according to NCI Toxicity Grading Scale.

      Once all 3 subjects have received and tolerated the low dose level, the next level will open
      (0.3 mg/kg)to 3 new subjects. Subjects will be monitored closely for response and side
      effects.

      If more than 2 subjects have a dose limiting toxicity in the first dose level, then dose
      level -1 (0.05 mg/kg)will open, enrolling 3 more subjects. If more than 2 subjects at dose
      level -1, have dose limiting toxicities, the study will be discontinued. If there are no
      additional dose limiting toxicities, dose level -1 will be the maximum tolerated dose.

      There are a total of 3 dose levels, not including dose level -1. Once the maximum tolerated
      dose has been reached, up to a total of 10 additional subjects will be enrolled.

      Protocol Amendment: The protocol has been amended to include an additional enrollment of 20
      subjects with two additional dose levels of Sotatercept (0.075 mg/kg and 0.100 mg/kg ) to be
      given with or without a prednisone boost.

      Efficacy will be measured by response. A complete response will be determined if the subject
      no longer requires transfusion, while on study drug. A partial response will be measured by a
      reduction by 50% in need for transfusion.

      Treatment modifications will be made based on evidence of side effects. Dose- escalation will
      be performed only if no side effects are reported and no efficacy is evidenced. Treatment
      will be stopped if hemoglobin is >12 gm/dl and/ or any >/+ grade 3 adverse event is related
      to sotatercept.

      Study assessments will include:

        -  Physical exam (height, weight, vital signs and blood pressure)at screening, day 1 of
           each cycle and monthly for 3 months of follow up period as well as at study
           discontinuation.

        -  Additional blood pressure monitoring at day 1 of each cycle and weekly there after
           through cycle 4, monthly in follow up period and at study discontinuation.

        -  Karnofsky performance status at screening, day 1 of cycle 2 and day 1 of monthly follow
           up period for 3 months and study discontinuation.

        -  CBC reticulocyte count and ANC will be collected at day 1 of each cycle and weekly there
           after through cycle 4, monthly in follow up period and at study discontinuation.

        -  Blood chemistry, liver and kidney function will be assessed at screening, day 1 and 15
           of cycle 1, day 1 of cycle 2, 3, 4 month 1 in follow up and at study discontinuation.

        -  Blood for iron status (serum iron, transferrin and %, ferritin) will be collected during
           the screening period, and at month 1 of the follow-up period as well as study
           discontinuation.

        -  Folate and B12 levels will be assessed during the screening period at day 1 of cycle 3
           and again at study discontinuation.

        -  Urinalysis (creatinine, protein),at screening, day 15 of cycle 1, day 1 of cycles 2, 3,
           and 4 monthly during follow-up and at study discontinuation.

        -  Serum erythropoietin at screening, day 15 of cycle 1, day 1 of cycle 3, monthly during
           follow-up and at study discontinuation.

        -  FSH & LH (everyone), DHEA & testosterone (males only), estrogen & estradiol (females
           only)at screening, day 1 of cycles 2, 3, and 4, monthly during follow- up period and at
           study discontinuation.

        -  EKG & ECHO at screening, day 1 of cycle 3 first month of follow-up period and at study
           discontinuation

        -  Dexa Scan at screening, day 1 of monthly follow-up period and at study discontinuation

        -  Transfusion assessment at screening, day 1, 8, 15 and 22 of cycle 1, day 1 and 15 of
           cycles 2, 3, and 4, monthly during follow-up period and at study discontinuation.

        -  Response assessment at day 8, 15, 22 of cycle 1, day 1 and 15 of cycles2, 3, and 4,
           monthly for 3 months during follow-up period and at study discontinuation

        -  Adverse events, concomitant therapies to be assessed at day 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycle 1,
           day 1 and 15 of cycles 2, 3, and 4, monthly during follow-up period and at study
           discontinuation

        -  Drug administration day 1 of cycles 1, 2, 3, and 4.
    
  