the role of aldosterone and vasopressin in the posturalchanges in renal excretion in normal subjectsand patients with idiopathic edemathe effects of the upright posture(leisurely walking for 2 hours) on half-hourly urine volume, and excretion ofsodium and creatinine were studied in13 normal subjects and 13 patients withidiopathic edema, while they drank 150or 300 ml. of 0.14 per cent sodiumchloride solution every half hour.  whenthe 2 hours of walking were comparedwith a preceding recumbent period of4 hours, both groups were found to showa significant antidiuresis upright.  theadministration of ethanol during the lasthalf hour of recumbency abolished thefall in urine flow and in free water clear-ance during the first hour of walking inthe normal subjects and significantly re-duced this fall in the patients withedema.  sodium excretion in the normalsubjects was slightly but not significantlylower when upright than when recum-bent, but in the edematous patients wassignificantly lower when upright and fellprogressively over the 2 hour period.  ad-ministration of spironolactone or d-amphetamine increased sodium excretionduring recumbency in both groups butincreased sodium excretion upright onlyin the edematous patients to equal thatof the normal subjects.  creatinine excre-tion was not changed in either group byposture or drug therapy.  similar studieswere performed on 5 patients with un-treated diabetes insipidus and on 6 pa-tients with adrenal insufficiency treatedwith hydrocortisone alone.  lack of al-dosterone (in adrenal insufficiency) didnot increase the amount of sodium ex-creted above that of normal subjects inrecumbency and did not prevent the oc-currence of significant sodium retentionin the upright posture.  however, lackof adh (in diabetes insipidus) delayedthe antidiuresis upright for 30 minutes.the results indicate that adh releaseis probably responsible for the reductionin urine volume during the first 30 min-utes after assuming the upright posture,but not thereafter.  the excessive magni-tude of the orthostatic antidiuresis inidiopathic edema probably results froma cause other than adh release, since itis not completely overcome by ethanol.reduced na excretion during 2 hours inthe upright posture can occur in theabsence of circulating aldosterone, butthe abnormal magnitude of the na re-tention in the patients with idiopathicedema probably results from hyperal-dosteronism.