
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of imatinib mesylate after completion of
      radiation in children with newly diagnosed poor prognosis brainstem gliomas. (Phase I, strata
      I closed to accrual as of 5/28/04.) II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      imatinib mesylate in children with recurrent high-grade intracranial glioma stratified
      according to the use of enzyme-inducing anticonvulsant drugs (EIACDs). (Phase I, strata IIA
      and IIB closed to accrual as of 8/15/03 and 8/15/04, respectively) III. Determine the safety
      and efficacy of this drug in patients with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic brainstem
      gliomas. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore neuroimaging and biological correlatives of therapeutic activity of this regimen
      in these patients. (Phase I, all strata closed to accrual as of 8/15/04) II. Determine the
      pharmacokinetics of these regimens in these patients overall and by enzyme-inducing
      anticonvulsant drugs (EIACDs) (Phase I, all strata closed to accrual as of 8/15/04.) III.
      Estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of newly diagnosed
      diffuse intrinsic brainstem gliomas treated with this drug. (Phase I and II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation, multicenter study followed by a phase II.
      Patients are stratified according to tumor type (newly diagnosed intrinsic brainstem glioma
      vs recurrent/refractory intracranial high-grade glioma). Patients in stratum II (phase I
      only) are further stratified according to concurrent use of enzyme-inducing anticonvulsant
      drugs (EIACDs) (yes vs no). Patients are assigned to one of three strata in the phase I
      study.

        -  Phase I

             -  Stratum I (newly diagnosed brainstem glioma): Patients undergo radiotherapy once
                daily five days a week for 6 weeks. Beginning 1-3 weeks after completion of
                radiotherapy, patients without evidence of intratumoral bleed receive oral imatinib
                mesylate twice daily. Imatinib mesylate treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to
                13 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (Closed
                to accrual as of 5/28/04.)

             -  Stratum II A (recurrent or refractory high-grade intracranial gliomas/no concurrent
                EIACDs): Patients receive imatinib mesylate as in stratum I. (Closed to accrual as
                of 8/15/03.)

             -  Stratum II B (recurrent or refractory high-grade intracranial gliomas and
                concurrent EIACDs): Patients receive imatinib mesylate as in stratum I. (Closed to
                accrual as of 8/15/04.)

      Cohorts of 2-3 patients receive escalating doses of imatinib mesylate until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which it is estimated
      that 20% of patients will experience dose-limiting toxicity. MTDs are independently estimated
      in each strata. For stratum I, newly diagnosed brain stem gliomas, the dose level which at
      least 5 of 6 patients experience no dose-limiting toxicity will be the dose used in the
      efficacy and safety phase (phase II).

        -  Phase II: (Open to accrual as of 5/28/04.)

             -  Stratum I only: Patients undergo radiotherapy as in phase I. Patients receive
                imatinib mesylate at the MTD established in phase I.

      Patients enrolled in the phase I portion and not treated at the MTD are to be followed for
      the shortest of 1) three months after the last protocol based treatment or 2) the date other
      therapy is initiated. Stratum I patients treated at the MTD in the phase I portion and all
      patients in the phase II portion of the study are to be followed until death or withdrawal
      from the study

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 140 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  