
    
      In the U.S, the geriatric population is the fastest growing age group. By the end of next
      decade, it will comprise about 20% of the total population (1). Frailty is a major health
      burden in older people (2,3). It is defined as a condition of reduced resistance to
      stressors, due to a decline in physiological reserves. Multiple studies have shown that
      frailty is associated with adverse health outcomes, such as mortality, in-hospital
      complications, readmissions, and adverse discharge disposition (4,5). The concept of frailty
      and frailty index has been implemented widely across surgical specialties to predict
      post-operative outcomes and mortality in aging patients.

      Increasing age is a known predictor of morbidity and mortality after a traumatic injury with
      worst outcomes seen in patients with age greater than 65 years (9). Geriatric trauma patients
      are a unique cohort of patients who are highly prone to develop decompensated state following
      the stress of traumatic event leading to adverse outcomes. In a prospective study the primary
      site demonstrated the presence of frailty syndrome as a better predictor of in-hospital
      complications and adverse discharge disposition among geriatric trauma patients than age
      (10,11). Most of the frailty scales that exist are extensive and time consuming and their
      implementation in geriatric trauma patient is not feasible. To facilitate the clinical
      implementation of frailty in trauma Belal et al. developed the Trauma Specific Frailty Index
      (TSFI), which consists of 15 variables that can reliably predict the presence of frailty and
      pre-frailty syndrome in geriatric trauma patients. This index was based on the Rockwood CSHA
      frailty, which is based on deficit accumulation. In the prospective validation study of our
      TSFI, the 15-variable TSFI was an independent predictor adverse discharge disposition (i.e.
      mortality or discharge to skilled nursing facility) in geriatric trauma patients (12) as well
      as adverse complications and failure to rescue. Presently, Methodist Dallas Medical Center
      aims to participate in the large scale prospective multi-institutional validation of TSFI.

      In this prospective observational study, MDMC will participate as a site contributing to the
      multi-center study under the direction of Dr. Bellal at the University of Arizona. At our
      site, Dr. Amos will serve as site-PI.
    
  