
    
      Radical resection is still the primary method of treating advanced gastric cancer.According
      to the Japanese treatment guidelines for gastric cancer, D2 lymphadenectomy, including No. 10
      lymph node dissection, should be adopted for upper third gastric carcinoma.The incidence of
      No. 10 lymph node metastasis is high in advanced proximal gastric cancer, reported to range
      from 9.8%-20.9%, and the presence of No. 10 lymph node metastasis is closely related to
      survival. Therefore, in East Asia, D2 lymph node dissection of potentially curable locally
      advanced upper third gastric cancer including No. 10 lymph node is the standard surgical
      treatment.

      In the early, splenectomy was performed to remove No. 10 lymph node. With the improvement of
      medical knowledge and surgical technique, spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection has
      been recognized by more and more surgeons. However, due to the special and complex anatomy of
      the spleen, spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection is difficult, even in open
      surgery; consequently, the surgery cannot be performed in many centers.

      Laparoscopic surgery has distinct minimally invasive advantages, such as small incisions,
      less blood loss, less postoperative pain, mild postoperative inflammatory reactions, a quick
      recovery of gastrointestinal function, shorter hospital stays and obvious cosmetic effects.
      Since Kitano et al. first reported laparoscopic gastrectomy for gastric cancer in 1994,
      laparoscopic techniques have developed rapidly. The techniques are becoming increasingly
      mature, making it possible to perform laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node
      dissection. Our center first proposed "Huang's three-step maneuver", a new operative method
      suitable for laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection. This method
      simplifies the procedure of laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection and
      facilitates its popularization and promotion.

      However, it remains a controversial international issue if it is safe and feasible to
      routinely conduct laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection for advanced
      upper third gastric cancer.A number of retrospective studies have successively confirmed the
      safety, feasibility and oncological efficacy of laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph
      node dissection.But there is no multicenter prospective studies to identify the results.

      Therefore, The study is through a prospective, multicenter, open, single-arm, non-inferiority
      study,to explore the safety and feasibility of the laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10
      lymph node dissection for patients with locally advanced upper third gastric
      adenocarcinoma（cT2-4a, N-/+, M0）.
    
  