
    
      Primary Objective To determine baseline breast density and the change in this parameter that
      occurs in post-menopausal women with hormone-receptor positive primary breast cancer taking
      letrozole or exemestane for 24 months, and to correlate the changes with wild type or variant
      aromatase (CYP19).

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To determine serum estrone sulfate concentrations at baseline and following one, three
           and 24 months of letrozole or exemestane therapy. We will use these concentrations to
           test the hypothesis that candidate genes involved in estrogen metabolism in
           post-menopausal women, or in the metabolism and disposition of exemestane or letrozole,
           influence the ability of aromatase inhibitors to reduce estrogen metabolite
           concentrations.

        2. To determine bone density and bone turnover metabolites in post-menopausal women. The
           bone densitometry will be done at baseline and following 24 months of letrozole or
           exemestane therapy. The bone turnover metabolites will be done at baseline, three, six
           and 24 months following letrozole or exemestane therapy. These data will allow us to
           test the hypothesis that variants in candidate genes involved in estrogen metabolism or
           signaling alter the ability of exemestane or letrozole to bring about changes in bone.

        3. To objectively measure hot flashes at baseline and monitor changes in hot flashes after
           one, three, six and 12 months of letrozole or exemestane therapy, and correlate these
           changes with serum FSH and LH concentrations. We will test the hypothesis that aromatase
           or estrogen receptor variants influence the phenotype of hot flashes at baseline or
           during treatment as part of a broader approach in which we will test for associations
           with other candidate genes involved in estrogen metabolism and signaling, or with
           aromatase inhibitor metabolism and disposition.

        4. To measure changes in symptoms that may be related to hot flashes and estrogen
           deprivation such as menopausal symptoms, mood (depression, anxiety), sleep quality and
           sleep disturbance and overall quality of life at baseline and after one, three, six,
           twelve and 24 months of treatment.

        5. To measure changes in fasting lipid profiles at baseline and after 3 months of letrozole
           or exemestane therapy.

        6. To determine letrozole and exemestane serum concentrations at baseline and after one,
           three, six, twelve and 24 months of treatment to test the hypothesis that genetic
           variants in drug metabolizing enzymes predict drug concentrations and effects.

        7. To measure serum thyroid binding globulin and sex hormone binding globulin
           concentrations before and after one and three months of treatment, to test whether
           changes in these parameters brought about by aromatase inhibitor treatment are altered
           by genetic variants in candidate genes involved in estrogen metabolism or signaling.

        8. To categorize the rheumatic adverse effects experienced by patients on aromatase
           inhibitors by specifically characterizing anatomic structures involved and documenting
           the presence or absence of inflammation in these tissues; to identify any correlations
           between changes in musculoskeletal symptoms and the duration of therapy with aromatase
           inhibitors; and to identify any correlations between changes in musculoskeletal symptoms
           and levels of circulating estrogen and its metabolites. This will be done at baseline
           and after one, three, six, twelve and 24 months of treatment.

        9. To determine a number of specific platelet functions before and after 3 months of
           letrozole and exemestane treatment. This is a sub-study that will be performed only at
           the Indiana University site. Platelet function will be measured by ex vivo platelet
           aggregation tests. Production of regulators of platelet function, including thromboxane
           A2 (TXA2), proscyclin (PGI2) and serotonin will also be assessed. These data will allow
           us to test the hypothesis that genetic polymorphisms in candidate genes in
           estrogen-regulated pathways alter the effect of letrozole and exemestane treatment on
           platelet activity, which may be relevant to their effects on cardiac risks.
    
  