
    
      Background: Phototherapy is a therapeutic resource of increasing use in the last decade. The
      photobiomodulatory effects are produced by sources of low-level lasers or light- emitting
      diode (LEDT), and their tissue effects are equivalent. The application of this therapeutic
      resource brings ergogenic and protective benefits in muscular performance. The use of LED as
      a light source is promising because of its low cost, but there are no enough studies that
      support this use in athletes, with a focus on performance improvement. In addition to the
      deficiency of the sample, there is also no consensus regarding the use of different
      wavelengths for LED in the literature, thus opening gaps for the best protocol for the
      application of this technique. Therefore, a study that evaluates the use of LED in athletes,
      with different wavelengths, to improve performance is necessary. Objective: To analyze the
      acute effects of the application of LED phototherapy on the strength and fatigue strength
      abilities of cycling athletes. Method: The study sample will be composed of 48 male cyclist
      athletes randomly allocated into three groups: Infrared LED Group (G-I), Red LED Group (G-V),
      Infrared plus Red Group (G-IV) and Sham Group (G-S). The athletes will be submitted to a
      battery of tests, for performance evaluation which consist of anaerobic and aerobic power and
      threshold, bioimpedance, infrared thermography, creatine kinase (CK) and blood lactate
      analysis, measurement of local muscle blood flow, Gas analysis, besides the isokinetic,
      electromyographic and biomechanical evaluations. After 24 hours of the tests, the LEDT (180
      J) will be applied three times in three differents days to the quadriceps femoris muscle
      bilaterally. The same tests will be performed 24 hours after the application of LEDT. In the
      1st and 4th week, post intervention, only the isokinetic and electromyographic evaluations
      will be performed. For analysis of the data, normality test will be used to verify the
      distribution and adequate statistical tests for the appropriate intra and intergroup
      comparisons, being considered two factors in the comparisons, time and group. A significance
      level of 5% will be adopte
    
  