
    
      Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous disorder with a wide range of symptoms and signs including
      hallucinations, delusions, disorganisation, negative symptoms and cognitive deficits.
      Investigation of the neural substrates of the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia has
      revealed abnormalities in brain activity patterns. Particularly, earlier studies using
      functional FMRI conducted at the UMCU, revealed diminished language laterality, deficits in
      working memory and a reduced ability to automate cognitive processes. The aim of this project
      is to study the relationship between these brain activation patterns and neuroleptic
      treatment. More insight into psychopharmacological effects on brain physiology, may
      eventually enable us to better predict what effect treatment will have on patients.

      Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder,
      schizoaffective disorder or psychotic disorder not otherwise specified (NOS), who are
      medication naive or medication free for a period of at least 2 weeks will be included.
      Patients will be tested before and after 8 weeks of treatment with an atypical antipsychotic.
      In the scanner patients will perform a working memory task, a language task and a
      visual-motor task. At study entry and after 8 weeks the PANSS, Clinical Global Impressions
      (CGI) and CDSS (Calgary Depression Scale of Schizophrenia) will be performed. Besides these
      patients, we will also include a group of matched healthy controls. We hypothesize that in
      medication naive or patients of-medication lateralization is reduced, and that efficiency of
      the working memory system is reduced. Lateralization is expected to correlate negatively with
      positive functions. We expect that antipsychotic treatment will normalize brain function and
      that the degree of normalization is correlated with the clinical measures of treatment
      efficacy.
    
  