
    
      The TELE-RCT study is a prospective 2 arm randomized controlled trial recruiting patients
      with an implanted CRT device in Jessa Hospital Hasselt in Belgium. Subjects that do not
      violate any of the exclusion criteria and that have provided informed consent, will be asked
      to participate in the study. Patients that enter the study will be randomly assigned in a 1:1
      ratio to the intervention or control group. Given the nature of the study, no blinding can be
      applied.

      A cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) device is a battery operated device consisting of a
      pulse generator and thin, insulated wires called leads. The device sends electrical impulses
      throughout the heart to improve pump activity. This is particularly helpful in patients
      suffering from chronic heart failure, given that the pump activity in these patients is
      compromised.

      Two types of CRT devices exist. On one hand a cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator
      (CRT-D), which functions as a normal pacemaker but can also sense arrythmias that can lead to
      sudden cardiac arrest. The device recognizes these arrhythmias and generates a defibrillation
      to stop the abnormal rhythm. On the other hand a cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker
      (CRT-P), which only functions as a pacemaker.

      b. Study population

      In order to be enrolled in the TELE-RCT study, subjects must meet all of the following
      inclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with an implanted CRT-D or CRT-P device in which monitoring of physical
           activity is possible

        -  CRT device must be implanted for at least three months

        -  Dutch speaking and understanding

        -  Evidence of a personally signed and dated informed consent, indicating that the subject
           (or a legally-recognized representative) has been informed of all pertinent aspects of
           the study

        -  Age ≥ 18 years

        -  CRT capable of transmitting data about physical activity in an interpretable manner

        -  Willingness and physically able to follow an email-based or SMS-based telemonitoring
           program and other study procedures in a 12 weeks follow-up period.

        -  Clinically stable without inducible ischemia or high-risk ventricular arrhythmia,
           confirmed by the last available maximal ergo-spirometry test

        -  Possession of smartphone or email address, which the patients regularly check, in order
           to receive feedback from the research staff

      Subjects presenting with any of the following will not be included in the study:

        -  The presence of an absolute or relative contraindication to moderate- intensity exercise

        -  Participation in a cardiac revalidation program in the months before enrollment in the
           study

        -  Patients with planned interventional procedure or surgery in next three months

        -  Present cardiovascular complaints that might interfere with exertion: unstable angina,
           recent ICD shock etc.

        -  Participation in other cardiac rehabilitation program trials, focusing on exercise
           outcome

        -  Orthopedic, neurologic, or any other pathologic condition that makes the patient
           physically unable to follow an email-based or SMS-based telemonitoring program

        -  Any condition, which, in the opinion of the investigator, would make it unsafe or
           unsuitable for the patient to participate in this study or a life expectancy of less
           than three months based on investigator's judgment

           c. Recruitment All patients will be recruited from the department of Cardiology of Jessa
           Hospital Hasselt or during the consultations in Heart Center Hasselt. Patients who are
           eligible for participation will be contacted by the study staff to obtain further
           information. They will receive a brochure which explains the study on one of their
           appointments with their cardiologist.

      Time schedule: First patient first visit (FPFV): 15th of November 2019 Last patient last
      visit (LPLV): 31st of December 2020 4. Study procedures

        1. Patient information Eligible participants must sign informed consent prior to undergoing
           any study-specific procedures. They will be asked to read, understand and sign the
           informed consent form during the first meeting.

           At the start of the study, each patient enrolled in the trial will be assigned a unique
           identification number in order to ensure the anonymity. In addition, it enables the
           researchers to link all collected data (answers to questionnaires, test results etc.) to
           the right patient and thus combine the data to gain insight into the results.

        2. Randomization The randomization in this study will be varied out with sealed envelopes
           to ensure concealed patient allocation. Patients will be randomized to either the
           intervention group (group A) or the control group (group B) in a 1:1 ratio. Patients in
           group A (intervention group) will receive the standard care for patients with chronic
           heart failure at the Jessa Hospital Hasselt, supplemented with regular feedback by email
           or SMS about their daily physical activity. Patients in group B (control group) will
           only receive the standard care for patients with chronic heart failure at the Jessa
           Hospital Hasselt.

        3. Intervention Patients in the intervention group (group A) will receive standard care for
           patients with chronic heart failure and an implanted CRT device at Jessa Hospital
           Hasselt. The standard care consists of half-yearly appointments with a cardiologist and
           telemonitoring for arrhythmia. In addition to the standard care, the patients in the
           intervention group will also receive regular feedback about their physical activity.
           During the first 6 weeks of the trial, the patients in the intervention group will
           receive weekly feedback about their daily physical activity. During the following 6
           weeks, patients will receive feedback every other week. The feedback will be given by
           study staff and will be sent to the patient by email or SMS. The type of feedback a
           patient will receive will be based on the minimum required daily physical activity for
           patients with chronic heart failure. By looking at previous data, the study staff will
           also try to motivate the patient to increase their daily physical activity. The
           patiënt's daily physical activity will be telemonitored using the internal accelerometer
           of their CRT device. They will be asked to manually transmit the data from their CRT
           device to the Jessa Hospital every week.

      Patients in the control group (group B) will only receive the standard care Jessa Hospital
      Hasselt, being half-yearly appointments with a cardiologist and telemonitoring for
      arrhythmia.
    
  