
    
      Background:

      Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in elderly males in western country. It is also a
      major health concern, especially in China with its greater proportion of elderly men in the
      general population. Currently, radical prostatectomy(RP) is the mainstream treatment for
      localized PCa to show a benefit for cancer-specific survival (CSS). However, the patient who
      underwent RP might suffer from the complication of erectile dysfunction or urinary
      incontinence. In 2004, a new method using steep pulses to treat tumor was appeared. It showed
      that steep pulses could bring about Irreversible Electroporation (IRE) of cell, leading
      tonecrosis of tumor cells. And it seemed to do no harms to the nerve and Vascular epithelial
      cell. The device of steep pulse had already been approved by FDA in 2011.However, this device
      of steep pulse has disadvantages like: (1)sever muscle contraction;(2)Urethral injury;
      (3)Capsule injury;(4)Nerve degeneration. This new device which is called Composite
      Steep-pulse(High-frequency irreversible electroporation) Treatment Apparatus, may have the
      potential to conquer these disadvantages.

      Purpose:

        1. This study will assess the efficacy of Composite Steep-pulse(High-frequency irreversible
           electroporation) Treatment Apparatus in the treatment of PCa.

        2. This study will assess the safety of Composite Steep-pulse(High-frequency irreversible
           electroporation) Treatment Apparatus in the treatment of PCa.

      Methods:

        1. patients recruitment

        2. transperineal maping prostate biopsy(>20 needle) guided by transrectal ultrasound(TRUS).

        3. Irreversible Electroporation of malignant Tumor Cell under Composite Steep-pulse
           Treatment for the patients with positive biopsy;

        4. Some factors such as prostate MRI,the maping prostate biopsy(>20 needle),the
           histopathological outcomes analysis ect. will be performed to evaluate the efficacy of
           the treatment.

        5. Other factors such as the routine blood test, the routine urine test, the urinary
           continence ect. will be performed to evaluate the safety of the treatment.
    
  