
    
      Specific phobia (SP) refers to an extreme and persistent fear of a specific object or
      situation that is out of proportion to the actual danger or threat. SP is the most prevalent
      anxiety disorder with substantial impairment and comorbidity. Animal fear is one of the most
      prevalent subtypes of SP. In vivo exposure is the treatment of choice for this problem, but
      this technique presents limitations in its implementation related to the access and
      acceptability (i.e., low acceptance on the part of patients and therapists, high dropout
      rates, limited access to the treatment and, difficulties in its application in the clinical
      context). Augmented Reality (AR) offers some advantages in delivering the exposure technique:
      1) Exposure to multiple virtual stimuli; 2) Going beyond reality; 3) Allowing complete
      control over the situation; 4) It allows privacy and confidentiality. Particularly, the most
      significant aspect of AR is that the virtual elements add relevant and helpful information to
      the physical information available in the real world.

      We pretend to go a step beyond and explore ways of optimizing exposure therapy based on the
      inhibitory learning approach. AR can maximize some strategies like "variability" (varying
      stimuli, durations, levels of intensity, or the order of the hierarchy items), greater
      control by the therapists or "exposure to multiple contexts" which can produce a positive
      effect in terms of fear renewal and generalization of the results. Therefore, the aim of this
      study is to test the efficacy and efficiency of varying the phobic stimuli during the ARET:
      using multiple stimuli (MS) (P-ARET MS) versus single stimulus (SS) (P-ARET SS) in
      participants with cockroach phobia.

      The Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT) will be conducted following the Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials (CONSORT: http://www.consort-statement.org) and the SPIRIT guidelines
      (Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Intervention Trials). Participants (N = 80) who
      received a diagnosis of SP for cockroaches (DSM-5), will be randomized into two experimental
      conditions: 1) Projection-based augmented reality therapy (P-ARET) with Multiple Stimuli (MS)
      (P-ARET MS); 2) Projection-based augmented reality therapy (P-ARET) with Single Stimulus (SS)
      (P-ARET SS). Five evaluation moments will be included: pre-intervention, post- intervention,
      and 1-, 6- and 12-month follow-ups.
    
  