
    
      Although spousal support predicts the success of a smoker's cessation efforts, "social
      support" interventions based on teaching partners better support skills have had consistently
      disappointing results. In this Stage I (treatment development) study we examined the
      potential utility of a family-consultation (FAMCON) intervention based on family-systems
      theory.

      Specifically, in this Phase-I study we developed, standardized, and pilot tested a systemic,
      couple-focused treatment for change-resistant smokers based on the assumption that a smoker's
      marital and family relationships play a key role in whether he or she continues to smoke.

      The intervention provides up to 10 sessions of "family consultation" over 2-5 months to
      single- or dual-smoker couples in which at least one partner continued to smoke despite
      having lung disease, heart disease, or multiple cardiac risk factors.

      The treatment focuses on the immediate social context of smoking, aiming both to interrupt
      well-intended "solutions" that ironically feed back to keep smoking going, and to help
      clients realign important relationships in ways not organized around tobacco use.

      Participants were 20 couples in which one partner (the primary smoker) continued to smoke
      despite having or being at significant risk for heart or lung disease.

      Results are promising. The 50% rate of stable abstinence achieved by primary smokers over 6
      months (with 63% abstinence rates for secondary smokers) exceeds benchmark success rates
      reported in the literature for other, comparably intensive interventions, suggesting that a
      couple-focused intervention different in concept and format from social-support interventions
      tested in the past may hold promise for health-compromised smokers. The12-month cessation
      rates were 40% for primary smokers and 63% for secondary smokers.

      The FAMCON approach appeared particularly well-suited to female smokers and smokers whose
      partner also smoked - two sub-groups at high risk for relapse.

      References:

      Rohrbaugh, M.J., Shoham, V., Trost, S., Muramoto, M., Cate, R., & Leischow, S. (2001).
      Couple-dynamics of change resistant smoking: Toward a family-consultation model. Family
      Process, 40, 15 - 31.

      Shoham, V., Rohrbaugh, M.J., Trost, S.E., & Muramoto, M. (in press). A family consultation
      (FAMCON) intervention for health-compromised smokers. Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment.
    
  