
    
      Cochlear implant procedure has become the standard of care for patients with
      severe-to-profound sensorineural hearing loss. Successful outcomes are dependent on extrinsic
      and intrinsic factors. Significant predictive factors for hearing outcomes in patients with
      CIs have been previously reported. These include, but are not limited to, duration of
      deafness, level of preimplant speech recognition, pre/postlingual status, and the coupling of
      device electrodes. Recipient age does not appear to have a significant impact on hearing
      outcomes in elderly candidates.

      A number of recent studies have proposed that intraoperative factors may be important
      determinants of electrode location and possibly of audiological outcome. Preliminary reports
      suggest that intracochlear electrode position- specifically, placement within the ST-is
      associated with improved audiological outcomes. Additionally, different surgical techniques
      have been proposed to minimize trauma during electrode insertion and to increase the
      likelihood of placement within the ST - namely round window and anteroinferior cochleostomy
      electrode insertion.

      Currently, the best surgical approach for electrode insertion is highly debated, fueled by a
      lack of strong evidence to support one method over another. While a number of CI centers have
      begun to utilize a round window approach, many large volume centers in the United States and
      world wide continue to routinely employ cochleostomy electrode insertions. With an increasing
      number of patients being implanted with greater degrees of residual hearing, such data will
      become critical towards reducing intracochlear injury and optimizing patient outcomes. To the
      investigators' knowledge, no clinical study has prospectively investigated the relationship
      between surgical insertion technique, intracochlear electrode location, and postoperative
      hearing outcomes. To this end, the investigators are initiating a multicenter prospective
      randomized controlled double-blinded study comparing round window and cochleostomy cochlear
      implant electrode insertion.
    
  