
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish the preferred dose of niraparib in combination with radiation and
      antiandrogen therapy (ADT). (Phase I) II. To compare the disease-free state, defined as PSA
      remaining < 0.1 ng/ml at the end of ADT therapy in men with high risk prostate cancer treated
      with standard therapy with or without the addition of niraparib. (Phase IIR)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To further establish the safety and toxicity profile of standard treatment with radiation
      and androgen deprivation therapy specifically, two years from initiation of ADT, plus
      niraparib at the phase II dose.

      II. To compare the overall survival, prostate cancer-specific survival, local/regional or
      distant progression, and distant metastatic disease rates of standard therapy with or without
      the addition of niraparib.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify genomic biomarkers of response to combination therapy with radiation, ADT and
      PARP inhibition.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of niraparib, followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive niraparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and receive standard of care
      gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist androgen suppression therapy. Treatment with
      niraparib continues for 12 months, and GnRH agonist therapy for 24 months in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 8 weeks after starting niraparib and
      GnRH agonist, patients undergo standard of care intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT)
      5 days per week for about 6-9 weeks, depending on type of radiation therapy given, in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms:

      ARM I: Patients undergo standard of care GnRH agonist androgen suppression therapy for 24
      months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 8-28 weeks
      after starting GnRH agonist, patients undergo IMRT 5 days per week for about 6-9 weeks
      depending on type of radiation therapy given in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care GnRH agonist androgen suppression therapy for 24
      months, and niraparib PO QD for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 8 weeks after starting niraparib, patients undergo standard
      of care IMRT 5 days per week for about 6-9 weeks depending on type of radiation therapy given
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 3 years,
      then annually for 3 years.
    
  