
    
      Aim:

      To assess whether regular oral acetaminophen can reduce pain in cancer patients already on a
      strong opioid regimen.

      Rationale:

      It is estimated that 75% of people with advanced cancer suffer significant pain. Many of
      these people continue to have pain despite being on strong opioids. The rationale behind
      adding an additional analgesic with a different mechanism of action is to attempt to improve
      analgesia without increasing side effects.

      Overview:

      This is a double blind, randomised placebo-controlled, crossover trial to evaluate whether
      the addition of regular acetaminophen can reduce pain in cancer patients already on a strong
      opioid regimen. The study will be performed in ambulatory cancer patients who have pain that
      is believed to be caused by their cancer, and who have already been stabilised on an opioid
      regimen of > 60mg/day of morphine equivalents. Each patient will be randomly allocated to
      receive either acetaminophen 1g qid or an identical appearing placebo qid for a seven-day
      period, and then crossed over to the other arm for a further seven-day period. Patients will
      complete daily pain diaries and weekly questionnaires (Brief Pain Inventory) and comparison
      will be made between the pain scores for the two treatment periods. Patient preference for
      the two treatment periods will also be evaluated.

      Research Question:

      A randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled crossover trial to determine if the addition
      of regular acetaminophen (1g PO qid) leads to improved analgesic control in adult cancer
      patients at Princess Margaret Hospital, who are already on strong opioids (> 60mg morphine
      equivalents/day) as evaluated by daily pain scores measured by Numerical Rating Scales (NRS)
      and the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI).

      Hypothesis:

      Regular acetaminophen improves pain control in cancer patients who are already on strong
      opioid regimens.
    
  