
    
      Study population -All the patients of cirrhosis of liver patients visiting to ILBS and
      diagnosed to have non tumor portal vein thrombosis will be enrolled in the study.

      Study Design - A Placebo Controlled Double Blinded RCT In this randomized controlled trial,
      the patients who satisfy the below inclusion and exclusion criteria will be included and they
      will be randomized, according to 2 groups (in total 84patients) to receive either Placebo or
      dabigatran 150 mg BD for 12months. These patients will be admitted to the hospital from OPD
      or emergency.

      Study period - 1.5 years from ethics approval Intervention The patients in Group A will
      receive T. Dabigatran 150 mg twice a day .The patients in Group B will receive placebo
      [multivitamins] Monitoring and assessment At baseline, a complete history with clinical and
      physical examination, a record of demographic profile, standard of care biochemical
      investigations would be done. All included patients will be evaluated with -

        1. Etiology of cirrhosis

        2. Upper GI endoscopy

        3. Haemogram (including reticulocyte count)

        4. Coagulogram- PT/INR,APTT,TEG

        5. Prothrombotic profile- protein c/protein-s/AT-III/Factor V Leiden mutation/ MTHFR
           C677T/PROTHROMBIN G20210A/ JAK2 V617F MUTATION / Anticardiolipin Ab.

        6. Liver function tests, Renal function tests

        7. Alpha fetoprotein/PIVKA II

        8. USG abdomen with Doppler study

        9. CECT-TP or CEMRI-TP to R/O HCC or angiography when PVT diagnosis doubtful.

       10. HVPG+LIVER BIOPSY[optional]

       11. Fibro scan

       12. Child-Pugh score, MELD Subsequently, patients will be assessed clinically at the
           baseline and post-treatment every2 months till 18 months

      Statistical Analysis:

      The data collected will be analyzed using SPSS ver 22 by standard statistical analysis, were
      numerical data will be analyzed to find mean, median scores and categorical data will be
      analyzed using Chi square test and continuous data will be analyzed by student T test and any
      association will be analyzed by the univariate and multivariate analysis, log regression
      analysis along with ROC curve will be used and p<0.05 will be considered significant and
      results will be appropriately tabulated

      Adverse Effects Hemorrhage - Fatal Major - intracranial, retroperitoneal, intraocular, muscle
      hematoma Minor TREATMENT IN CASE OF ADVERSE EFFECTS - Withdrawal of drug

      Stopping rule of study Allergic reactions to drug Severe hemorrhage DIC Progression of PVT
      after4 months viral reactivation leading to ACLF, acute hepatitis (viral, drug related,
      autoimmune flare), sepsis with severe coagulopathy
    
  