
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the test-retest performance, assessed by the repeatability coefficient [RC] of
           K^trans and gadolinium curve (IAUGC90^bn) and measured by median pixel values of the
           whole prostate.

        -  Determine the test-retest performance, assessed by the RC of diffusion-weighted imaging
           (DWI) metrics D(t) and measured by median pixel values of the whole prostate.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the test-retest performance, assessed by RC of K^trans, IAUGC90^bn, and D(t),
           and measured by median pixel values of the dominant prostate tumor.

        -  Determine the effect of reader on the RC of dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance
           imaging (DCE-MRI) and DWI metrics for whole prostate and tumor nodule target lesion.

        -  Determine whether T1-dependent or T1-independent methods for gadolinium quantification
           in DCE-MRI studies produce differing values for the RC for K^trans and IAUGC90^bn.

        -  Explore the correlation between DCE-MRI and DWI metrics for both whole prostate and
           dominant tumor nodule as target lesions. (Exploratory)

        -  Determine whether the "coffee break" approach toward test-retest analysis of
           quantitative DWI provides a reasonable estimate of the RC of D(t)of the whole prostate,
           using as the gold standard the RC of D(t) obtained between the two separate MRI visits.
           (Exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to MRI vendor used
      (Siemens vs GE vs Philips).

      Patients receive gadolinium-based contrast IV and undergo DCE-MRI* and DWI 2 imaging at 2-14
      days apart prior to treatment initiation. A central reader evaluation of the 2 successive
      scans is then conducted.

      NOTE: *At the discretion of the participating sites, the initial MRI visit (MRI SCAN 1) may
      be supplemented with endorectal-coil imaging per institutional norms.
    
  