
    
      This study is a randomized study. 80 subjects with MDD will be randomly assigned (1:1) to
      immediately receive 8 weeks of CCBT or delayed treatment, consisting of up to 4 weeks of
      waitlist, followed by 8 weeks of CCBT. 50 healthy controls of similar age/sex will be
      recruited to serve as a comparison group for baseline magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      scanning.

      The study will enroll subjects for approximately 4 years (~2 subjects per month for 48
      months). The length of subject participation will vary based on what group the participants
      are randomized to. Healthy controls will participate for approximately 8 weeks. Subjects with
      MDD who were randomized to Early CCBT will participate for approximately 8 weeks; subjects
      with MDD who were randomized to Late CCBT will participate for approximately 12 weeks.
      Variability in the study duration for each group depends on each subjects' personal
      availability for visits and the availability of the magnetic resonance scanner.

      Potential participants will complete a phone screen to determine eligibility. If the
      individual is eligible, the individual will be scheduled for an in-person screening visit.
      Information collected during the phone screening will not be used in the data analysis; phone
      screening information will be collected and retained in REDCap. Remote contact options are
      available as needed/possible.

      Screening Visit - all participants will have the study described to them in detail, including
      the risks and study procedures as outlined in the informed consent form and will sign the
      informed consent form (ICF) and HIPAA authorization, prior to any study procedures being
      completed. Participants will be screened for symptoms of psychological disorders and severity
      of major depressive symptoms by a trained research team member.

      If determined eligible, HEALTHY CONTROLS will be scheduled for return to complete an fMRI
      scan and baseline visit, in which self-report measures, including reports of mood, behavior,
      and thoughts will be collected, as well as neuropsychological testing. The HIPAA-compliant
      phone app Beiwe and actigraph setup will take place during the baseline visit. Participants
      will complete mood monitoring questions on the phone app and also have their activity levels
      monitored by the phone app and the actigraph for the duration of the study.

      If determined eligible at screening, MDD (EXPERIMENTAL GROUP) participants will be randomized
      (1:1) as follows: One half of the depressed participants will be randomized to receive 8
      weeks of CCBT immediately after completing pretreatment assessments and the remainder will be
      randomized to a waitlist of up to 4 weeks followed by 8 weeks of CCBT.

      MDD, EARLY CCBT GROUP Early CCBT participants will be scheduled for return to complete an
      fMRI scan at the baseline visit, in which self-report measures, including reports of mood,
      behavior, and thoughts will be collected, as well as neuropsychological testing. The phone
      apps Beiwe and Ethica and actigraph setup will take place during the baseline visit.
      Participants will complete mood monitoring questions on the phone apps and also have their
      activity levels monitored by the phone app and the actigraph for the duration of the study.
      Participants will complete Good Days Ahead (GDA) computer training throughout the 8 weeks of
      CCBT, and having 6 encounters with a licensed psychologist/psychiatrist. Additionally,
      outcome measures will be assessed by an independent clinical evaluator (without knowledge of
      treatment assignment) every other week. As soon as can be arranged after Week 9 of CCBT
      treatment (last CCBT Clinical Contact), participants will return to complete an fMRI scan and
      end of study visit, in which self-report measures, including reports of mood, behavior, and
      thoughts will be collected, as well as neuropsychological testing.

      MDD, LATE CCBT GROUP Late CCBT participants will be scheduled for return to complete an fMRI
      scan and baseline visit, in which self-report measures, including reports of mood, behavior,
      and thoughts will be collected, as well as neuropsychological testing. The phone apps Beiwe
      and Ethica and actigraph setup will take place during the baseline visit. During the 2-4 week
      waitlist phase, participants will complete mood monitoring questions on the phone apps and
      also have their activity levels monitored by the phone app and the actigraph.

      At the conclusion of the waitlist of up to 4 weeks, participants will complete a second fMRI
      scan and complete self-report measures, including reports of mood, behavior, and thoughts
      will be collected, as well as neuropsychological testing.

      Participants will then enter the CCBT phase and will complete Good Days Ahead (GDA) computer
      training throughout the 8 weeks of CCBT. They will have 6 encounters with a licensed
      psychologist/psychiatrist at multiple time points during this period. Additionally, outcome
      measures will be assessed by an independent clinical evaluator (without knowledge of
      treatment assignment) every other week during this study phase. At Week 9 of CCBT treatment
      (last CCBT Clinical Contact), participants will complete a 1-hour fMRI scan and self-report
      measures, including reports of mood, behavior, and thoughts will be collected, as well as
      neuropsychological testing.

      This clinical trial has two IRB protocol numbers: 826910 and 832295. The data collected
      through both protocol numbers will be analyzed together to accomplish the target of 130
      subjects for this clinical trial.
    
  