
    
      Study design: The AASIST study is planned as an open label feasibility and safety study of
      acute treatment with SK (15 000 units/Kg) in ischemic stroke patients within 3 hours of
      onset.

      Overall Aims and Hypotheses: The primary study aim is to demonstrate the feasibility and
      safety of SK based thrombolysis in ischemic stroke patients presenting less than 3 hours
      after symptom onset. It is hypothesized that treatment with SK (15 000 units/kg) in
      appropriately selected patients will be associated with a hemorrhagic transformation rate
      similar to that of tPA.

      The goal of our proposal is to establish a safe and effective treatment for ischemic stroke
      patients who are candidates for thrombolysis, but are currently NOT being treated with tissue
      plasminogen activator (tPA) due to cost constraints. Streptokinase (SK) is an established
      thrombolytic that is widely available and is currently used as first line therapy for acute
      coronary syndromes in low/middle income countries (LMIC). SK is much more economically
      feasible in the developing world (≈$35 vs ≈$2800 for tr-PA). Previous studies of SK in acute
      stroke indicate that the risk of hemorrhagic complications is significant. It is our
      hypothesis, however, that the higher rates of hemorrhagic complications seen in these trials
      were due to other aspects of trial design, rather than the drug itself. These factors include
      a prolonged treatment window (up to 6 hours from symptom onset), the dose of SK and the
      concomitant use of antithrombotic medications. In addition, patients who are now recognized
      to be poor thrombolysis candidates were included in these trials, including those with
      excessively high arterial pressures, drowsiness prior to treatment and established early
      infarct changes on non-contrast CT.

      In the last two decades, extensive experience with acute stroke thrombolysis has led to
      improved patient selection and better recognition of factors associated with increased risk
      of complications, in particular intracerebral hemorrhage. We believe a fresh look at SK is
      warranted because of the immense burden of disease, especially in LMICs. If we are able to
      show that SK has safety comparable to tPA and if further research on efficacy is also
      positive, we will be in a position to offer effective thrombolysis to a wider population at
      risk in LMICs.

      The primary endpoint of this study is the rate of hemorrhagic transformation. Secondary
      safety endpoints include systemic bleeding complications and the development of hypotension.
      The DSMB will be closely involved in this initial phase and all case report forms and imaging
      studies will be submitted to the committee. We have also established a priori study stopping
      rules, based on hemorrhagic transformation rates. Once it can be established that SK is safe
      when used in the context of this protocol, a larger phase III randomized controlled trial is
      planned, aimed at demonstrating clinical efficacy. Data from this pilot study will be used to
      refine the treatment protocol and in power calculations for the required sample size of the
      next phase of the program.

      This study will also provide an opportunity to link 20-30 emerging stroke centers in LMICs
      (India, Pakistan, Sudan) with high-income country (HIC) sites. Establishing this network will
      facilitate future clinical research studies as well, by establishing a framework for further
      research collaboration and exchange of personnel between LMIC and HIC sites.
    
  