
    
      This study will be a randomized patient-blinded 0.45 NS-controlled clinical trial evaluating
      children ages 6 months to 16 years presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) at Ann &
      Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago (Lurie Children's) with vomiting and/or
      diarrhea requiring intravenous fluid therapy. Children will be treated with fluid boluses per
      ED physician's discretion as is standard of care. After this initial intravenous therapy,
      children will be admitted to the medical observation unit or general medicine floor for
      additional fluid therapy. Per standard of care, they will be evaluated clinically by the
      treating physician who will determine if any additional 0.9 NS boluses are required and
      administer them at that time. Per standard of care, the treating physician will obtain the
      information needed to complete the admission history and physical documentation and based on
      this information will be able to determine if the patient is eligible for the study. The
      treating physician will complete the Initial Screening Form to document whether the patient
      is eligible. If a patient is eligible, the treating physician will obtain consent or inform
      investigators of the patient so that they may obtain consent (depending on whether the
      treating hospitalist has been trained to obtain consent). For patients who consent to
      participate, information from the admission History and Physical exam will be extracted on
      Study Form A. Recruitment will occur only at Lurie Children's. The consent form will provide
      written information for the family; there are no other recruitment materials. A sign with a
      reminder about the study will be posted in physician areas.

      Those who are eligible and consent to participate in the study will be randomized to receive
      either 5% dextrose containing 0.45 NS or 5% dextrose with 0.9 NS for their maintenance fluids
      (see table below). If the treating physician would like to include potassium in the IVF, the
      potassium concentration will be the standard potassium concentration in both groups (20
      mEq/liter). The use of potassium at this concentration is part of standard of care unless
      patients have a contraindication to its inclusion; this decision made by the treating
      physician will not alter inclusion in the study and the use of potassium will not impact the
      results. Block randomization will be utilized using sequential envelopes which will contain
      the preselected fluid type. This sealed envelope will be opened by the attending hospitalist
      who will put in the fluid orders. Fluids will be covered by opaque bags so that patients and
      parents will be blinded to study fluid type. Attending hospitalist physicians and nursing
      staff will not be blinded to study fluids as all data for this study are objective
      measurements and our primary outcome is an objective laboratory measurement. The standard
      fluid administration rate determined by patient weight will be used and this same formula
      will be applied for both groups. Baseline electrolytes and blood pressure will be checked
      upon acceptance in the study (prior to maintenance fluid administration) and at 8 hours.
      Patients in the study will have a basic electrolyte panel drawn through their IV catheter at
      the beginning of the study prior to the start of their IVF. We will follow standardized
      protocol for obtaining labs from the IV catheter. If sample cannot be obtained this way, we
      will obtain them through via a blood draw from the vein if the family agrees. These
      laboratory studies will be ordered by the physician and completed by trained nursing and/or
      laboratory staff. This study requires 0.5ml of blood and will provide baseline blood levels
      of sodium, chloride, bicarbonate, potassium, and glucose. Complete medical and family
      historical data and socio-demographic information is obtained on all patients as part of the
      routine admission to the hospital and this information will be extracted from the patient
      chart for comparison of the two groups.

      A majority of patients who are admitted for IVF are either unable to take fluids by mouth or
      take insufficient amounts of fluids, especially during their first 8 hours of their
      hospitalization. We anticipate most patients being NPO (nothing by mouth) or on clear fluid
      diets in the first 8 hours of the hospital stay, reducing oral salt intake. Information
      regarding oral fluid intake during the first 8 hours will also be extracted from patient
      chart (intake and output charting). Patients will be otherwise treated per the discretion of
      their physician for all other aspects of their care, including decision to stop maintenance
      IVF therapy. After 8 hours, the study IVF will be removed and a second basic electrolyte
      panel will be obtained. This will provide information about the change in blood sodium levels
      as well as other electrolytes. After study fluids have been removed and blood samples have
      been obtained, the treating physician may choose to continue IVF with either type of fluid or
      discontinue fluids. If the patient does not require IVF for the full 8 hours, the second
      blood sample will be obtained only if the patient was on the study IVF for >5 hours. In this
      circumstance, the second blood draw will be obtained whenever the treating physician decides
      to stop the study IVF. If the IVF are stopped earlier than 5 hours, the primary outcome of a
      change in sodium of >3 is less relevant. Thus, the patient will be removed from the study and
      a second blood sample will not be obtained.

      This study will be conducted entirely during the hospitalization period. Based on a
      preliminary study we conducted evaluating 103 patients admitted with nausea, diarrhea, and
      dehydration, the average length of stay for intravenous fluids was 63 hours with greater than
      99% of patients needing more than 8 hours of intravenous fluids. Thus, this study would be
      conducted within the first 8 hours of therapy and will not extend either length of stay or
      IVF administration. No additional clinic visitations, hospitalizations, or outpatient
      resources will be utilized. This study will involve laboratory studies but does not involve
      radiographic studies or other invasive procedures.
    
  