
    
      Chitin is a poly saccharide, abundant in insects, fungi, crustaceans and other organisms, but
      not in mammals. Chitinases and chitinase like proteins (which have the ability to bind chitin
      without enzymatic activity) are members of the 18-glycosyl-hydrolase family. Their function
      and importance are still not clearly understood. However, several reports have linked the
      chitinase 3 like 1 protein with colitis and asthma. Furthermore, Johansen et al have reported
      elevated levels of chitinase 3 like 1 protein in patients with liver disease, mainly those
      with alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and fibrosis. This report consisted of 51 patients with
      ALD ,but only 16 and 17 patients with fatty liver and viral hepatitis respectively.

      This study aims to evaluate the correlation of chitinase 3 like 1 protein with clinical
      parameters such as disease severity, reaction to treatment, portal hypertension (when
      measured) and prognosis.

      ***Study design:

      a. Subjects i.The study will include patients with liver disease followed at the liver unit,
      Hadassah Medical Center, Jerusalem. b. Planned number i.The study is planned to include 200
      volunteers. c. Inclusion criteria i.Patients with liver disease followed at the liver unit at
      Hadassah Medical Center. ii.Patients who have given their informed consent for participation
      in the study. d. Exclusion criteria i.Age<18y. ii.Pregnancy iii.Patients with other
      conditions associated with elevated chitinase 3 like 1 protein (such as asthma and rheumatoid
      arthritis). e. Chitinase 3 like-1 protein levels will be measured by a commercially available
      kit (Human Chitinase 3-like 1 Quantikine ELISA Kit, catalogue number - DC3L1, Biotest LTD).
      f. Stopping/modifying criteria i.At subjects' request. g. Trial entry and enrollment i.A
      consecutive cohort will be recruited form amongst the patients followed at the liver unit in
      Hadassah medical center. Jerusalem Israel. ii.Consenting patients will have a blood test
      drawn for chitinase 3 like 1 protein levels. iii.Clinical details of each patient will be
      obtained form the liver unit. iv.In addition to the routine follow up at the liver unit,
      follow up will be performed at 1,2 and 5 years. h. Statistical considerations i.Subjects will
      be grouped according to their clinical properties (disease, treatment, severity, portal
      hypertension) ii.Chitinase 3 like 1 protein levels will be compared between each group. F.
      Informed consent i.Each subject will be enrolled and enter the study only after giving an
      informed consent. G. Adherence to study eligibility i.The study will be conducted in
      accordance with good clinical practice (GCP) guidelines, and the study protocol. H.
      Safeguarding of documents i.The privacy of the subjects and all confidentiality issues will
      be handled in accordance with applicable law and guidelines of the institution and the
      Helsinki Committee, the Israeli ministry of health, or the other appropriate regulatory
      authorities.
    
  