
    
      Orthopoxvirus infections produce antibody responses that are cross-protective against other
      viruses within the genus. It is this property of orthopoxviruses that allows a vaccine for
      vaccinia virus against smallpox to be used to provide protection against monkeypox. Studies
      performed during and in the immediate aftermath of smallpox eradication demonstrated that
      smallpox vaccination (with a first generation vaccine) could confer protection against
      infection with monkeypox virus. Newer, third generation vaccines such as IMVAMUNE, an
      attenuated (replication deficient) strain of vaccinia virus may offer an alternative safer
      source of vaccine-derived protection.

      The clinical presentation of monkeypox infection is similar to smallpox, although it is less
      transmissible human-to-human than smallpox and less deadly (case fatality estimates for
      monkeypox are approximately 10%). Naturally-occurring human monkeypox is largely restricted
      to remote regions of the Congo Basin forest in Central Africa. This study is the first
      rigorous evaluation of IMVAMUNE in a region where natural Orthopoxvirus transmission occurs
      at appreciable and predictable rates. Healthcare and frontline workers in the DRC are
      currently at high risk of acquiring monkeypox virus infection that prevents them from
      performing work duties, compromises healthcare delivery in an already fragile system, and can
      result in death.

      This open-label prospective cohort study in up to 1,600 healthcare personnel at risk of
      monkeypox infection through their daily work will document monkeypox virus exposure and
      infection in vaccinated participants while concurrently evaluating the immunogenicity and
      safety of IMVAMUNE vaccine. Study participation is voluntary and open to male and female
      healthcare personnel ages 18 years and older in Tshuapa Province in the DRC. Participants
      will receive two subcutaneous doses of IMVAMUNE vaccine on days 0 and 28. Blood samples will
      be obtained on days 0, 14, 28, 42, 180, 365, 545, and 730 for immunogenicity analysis. After
      each vaccination participants will be observed for at least thirty minutes. They will
      maintain an adverse event diary to record systemic and local adverse events for 7 days after
      each immunization. They will also record exposure to the monkeypox virus in an exposure diary
      that is reviewed at each follow-up visit.

      The study will evaluate the proportion of participants who after being vaccinated 1) develop
      suspected or confirmed monkeypox infection, and 2) experience exposure to monkeypox virus.
      The study will also evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of IMVAMUNE.
    
  