
    
      This K07 Career Development Award application is designed to expand Dr. Dennis career
      development from cancer etiology to cancer prevention and control. The career development
      plan rests on mentoring directed by experts in cancer prevention research and "protected
      time" to foster my professional development as an independent cancer control researcher. A
      unique population, the Agricultural Health Study (AHS) cohort, will be used to examine sun
      exposure, sun protection behavior, and factors affecting these behaviors regarding the risk
      of melanoma in private pesticide applicators (farmers) and their spouses. The research plan
      proposed to examine skin melanoma within this prospective cohort of private applicators
      (mostly farmers) and their spouses in Iowa and North Carolina (the AHS) in association with
      environmental factors. Specific aim 1 examined the risk of melanoma in the AHS cohort using
      various existing measures of sun exposure adjusted for skin sensitivity and sun protection.
      Subsequently (for aim 2), qualitative research methods were used to design appropriate
      measures of sun exposure, sun protection behavior, and factors affecting these behaviors in
      private applicators and their spouses within the AHS based on the cohort analyses. Now Aim 3
      will be completed by conducting a nested case-control study of melanoma within the AHS cohort
      to examine in more detail sun exposure histories and protective behavior. The questionnaire
      was designed based on findings from the cohort analyses (aim 1) and qualitative methods (aim
      2). The risk of melanoma will be examined regarding: a) the complex relationship of
      cumulative (sun exposure during each decade of life) and intermittent sun exposure (sunburns
      and sunny vacations), b) factors affecting behavior including attitudes about sun exposure
      and prevention, and c) the use of tanning salons and sunless tanning creams, particularly in
      spouses (expected to be rare overall). The final aim is to use the results from the cohort
      and nested case-control studies to design a behavioral intervention, along with a short
      computer automated telephone interview (CATI) that can be used in the whole AHS cohort or
      other farming populations. Funding for such studies will be sought through the R01 mechanism
      as an independent cancer control researcher. The behavioral intervention will be based on
      those factors that are the strongest risk factors for melanoma, highly prevalent, and easily
      modifiable. The behavioral intervention will be designed based on knowledge and skill gained
      from the Career Development Plan goals.
    
  