
    
      Background The integration of Palliative Care (PC) in routine oncological care remains
      challenging, particularly in resource-restricted, culturally diverse, and regulatory/legal
      disperse settings like Romania. The investigators aim to collect original data ("reality
      map") about the implementation of Key-Interventions Palliative-Cancer-Care (KI-PCC) and
      specific outcome quality indicators (QI). The investigators also hypothesize that both
      predefined cofactors and appropriately delivered KI-PCC will predict quality of care.

      Aim The aim is to detect gaps in the care of advanced incurable cancer patients. Because in
      this setting there are no predefined structures, the investigators focus on interventions
      perceived by the patient.

      Methods The investigators' target population are advanced incurable cancer patients in
      different care settings (oncology clinics, Palliative Care centers, and hospice, varying in
      size, location (rural, urban) and grade of specialization) representing the heterogeneity of
      care in Romania. The investigators characterize the population using demographic data (EAPC
      basic dataset amended by country specific data like family structures and income), and
      validated tools for patient needs (IPOS, EQ5D). Need for and perceived Key interventions of
      Palliative Cancer Care (KI-PCC), measured by nurse-patient-interaction, are assessed. These
      KI-PCC include illness understanding, symptom management, decision making, spirituality,
      end-of-life-preparation, and network/family support. Further, the investigators collect
      defined outcome quality indicators (QI) for the integration (quality of death and dying,
      symptoms, aggressive end-of-life-care, inappropriate anticancer care, ER-visits). In
      addition, known, associated cofactors (e.g. comorbidities, living situation) are measured.
      The data collection will be longitudinal with monthly follow-ups for at most six months or
      until death. Focus groups at each participating center explore local influencing factors both
      for KI-PCC and QI. Several steps of quality assurance (source data verification, expert
      reviews of anticancer treatment, etc.) are introduced.

      The analysis has three elements. First, the investigators will describe the population.
      Second, the investigators will map the patient perceived KI-PCC and defined outcome QI.
      Third, if data show robust after international expert review, the investigators will test the
      hypothesis that appropriate KI-PCC predict quality of care, measured by QI.

      Expected impact The investigators expect that their approach will identify gaps in the
      integration of oncology and palliative care in their specific settings, focusing, however,
      mainly on patient and proxy view and backed by available information from outcome QI. The
      conduct of this protocol might also directly have an influence on patient care.

      This approach will allow the development of tailored interventions in a next step. The
      investigators' approach may also serve as a model to measure the integration of oncology and
      palliative care in various settings, focusing on interventions.
    
  