
    
      Protocol Summary The long term objective of the proposed research is to develop a high-speed
      noninvasive endoscopic functional optical coherence tomography (F-OCT) device using
      microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology for early diagnosis of tumors or lesions in
      gastrointestinal tracts.

      Study Design All patients undergoing endoscopy at UCIMC CDDC and who meet eligibility
      criteria will be candidates for enrollment in the protocol. Signed informed consent will be
      obtained.

      Standard of Care Procedure The patients will undergo the standard of care endoscopy.
      Endoscopy is performed on a routine basis with conscious sedation or general anesthesia.
      Digital images and video clips of the areas of interest will be captured in the usual
      standard of care fashion.

      Research Procedure The OCT probe will then be inserted through the biopsy channel of the
      endoscope into the GI tract lumen and OCT images will be acquired of the lesions just prior
      to biopsies (research procedure). In addition, OCT images will be taken of the surrounding
      normal tissue.

      Primary Endpoint The OCT images will be correlated to the specific biopsy site and biopsy
      number.

      OCT Device and Probe Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an emerging imaging modality that
      uses light to image turbid media such as living tissues, and has been successfully used to
      generate high resolution (~10 micron) cross-sectional images of tissue microstructure in the
      human retina and skin. OCT devices are now commercially available for ophthalmic and
      dermatologic use, and several clinical reports on the use of OCT in the vascular system and
      aerodigestive tract have been published as well.

      The OCT device is an optical imaging instrument that combines a broadband low power near
      infrared light source (non-laser) with an interferometer to produce cross-sectional optical
      images of tissue to depths of 1-2 mm. OCT is already used commercially to image the retina
      and skin. This study focuses on a device designed specifically for the aerodigestive tract.
      The OCT probe has been designed to fit through the biopsy channel of standard endoscopes. The
      probes are designed with three different types of mechanism. (1) The first mechanism consists
      of a fiber optic with a micro lens and prism attached at the end to direct the light to and
      from the tissue sample. Scanning is achieved by moving the fiber optic along its axis using a
      linear motor. Longitudinal OCT imaging can be realized with this mechanism. Similar probes
      are already used in our laryngoscopic OCT study. (2) The second mechanism is achieved by a
      rotational MEMS motor, on which an angled mirror is attached to direct the light to the side.
      Rotational imaging can be realized with this mechanism. (3) The third mechanism is based on
      the silicon MEMS technology. The scanner is created with a polysilicon micromirror driven by
      high frequency, thick single crystal silicon comb drives. The high speed scanning probe is
      with large scan angles, excellent optical properties, high precision, and long-term
      reliability. The overall cross-sectional diameter is approximately 3 mm to be able to fit
      into the biopsy channel of the endoscope. The OCT device will focus the incident
      low-coherence light onto the tissue and collect backscattered coherent photons. The
      endoscopists can then obtain cross sectional optical images of the tissue through arbitrary
      planes of section.
    
  