
    
      Fish is a healthful food that is the primary dietary source of elongated n-3 polyunsaturated
      fatty acids (PUFA), nutrients essential for optimal neurodevelopment. Most pregnant women in
      the US do not consume adequate n-3 PUFA. However, fish also may be contaminated with
      methylmercury, and approximately 10% of women of childbearing age in the US have mercury
      levels higher than recommended. Because the same food contains both essential nutrients and
      harmful contaminants, substantial confusion reigns about the best course of action for
      pregnant women. Additionally, it is not clear what fish consumption advice would be most
      effective in changing women's fish consumption habits. The goal of this pilot study is to
      perform formative work to allow us to develop and refine an intervention to promote
      consumption of fish low in mercury and high in n-3 PUFA among pregnant women. This project,
      together with a pilot RCT already funded, will serve as preliminary data to support a larger
      RCT to evaluate the effects of the intervention on pregnancy outcomes and postpartum maternal
      and infant health.

      Specific Aims Aim 1. Among pregnant women, identify: 1) knowledge of the potential risks and
      benefits associated with fish consumption during pregnancy; 2) awareness of current
      recommendations for fish consumption by pregnant women; 3) the sources of information from
      which they are learning about the health effects associated with fish intake; and 4)
      facilitators and barriers to fish consumption, such as cost, availability, taste, and habits.
      To achieve this aim, we will conduct focus groups with pregnant women in the Boston area who
      are infrequent consumers of fish (defined as <= 2 monthly fish servings).

      Aim 2. Develop materials for a planned intervention to increase consumption of fish high in
      n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and low in methylmercury among pregnant women who are
      infrequent consumers of fish at baseline. We will use results from Aim 1 to inform the
      development of these materials.
    
  