
    
      Desﬂurane, one of the third-generation inhaled anesthetics, is introduced in clinical
      practice in 1990s. Decades of clinical use has provided evidence for desﬂurane's safe and
      efﬁcacious use as a general anesthetic. Compared with other volatile anesthestics, it has
      several characteristics: lower blood and lipid solubility, more stable in vitro and the
      lowest in vivo metabolism. Its particular low fat solubility properties promote rapid
      equilibration and rapid elimination at the end of anesthesia which reduces slow compartment
      accumulation and promotes predictable emergence, early extubation, and the ability to rapidly
      transfer patients from the operating room to the recovery unit. In addition, several
      investigations found that patients with desflurane anesthesia recovered their protective
      airway reﬂexes and awakened to a degree sufﬁcient to minimize the stay in the high dependency
      recovery area.

      A burgeoning body of investigations has shown that desflurane can directly act on myocardial
      and vascular functions. Desflurane has coronary vasodilative effects in in situ canine hearts
      which is comparable to sevoflurane does. Although it is controversial regarding to the effect
      of desflurane on myocardial excitation-contraction coupling and electrophysiologic behavior,
      a elaborated study found desflurane induced a positive inotropic effect in rat myocardium in
      vitro compared with isoflurane. A recent study suggested that desflurane decreased right
      ventricular contractility much less and maintained the right over left pressures ratio at
      more favorable values compared with sevoflurane. Furthermore, substantial investigations
      found that clinically relevant concentration desflurane preconditioning or postconditioning
      could protect myocardium from ischemia-reperfusion in mammalian animal models or isolated
      human cardiac tissues. However, it is unclear whether desflurane can provide protection for
      patients with coronary artery disease. Therefore, this study is designed to investigate the
      effect of desflurane on myocardial function in patents who underwent coronary artery bypass
      grafting.
    
  