
    
      Hepatectomies are characterized by an elevated risk of severe hemorrhage. The high vascular
      supply of the liver has historically troubled surgeons who resolved to techniques to control
      excessive blood loss. The Pringle Maneuver commonly employed in liver surgery is a temporary
      method to occlude the vascular supply of the liver. As a result, ischemia is developed and a
      pathophysiologic cascade is initiated. Upon the resolution of ischemia, reperfusion occurs
      which is linked to further damage and the ischemia-reperfusion injury is developed. Ischemia
      and reperfusion lead to activation of the innate immune response, which interacts with the
      adaptive immune response. Result of this interaction is the production of inflammatory
      cytokines, chemokines, complement products, and the recruitment of neutrophils to the site of
      injury. Previous studies have shown that animal's livers suffered from ischemia-reperfusion
      injury had increased neutrophil infiltration and pharmacological agents attenuating
      neutrophil's activity improved hepatic Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury (IRI). Preconditioning
      refers to the exposure of an organ to short intervals of ischemia which has been shown to
      mitigate the aforementioned ischemia-reperfusion injury. Preconditioning can be
      pharmacological and volatile anesthetics have been successfully used in preconditioning
      models. Sevoflurane have been proved beneficial for a series of hepatectomies in limiting
      transaminase levels postoperatively. However, sevoflurane by virtue can be hepatotoxic
      through Compound A production, elevated free calcium and reactive oxide species activation.
      On the other hand, desflurane undergoes minimum liver metabolism. In liver
      ischemia-reperfusion models, desflurane preconditioning led to decreased cell death and
      inflammatory cytokines inhibition.

      The goal of the investigator's study was to investigate the effect of desflurane
      preconditioning in patients undergoing elective hepatectomy of at least two segments.
      Patients were randomized 1:1 to receive pharmacological preconditioning (Desflurane Group,
      Group D) or not (Control Group, Group C). The surgeon and the Intensive Care Unit were
      blinded as to the intervention. Anesthetic management was the same for all patients. For
      GroupD thirty minutes before the initiation of ischemia desflurane was delivered and propofol
      was stopped for the same interval.
    
  