
    
      : This trial will be conducted on patients from the Outpatient clinic in the Fixed
      Prosthodontics Clinic, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University.

      - Adherence session will take place in the presence of the patients in the initial visit.
      This include that the patient will be informed by Abdelfattah M about the study steps and
      maintenance of oral hygiene instructions. Participants will be asked by Abdelfattah M about
      if they have any problems like pain.

      Motivation and enforcing the maintenance of oral hygiene measures by Abdelfattah M.

      The visits will be designated as follows:

      Visit 1: Preoperative records, face-to-face adherence reminder session, clinical examination,
      radiographic examination, intraoral photography and primary impressions (Zhermack ) for
      diagnostic cast construction ( Zhermack ) . Visit 2: teeth preparations, secondary impression
      ( Zhermack ) and temporization (Tempofit) .

      Visit 3: try in for the restoration. Visit 4: final cementation of the restoration.(GC resin
      cement) Visit 5: follow up

      Sample size:

      As there is no previously published effect size data regarding the effectiveness of the
      intervention or the control, an estimated sample size of 10 bridges would be used with
      allocation ratio of 1:1.

      Recruitment:

      The patients who show the inclusion criteria as mentioned will be selected by Abdelfattah M
      from the outpatient clinic of the fixed prosthodontics department - Cairo University.
      Screening will be carried out by Abdelfattah M for patients until the target population is
      reached.

      Methods: Assignment of interventions:

      Sequence generation The participant will be allocated in to two groups with 1:1 allocation
      ratio by using computer by Abdelfattah M.

      Implementation:

      Abdelfattah (the main researcher) will select the patients who show the listed inclusion
      criteria and divided them into two groups Blinding An independent examiner (not the main
      researches) will assess the all restorations (double blind study).

      Plans to promote participant retention & complete follow-up:

      Telephone numbers and addresses of the patients enrolled in the trial will be recorded by
      Abdelfattah M. All patients will be given a phone call before the next appointment for
      confirming to their coming. Efforts will be done to achieve proper participant retention like
      explaining the next procedure to the participant, elaborate to the participants the benefits
      gained from being enrolled in the study and use a schedule for the next visits.

      Data management All data will be managed electronically. Patient files will be stored in
      numerical order in a secured place. This will be carried out by Abdelfattah M Data analysis
      All Data will be collected, revised, arranged in tables and entered into the system by
      Abdelfattah M. Quantitative variables from normal distribution will be expressed as mean and
      standard deviation (SD) values. To test the significant differences between two groups
      student t-test will be used. Significant level will be set at P ≤ 0.05. Statistical analysis
      will be done using Statistical Package for Social Sciences, Version 21.0 (SPSS, IBM, Chicago,
      III, USA) for Windows.

      Data monitoring Data monitoring is the responsibility for the main supervisor (El Mahallawi
      O). Interim analysis will be done if harms occur.

      Harms Any harm or adverse events like pain or failure if happened will be recorded,
      documented and dealed with as recommended by Abdelfattah M.

      Consent Abdelfattah M will discuss all study aspects with all patients, so patients will be
      able to have an informed discussion with the researcher. Abdelfattah M will obtain written
      consent from the patients who willing to participate in the study. All consent forms will be
      in Arabic language Confidentiality All information related to the study will be stored in a
      secure place. All patients information will be stored in cabinets in areas with limited
      access. All data processing forms will be identified by a number to maintain participant
      confidentiality.

      Access to data Access to the data is allowed to the investigator and supervisors. The
      participant study information will be confidential.

      Ancillary care All patients will be followed up until the study period is completed. As any
      prosthetic treatment, post insertion adjustments will be done if necessary and the recall
      maintenance visits will be arranged.

      Dissemination policy

        -  The results of the study will be published as partial fulfillments for the doctorate
           degree in fixed prosthodontics.

        -  Topics from the study suggested for presentation or publication will be circulated to
           the authors.

      Data collection:

      Primary outcome: the retention of the restoration for both groups will be assessed using
      MUSPHS criteria.

      Secondary outcome: the marginal fit, caries, fracture and gingivitis for both groups will be
      assessed using the MUSPHS and gingival index.
    
  