
    
      Turner syndrome (TS) is characterized by the absence of all or part of a normal second X
      chromosome and occurs in about 1/2,500 live-born girls. Spontaneous fertility is rare among
      patients with TS related to premature apoptosis of ovarian follicles. Spontaneous puberty and
      fertility has been reported mostly in patients with mosaic karyotype or small X deletions.

      There is robust evidence that follicles can be observed in ovaries in girls with TS. However,
      follicular density and quality seems to be largely influenced by karyotype, ovarian
      morphology and endocrine competence. There are no clear-cut clinical or hormonal markers to
      assess the ovarian reserve in girls with TS but markers of ovarian function used in women
      with premature ovarian insufficiency are measured. In TS, it is now fundamental to be able to
      evaluate the prognosis of the ovarian function and the degree of fertility to provide the
      relevant information to girls and their parents and to discuss possibilities of motherhood if
      any.

      Ovarian cryopreservation has been used in an effort to preserve fertility in patients
      undergoing treatments which lead to premature and severe ovarian insufficiency. This study
      aims to assess the relevance of ovarian tissue cryopreservation in girls with Turner
      syndrome. Based on ovarian follicular density as primary outcome and karyotypic, clinical and
      hormonal markers as secondary outcomes, analysis of the study will allow to screen the
      patients to whom the procedure would benefit the most.

      Girls who will be operated will accept to come for a follow-up visit at one and 12 months
      after the surgery. It is expected to have clinical and hormonal information through a long
      follow up performed by the referred paediatrician.

      Results of the study will allow us to select patients with TS who will benefit the most of
      this fertility preservation procedure based on karyotypic, clinical and hormonal profile.
    
  