
    
      This is a multimethod study. It has a quantitative and a qualitative part. The
      patient-reported outcome questionnaire European Organization for Research and Treatment of
      Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ C-30) and the patient-reported
      outcome and patient-reported experience questionnaire The Outcomes and Experiences
      Questionnaire (OEQ) are completed by the included patients within one week before a
      patient-physician consultation at the outpatient clinic at one single department of
      hematology. Baseline is different for different patient groups; 1) for participants receiving
      a primary treatment baseline is defined as the first patient-physician consultation after the
      primary treatment ended, 2) for patients continuously receiving medical treatment baseline is
      defined as the first patient-physician consultation after starting medical treatment, and 3)
      for patients followed using a watch and wait strategy baseline is defined as the first
      patient-physician consultation after deciding the watch and wait strategy. Each patient
      completes the questionnaires for 2 years. The questionnaires can be completed online or on
      paper depending on the patients choice. Answers from both questionnaires are eligible to all
      health care professionals in the outpatient clinic in an internet-based tool. A summary of
      scores from the EORTC QLQ C-30, and the answers and the score from the OEQ, are written in
      the medical record.

      This study investigates, if use of the patient-reported outcome (PRO) questionnaires are
      useful in the assessment of the patients needs and health care providers decision making
      regarding supportive care interventions. It investigates, if completion of PRO questionnaires
      changes the number and kind of supportive care interventions.

      Observations of patient-physician consultations and individual interviews with patients are
      used to capture the impact of the questionnaires on the consultations and patients evaluation
      of the use of the questionnaires.

      This study also investigates, if patients completion of PRO questionnaires and health care
      professionals use of the questionnaires in clinical decision making changes the number of
      contacts between patients and a department of hematology and the number of paraclinical
      interventions.
    
  