
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Since most cases of asthma occur in the first few years of life, examining its pre- and early
      postnatal determinants is crucial. This study focuses on determinants of the developing
      immune system. T helper cells are of two types. Th1 cells participate in cell-mediated
      immunity essential for controlling intracellular infectious agents such as bacterial and
      viruses. Th2 cells are essential for antibody-mediated immunity to control extracellular
      infectious agents. The Th2 pattern, characterized by higher levels of IgE, increased
      production of proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-4 (IL-4) or IL-13, and decreased
      production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), predominates prenatally. If it is not balanced by
      a Thl pattern after birth, e.g., increased IFN-7 production, risk of asthma likely increases.
      Early childhood immune mechanisms associated with risk of asthma may also involve non-IgE/Th2
      pathways, with increased production of IL-6 or TNF-alpha. Preliminary studies have linked
      asthma at various ages with reduced ratio of n-3 to n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids,
      increased birth weight, and overweight. Preliminary data have also linked these dietary and
      weight variables to systemic production of IgE and both Th2 and non-Th2 proinflammatory
      cytokines. Thus allergy and inflammation may be pathways through which pre- and early
      postnatal dietary factors influence development of asthma. However, there are virtually no
      prospective human data linking maternal diet or fetal/early childhood growth with the
      asthma-related immune response in childhood.

      The study takes advantage of the resources of Project Viva, an ongoing NIH-funded prospective
      cohort study of pregnant women and their offspring in eastern Massachusetts. Project Viva
      already includes detailed dietary data on mother and infant, maternal and cord blood samples,
      and data on anthropometric, social, environmental, demographic, economic, psychological, and
      lifestyle variables. Relevant covariates are included, such as presence and severity of
      atopic diseases in the parents, parental smoking, infant respiratory infections, and infant
      environment.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study examines associations of maternal gestational n-3 and n-6 fatty acid intake, fatty
      acid levels in umbilical cord blood, fetal growth, and early childhood overweight with
      markers of allergy and inflammation at the age of 3 years. These markers include
      allergy-specific and total plasma IgE levels and levels of proinflammatory cytokines from
      antigen- and mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes. This study takes advantage of the resources of
      Project Viva, an ongoing NIH-funded prospective cohort study of pregnant women and their
      offspring. Project Viva already includes detailed dietary data on mother and infant, maternal
      and cord blood samples, and data on anthropometric, social, environmental, demographic,
      economic, psychological, and lifestyle variables. This study supports several elements not
      otherwise funded, including adding measurement of immune outcomes at age 3 years in a subset
      of 370 cohort participants. Given the existing infrastructure of Project Viva, the study
      provides a relatively economical way to address scientific questions of major public health
      importance.
    
  