
    
      Background:

      Humans are highly social creatures, and others' behavior and experiences can have profound
      effects on symptoms, physiology, and behavior. Social modeling-watching a similar other
      experience treatment benefits-may also strongly enhance placebo effects and their durability
      over time, particularly when combined with other context interventions. Social influences can
      affect core motivational circuitry (e.g., nAC and amygdala), shape learning trajectories, and
      appears to have distinct mechanisms from other (e.g., conditioning) manipulations. Their
      impact on brain mechanisms of placebo has not been studied. Likewise, initial perceived
      treatment success or failure can powerfully shape learning trajectories and placebo
      analgesia. Initial failure experiences with a treatment type (e.g., pill) may explain some of
      the treatment failures in studies that (a) attempt to wash out placebo responses with
      ineffective pills before starting verum drug, or (b) re-randomize non-responders to different
      pills, as in the STAR*D antidepressant study. But the effects of initial success/failure
      experiences on the brain mechanisms of placebo effects have not been studied.

      Design:

      In an initial observation phase, participants will watch a video of another participant
      ("demonstrator") undergoing the baseline assessment and placebo test procedure. Next,
      participants will undergo a conditioning phase. The intervention is a 2 x 2 factorial
      between-groups manipulation (N = 30 per group) of social modeling (Observed treatment success
      vs. failure) and participants' initial success experience (Experienced success vs. failure).
      Thus, the demonstrator will either show strong signs of pain relief during placebo
      (Observed-Success condition) or no signs of relief (Observed-Failed treatment). During the
      conditioning phase, all participants will experience high-intensity heat before placebo
      treatment and then either low-intensity heat after application of a placebo cream, as in the
      investigator's and others' past work, creating experience of pain relief (Experienced-Success
      condition) or they will not experience relief (i.e., temperatures will not be lowered;
      Experienced-Failed treatment). In a subsequent fMRI test phase, participants experience
      painful heat and aversive IAPS images (as a transfer/specificity test) during fMRI, on skin
      sites treated with Control and Placebo creams, in a Control -> Placebo -> Control block
      design as in past research. Finally, a 3-month follow-up fMRI test phase, without additional
      observation or conditioning, will assess durability of brain and behavioral placebo effects.
    
  