
    
      In recent decades, the incidence of lymphoma has been increasing year by year in the world.
      Non-Hodgkin lymphoma accounts for about 90% of lymphoma, of which the classification is
      complex and the efficacy is poor compared to Hodgkin's lymphoma. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is
      often associated with the extra nodal involvement, and according to literature, extra nodal
      lymphoma accounts for 1/3 to 1/2 of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Compared with non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma without extra nodal involvement, the prognosis of lymphoma with extra nodal
      involvement was relatively poor. The recurrence rate was higher, and its incidence, histology
      type, clinical staging and so on all had their own characteristics.

      Tumor cells depend to some extent on the interaction with non-tumor cells and matrix
      components of the tumor microenvironment to maintain survival and proliferation. In addition,
      the non tumor cells and matrix components can mediate immunosuppressive action to promote
      tumor escape from immunosurveillance, resulting in disease progression. At the same time,
      more and more data show that the tumor microenvironment plays a key role in the development
      of tumor resistance. The cellular composition and spatial properties of the tumor
      microenvironment show significant heterogeneity, depending on a number of factors, including
      subtypes of lymphomas and extra nodal sites of lymphomas. Studying the tumor microenvironment
      will provide rationale for more precise target therapy. Through single-cell RNA sequencing,
      this study hopes to identify the heterogeneity of nodal and extra nodal lymphoma cells, to
      understand the differences in tumor microenvironment, and to provide a basis for diagnosis
      and precision treatment.

      There are new target drugs for different antigen targets. But patients may not be sensitive
      to a certain drug, and the drug is often expensive, resulting in increased financial burden
      on patients without efficacy. Therefore, the research for biomarkers to predict patient
      efficacy and prognosis is particularly important.

      The treatment efficacy of patients with relapsed lymphoma is often not good, so the
      prediction and treatment of patients with high-risk of relapsing is a clinical significant
      problem. On the basis of single-cell transcriptomics, this study hopes to find biomarkers for
      predicting the relapse of lymphoma and provide new ideas for clinical diagnosis and
      treatment.
    
  