
    
      GVHD is a complication that can occur after a bone marrow or stem cell transplant. The
      transplant recipient's body is attacked by the newly introduced cells. Only about 40% of
      patients with acute GVHD have durable responses when treated with corticosteroid therapy. A
      strategy that helps fewer people suffer from GVHD, without other adverse effects, would be an
      effective approach to improve survival after allogeneic transplantation.

      GVHD incidence can be decreased with various treatment plans. Early transplants were done
      using post-transplant methotrexate to prevent GVHD. Another drug, cyclosporine, was later
      shown to work better than methotrexate. Then doctors discovered that the combined use of
      cyclosporine and methotrexate worked even better than either agent alone. More recently,
      other calcineurin-inhibitors, such as tacrolimus have been developed as GVHD prophylactic
      agents due to favorable toxicity profiles in comparison with cyclosporine. Studies have been
      conducted to compare available treatment combinations for related and unrelated donors. The
      combination of tacrolimus/methotrexate remains a standard for GVHD prophylaxis.

      However, improved GVHD prophylaxis remains a significant clinical need in HSCT. The current
      clinical trial will test three novel GVHD prophylaxis approaches: tacrolimus/methotrexate and
      bortezomib (Tac/MTX/Bort), tacrolimus/methotrexate and maraviroc (Tac/MTX/MVC) and
      tacrolimus/mycophenolate mofetil and cyclophosphamide (Tac/MMF/Cy). This randomized Phase II
      clinical trial will compare each intervention arm with a Tac/MTX control.

      This study will enroll people who have a cancer of the blood or lymph glands and a stem cell
      transplant is a treatment option. The study will take at least two years and will include 270
      participants - 90 participants in each of three treatment groups. The purpose of this study
      is to compare three combinations of medications to see whether one or more of them are better
      than the current standard of care (Tacrolimus/Methotrexate) to prevent GVHD.
    
  