
    
      Intravenous ondansetron is routinely used in adult emergency department patients experiencing
      nausea or vomiting. The FDA has changed the drug label to warn of prolongation of the QT
      interval and required the manufacturer to perform additional studies. There are rare case
      reports of cardiac electrical toxicity to include QT prolongation, atrial fibrillation,
      severe bradycardia, ventricular tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, and the potential
      for Torsades de Pointes. All of the reported literature on ondansetron comes from
      post-operative patients, patients receiving chemotherapy, and healthy volunteers, but has
      never been assessed in the emergency department population. Adult emergency department
      patients that do not meet the exclusion criteria will be enrolled prior to receiving
      intravenous ondansetron. Administration of ondansetron will be at the discretion of the
      attending physician. A twelve-lead electrocardiogram (EKG) or 12-lead rhythm strip will be
      generated prior to drug administration, and every 2 minutes following drug administration for
      20 minutes after administration. During the entire 20 minutes the patient will be on a
      cardiac monitor and if any of the defined adverse cardiac electrical events occur (non-sinus
      rhythm, severe bradycardia, sudden cardiac death) the patient will be treated using standard
      Advanced Cardiac Life Support methods and admitted for continued monitoring. The mean maximal
      QTc prolongation (as measured by the Bazett formula), as well as the rate of adverse cardiac
      events with 95% confidence intervals will be reported.

      The global objective of this study is to determine if routine use of intravenous ondansetron
      in the emergency department is associated with cardiac risks. The primary objective is to
      determine the mean maximal prolongation in QTc interval from baseline as measured by the
      Bazett formula. The secondary objective is to determine the number of severe adverse cardiac
      electrical events (non-sinus rhythm, severe bradycardia, sudden cardiac death) associated
      with routine use of intravenous ondansetron in the adult emergency department patient.
    
  