
    
      Heart Failure ( HF) is associated with a skeletal muscle dysfunction, characterized by an
      increased fatigue that does not correlate with impaired myocardial function and physical
      inactivity that is commonly associated with HF. We identified in skeletal muscle of HF rats,
      a dysfunction of type 1 ryanodine receptors (RyR1) similar to that observed on the cardiac
      channel ( RyR2), due to an hyperphosphorylation of the RyR and a dissociation of the
      regulatory protein FKBP12. This dysfunction, in addition to mitochondrial impairment,
      contributes in this animal model to the reduced exercise capacity observed during HF. Our
      goal is to analyse the impact of HF on calcium homeostasis, mitochondrial function and
      oxydative stress in human skeletal muscle. This project, performed on muscle biopsies, will
      also allow us to correlate calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial function to circulating
      factors ( cytokines, catecholamines) susceptible to trigger this muscle dysfunction.This
      project addresses two straightforward questions about physiopathological mechanisms involved
      in skeletal muscle dysfunction during HF. To this aim we have built locally a network of
      laboratories and clinical services, used to work together, composed of two services of the
      University Hospital of Montpellier ( Dept. of Cardiology and Dept of Clinical Physiology), an
      inserm unit (U1046, team 2) all interfaced by an another Inserm facility: the Clinical
      Investigation center (CIC) of Montpellier. In this project we will focus on the dilated
      post-ischemic cardiomyopathy and compare two groups of patients under similar treatments
      studied at different stages of HF. The first patients with a fraction of ejection ≥ 50% will
      be compares with patients) with an ejection fraction ≤ 35% (12 males, 35-65 years old per
      HF). 12 voluntary healthy sedentary individuals carefully selected for similar level of
      activity as for patients will be matched to the HF groups. All individuals will undergo
      cardiovascular explorations (ECG and echocardiography, blood test) at the inclusion. They
      will perform an exercise testing to evaluate their exercise capacity. A muscle biopsy will be
      performed between 4 and 8 days after the exercise testing to assess the mitochondrial
      function and the Ca2+ homeostasis. This project will allow us to characterize the behavior of
      RyR in relation with mitochondrial function in human skeletal muscle during HF . The analysis
      of circulating factors will allow us to establish a relation of cause and effect between
      myocardial dysfunction and muscle dysfunction. This project could thus open important
      perspectives in therapeutic. Compounds analogues to JTV-519, acting in stabilizing RyR
      channels, could be prescribed as a potent medication for HF. This project could thus be
      determinant in the comprehension of the regulation of Ca2+ and energetic metabolism in human
      skeletal muscle which could be an appropriate model to evaluate the effects of new
      pharmacological agents.
    
  