
    
      Aging populations has become a global issue. Fall is a prevalent concern among aging adults
      that can cause fracture, injury or mortality. Identifying the factors related to falls
      occurring within this aging population is essential for the development of effective regimes
      for fall prevention. Studies have shown that muscle quality and good posture alignments are
      critical for balance control in older adults. Older adults often combining with muscles
      weakness (sarcopenia), bone loss (osteoporosis) and lead to increased spine kyphosis causing
      vertebral fractures and poor balance control. Therefore, the long-term objectives of this
      work are to prevent fall in older adults by improving the function of degenerative muscles.
      The proposed research can provide needed information regarding the processes of balance
      control in this aging population, and can potentially be applied to individuals with poor
      balance who at high risk of fall. Three specific aims for this 3 years research project are
      described as follow:

      Aim 1: Determine the relationships between muscle quality and balance performance as well as
      any association with fracture and fall history in older adults.

      Muscle quality will be calculated from the information of muscle strength and body
      composition (strength/lean muscle mass). The investigators will compute the joint torque
      during functional activates using biomechanical data from the 3-D motion analysis, whereas
      the lean skeletal muscle mass will be determined by the bioelectrical impedance analysis
      (BIA). Clinical and functional assessments for balance performance will also be conducted.
      Fracture and fall history prior to the testing will be recorded retrospectively.

      Aim 2: Identify the relationships between force usages during balance perturbation in older
      adults.

      Lateral and forward/backward perturbation while walking will be used to elicit balance
      recovery responses. The degree of necessary joint force and how this relates to a person's
      functional capacity at specific joint levels will be determined by the torque demand to
      capacity ratio (DCR: task demands relative to strength capacity). The DCR provides a
      joint-specific unified scalar quantity representing the balance recovery demand normalized by
      the maximum muscle strength capacity of an individual. It would indicate whether a person can
      recover balance and to what extent of his/her maximum capacity is taxed.

      Aim 3: Examine the effectiveness and long-term effects of a novel 2-month personalized
      strengthening and balance training program on improving balance performance in older adults.

      Personalized strengthening and balance training exercise will be personalized based on the
      results of biomechanical assessments, using the Modular Interactive Tiles System (MITS) and
      split-belt balance perturbation instrumented treadmill. The exercise group will receive
      training 2 times a week for 2 months and the age-matched control group will maintain their
      usual daily life activities. All assessments will be performed at baseline, and 1 week after
      training. Follow-up telephone interviews will be conducted at 6, 9, and 12 months following
      the training period.

      Translational research of this nature will contribute necessary information on the critical
      factors of balance control in older adults. The research will also test clinical innovations
      of exercise training to improve the long-term prognosis in this vulnerable aging population
      group. The unique contribution of the proposed research lies in the integration of an
      explicit physical examination and biomechanical approach to a relevant clinical problem
      within a translational model. The findings will provide a new paradigm of treatment
      approaches for balance control and will reduce the risk of falling and fracture. This
      research can potentially be applied to individuals with poor balance who are at high risk of
      falling.
    
  