
    
      The high prevalence of stroke is a global problem causing well-known long-term disabilities.
      Post-stroke lower-extremity spasticity may cause severe functional limitations and pain.
      Spasticity is a phenomenon defined as disordered sensory-motor control, resulting from upper
      motor neuron (UMN) lesion, presenting as intermittent or sustained involuntary activation of
      muscles . Spasticity may interfere with motor function, and is a common reason for clinical
      interventions such as by physiotherapy, use of orthoses or other technical devices or drugs.
      Botulinum toxin A (BoNT-A) is a potent neurotoxin that is produced by the bacterium
      clostridium botulinum. BoNT-A, by blocking acetylcholine release at neuromuscular junctions,
      accounts for its therapeutic action to relieve dystonia, spasticity, and related disorders.

      Unfortunately, intramuscular injections of botulinum often carried out when the patients have
      obvious spasticity . It is normally given until the clinical signs of an elevated muscle tone
      have become established; therefore it is usually given at least three months after stroke , .
      It will impede the rehabilitation of the patients. Accordingly, the present study asked
      whether an early calf muscle injection of low dose BoNT-A in severely affected patients
      within 6 weeks after stroke could help to hold back disabling muscle spasticity and improve
      walking dysfunction along 24 weeks fellow up trail.

      This is a randomized, open-label, controlled trial along 24-weeks trails. Referred sample of
      adult subacute stroke patients (within 6 weeks since stroke, n=30) with mild spasticity of
      calf muscle will be included. Patients were randomly allocated to BoNT-A treatment group (15
      patients) and control group (15 patients). In BoNT-A treatment group patients received 200
      units BoNT-A injection in the triceps surae (150iu) and tibial muscle posterior (50iu). No
      special treatment was performed in the control group. Both groups received comprehensive
      rehabilitation for 8 weeks. Lower limbs Fugl-Meyer (FM) score, calf muscle modified Ashworth
      scale assess (MAS), gastrocnemius surface electromyography (sEMG) evaluation and modified
      Barthel index (MBI) were assessed before and 8, 12, 24 weeks after treatment. Gait analysis
      (step length，cadence，speed), 6-min walking distance were assessed 8, 12, 24 weeks after
      injection.
    
  