
    
      The burden of cardiovascular disease in North Carolina remains large. The latest data
      available show an annual cardiovascular death rate of 263 per 100,000 explaining almost
      one-third of deaths in the state. Disease progression is largely determined by several risk
      factors including elevated blood pressure or cholesterol, not using aspirin for prevention,
      and tobacco use. Primary care practices as currently organized have been unable to get more
      than half these patients to achieve recommended targets for risk factor reduction. Small
      independent practices, in particular, lack resources for enhanced practice support to improve
      cardiovascular care.

      This study will enroll 300 primary care practices to evaluate the effect of primary care
      support on evidence-based cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention and organizational change
      process measures. Each practice will start the trial as a control, receive the intervention
      at a randomized time point, and then enter a maintenance period 12 months after starting the
      intervention. All practices will receive 12 months of the intense intervention including
      onsite quality improvement (QI) facilitation, academic detailing, electronic health record
      (EHR) support, and, through the North Carolina Health Information Exchange (HIE), a shared
      statewide utility providing whole population analytics, care gap identification,
      benchmarking, and an external reporting mechanism which otherwise would not be available to
      independent practices.

      A successful intervention would prove that practice facilitation supported by effective
      informatics tools is an effective method of translating PCOR findings into practice.
      Discernible reductions in cardiovascular risk in 300 practices covering over an estimated
      900,000 adult patients would likely lead to prevention of thousands of cardiovascular events
      within 10 years.
    
  