
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the effects of progressive, structured resistance training (RT) program , with
      and without protein supplementation (PS), on lean body mass (LBM) in prostate cancer
      survivors (PCS) on androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Increases in LBM may influence
      additional outcomes such as physical function, quality of life (QOL) and molecular pathways
      that regulate skeletal muscle.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the effects of a structured RT program, with and without PS, on muscle
      strength, physical function, and QOL in PCS on ADT .

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the effects of a progressive, structured RT program, with and without PS, on
      anabolic and catabolic molecular regulators of skeletal muscle in PCS on ADT.

      II. To examine the effects of a progressive, structured RT program, with and without PS, on
      bone turnover markers and bone mineral density in PCS on ADT.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo total body high-intensity RT thrice weekly, and perform static
      stretching exercises after each session. Exercises progress from low intensity and high
      volume to higher intensity and lower volume over the course of the 12-week program. Patients
      also receive whey protein supplementation orally twice a day for 12 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients undergo total body RT and stretching as in Arm I.

      ARM III: Patients receive whey protein supplementation as in Arm I. Patients also undergo a
      home flexibility program 3 times per week, consisting of the same static stretching exercises
      performed after RT. After 12 weeks, may undergo the RT program as in Arm 1.

      ARM IV: Patients undergo the home flexibility program as in Arm III. After 12 weeks, patient
      may undergo total body RT as in Arm 1.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  