
    
      B a c k g r o u n d:

      Emergency departments nationally and internationally are challenged by a continuously
      increasing number and complexity of patients and consequent crowding. International studies
      showed that crowding is associated with unfavourable outcomes. Emergency departments are an
      important interface between the outpatient and inpatient health care sectors. Health care
      sectors in Germany are not organisationally cross-linked and data linkage for analysis of the
      health care system is not generally performed. Hence, there is a lack of data to
      trans-sectorally describe and monitor patients' pathways and patterns of care in the health
      care system.

      RESEARCH AIMS:

      The overall aim of INDEED is to facilitate trans-sectoral and interdisciplinary health
      services research of emergency care in Germany.

      The primary objective of the project is to assess the trans-sectoral utilization of health
      care services of patients 2 years prior and 1 year after treatment in an emergency
      department. Patterns of adequate, inadequate and potentially avoidable care will be examined.

      The secondary aim is to identify patient clusters with comparable needs of health care
      provision. Within clusters and for all patients combined INDEED will examine health care
      needs and gaps as well as factors that influence emergency department visits, disease
      progression, comorbidities and mortality.

      METHODS:

      Clinical hospital data from 15 to 20 emergency departments in Germany will be linked to
      routine ambulatory health care data provided by the Association of Statutory Health Insurance
      Physicians (Kassenärztliche Vereinigung, KV).

      A secondary data analysis of linked routinely collected hospital information system and
      health insurance data of all adult patients that were treated with any condition in one of
      the participating emergency departments in 2016 (n≈680.000 cases) will be performed. Data
      analysis will cover the pattern of utilization of health care, identification of subgroups
      with comparable need of health care provision, of factors that influence emergency department
      visits and factors for ambulatory care sensitive conditions (ACSC) or inpatient treatment.
      Study results will be evaluated considering age, multimorbidity and gender aspects as well as
      the health system and health economic perspective. Thereby INDEED will identify health care
      gaps and inadequate resource allocation as well as develop strategies for adaptations of the
      health care system to existing demands.
    
  