
    
      Detailed Description:

      Definition: Extended description of the protocol, including more technical information (as
      compared to the Brief Summary) if desired. Do not include the entire protocol; do not
      duplicate information recorded in other data elements, such as eligibility criteria or
      outcome measures. (Limit: 32,000 characters)

      Example:

      Sudden out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OOH-CA) remains a significant cause of death, in spite
      of recent declines in overall mortality from cardiovascular disease. Existing methods of
      emergency resuscitation are inadequate due to time delays inherent in the transport of a
      trained responder with defibrillation capabilities to the side of the OOH-CA victim. Existing
      Emergency Medical Services (EMS) systems typically combine paramedic Emergency Medical
      Technician (EMT) services with some level of community involvement, such as bystander
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training. Some communities include automated external
      defibrillators (AEDs) at isolated sites or in mobile police or fire vehicles. A
      comprehensive, integrated community approach to treatment with AEDs would have community
      units served by these volunteer non-medical responders who can quickly identify and treat a
      patient with OOH-CA. Such an approach is termed Public Access Defibrillation (PAD). Healthy,
      active and non-dependent lifetime during ageing is a societal challenge for European Union.
      One of the worst consequences of ageing is the loss of autonomy which may be preceded by a
      mid-state between good and pathological ageing. This mid-state is called "frailty syndrome"
      and cause a lot of hospitalizations (Morley et al., 2013). This statement is potentially
      reversible if early procedures mixing geriatric interventions based on standardised geriatric
      evaluation and general practitioners cooperation are established (Haute Autorité de Santé,
      2013). The main studied interventions are physical training, cognitive stimulation and
      nutritional actions (Bibas et al., 2014; Clegg et al., 2013). Frailty syndrome is a geriatric
      syndrome emphasizes by the homeostatic reserves drop which induces a stress response failure
      and expose the person to a wrong medical prognosis (Clegg et al., 2013; Rodriguez-Manas et
      al., 2013; Rolland et al., 2011). Its clinical expression is modulated by comorbidities and
      psychological, social, economic and behavioural factors. Thus, frailty syndrome is a
      mortality risk and pejorative events factor, especially those of loss of autonomy, falls,
      hospitalizations and institutionalization in a 1 to 3 years delay. So, the main goal is to
      highlight clinical and biological frailty determinants in elderly with potential weaknesses.
      If there is no strict frailty definition, two frailty criteria types are officially used :

        1. Fried's criteria are the more commonly used criteria to diagnose frailty (Fried et al.,
           2001):

             -  Involuntary weight loss > 4.5 kg in one year,

             -  A feeling of exhaustion,

             -  Low muscle strength (handgrip <20% norm for age, sex and self- bmi),

             -  Low physical activity (<383 kcal/week spent for men, <270kcal/week for women)

             -  Low walking speed (<0.8m/s). According to the number of Fried's criteria, subjects
                are considered frail (≥ 3 criteria), pre-frail (1-2 criteria) or robust (0
                criterion).

        2. Rockwood (Rockwood et al., 2005) or Winograd's criteria (Winograd et al., 1988) based on
           the mix of medical and social factors also known as "multidomain frailty" incorporate
           additional pattern of comorbidities (70 parameters in Rockwood's criteria) and geriatric
           syndromes (confusion, dementia, bed sores, falls, malnourishment…) which actually are
           too general and leading to detect patients too late.

      To diagnose and evaluate this frailty a global geriatric evaluation based on the
      multidimensional comprehensive geriatric assessment (Haute Autorité de Santé, 2013) must be
      led, which is a long process specifically realized in geriatrics. Due to several limits in
      both Fried' and Rockwood's criterion. In Fried's model the slow of walking speed is hard to
      evaluate, the exhaustion of the patient can depend on a previous psychological state (Drey et
      al., 2011), also the measure of muscle strength which requires a dynamometer is not always
      achievable for example. Likewise, in Rockwood's criteria the whole 70 variables are too long
      to list, even under its short form which includes 30 variables.

      Thus, since there is no easy-to-use consensual tool, the real frailty in elderly is nowadays
      rarely detected. Yet it remains essential to identify the mains biological or clinical
      factors which will forecast the loss of autonomy. The highlighting of those factors would
      allow an earlier screening in order to propose several interventions to delay the loss of
      autonomy.

      Non interventional and prospective study in which recruitment and frailty evaluation will be
      realized in a special geriatric ward (medical examination in day hospital and preventive
      center). This study bases its choice of patient on the results of a 6 questions survey (from
      the Gérontopôle of Toulouse) about frailty.

        -  The main objective is to highlight the clinical and biological determinants of loss of
           autonomy in non-dependent and potentially frail elderly.

        -  Secondaries objectives are to highlight the clinical and biological determinants of loss
           of autonomy in non-dependent and potentially frail elderly by testing :

             -  Cognitive disorders;

             -  Risk of falls;

             -  Malnourishment;

             -  Depression;

             -  New illnesses appearances;

             -  Unscheduled hospitalizations;

             -  Mortality;

             -  Institutionalization;

        -  Evaluate the impact of the geriatrician subjective impression on the loss of autonomy.

      People will be recruited among patients whose consult in prevention centers and day hospitals
      in Île-de-France :

        -  8 geriatric centers

        -  2000 patients will be included over 36 months

        -  Approximatively 7 patients per week in each center

        -  Inclusions will take place for 3 years

        -  A following up call every 6 months for 3 years
    
  