
    
      Rational: The initial step of biological diagnosis of acromegaly is based on assessment of
      IGF-I. According to current recommendations, the diagnosis must be confirmed by an oral
      glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to show that there is no growth hormone (GH) decrease lower
      than 1 μg/L (Katznelson , et al., 2014).

      Reproducibility of GH suppression by the OGTT has never been evaluated in either acromegalic
      or healthy subjects, although it is essential to determine the reliability of this test.
      Spontaneous fluctuations in GH in acromegaly could significantly influence the response of GH
      to the OGTT and cause low reproducibility of the test in this population. In particular, this
      reliability could be different according to the typical or moderate clinical presentation
      because of the persistence of a residual ultradian rhythm of GH secretion.

      The usefulness of oral glucose loading and the resulting hyperglycemia (which may limit GH
      secretion) has never been compared to an appropriate placebo (aspartame, at a dose equivalent
      to 75 g glucose), which does not cause hyperglycemia. Ingestion of 75 g of glucose is often
      responsible for nausea and vomiting. More rarely, the drop in blood glucose reactive to hyper
      insulinemia at the end of the test, can be the cause of discomfort.

      Primary objective: To determine the reproducibility of the GH response to OGTT in acromegaly
      by studying, in subjects with acromegaly, changes in GH concentration within 2 hours after
      oral administration of 75 g of glucose at 2 repeated tests in the same subject.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To analyze the reproducibility of the GH response to the OGTT as a function of the
           severity of acromegaly ("typical" form, "intermediate" form of acromegaly) and in a
           group of non-acromegalic subjects.

        2. To evaluate the diagnostic value (utility) of OGTT in acromegaly by comparing, in
           subjects with acromegaly, the response of GH to oral administration of 75 g of glucose
           (OGTT) and 375 mg of aspartame (placebo).

        3. Evaluate OGTT-stimulated insulin secretion in acromegalic and non-acromegalic subjects.
    
  