
    
      Pregnant women will be scheduled to be seen in the study clinic every 4 weeks during their
      pregnancy. Women will be seen at 1 week, 6 weeks, and 3 months postpartum and every 3 months
      thereafter. In addition, pregnant women will be instructed to come to the study clinic for
      all their medical care and avoid the use of any outside medications. Women will be provided
      all routine HIV care at the clinic according to Uganda MOH guidelines. All women will have
      ARVs and TS dispensed at the study clinic. Counseling on breastfeeding and infant feeding
      will be provided per Uganda MOH guidelines. HIV care and breastfeeding and infant feeding
      recommendations may be changed to reflect the most recent standard of care per MOH
      guidelines. Children will be scheduled to be seen in the clinic every 4 weeks and parents
      /guardians of children will be instructed to bring their child to the study clinic for all
      medical care and avoid the use of any outside medications. The study clinic will remain open
      7 days a week from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.

      Each time a study participant is seen in the clinic a standardized history and physical exam
      will be performed. Patients who are febrile (tympanic temperature > 3 8.0˚C) or report
      history of fever in the past 24 hours will have blood obtained by finger prick for a thick
      blood smear. If the thick blood smear is positive, the patient will be diagnosed with
      malaria. If the thick blood smear is negative, the patient will be managed by study
      physicians for a non-malarial febrile illness. If the patient is afebrile and does not report
      a recent fever, a thick blood smear will not be obtained, except when following routine
      testing schedules.

      Routine assessments will be done in the clinic every 4 weeks for both pregnant women and
      children. Pregnant women and children will receive standards of care as designated in the
      Uganda MOH guidelines. Children will have care for HIV-exposed children according to MOH
      guidelines, with the exception that TS will be continued until 2 years of life. Routine care
      in children will use Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) guidelines. During
      routine assessments subjects will be asked about visits to outside health facilities and the
      use of any medications outside the study protocol. Standardized assessment of adherence will
      also be done for study drugs administered at home and Insecticide Treated Net use. A routine
      history and physical exam will be performed using a standardized clinical assessment form.
      Blood will be collected by finger prick for thick smear, collection of plasma for PK studies,
      and filter paper samples. Phlebotomy for routine laboratory tests (CBC and ALT) to monitor
      for potential adverse events from study medications and for immunology studies will be
      performed every 8 weeks in pregnant women. Non malaria screening will also include stool ova
      and parasite examination, circulating filarial antigens (by ICT card for Wucheria), and blood
      smear for microfilaremia (including Mansonella perstans) using Knott's technique. For
      pregnant women, study drugs will be administered at the time of each routine visit.
    
  