
    
      Study design:

      This is a prospective, open-label, national, multicenter observational study to investigate
      the tolerability, pharmacokinetics and clinical activity of sorafenib and its metabolites in
      patients with HCC and CP-B liver cirrhosis

      Study population:

      45 Patients with BCLC stage C HCC and CP-B liver cirrhosis

      Treatment:

      All patients will receive sorafenib at a starting dose of 200 mg twice daily. In the absence
      of toxicity dosage will be gradually escalated up to 400 mg BID.

      Before start of treatment patients receive a single oral dose of midazolam to phenotype
      CYP3A4 activity. Blood samples will be taken at several time points to measure sorafenib and
      midazolam concentrations.

      In a subgroup of 15 patients (in the Academic Medical Center Amsterdam), this test will be
      replaced by an oral cocktail of subclinical doses of caffeine, midazolam, omeprazole,
      warfarin and metoprolol and will be repeated after 4 weeks of treatment to assess the
      influence of sorafenib on cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, 3A4, 2C19, 2C9 and 2D6 activity,
      respectively.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary

        1. Exposure and intra- and inter-patient variability in exposure to sorafenib and its
           metabolites

        2. Identification of predictive factors for sorafenib exposure, i.e. bilirubin, CYP3A4
           activity Secondary

        3. Correlation between sorafenib exposure and adverse events and progression free survival

        4. Difference in exposure to 5 CYP probe drugs following administration of an oral cocktail
           of these agents after 4 weeks of sorafenib treatment in comparison with exposure to
           these cocktail probe drugs before initiation of sorafenib (substudy in 15 patients).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Enrolled patients will be admitted in the hospital for three 8h visits for pharmacokinetic
      (PK) sampling of sorafenib and midazolam or the drug cocktail (used for CYP phenotyping). All
      PK blood samples will be drawn via an intravenous catheter. The total amount of blood taken
      will be ca 70 ml. The risks of these procedures are low.

      Patients with advanced HCC and (mild) CP-B liver cirrhosis are often considered poor
      candidates for sorafenib treatment due to decreased tolerability. The aim of this study is to
      look for treatment optimization strategies of sorafenib in this subgroup of advanced HCC
      patients.
    
  