
    
      Radical cystectomy (RC) is a comprehensive surgery including pelvic lymph node dissection and
      urinary diversion. The surgery is originally performed as an open procedure (ORC) but with
      advances in technology the procedure is now also offered as a robot-assisted laparoscopic
      procedure (RARC). It remains questionable if RARC is superior to ORC in terms of surgical
      outcomes.

      Several studies have described outcomes following RARC of which most are comparative studies
      with only five studies being randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Overall, significant
      differences in operating room time, estimated blood loss, time to flatus and bowel movement
      as well as use of morphine sulfate equivalents in favor of RARC has been demonstrated with
      the exception of operating room time. However, no studies have demonstrated a significant
      reduction in risk of 30- or 90-day complication rates between ORC and RARC. The RCTs have not
      been blinded, and therefore may be subject to bias in terms of expectations from patients and
      care providers. Also, in the already conducted RCTs of ORC versus RARC the urinary diversion
      has been done extracorporally. Today, it is possible to conduct the whole procedure of RARC
      intracorporally (iRARC), potentially reducing the surgical stress further. Lastly, the
      previously conducted RCTs have not consequently been managed under an Enhanced Recovery After
      Surgery (ERAS) setup. Currently, a multicenter study comparing ORC with RARC is recruiting in
      the United Kingdom in which the patients are treated with iRARC and under an ERAS setup. The
      present study will compare the two methods blinded for the participants and all health care
      providers involved in the postoperative care from the time the patient exits the operating
      room (OR). Blinded studies in surgery are rare but in gastrointestinal surgery, a blinded
      study of open versus laparoscopic colonic resection has demonstrated to be feasible and thus
      we believe that such study must be feasible in an RC setting.

      Participants will be randomized 1:1 to either ORC or RARC. Blinding: The study is blinded for
      the patient and for the group of nurses and doctors that will be responsible for the
      postoperative care. The postoperative care will be managed by members of the bladder cancer
      team other than the operating surgeon, and OR staff will not be involved in the postoperative
      care. The abdominal wound will be bandaged to hide the wounds from both an open and
      laparoscopic procedure. The blinding will be maintained until discharge from hospital.
    
  