
    
      Botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT A) has been reported to be effective in the treatment of elbow
      flexor spasticity. In the treatment of poststroke elbow flexor spasticity with BoNT A, three
      main muscles injected individually or in combination are musculus biceps brachii, musculus
      brachialis and musculus brachioradialis. Although BoNT is an efficacious treatment option,
      there is a debate in the selection of target muscle(s) for BoNT A injection in the treatment
      of poststroke elbow flexor spasticity. Superficiality of the biceps brachii muscle makes it
      an easy target for botulinum toxin injection. In dynamic electromyography studies, it has
      been reported that brachioradialis muscle is the most common contributor one to elbow flexion
      spasticity, followed by biceps brachii muscle. In the diagnostic selective nerve blocks, the
      brachialis muscle has been reported to be foreground. In a recent study using the modified
      Delphi Method Design, the expert committee was only fully agree on the application of BoNT A
      into the brachioradialis muscle.

      The decision of muscle selection for BoNT A injection is mostly made according to the
      physical examination findings in real life practice. One of the guiding findings in this
      decision is the position of the spastic arm. The typical pattern of spastic elbow and forearm
      in patients with stroke is characterized by flexion at the elbow, and pronation in the
      forearm. As far as the investigators know, there has not been carried out any study
      investigating the effect of muscle selection for BoNT application on the treatment outcome
      (severity of spasticity) in chronic stroke patients with elbow flexor and forearm pronator
      spasticity.

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether treatment response (change in severity of
      spasticity) differs according to BoNT A injected muscle in chronic stroke patients with elbow
      flexor and forearm pronator spasticity.
    
  