
    
      Fibromyalgia Fibromyalgia is a frequently diagnosed pain disorder primarily affecting women
      and showing high comorbidity with other functional somatic disorders, stress and depression.
      It is characterized by chronic and widespread skeletal muscle pain, such as chronic
      headaches, sore throats, visceral pain, and sensory hyper- responsiveness accompanied by a
      wide variety of symptoms, with no obvious tissue pathology. Aside from the pain, which is the
      main known feature of the condition, people with fibromyalgia often experience higher levels
      of fatigue, sleep disturbances, memory deficits, and mood difficulties. Research examining
      cognitive mechanisms involved in fibromyalgia, found an impaired working memory and
      functioning in everyday attentional tasks, even after controlling for mood and sleep
      disruption.

      Mindfulness Mindfulness involves 'paying attention in a particular way: on purpose, in the
      present moment, and nonjudgmentally'. It refers to the cultivation of conscious awareness and
      attention on a moment-to-moment basis. The quality of awareness sought by mindfulness
      practice includes openness or receptiveness, curiosity and a non-judgmental attitude. An
      emphasis is placed on seeing and accepting things as they are without trying to change them.
      With its emphasis on acceptance of body sensations, it should come as no surprise that
      mindfulness was found to be effective in treating a variety of medical conditions, where
      distress often stems from the intrusive nature of the pain and difficulties in daily
      functioning Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) MBSR is a mindfulness- based
      intervention, developed at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center in 1979 as an
      intervention to relieve stress and better cope with illness, and it is now being offered at
      many health care institutions in the US and Europe. In its original version, MBSR is an
      eight-week program in mindfulness training. The standard program has weekly group sessions of
      2 - 2.5 hours and one all-day session after six to seven weeks. The weekly sessions have
      standardized core elements consisting of different mental and physical mindfulness exercises:
      1) body-scan exercises (paying close attention to all body parts, from the feet to the head),
      2) mental exercises focusing one's attention on breathing, 3) physical exercises with focus
      on being aware of bodily sensations and one's own limits during the exercises, and 4)
      practicing being fully aware during everyday activities by using the breath as an anchor for
      attention. Essential to all parts of the program is developing an accepting and non-reactive
      attitude to what one experiences in each moment.

      MBSR interventions have been studied among patients with fibromyalgia, but not enough is
      known about its specific effects, and no research to date has explored the cognitive
      mechanisms of change trough which mindfulness intervention operates, among chronic pain
      patients, where cognitive impairment constitutes a dominant part of the condition.
      Additionally, Recent years have seen a surge in research supporting personalized treatment,
      "tailored" to the individual patient's size. Various studies have shown a significant
      interaction between specific patient characteristics and treatment outcome. Nonetheless, most
      research in the field of Mindfulness have used the standard protocol of MBSR, without
      considering the specific need and difficulties of fibromyalgia patient, both psychological
      and physical (e.g., sitting down through a long meditation). In the current study, the
      investigators plan to answer this gap, and develop a protocol of MBI (mindfulness- based
      intervention) based on the generic MBSR protocol, which would be adapted to the specific
      needs of fibromyalgia patients.

      The main objective of this study is to explore the impact of MBI on fibromyalgia patients.
      Since fibromyalgia is a stress-related conditions, which is maintained and worsened by
      stress, the investigators believe that an intervention which focuses on stress- reduction,
      such as MBI, would be very beneficial for the condition, and that the reduction in stress
      would mediate an improvement in physiological aspects (e.g., pain), psychological aspects
      (e.g., depression and anxiety) and cognitive aspects (e.g., control of pain and body
      awareness) of the conditions as well.

      Recent years have seen a surge in research supporting personalized treatment, "tailored" to
      the individual patient's size. Various studies have shown a significant interaction between
      specific patient characteristics and treatment outcome.

      In this study, the investigators will examine how potential cognitive (e.g., psychological
      flexibility towards pain, pain catasrophizing), psychopathological (e.g., baseline stress and
      depression) and physiological (e.g., baseline Fibromyalgia symptoms) moderators of MBI
      action.

      In this study, for the first time ever, the investigators explore an amended MBSR protocol,
      which has been tailored specifically to address the unique and exclusive necessities and
      adversities of fibromyalgia patients, such as pain and the cognitive psychological aspects of
      the pain. This examination is highly supported by the approach of personalized medicine,
      which has significantly developed over the last decades, advocating the creation of
      customized treatment, which is "tailored" to the patient's size.

      the investigators expect that MBI would lead to greater improvements in clinical symptoms
      (such as depression and anxiety), decrease pain levels and enhance cognitive processes such
      as psychological flexibility, compared to a waiting list control group.

      Consequently, the investigators assume that the expected reduction in symptoms, would be
      mediated by cognitive variables, namely, a positive change in cognitive variable, in turn,
      will lead to positive changes in psychological and physiological symptoms.

      Methods The current study is a randomized- Control Trial (RCT), 119 patients diagnosed with
      fibromyalgia syndrome were randomly assigned either to mindfulness-based intervention group
      (MBI) or to a wait-list control group (WL).

      MBI group Treatment participants received MBI, specially adapted to treat fibromyalgia
      patients by a group of mindfulness specialist psychologists and therapists, with experience
      treating fibromyalgia patients. The intervention led by a licensed clinical therapist and
      mindfulness specialist, who was trained in MBSR at Bangor University.

      The intervention took place in Chaim Sheba medical Center and lasted 10 weeks, with one
      session a week.

      the investigators conducted 3 measurements points through the intervention, which included
      physiological and psychological variables: at the beginning of the intervention (T1), in the
      middle of the intervention (T2) at the end of the intervention (T3) and one 6 months follow-
      up measurement after the termination of the intervention (T4). Additionally, the
      investigators conducted blood tests before and after the intervention (T1 and T3).

      In addition to the quantitative date, the investigators carried out qualitative interviews.
      the investigators wanted to examine the experience of the participants in the intervention in
      their own words. The aims of the interviews were to explore participants' subjective
      experiences in their own words, to acquire a deeper understand of the changes in
      psychological aspects and to analyze the underlying mechanisms of psychological changes.
      Furthermore, the investigators wanted to comprehend the specific needs of SLE patients might
      be better addressed within the adapted protocol.

      Last, blood tests were conducted before and after the intervention (T1 and T3), in order to
      examine blood related measures, including a c-reactive protein test (CRP), erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate, complement C3 and C4, cytokines, antibodies and Complete Blood Count
      (CBC).

      Wait-list (WL) control group Patients randomized to this group received no active treatment
      during their 10-weeks waiting period, and in the end of that period received the exact
      intervention as the study group.
    
  