
    
      This study is a multicenter study, designed to determine the efficacy of the Hair2Go hair
      removal device and to compare the extent of hair removal with and without maintenance
      treatments. Preferably, two anatomical regions to be treated will be selected including the
      axilla and either the legs (calves) or forearms. The size of the area treated will be
      approximately 5x5 cm2. Additional areas including the face can be treated according to the
      subject's request with the PI's discretion but are not mandatory. Subjects will be provided
      with the device and will be instructed as to the method of usage. The subjects will be
      expected to self-administer the treatment at the clinic in a "simulated home environment".
      The duration of the treatment session is approximately 30-60 minutes. Each of the selected
      anatomical regions (both left and right sides) will be treated with either low, medium, or
      high Elōs energy level according to the PI's discretion. However all anatomical regions
      except for the axilla will be treated with either low or medium elōs energy levels only. Only
      the axilla will be treated up to an energy of 4J//cm2 A defined area of 5x5 cm2cm2 in the leg
      will not be treated and will serve as a reference for the temporal changes in hair growth
      that might be subject to factors, including fluctuations in hormone levels. Both sides (left
      and right) of the same anatomical region will receive the basic treatments. One side will
      receive 3 additional maintenance treatments in 4 week intervals ("Maintenance" vs "No
      maintenance" side) until the end of the experiment. More specifically, the study includes up
      to 11 visits at the clinic: initial consultation, 7 basic treatments in 1 week intervals
      followed in one side by 3 maintenance treatments, each 4 weeks apart. Follow ups will be
      conducted at 4 and 12 weeks after the last basic treatment.
    
  