
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy and toxicity of stem cell-enriched, T-cell-depleted,
           haplocompatible allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in children with
           high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes, high-risk leukemia, severe acquired or congenital
           cytopenias, or primary immunodeficiency diseases.

        -  Determine the toxicity of a fludarabine and thiotepa-containing regimen in combination
           with lower doses of antithymocyte globulin in these patients.

        -  Determine the engraftment rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Define T-cell reconstitution in these patients.

        -  Determine the toxicity and effects of administering stem cell and T-cell boosts after
           transplantation on hematopoiesis and immune reconstitution in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of donor CD3+ cells and antithymocyte globulin
      (ATG).

        -  Cytoreductive regimen: Patients undergo total body irradiation twice daily on days -9 to
           -7. Patients also receive fludarabine IV on days -6 to -2, thiotepa IV every 12 hours on
           day -6, and ATG IV on days -5 to -2.

        -  Transplantation: Patients undergo CD34-enriched, T-cell-depleted, haplocompatible
           allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell or bone marrow transplantation on day 0.

        -  Donor T-cell infusion:Patients with no active graft-vs-host disease and evidence of
           engraftment but low absolute CD34+ lymphocyte count at 12 weeks post transplant may
           receive donor CD3+ cells at 4-week intervals.

        -  Donor stem cell boost: Patients with engraftment but either cytokine or transfusion
           dependent at 12 weeks post transplant may receive a boost of donor CD34+ cells.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of donor CD3+ cells and ATG until the
      optimum is determined. The optimum dose is defined as the dose at which both engraftment and
      T-cell recovery occur, without dose-limiting toxicity, in ≥ 5 of 6 patients.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years and
      then every 5 years thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 21 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  