
    
      1. Project Abstract Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) is a self-limited respiratory
           distress syndrome of term and late pre-term neonates.1 Respiratory distress attributed
           to TTN requires management of otherwise healthy infants in an intensive care setting,
           thus increasing cost, and often length, of hospitalization as well as decreasing
           opportunity for parent-child bonding in the first days of life. Although hundreds of
           thousands of children are treated for TTN every year (over 250 in the Mount Sinai NICU
           in 2005 alone), little data underlie standard of care medical management. We are
           conducting a prospective study of neonates diagnosed with TTN to determine if changes in
           fluid management affects course of disease.

        2. Specific Aims To determine whether fluid restriction in the first 72 hours of life
           speeds resolution of respiratory distress in neonates diagnosed with TTN.

        3. Concise statement of Significance/Background Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) is
           a self-limited respiratory distress syndrome of term and late pre-term neonates.1
           Newborns with TTN develop clinical signs of respiratory distress within the first hours
           after birth, in the absence of other pathology such as surfactant deficiency, infection,
           meconium aspiration, or anatomic cardiac or pulmonary anomaly. Signs of TTN include
           tachypnea (respiratory rate consistently > 60), subcostal, intercostals, and
           suprasternal retractions, nasal flaring, grunting, and hypoxia correctable with low FiO2
           supplemental oxygen (< 0.40) via conventional nasal cannula or continuous positive
           airway pressure (CPAP). The condition usually resolves with supportive care within 72
           hours without significant long-term adverse sequelae. Transient tachypnea of the newborn
           is associated with transient pulmonary edema diagnosed by typical chest x-ray findings.

           The traditional explanation for postnatal pulmonary edema is poor clearance of fluid
           from the fetal lungs in the perinatal period. Retained fluid leads to bronchioalveolar
           collapse with variable areas of hyperinflation and air trapping in the neonatal lung.
           The newborn compensates for this ventilation/perfusion mismatch with tachypnea and
           increased work of breathing, but often cannot completely compensate, becoming hypoxic
           through the period of fluid reabsorption.

           This pathophysiologic argument has been supported by the findings that brief or absent
           labor and short or absent time in the birth canal have been associated with TTN.2, 3 It
           has long been hypothesized that mechanical forces of labor and delivery work to
           "squeeze" edema away from air-exchange surfaces of the lung into the lymphatics. More
           recently, studies have demonstrated that immaturity of sodium ion channel transporters
           in the lung epithelium may play a more significant role in the failure of pulmonary
           fluid reabsorption than mechanical forces.4, 5 Data from animal models show that absent
           labor, such as found in scheduled Cesarean sections, may lead to delivery before the
           normal hormonally-mediated upregulation or activation of these sodium transporters
           occurs and thus may explain the increased likelihood of developing TTN seen in this
           patient cohort.

           Conditions that increase central venous pressure or decrease thoracic duct clearance
           have also been associated with TTN.6 Additionally, maternal diagnosis of asthma7 or
           gestational diabetes8 and male gender of the newborn9 have been associated with TTN,
           although the mechanism of these associations is incompletely understood. Although TTN is
           an exceedingly common cause of newborn morbidity, it is relatively understudied. Due to
           the low mortality of TTN there has been little interest in investigating either the
           range of pathologies underlying the clinical presentation of TTN or the evidence base
           behind the standard of care treatments of TTN. The high incidence of TTN and the
           significant increase in hospital care acuity and length of stay to otherwise healthy
           infants diagnosed with TTN, however, indicates a need for study.10 As the rate of
           Cesarean section and late pre-term delivery,11 as well as maternal morbidities such as
           asthma12 and gestational diabetes,13 rise it is particularly important to minimize the
           morbidity and cost of TTN. A better understanding of the pathogenesis of TTN and a
           thorough evaluation of current treatment strategies and their relationship to timely
           patient discharge is sorely needed.

        4. Concise statement of Preliminary Data (if available) No evidence base underlies current
           fluid management of neonates with TTN. Data exists demonstrating the inefficacy of loop
           diuretics as treatment for pulmonary fluid overload in newborns with TTN,14 but no
           systematic evaluation of intravenous fluid management exists. Exclusively breastfed
           babies typically have minimal fluid intake during the first four days of life as
           lactogenesis II (initial postpartum milk production) proceeds. Enteral intake by term
           infants begins at less than 100mL in the first day (equivalent to 40mL/kg for a 2.5kg
           neonate; this represents a term newborn at the 5th percentile or a 34 week gestational
           age newborn at the 70th percentile for weight) and increase gradually until milk
           production reaches sustenance levels, usually around the fourth day of life.15
           Regardless of gestational age, all neonates lose water weight during the first week of
           life during physiologic diuresis of extracellular fluid accumulated throughout
           gestation.16 Current management of both preterm and term neonates includes an effort to
           facilitate this physiologic diuresis by gradually increasing amounts of IV fluids until
           maintenance levels are reached between the third and fifth day of life. 17, 18

        5. Research Design and Methods In this study, we will conduct a prospective study of 68
           neonates born between 34 and 42 weeks gestation diagnosed with TTN and managed in the
           Mount Sinai Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). The study period will include the first
           three days (72 hours) of life. On admission to the NICU, parents will be consented for
           their child's inclusion in the study. If consent is given, the child will be randomized
           to "standard fluids" or "physiologic fluids" groups. "Standard fluids" refer to current
           standard clinical practice of IV fluid administration, not based on experimental
           evidence. "Physiologic fluids" refers to IV fluid amounts more similar to fluid volumes
           typically ingested during initiation of breastfeeding. Term infants assigned to the
           "standard fluids" group will be started on 60 mL/kg/day of glucose-containing
           intravenous fluids as is standard practice. Term infants assigned to the "physiologic
           fluids" group will be started on 40 mL/kg/day glucose-containing intravenous fluids.
           Late preterm infants (gestational age between 34 and 37 weeks) assigned to the "standard
           fluids" group will be started on 80 mL/kg/day of glucose-containing intravenous fluids
           as is standard practice. Late preterm infants (gestational age between 34 and 37 weeks)
           assigned to the "physiologic fluids" group will be started on 60 mL/kg/day
           glucose-containing intravenous fluids. For all groups, intravenous fluid rate will be
           increased by 20 mL/kg/day daily, as is current standard practice. Consistent with
           current standard management for newborns with respiratory distress, no infant will be
           allowed to take oral nutrition until respiratory distress abates. Newborns will be
           carefully monitored, and infants in the "physiologic fluid" group will be removed from
           the study and total daily fluids will be increased if they show signs of dehydration.
           Primary outcomes will be duration of respiratory distress, defined as respiratory rate
           consistently greater than 50 breaths/minute and oxygen saturation on room air
           consistently less than 95%. Secondary outcomes will be length of time to first oral feed
           and time to discharge from the intensive care unit.

      This research poses a minor increase over minimal risk for subjects enrolled in the
      intervention group. The anticipated risks include mild dehydration and/or hypoglycemia of
      neonates in the "physiologic fluid" intervention group. This risk is minor as all newborns in
      the NICU have urine output recorded every three hours, point-of-care glucose monitoring on
      admission and at least once every twelve hours thereafter, and serum electrolytes checked
      between 12 and 24 hours of life. If neonatal dehydration is noted as defined by urine output
      < 2mL/kg/hour over a twelve hour period, serum sodium < 130 mEq/L or > 150 mEq/L, weight loss
      of more than 10% of birth weight, or blood glucose by point-of-care testing of < 40 mg/dL,
      the child will be removed from the study and appropriate fluid resuscitation will be
      initiated. These guidelines for removal from the study are the same as or more conservative
      than criteria used for rehydration in clinical care, so long-term adverse sequelae of this
      level of brief mild dehydration or hypoglycemia are not expected.
    
  