
    
      Current ICCM (Integrated Community Case Management) training in Uganda involves CHWs
      physically attending a five-day workshop, which is both expensive, time consuming and
      requires trainer's to be physically present to deliver training materials. The investigators
      hypothesize that use of a low-cost android tablet, with pre-loaded instructional educational
      videos will improve the baseline knowledge and retention of knowledge of CHWs as well as
      lower the direct and indirect costs of ICCM training.

      The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial in two sub-counties in Mukono
      district among CHWs to test these two hypotheses. In this study, the investigators will focus
      solely on the pneumonia component of ICCM training, instead of testing the full week-long
      training course including malaria, pneumonia, and diarrhea. (The investigators plan a later
      trial encompassing the entire week-long training vs the same uploaded into the tablets.) The
      investigators will enroll 200 CHWs in the study, with 100 in a control group who will receive
      a one day in-person training session focusing on pneumonia, similar to traditional ICCM
      training and 100 in an intervention group who will receive tablets with instructional
      training videos. The investigators will administer a written test prior to the training in
      both groups, then administer the same written test one week later. Additionally, the
      investigators will test both groups with clinical case scenarios that give these community
      health workers realistic clinical cases and challenge them to diagnose pneumonia, state
      whether patient should be treated in the home or brought to hospital, and how to initiate and
      complete management if patients are to be referred or kept home, respectively. The sample
      sizes will enable the investigators carry out independent t-tests and a paired two-sample
      t-test to determine the significance of pre- and post-test scores for the control and
      intervention groups. If training delivered via low-cost android tablets proves to be both
      effective and acceptable, this option may represent a viable, scalable and cost-effective
      alternative to the traditional training model used throughout Uganda.

      Furthermore, the MoH could institute an incentive policy that allows tablets to be
      distributed and retained by health workers provided that they maintain a quarterly flow of
      information back to the MoH regarding home visits, patients referred, or other community
      actions. Should the learning and cost efficacy prove viable, the investigators can envision
      tablets throughout Mukono District, allowing the more direct transfer of information, disease
      patterns, index cases of pathogens like Ebola, tracking of data for the Ministry, regular
      dissemination of training materials, and opportunities for CHWs gain employment in the health
      sector.
    
  