
    
      Patients will give the investigators blood to make CD19 CD28 (with and without CD137)
      chimeric receptor-T cells in the laboratory. These cells will be grown and frozen. To make
      the T cells, investigators will take blood (or blood from a donor) and stimulate it with
      growth factors to make the T cells grow. To get the CD19 antibody and CD28 (with or without
      CD137) to attach to the surface of the T cell, they will insert the antibody gene into the T
      cell. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus that has been made for this study and
      will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This virus also helps to find the T cells in
      the blood after injecting them; in order to tell them apart investigators have made two
      viruses that are slightly different because one has CD137. These two viruses can be told
      apart by a special laboratory test. Because the patient will receive cells with a new gene in
      them, the patient will be followed for a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term
      side effects of gene transfer. If the patient cannot visit the clinic, he or she will be
      contacted by the research coordinator or physician.

      When subjects enroll on this study, they will be assigned a dose of CD19 chimeric receptor-T
      cells. Several studies suggest that the infused T cells need room to be able to proliferate
      and accomplish their functions and that this may not happen if there are too many other T
      cells in circulation.

      Because of that, if the subject's level of circulating T cells is relatively high, s/he may
      receive one treatment of cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and fludarabine if the doctor thinks this
      is appropriate. This drug will decrease the numbers of the subject's own T cells before
      infusion of the CD19 chimeric receptor T cells. If subject is already receiving chemotherapy,
      this may not be needed. The investigators would prefer subjects do not receive other
      chemotherapy until 6 weeks after cell infusion but they can do so if their doctor thinks it
      is medically necessary.

      Patients will be given an injection of cells into the vein through an IV at the assigned
      dose. The injection will take about 20 minutes. The investigators will follow them in the
      clinic after the injection for up to 3 hours.

      If after a 6 week evaluation period after the infusion, the patient seems to be experiencing
      a benefit (confirmed by radiological studies, physical exam and/or symptoms), s/he may be
      able to receive up to five additional doses of the T cells if s/he wishes. The first repeat
      infusion can only take place at least 6 weeks after the first infusion. Any additional
      infusions after that would be at least 4 weeks apart. All additional infusions will be at the
      same dose level received the first time or a lower dose. The treatment will be given by the
      Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist Hospital.
    
  