
    
      The typical anesthetic for cesarean section at Duke University Hospital includes a spinal or
      combined spinal epidural anesthetic with intrathecal dosing of 1.4-1.6 mL bupivacaine HCl
      0.75%, 15 mcg fentanyl, and 150 mcg morphine. If the epidural component of a combined spinal
      epidural anesthetic is used, the subject will be withdrawn from the study. Patients also
      receive rectal acetaminophen 975 mg prior to incision; intravenous (IV) ondansetron 4 mg, IV
      metoclopramide 10 mg, IV famotidine 20 mg and IV dexamethasone 4 mg intraoperatively; and IV
      ketorolac 15 mg prior to skin closure. There will be no change to this typical practice.

      Patients who consent to be in this study will be randomized to receive one of three truncal
      nerve blocks using an online randomization program by the study PI (AK/EG): (1)
      ultrasound-guided bilateral classic TAP block; (2) ultrasound-guided bilateral anterior QL
      (also known as transmuscular or QL type 3) block; (3) ultrasound-guided bilateral ESP block
      at the level of T9. These nerve blocks will be performed after delivery and within one hour
      of skin closure with 25 mL of 0.2% ropivacaine with epinephrine 1:400,000 per side. Nerve
      blocks will be performed by a dedicated and trained group of regional anesthesiologists. This
      non-blinded regional anesthesiologist will save an ultrasound image after local anesthetic
      administration while the needle is still in position on each side. The study team will review
      these images to ensure a high quality of block performance.

      Patients will have standard postoperative pain medication orders, including acetaminophen 975
      mg PO Q6H for 4 days (scheduled, starting 6 hours after intraoperative rectal dose),
      ketorolac 15 mg IV Q6H for 24 hours (scheduled, starting 6 hours after intraoperative dose),
      ibuprofen 600 mg PO Q6H for 3 days (scheduled, starting 24 hours after first dose of
      ketorolac) and oxycodone 5-10mg PO Q3-4H PRN for 4 days. If patients are unable to tolerate
      oral medication or oxycodone is insufficient, rescue medications may be ordered: IV morphine
      1-2 mg or IV hydromorphone 0.3-0.5 mg Q4H as needed. There is no change from the standard
      postoperative order sets used for patients after cesarean section.

      Subjects' verbal pain scores at rest and with movement as well as opioid consumption will be
      recorded at 2, 6, 24, and 48 hours postoperatively. Additionally, the amount of antiemetics
      and antipruritics used will also be recorded at the above time points. These scores will be
      entered into a Duke University Hospital REDCap database. Subjects will also be sent a survey
      assessing their satisfaction with pain control one week after discharge via email or
      telephone. This information will be collected via Duke University Hospital REDCap.
    
  