
    
      Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, it became apparent that the elderly are disproportionately
      bearing the burden of disease and mortality. Many outbreaks are occurring in long-term care
      homes (LTCHs), with strikingly high mortality rates: nearly two-thirds of all Canadian COVID-
      19 deaths are in LTCH residents. This is unsurprising, as viral respiratory outbreaks in
      LTCHs are devastating: before the use of influenza vaccine, case fatality rates during
      influenza outbreaks were as high as 55%. Interventions are thus urgently needed to control
      LTCH outbreaks to mitigate harms to this vulnerable population and maximize acute care
      capacity.

      Chemoprophylaxis is the cornerstone of management of LTCH influenza outbreaks and disease
      prophylaxis has been deemed a critical COVID-19 research priority by the World Health
      Organization. While definitive therapies do not yet exist, there is significant interest in
      repurposing existing anti-viral agents against COVID-19. Favipiravir, a broad spectrum
      antiviral agent, demonstrates activity against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro, and was associated with
      faster viral clearance, radiographic improvement, and clinical recovery in early trials.
      Favipiravir is an ideal candidates for chemoprophylaxis, as it is orally available and has a
      reasonable safety profile.

      To address the need to intervene to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in LTCHs, we propose a
      cluster-randomized placebo-controlled trial of chemoprophylaxis in LTCHs experiencing
      COVID-19 outbreaks.

      This study is a partially blinded, placebo-controlled cluster randomized trial of
      chemoprophylaxis to control outbreaks of COVID-19 in LCTHs for the elderly. The unit of
      analysis is a ward/unit. An outbreak is defined as ≥ 2 symptomatic
      microbiologically-confirmedCOVID-19 cases within 7 days on the LTCH unit. This design is
      selected to mimic the current approach to outbreaks of other respiratory viral infections,
      both because this approach has proven effective for these other viruses, and because it is
      standard practice and therefore feasible to implement.

      Eligible LTCHs will be asked to report outbreaks to the study in addition to the
      legally-required reporting to their local public health unit; public health units will also
      be asked to discuss the study with LTCHs reporting outbreaks. In addition, study staff will
      contact the infection control practitioner in each of the screened LTCHs twice weekly, to
      ensure the prompt identification of outbreak units.

      Residents and staff will be assessed for contraindications to enrollment and informed consent
      will be obtained for residents and staff to receive the allocated intervention, and to be
      followed up individually for clinical outcomes, adherence and safety during the outbreak.

      LTCH units experiencing an outbreak of COVID-19 will be randomized to either favipiravir or
      placebo in a 1:1 ratio. Favipiravir or placebo will be offered to all residents and staff who
      will be working on the unit during the chemoprophylaxis period, according to the allocation.
      Study drug will continue for a duration of 25 days. The dosage for favipiravir to be used in
      this study for chemoprophylaxis is 1600 mg (8 x 200 mg tablets) orally twice daily on day 1
      followed by 800 mg (4 x 200 mg tablets) orally twice daily on day 2-25. Residents in the LTCH
      unit diagnosed with COVID-19 at enrollment will be offered treatment with favipiravir or
      placebo for 14 days, according to the LTCH unit allocation. The dose of favipiravir for
      treatment is 2000mmg orally twice daily on day 1, then 1000 mg orally twice daily for 13
      additional days.

      Surveillance for infection will occur as usual for resident illness within each LTCH; staff
      will be asked to report symptoms and will be screened for symptoms each time they enter the
      building. Consenting residents and staff will be screened at day 0, day 14 and day 40 to
      identify asymptomatic infections and to assess duration of viral shedding. The primary
      outcome will be control of the outbreak, defined as no new microbiologically confirmed case
      of COVID-19 for 24 consecutive days up to day 40.
    
  