
    
      Clinical assessment criteria Data on the major clinical and demographic variables are entered
      in a data collection form. All patients are assessed at baseline and have been or will be
      assessed at 3 months after inclusion in the study. All the instruments used in the study have
      demonstrated appropriate psychometric properties, and were used in many studies

      Demographic data Data are collected on age, sex, level of education, living arrangements and
      employment or educational status.

      Assessment of psychotic symptoms are assessed using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale.
      The scale for the assessment of positive symptoms and negative symptoms. Trait and state
      anxiety will be measured using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. The mood is evaluated using
      the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression. We measure patient insight into their illness using
      the Scale to Assess Unawareness of Mental Disorders. We use the Strauss and Carpenter
      Prognostic Scale. We also assess the overall function of patients using a Spanish version of
      the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale. The level of functioning was measured using the
      Children's Global Assessment Scale. We measure this variable using the "Morisky" Medication
      Adherence Scale. We measure patient functional status using the Functioning Assessment Short
      Test.

      The consumption is measured using the ASI (Addition severity index) scale. The quality of
      life is measured using the World Health Organization Quality of Life WHOQOL-BREF
      Questionnaire .In addition, we assess quality of life using the EuroQoL questionnaire.

      Mobile Application Android Mobile app with a web support and administration application,
      along with a cloud based backend database, which will register fine-grain interactions
      between the users and the app, in order to make possible the generation of relevant granular
      data and key performance indicators to support a wide range of further analysis.

      This application will be designed and developed using Software Engineering-based Agile
      Methodologies, under SCRUM principles (empiric control of the development process, using
      continuous feedback processes). The whole mobile app functionality and its user interfaces
      and interactions will be designed under the premises of maximizing the User experience, as a
      factor contributing to the adherence of users to the treatment.

      On the security side, all of the communications between the mobile app and the supporting
      backend will be protected by means of a "SSL" digital certificate on the server, providing
      end to end encrypted communications

      Data Management For security, all data introduce in database will have an internal code, and
      will be checked by another data manager, in order to guarantee the data security.

      Intervention programme

      Mobile phone App treatment

      The psychoeducational app programme is composed of 5 modules:

        -  Psychoeducative Module (12 sessions)

        -  Module of recognition of symptomatology and prevention of relapses

        -  Module Troubleshooting

        -  Mindfulness Module

        -  Module of social skills
    
  