
    
      It is a consistent finding that changing clinical practice is unpredictable and can be a slow
      and haphazard process. Over the last decade a considerable body of literature has been
      reviewed suggesting that a range of interventions (e.g. reminder systems, interactive
      education) can be effective in changing health care professionals' behaviour. However,
      studies have substantial heterogeneity of interventions used, targeted behaviours, and study
      settings that make generalising their findings to routine healthcare settings problematic -
      there is no underlying generalisable taxonomy for either research or service settings by
      which to characterise individuals, settings and interventions. The assumption that clinical
      practice is a form of human behaviour and can be described in terms of general theories
      relating to human behaviour offers the basis for a taxonomy for Implementation Research. For
      example, the effectiveness of interventions may be influenced by factors such as health
      professionals' beliefs or perceived control over their practice - generalisable concepts that
      can be used across different contexts. Two steps are necessary to design a theory-based
      intervention for a behaviour change trial: Step 1) The identification of modifiable factors
      underlying professional behaviour in order to identify those processes to target with an
      intervention (process modelling) Step 2) To gain an understanding of how interventions might
      work and thus be optimised (intervention modelling).

      Our previous work has focussed on Step 1. The next step is to develop interventions to change
      beliefs based on identified theoretical predictors, and this is the focus of the present
      study. We will develop interventions to change the salient beliefs distinguishing high and
      low intenders, using previously identified GPs salient beliefs that predict their intention
      to prescribe antibiotics for patients with uncomplicated sore throat.

      Design Theoretical framework: Theory of Planned Behaviour Methods: Postal questionnaire
      survey Clinical behaviour: Prescribing antibiotics for uncomplicated sore throat
      Participants: General Practitioners We will develop a sampling frame from lists of general
      practitioners supplied by Primary Care Groups in the North East of England. We will then
      sample to recruit sufficient general practitioners for the sample size of the experiments.

      Previous work by the applicants has identified the salient beliefs of GPs that distinguish
      between those who intend to prescribe antibiotics and those who do not. Based on this
      information (and on-going work to produce a taxonomy of clinical behaviours and potential
      psychological behavioural technologies)we will select and develop two interventions designed
      to address changing the discriminative beliefs in the prescribing of antibiotics for sore
      throat.

      The interventions will be evaluated in a three arm randomised controlled trial embedded in a
      questionnaire survey, using postal methods. The questionnaire package will be administered on
      two occasions.

      For each administration of the questionnaire package, two reminders will be mailed to
      non-responding clinicians. In the light of our experience of the response rate in our
      previous study we plan to offer a £10 incentive to each subject to increase response rates.
      Subjects will receive a letter of invitation, and a study package that will include: a set
      instructions, an individually packaged set of materials for measuring behavioural simulation
      (patient scenarios), behavioural intention and process measures(Questionnaire) which they
      will be asked to read in this order. On the second administration the package will also
      contain the intervention, which GPs will be asked to open prior to completing the outcome and
      process measures.
    
  