
    
      A substantial proportion of individuals addicted to heroin are incarcerated while addicted
      and a majority of individuals released from a correctional setting have a history of heroin
      addiction. The period immediately after release from incarceration is a particularly
      high-risk time for HIV transmission and other problems, including drug relapse and overdose.
      Methadone treatment is the most widely used opiate replacement therapy in the United States
      and has been shown to decrease HIV risk, as well as drug use, addiction relapse, and criminal
      activity. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of initiating opiate
      replacement therapy prior to release from incarceration on reducing HIV risk behaviors and
      drug relapse. In addition, this study evaluated the effectiveness of short-term payment
      versus non-payment of community opiate replacement therapy immediately following release from
      incarceration.

      Participants in this were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups. Participants enrolled
      in Group 1 initiated methadone opiate replacement therapy about 1 month prior to release from
      incarceration. They proceeded with a methadone program of their choice upon release and
      received short-term payment to cover treatment costs. Participants enrolled in Group 2 were
      referred to a methadone program of their choice and received short-term payment to cover
      treatment costs. Participants enrolled in Group 3 were referred to a program of choice upon
      release from incarceration without receiving financial assistance. All participants had the
      opportunity to partake in existing support programs available at the Rhode Island Department
      of Corrections while incarcerated and in the community upon release. Follow-up assessments
      occurred at Months 1.5, 6, and 12. These included interviews and urine specimens for
      toxicology analysis to verify self-reports.
    
  