
    
      Anemia is highly prevalent among infants and young children in Haiti and throughout the
      world. Low intakes of several micronutrients contribute to this problem. It is very difficult
      to meet the micronutrient needs of infants and young children without substantial amounts of
      animal-source foods; such foods are not affordable for most families in many poor
      communities.

      Micronutrient sprinkles are a novel approach to meeting children's needs. The sprinkles are
      packed in sachets containing a daily ration, and are intended to be used in the home and
      "sprinkled" directly on the children's food. Earlier trials have shown the efficacy of the
      sprinkles for preventing and treating anemia under controlled conditions.

      The current study tests the feasibility and effectiveness when sprinkles are distributed in
      the programmatic context of a US Title II food aid distribution program, a context that is
      common in many countries that receive assistance from the United States Agency for
      International Development and other donors. The study also includes the development and
      dissemination of educational messages to motivate and enable caregivers to use the sprinkles
      properly. Based on previous efficacy trials no side-effects are anticipated, but the study
      also monitors for unanticipated side-effects.

      Comparison: Since effectiveness of the sprinkles distributed as part of a take-home ration
      has not been established, this study employed a randomized controlled design. Randomization
      occurred at the level of the food distribution point (place where community members gather to
      receive food rations). Groups were assigned to receive either the take home ration (usual
      program practice) or the take home ration and the sprinkles. Families receiving only food
      rations at the control sites will receive sprinkles along with their food ration immediately
      after data collection is complete. The design was also consistent with the program necessity
      of a gradual roll-out of this new intervention. The prevalence of anemia among target-age
      children will be compared between groups that receive a two-month supply of micronutrient
      sprinkles with their take-home food ration, and those that do not.
    
  