
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of two cannabis oils containing the main
      cannabinoid Δ9 -THC and CBD ratio of 1 to 6 and 1 to 20 (respectively), on spastic movement
      disorder and dystonia.

      40 children will be enrolled in this study and will be divided into 2 groups:

        1. Children with spasticity and dystonia due to cerebral palsy

        2. Children with spasticity and dystonia due to genetic neurodegenerative diseases

      Each group will be randomly divided into two groups:

      I. Active comparator: 6-to-1 ratio of CBD to THC oil II. Active comparator: 20-to-1 ratio of
      CBD to THC oil

      During the study the following variables will be collected:

        -  Consumption of drugs \ medication intake

        -  Spasticity grade measured using the Modified Ashworth Scale

        -  Dystonia grade measured using the Barry Albright Dystonia Scale

        -  Patient's subjective report about the severity of his/her spasticity and/or dystonia

        -  Pain scale

        -  Restlessness scale

        -  Quality of life measures: function, sleep, mood , appetite , weight

        -  Safety tests: liver function, renal function, blood tests (complete blood chemistry),
           blood pressure, pulse, ECG

        -  Side effects

        -  Addiction test

      The purposes of the study:

        1. Efficiency - examining the effect of cannabis on dystonia and spasticity.

        2. Examining the most effective cannabinoid ratio for the relief of dystonia and
           spasticity. (Δ9 -THC and CBD ratio of 1 to 6 or 1 to 20, respectively).

        3. Examining the effect of cannabis on quality of life measures (such as medication intake,
           mood, appetite, sleep).

        4. Safety: examination of side effects and unwanted effects of cannabis and its
           limitations.

      Research Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that cannabis consumption will reduce
      dystonia and spasticity symptoms in children with motor disability related to genetic
      neurodegenerative diseases and cerebral palsy and as a result improves motor function,
      non-motor function and quality of life.
    
  