
    
      Detailed protocol

        -  If a patient is eligible for the study (see inclusion and exclusion criteria) and has
           given informed consent, the operator has to define all lesions with a stenosis severity
           of at least 50% by visual estimate in which he would consider stent implantation. These
           stenoses are noted on a scheme of the coronary arteries before randomization.

        -  Thereafter, randomization is performed to the FFR-guided strategy or the
           angiography-guided strategy. If the patient is randomized to the angiography-guided
           strategy, all the lesions indicated beforehand, will be stented with drug-eluting
           stents. If the patient is assigned to the FFR-guided group, fractional flow reserve is
           measured in all lesions and only those lesions are stented with a fractional flow
           reserve </=0.80. Treatment after PCI is according to local routine and should include at
           least aspirin 80 mg daily and clopidogrel (Plavix) 75 mg per day for at least 12months.

        -  FFR should be determined by using i.v. adenosine 140 µg/kg/min, in order to make
           pull-back recordings and analyze different abnormalities along the coronary arteries.
           Adenosine i.v. by the femoral venous route, is mandatory for participation in the study.

        -  In case of serial stenosis, FFR 'of the complete vessel' should be </= 0.80 to warrant
           PCI of one of more of these lesions in case the patient belongs to the FFR-guided group.
           In case of the angio-guided group, every lesion >50% by visual estimation that the
           operator indicated a prior as requiring stenting, should be stented (this is mandatory).
           Long stents to cover a segment or multiple shorter stents, can be placed at the
           discretion of the operator.

      Follow-up

      All patients will be followed up after 1 month (±1 week), 6 months (±1 month), and 1 year (±1
      month). All adverse cardiac events (death, acute MI, CABG or [re]-PCI will be noted, as well
      as functional class and number of anti-anginal drugs. If a patient is admitted to a hospital
      because of an acute coronary syndrome, repeat angiography is strongly advocated to define if
      the event is related to one of the deferred lesions or to one of the non-deferred lesions. If
      the patient belongs to the FFR-guided arm, repeat measurement of FFR is advocated for all
      lesions. If, during follow-up, patients in the FFR-guided group have to undergo coronary
      angiography because of recurrent angina or any other reason without an event, pressure
      measurement should be repeated as well.

      On the contrary, once a patient has been assigned to the angiographic guided group, this
      strategy should be followed consistently during follow-up investigations. For example, if a
      patient in the angiographic guided arm has recurrent chest pain, undergoes angiography, and
      is found to have in-stent restenosis, re-PCI should be performed based on the angiogram and
      pressure wire use is prohibited.

      In other words, the strategy to which the patient has been assigned initially, should be
      followed during the entire study period.

      Endpoints

      Primary endpoints

      1. The primary clinical endpoint is the 12-month binary major adverse cardiac event (MACE)
      rate. MACE is defined as:

        -  All cause death,

        -  Documented myocardial infarction,

        -  Repeat revascularization (PCI and/or CABG) as adjudicated by the Clinical Event
           Committee

      Secondary endpoints

        1. Global cost effectiveness after one year

        2. Cardiac death and myocardial infarction rate at 1 year

        3. Functional class at 1 year.

        4. Number of anti-anginal drugs after 1 year

        5. Overall MACE rate at 1 month post-procedure and at 6 months, 2, 3 and 5 years.

        6. A comparison of outcomes based on type of drug-eluting stent.

        7. Prognostic value of FFR after stenting.

        8. Correlation between FFR and nuclear perfusion imaging.
    
  