
    
      Half of all stroke patients have physical disabilities. These disabilities combine sensory
      and motor deficiencies (control deficit, syncinesia, tone disorders) that cause disruption of
      upper extremity (UE) function (orientation, UE length adjustment and grip). The human spinal
      cord circuitry (HSCC) participate in the motion regulation. Roche et al. studied in healthy
      subjects the HSCC modifications during the visuo-motor regulation of the object clamping
      force by the hand. The authors showed that the learning of the task in a single session was
      associated with HSCC modifications, specific or not depending on the HSCC and according to a
      visual biofeedback associated or not to the task. Diserens et al. showed also that a rhythmic
      movement of UE pedaling causes a decrease in spasticity in hemiplegic subjects. Moreover,
      HSCC modification is dependent on the task performed. The rhythmic ball-bouncing in a virtual
      environment is a visuo-motor task rhythmic kinematic already studied in the healthy subject.
      To our knowledge, the present study is the first to investigate HSCC modification in
      hemiplegic subjects performing a rhythmic kinematic task with UE. We hypothesize that such a
      task leads to HSCC excitability specific modifications in the cervical spinal cord and leads
      to an improvement in the motor capabilities of the subjects.

      The general objective being to determine the modifications nature induced by UE kinematic
      rhythmic task realization on cervical HSCC, our research will be broken down into four
      studies.

      Study 1 will identify the influence of visual feedback on changes in HSCC excitability in a
      voluntary group. In this first study, 16 voluntary subjects will perform the visuo-motor task
      with their dominant UE and the control task (without visual feedback) with their dominant UE.

      Study 2 will investigate the impact of UE laterality which performing the task on changes in
      HSCC excitability in a voluntary group. In this second study, 16 volunteer subjects will
      perform the visuo-motor task with their dominant UE and the visuo-motor task with their
      non-dominant UE.

      Study 3 will objectify the effect of the type of contraction of the muscles involved in the
      task on changes in HSCC excitability in a volunteer group. In this third study, 16 voluntary
      subjects will perform the visuo-motor task with their dominant UE by performing either elbow
      flexion-extension or only flexion-extension of the wrist.

      Finally, study 4 will study the effect of the pathology and the motor strategies used on the
      changes in HSCC excitability. In the latter study, 16 hemiplegic patients will perform the
      visuo-motor task with their paretic UE and spontaneous motor strategies.

      The obtained knowledge could open up new prospects for rehabilitation in cerebro-injured
      subjects in addition to existing therapeutics.
    
  