
    
      The principal theme of the DDHP is to investigate why some African-American children and
      their main caregivers have better oral health than others who live in the same community.
      This question dictates the design of individual projects to understand the determinants of
      oral health disparities.

      The DDHP has the following specific aims:

        1. To promote oral health and reduce the disparities in oral health within the community of
           low-income African-American children (0-5 years) and their main caregivers living in the
           City of Detroit. This goal will be addressed through understanding of the social,
           familial, biological, and neighborhood determinants of dental caries and periodontal
           disease, and designing and implementing tailored interventions to target oral health
           knowledge and behaviors and access to dental care.

        2. To develop a multidisciplinary cadre of health providers knowledgeable about oral health
           care and research in the City of Detroit.

        3. To assist in the provision of dental care services to low-income and dentally
           underserved residents of the City of Detroit.

      The DDHP includes three integrated research projects that are centered on one targeted
      population and one research project that will evaluate the impact of a state-sponsored
      pragmatic experiment on access to dental care and utilization of dental services (Project 4).
      The DDHP also includes one pilot project that aims to develop a new index for evaluating the
      impact of dental aesthetics on employability and social acceptance.

      The research program focuses on the determinants of oral health status (dental caries and
      periodontal disease) of families that include at least one child less than 6 years of age at
      baseline (2002-2003) and the main caregiver of the child. The main caregiver is the
      individual who is responsible for feeding, bathing, and nurturing a child emotionally,
      mentally, and physically at the primary home of residence. The cohort will be followed for 4
      years with a second assessment (interviews and dental examinations) in the fourth year and in
      the six year of the funding cycle of the DDHP.

      The DDHP includes the following 4 research projects:

      Project 1: Socio-cultural determinants, context of parenting and children's oral health: This
      project is led by Kristine Siefert, MSW, PhD, MPH, Professor, School of Social Work,
      University of Michigan. Dr. Siefert contends that current research is inadequate to explain
      the process by which social location translates into poor oral health starting in earliest
      childhood. Without an understanding of the process by which this occurs, preventive
      interventions are unlikely to succeed. Accordingly, the aim of her research is to examine the
      influence of material and social context at the individual (e.g., poverty and material
      hardship, institutional and personally mediated discrimination, and social and cultural
      supports and resources) and neighborhood (Census track, police precinct, and City of Detroit
      data) levels, on child oral health, and the mediating and moderating effects of caregiver
      parenting behaviors and beliefs. Using an ecosocial framework, this project focuses on
      identifying potent and modifiable determinants of health promotion as a part of parenting. To
      understand how context influences parenting and parenting influences outcomes over time, the
      project uses a longitudinal design, and takes advantage of newly developed techniques in
      growth curve and hierarchical modeling. Data from this project will provide information on
      interactions among social and cultural factors and caretaking behaviors of the caregivers and
      oral health behaviors of children and their risk of developing severe dental caries.

      Project 2: Lead exposure and dietary factors in children's oral health: This project is led
      by Brian A. Burt, BDS, PhD, Professor, School of Public Health, University of Michigan. This
      study seeks to identify the relationships between lead levels, intake of dietary fats and
      sugars, and dental caries experienced in disadvantaged African-American children, and to
      identify how these variables in the caregiver relate to the child's oral health status. The
      purpose of this research is to identify areas for successful intervention toward reducing the
      disparities between those with the poorest oral health and their better-off peers. The data
      will be collected using a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and a dental examination for the
      caregiver and the index child. In addition, the caregiver will be asked for a finger stick
      blood sample and a saliva sample (for lead and other metal assay). Blood and/or saliva
      samples from the children will only be sought in years 4 and 6. Participants will also be
      measured for height and weight at the first and subsequent examinations. For testing the
      hypotheses, the outcomes are severe dental caries experienced in the child, and exposures are
      lead levels in child, and sugars and fats in the diets of child and caregiver. Other
      variables, such as the demographic information collected in other studies and body mass index
      of the caregiver and child, will be included in the multivariate analyses to determine
      relative risk. Nested case-control studies, with several measures of caries as the outcomes,
      will also be conducted. The significance of this study is that it will identify areas for
      intervention and produce a unique database from an African-American population. The 0-2
      child's FFQ, developed for this study, will also be a valuable tool for other studies of
      child obesity, nutrition, and diabetes in young African Americans.

      Project 3: Efficacy of a tailored oral health education program: This project will be led by
      David Williams PhD, Institute for Social Research and Jorge Delva PhD, School of Social Work,
      University of Michigan. The long-term objective of this project is to develop an effective
      tailored behavior change education program to promote and maintain good oral health and
      prevent oral diseases among low-income children and their caregivers. To achieve this, a
      multi-method and multi-level intervention that targets not only parental behaviors and
      beliefs but also contextual determinants of oral health behaviors to be identified by Project
      1 will be designed. Due to the current lack of tailored self-help behavior change dental
      interventions, substantial time and resources are needed to develop the content and to test
      the instruments and feasibility of the proposed intervention. This project has five specific
      aims: (1) To design and produce two interventions to promote oral health and prevent oral
      disease among caregivers and their children: (i) an interactive, tailored, theory-driven,
      behavior change education program, and (ii) an untailored health information (HI) comparison
      program. (2) To assess the feasibility and usability of these unique interventions with a
      small-scale feasibility study prior their final implementation. (3) To revise the
      interventions based on the findings of the feasibility study and implement the efficacy
      trial. (4) To evaluate the efficacy of the interventions with two clinical outcomes:
      gingivitis among caregivers and untreated tooth decay among caregivers and their children.
      (5) To examine the extent to which the clinical outcomes are mediated by the affective,
      evaluative, and situational individual factors influenced by the tailored intervention, or by
      broader psychosocial factors addressed in other projects. The efficacy of the tailored
      intervention, whether it results in better oral health than the untailored HI intervention,
      will be tested in a randomized controlled trial. In year 4 of the longitudinal research, the
      participating caregivers will be randomly assigned to one of the two education programs at
      the beginning of the intervention session. The oral examination at year 4 will be the
      baseline measurement of this trial, and changes in the outcomes will be assessed in the
      follow-up examination in year 6. The research team will be masked from the assignment to the
      intervention regimens. Production and evaluation of a state-of-the-science, tailored
      multi-method, multi-level program for oral health will provide an opportunity to obtain
      currently non-existent information about the ability to influence behaviors that determine
      oral health status among low-income African American caregivers and their children.

      Project 4: A pragmatic study of a new payment system for Medicaid: This study, led by Stephen
      A. Eklund, DDS, DrPH, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, monitors utilization
      of dental care in Michigan children, in order to evaluate the effectiveness of recent and
      future SCHIP (State Children's Health Insurance Program) and Medicaid initiatives in reducing
      disparities in access to and utilization of dental care. Evidence from many sources
      demonstrates a wide disparity in utilization of dental care that is associated with the
      socioeconomic status of children. Disparities exist as measured by both visits for dental
      care as well as untreated oral disease. Dental insurance claims data will be used to
      demonstrate historical patterns of utilization and the disparities between privately-insured
      and Medicaid-eligible children. This project specifically investigates an on-going program,
      funded by the State of Michigan, in which about 100,000 Medicaid children are eligible for a
      privately operated dental insurance program (by Delta Dental Plan of Michigan). Each
      Medicaid-eligible child living in 37 counties in Michigan receives a dental insurance card
      (the same card held by Delta Dental Plan privately insured beneficiaries) and dentists
      receive between 70 and 80% reimbursement for the cost of dental care. Future data from both
      the privately-insured child population in Michigan and from the newly-implemented
      private-insurance based SCHIP and Medicaid programs in Michigan will then be monitored for
      the next several years to assess the ability of these innovative methods of payment and
      administration to reduce the historical disparities in dental care utilization. Specific null
      hypotheses to be tested are: 1) Payment for dental care at market rates will result in no
      difference in the percent of children with at least one dental visit per year, among children
      with Medicaid, SCHIP, or private insurance coverage, 2) Payment for dental care at market
      rates will result in no difference in the distance traveled to receive care, among children
      with Medicaid, SCHIP, or private insurance coverage, and 3) Payment for dental care at market
      rates will result in no difference in the mix of services received among children with
      Medicaid, SCHIP, or private insurance coverage.

      Dr. Eklund's project is the only project of the Center that is not focused on African
      Americans living in the 39 Census Tracts with the lowest average family income in the city.
      However, his research project tests an important intervention that has not yet been
      implemented in the Detroit area. The analysis of the Michigan experiment will provide
      evidence on whether policy initiatives can have an impact on access to dental care in
      low-income families and whether this information can be used to develop programs specific to
      Detroit.
    
  