
    
      Background and Rationale

      While there is much we do not know about the differential effects of COVID-19, early data
      shows that minority communities are disproportionally effected by the virus. There are many
      factors that may increase the likelihood of contracting COVID-19 including: 1) community
      spread because of lack of access to testing in low-income communities, 2) work environments
      that may increase exposure, 3) more densely populated housing that reduces the ability to
      social distance, 4) limited understanding of preventive measures due to literacy and language
      barriers, 5) constrained financial resources to stay home and not work, and/or 6) lack of
      trust in the health care system. The Marshallese are a Pacific Islander population
      experiencing significant health disparities with some of the highest documented rates of type
      2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) of any population in the world. Estimated T2DM rates among
      Marshallese in the U.S. range from 25%-50%, much higher than the general U.S. population.
      People with T2DM are more likely to experience severe symptoms and complications when
      infected with COVID-19; however, those that manage their T2DM well are less likely to become
      extremely ill from the virus. In order to reduce the disparities caused by COVID-19 and
      ultimately compare the effectiveness of prevention interventions among the low-income
      minority communities most effected by COVID-19, it is critical to understand minority
      populations': 1) risk exposure, 2) knowledge of preventive recommendations, 3) barriers and
      facilitators to implementing preventative recommendations, 4) barriers and facilitators to
      COVID-19 testing when appropriate, and self-care behaviors during COVID-19.

      Specific Aims

      Aim 1: Document COVID-19 risk exposure for Marshallese community members.

      Aim 2: Document Marshallese community members' knowledge of preventive recommendations.

      Aim 3: Document barriers and facilitators to implementing preventative recommendations.

      Aim 4: Document Marshallese community members' barriers and facilitators to COVID-19 testing
      when appropriate.

      Aim 5: Document self-care behaviors during COVID-19.

      Aim 6: Explore COVID-19 pandemic related barriers and facilitators to T2DM self-management
      among Marshallese adults with T2DM.

      Aim 7: Assess the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on T2DM self-management activities among
      Marshallese adults with T2DM.

      Study Design and Procedures

      Participants will complete an online or telephone survey. Up to 100 participants will also be
      invited to complete an in-depth qualitative interview in addition to the survey (these
      results are not presented here). Community-based recruitment for the online survey will be
      conducted by posting an informational flyer on social media. The flyer will contain a link to
      the study information sheet and survey documents. Study team members will also reach out to
      study participants via phone or electronic mediums (e.g. email, text, or messenger). Study
      staff will send potential participants a link to an electronic survey using REDcap. The
      REDcap system will include electronic documentation of consent prior to completing the
      survey. Access to study data will be limited to only those personnel who need it to complete
      relevant job duties. All data, regardless of whether it is identifiable or not, will be
      stored in a locked file cabinet in a locked room, or on a secure University of Arkansas for
      Medical Sciences (UAMS) server that requires two-factor authentication.Each participant who
      completes the survey will receive a $20 Walmart gift card as remuneration.

      Measures/outcomes

      Our survey will be based on CDC risk assessments and utilize the NIH funded COVID-19 items
      that are part of the PhenX Toolkit, as well as other standardized survey items/scales. Those
      participants with T2DM will be asked to complete questions pertaining to T2DM self-management
      during COVID-19.

      Data Analysis

      Given the descriptive nature of the study aims, the analytic strategy will focus on
      presenting results of item-level descriptive analyses, with an emphasis on frequencies and
      proportions. There will be no attempt to impute missing responses for any items. For each
      analysis, the number of included responses will be reported.
    
  