
    
      BiRd Arm

      Subjects on the BiRD arm will receive clarithromycin, Revlimid (lenalidomide), and
      dexamethasone in 28-day cycles. Dosing is as follows:

        -  Clarithromycin 500mg PO twice daily on days 1-28 for a 28-day cycle. If a dose of
           clarithromycin is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day. If it
           is missed for the entire day, it should not be made up. Vomited doses will not be made
           up.

        -  Lenalidomide 25mg PO daily on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle for patients with a calculated
           creatinine clearance of >60 cc/min. Patients with a calculated creatinine clearance of
           <60 cc/min will receive 15 mgs PO daily on days 1-21 of a 28 cycle. If a dose of
           lenalidomide is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day. If it is
           missed for the entire day, it should not be made up. Vomited doses will not be made up.

        -  Dexamethasone 40mg PO will be given on days 1, 8, 15, 22 of a 28-day cycle. Missed or
           vomited doses will not be made up. If subject cannot tolerate oral dexamethasone, it
           will be given intravenously.

      Rd Arm

      Subjects on the Rd arm will receive Revlimid, and dexamethasone in 28-day cycles. Dosing is
      as follows:

        -  Lenalidomide 25mg PO daily on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle for patients with a calculated
           creatinine clearance of >60 cc/min. Patients with a calculated clearance of <60 cc/min
           will receive 15 mgs PO daily on days 1-21 of a28 cycle. If a dose of lenalidomide is
           missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day. If it is missed for the
           entire day, it should not be made up. Vomited doses will not be made up.

        -  Dexamethasone 40mg PO will be given on days 1, 8, 15, 22 of a 28-day cycle. Missed or
           vomited doses will not be made up. If subject cannot tolerate oral dexamethasone, it
           will be given intravenously.

      Correlative studies: Relative dose intensity: Projected total dose per cycle of each
      component of assigned drug will be divided by the actual dose received and a ratio will be
      assessed for each cycle delivered.

      MRD: Minimal residual disease testing will be performed in subjects who achieve complete
      response. MRD testing may be performed either by flow cytometry or polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR), whichever is more readily available at the study institution.

      Subjects will continue their randomized treatment assignment until disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity (whichever occurs first). In case toxicity precludes dosing of one
      agent (i.e dexamethasone, clarithromycin, lenalidomide), treatment regimen will continue with
      the remaining agents. Subjects unable to receive ALL the components of the assigned treatment
      arms will be removed from study after reasonable attempts to dose reduce and manage side
      effects. Subjects can also be removed from study at investigator's discretion, or if they
      withdraw consent. At completion or early discontinuation of treatment, subjects will be
      followed for 30 additional days or up to the initiation of subsequent treatment (whichever
      occurs first), after which they will be off the active treatment phase of the study.
      Long-term follow-up for disease status and survival will proceed until the subject has
      withdrawn consent, is lost to follow-up, or has died.
    
  