
    
      The evidence to date supporting the association between treatment with GLP-1 agonists and
      diabetes remission after metabolic surgery is based on retrospective studies. This study is a
      2:1 randomized, blinded, parallel, prospective placebo-controlled trial with a standardized
      treatment approach in order to establish the role of GLP-1 in remission of diabetes after
      metabolic surgery. This study will enroll 126 patients, with the goal of 100 patients
      completing the clinical trial (33 in the Placebo/Control Group and 67 in the Test Group).

      The preoperative program for Metabolic Surgery involves multidisciplinary health evaluation
      and care, as well as patient education lasting approximately 6 months. Patients that consent
      to the clinical trial, will receive study drug on top of the standard care that is provided
      for 4 months prior to bariatric surgery. During this time, glycemic control will be monitored
      carefully through points of contact with the study team and additional lab assessments for
      the clinical trial. After bariatric surgery, patients will continue in the study for 2 years
      and glycemic control will be managed according to the current standard of care for
      perioperative glucose control. During this time, patients will continue to meet with the
      study team and collect lab assessments

      All study patients will be followed for two years after metabolic surgery. Efficacy and
      outcomes will be evaluated by comparative analysis of laboratory results (Labs 1-6) which
      monitor longitudinal glycemic control. Outcomes will then be compared between Test and
      Control groups. The major study outcomes will be diabetes remission as defined by the
      American Diabetes Association. Secondary outcomes will include measures of improvement in
      glycemic control and beta cell function (change in fasting glucose levels, HbA1C, and C-
      peptide). All study labs and chemistry analysis will be performed at the Geisinger Medical
      Laboratory which is accredited by the College of American Pathologists and the Centers for
      Medicare and Medicaid - Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) and licensed by the
      Pennsylvania Department of Health Division of Laboratories. Evaluation of the continued need
      for medications for diabetes treatment will be the responsibility of the study team.
      Longitudinal information relating to medication use will be derived from direct patient
      contact at study visits, and review of standard of care medicine reconciliations from the
      Electronic Health Record.
    
  