
    
      Background:

      Mandibular reconstruction is necessary following tumour resections, infections or trauma
      resulting in severe defects of mandibular arch continuity and sacrifice of teeth. Basic
      reconstruction involves the use of non-vascularized bone grafts together with restoration of
      lost teeth by means of dental implants and implant-supported prostheses. Smaller bony defects
      (<6 cm) are commonly treated with nonvascularized corticocancellous grafts harvested from the
      anterior or posterior iliac crest. (Goh et al. 2008) For reconstructing larger and recurrent
      defects, currently the vascularized free flaps are regarded as the "gold standard". The use
      of these flaps, however, presents several major inconveniences. Harvesting of autologous
      tissue may result in a significant donor site morbidity, the extent of which may vary,
      according to the donor site and possibly according to the intervention technique. The
      problems include bleeding, pain, infections, donor site fractures and prolonged hospital
      stay. (Hartman et al. 2002; Rogers et al. 2003) The field of Regenerative Medicine promises
      new alternatives to surgical reconstruction through harnessing the regenerative capacity of
      the human body to repair itself. In the last few decades the rapid expansion of knowledge
      about the biological basis of wound healing and the role of cells, signals, and biological
      scaffolds has drawn the attention from ''tissue reconstruction'' to ''tissue regeneration''.
      New strategies started to emerge aiming at mimicking the normal healing process in
      regenerating lost or damaged tissues. The term "tissue engineering" was officially coined at
      a National Science Foundation workshop in 1988 to mean "the application of principles and
      methods of engineering and life sciences toward fundamental understanding of
      structure-function relationships in normal and pathological mammalian tissues and the
      development of biological substitutes to restore, maintain or improve tissue function".

      Tissue engineering and Regenerative medicine depend on the presence of a biomaterial
      promoting cell growth and proliferation. In order to populate this biomaterial (scaffold)
      with new tissue, the body must effectively interact with this biomaterial. This necessitates
      the establishment of an early and reliable angiogenic response leading to the development of
      an adequate blood supply for the restoration of structure and function. (Hodde 2002) The
      three main components required for regeneration are the cells, scaffolds, and induction
      molecules. When growing tissues in vitro (Tissue Engineering), all three components should
      exist, however, when referring to Regenerative Medicine, any of these can be provided to the
      body in an attempt to optimize its capacity for regenerating its own tissues. Adding cells or
      growth factors to the biomaterials can reinforce tissue regeneration (Pellegrini et al.
      2009), but the vascularization, and thus the integration, of theses biomaterials is still
      considered the determining issue in the success of any critical size defect regeneration.
      (Novosel et al. 2011) Applying principles of regenerative medicine in the field of
      cranio-maxillofacial reconstruction has now become a daily practice. The wide spectrum of
      applications ranges from simple addition of bioactive bone fillers to much more sophisticated
      techniques for bone replacement and reconstruction. The indications included reconstruction
      after minor developmental defects, trauma, infections, benign cysts or tumours but seldom
      following malignant tumour excision. (Clokie and Sandor 2008; Schuckert et al. 2009;
      Trautvetter et al. 2011) Warnke et al (Warnke et al. 2004), who used a completely different
      technique than those used in the previous case reports, reported the only case of
      regeneration after cancer ablation. The main technical difference was related to
      vascularization of the regenerated tissue. While all the reported cases for mandibular
      regeneration used the conventional extrinsic vascularization strategy, where the constructs
      were left to acquire a parasitic blood supply form the recipient site of implantation, Warnke
      et al (Warnke et al. 2004) used an axial vascularization strategy through a prelamination
      procedure in the Latissimus dorsi (LD) muscle followed by free tissue transfer of the
      regenerated mandible. Although this technique avoided bony donor site morbidities, the need
      to harvest the LD muscle represented a major drawback of this prelamination technique. This
      single case report highlighted the need for an efficiently vascularized construct if the
      regenerative therapy is to be applied for larger and recurrent defects.

      Axial vascularization of scaffolds aims at providing the construct with blood supply through
      a defined and dedicated vascular axis. In this context, the blood supply of the construct is
      not randomly acquired from the implantation site, and thus the implantation in an area of low
      vascularization potential, as in irradiated or fibrosed surgical sites could be possible
      (Kneser et al. 2006). The two major techniques for axial vascularization are prelamination
      and prefabrication.

      Prefabrication of a tissue construct is simply done by implanting an arterio-venous fistula
      or loop (AVL) or a vascular pedicle underneath or within the construct. This results in
      spontaneous sprouting of vessels from the loop or pedicle and subsequent revascularization of
      the whole tissue construct (Erol and Spira 1979; Guo and Pribaz 2009). Prelamination is
      another technique introduced by Pribaz and Fine (Pribaz and Fine 1994) in 1994 where the
      implantation of a construct into a vascularized territory (flap) is performed to create a
      customized vascularized unit. The end result of both techniques is an axially vascularized
      unit that depends for its nourishment upon a defined vascular axis.

      Two more important terms to mention in this context are ''intrinsic'' and ''extrinsic''
      vascularization modes. The extrinsic vascularization of a construct denotes acquiring its
      blood supply from the periphery towards the centre, while the intrinsic vascularization mode
      denotes that the core region of the construct is being vascularized first (Lokmic and
      Mitchell 2008). Accordingly, prefabrication is considered an intrinsic axial vascularization
      strategy. The construct in prelamination, however, is extrinsically vascularized within an
      intrinsically vascularized territory (Eweida et al. 2012).

      As the reconstruction of challenging or irradiated bone defects requires an axially
      vascularized tissue bulk, applying the prelamination strategy will always end up in a
      remarkable donor site morbidity where the whole vascularized territory (mostly a muscle flap)
      should be transferred to the recipient site (Mesimaki et al. 2009; Warnke et al. 2004). The
      prefabrication technique, however, when applied to a tissue construct, entails only the
      transfer of this construct with its pedicle, thus diminishing the donor site morbidity to the
      minimal. Moreover, the prefabrication technique could be applied at the recipient site as a
      primary reconstruction technique, abolishing the donor site morbidity completely (Eweida et
      al. 2014; Horch et al. 2014).

      One of the most extensively investigated techniques to induce axial vascularization in the
      tissue constructs is the arterio-venous loop or fistula (Arkudas et al. 2013; Horch et al.
      2012) and its superiority over the vascular bundle in terms of vascular density and tissue
      regeneration potential was clearly demonstrated (Tanaka et al. 2003).

      Preclinical data:

      The first documented idea for axial vascularization using the AV loop was described by Erol
      and Spira (Erol and Spira 1979) in 1979 in a rat model. Morrison et al further developed the
      model and inserted the loop into isolation chambers (Hofer et al. 2003). They successfully
      demonstrated the induction of vascularization in polymer and gel matrices (Cassell et al.
      2001). Since 2006, the design and characterization of the isolation chambers and the inset of
      the AV loop were further developed by the work of Horch et al (Kneser et al. 2006) where the
      engineering of vascularized transplantable bone was first successfully demonstrated by this
      research group. After successful evaluation of axial vascularisation in different bone
      substitutes, the concept was translated from the rat model to a large animal model (sheep)
      (Beier et al. 2011; Boos et al. 2012). Based on that model, axial vascularization was induced
      in constructs made of processed bovine cancellous bone substitutes and ß-TCP/HA
      (Tricalcium-phosphate/ hydroxyapatite) scaffolds. The sheep AV loop showed similar
      vascularization patterns like that of the rat but the optimum vascularization density was
      reached after a longer duration (8-12 weeks versus 4 weeks respectively) (Boos et al. 2011).
      Induction of new bone formation in the axially vascularized sheep isolation chamber was then
      demonstrated through implantation of MSC (Mesenchymal Stem Cells) in combination with
      osteogenic growth factor BMP based on a clinically applicable ß-TCP/HA bone substitute (Boos
      et al. 2013).

      In 2011 the investigators introduced the AV Loop model for the first time for mandibular
      reconstruction in goats (Eweida et al. 2012; Eweida et al. 2011). The investigators could
      demonstrate successful regeneration of critical size marginal mandibular defects through
      axial vascularization of ßTCP/HA scaffolds charged with BMP (Bone morphogenic protein). The
      technique was discussed previously in details (Eweida et al. 2014; Eweida et al. 2012; Eweida
      et al. 2011). Briefly, a critical size (3 x 2 cm) marginal defect was created at the angle of
      the goat mandible. An equivalent sized scaffold made of ßTCP/HA was grooved to accommodate
      the AV Loop created by direct anastomosis of locally available vessels under the operative
      microscope. The scaffold was then mounted on a titanium plate and fixed to the mandible.
      Through our comparative studies between the AV Loop and the non-AV loop constructs, the
      axially vascularized constructs showed significantly more central vascularization and
      markedly enhanced central bone formation. The biomechanical characteristics were remarkably
      enhanced as well. The safety and efficacy of the model at a preclinical level was
      successfully demonstrated along a 6 months follow-up period (Eweida et al. 2014).

      Clinical data to date:

      Only two previous studies represented case reports of craniofacial bone regeneration using
      axially vascularized bone substitutes (non-randomised vascularization). The first study was
      published in 2004 by Warnke et al (Warnke et al. 2004) and further evaluated in 2006 (Warnke
      et al. 2006). The authors used a prelamination technique in the LD muscle of bovine mineral
      blocks (BioOss) to reconstruct of a large mandibular defect. The defect was reconstructed 8
      years following subtotal mandibulectomy and irradiation. The construct was charged with BMP
      and autogenous bone marrow aspirate from the iliac crest. Although this prelamination
      strategy for mandibular regeneration has shown some promising initial results, the long-term
      results were not free of complications.

      The second report was published in 2009 by Mesimaki et al (Mesimaki et al. 2009) who reported
      a similar prelamination technique for vascularizing a bone substitute made of ß-TCP (beta
      Tricalcium phosphate) in the rectus abdominis muscle. The vascularized construct was used to
      reconstruct a complex maxillary defect following hemi-maxillectomy due to a large keratocyst.
      An extensive review of literature (up to 06.2019) has shown that the prefabrication using the
      AV loop was never used for bone regeneration within the craniofacial region.

      The introduced technique of axial vascularization of bone substitutes, however, was
      successfully demonstrated in humans. A case report was presented by Horch et al who have
      demonstrated successful bone regeneration and in situ axial vascularization using the AV loop
      model in two patients with bony defects in the radius and the tibia (Horch et al. 2014).
      Horch et al have demonstrated a safe and successful technique, encouraging results, and a
      complication-frees follow up period of 72 months.

      Aim:

      Applying and assessment of the technique of axial vascularization of a bone substitute using
      the arteriovenous loop (AVL) to reconstruct a mandibular defect

      Patients and Methods:

      Ten patients will be included in this prospective study.

      Informed consent:

      The patients will be fully oriented through a documented written informed consent in Arabic
      language. The informed written consent will include the following points:

        -  The procedure is related to research (Application of this technique in the craniofacial
           region)

        -  The purpose of this research.

        -  Alternative methods for mandibular reconstruction.

        -  The technical details of the procedure.

        -  The advantages and disadvantages of the technique.

        -  The risks of the procedure.

        -  The possible peri- and postoperative side effects.

        -  The management plan for the possible side effects.

        -  A statement that participation is voluntary, refusal to participate will involve no
           penalty or loss of benefits to which the patient is otherwise entitled, and the patient
           may discontinue participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits, to which
           the subject is otherwise entitled

        -  An explanation of whom to contact for answers to questions about the procedure and
           patient's rights, and whom to contact in the event of research-related injury to the
           patient.

      Preoperative assessment:

      The patient will be subject to thorough history taking and full medical examinations.

      Investigations will include:

        -  Routine laboratory work-up (Coagulation profile, fasting blood sugar, serum creatinine,
           blood urea, Complete Blood Count)

        -  Panoramic x-ray view of the mandible

        -  Computerized tomographic angiography (CTA) of the head and neck region.

        -  Three-dimensional printing of the mandible and the defect to facilitate preoperative
           orientation, plate and mesh pre-bending

      Surgical procedures:

      The procedure will be done under general anaesthesia in a supine position. Through a
      submandibular skin incision, the mandible will be exposed. The defect will be refreshed
      through bone curettage. The preformed reconstruction plate will be fixed to the mandible and
      traversing the defect. A preformed U-shaped titanium mesh will be mounted to the mandible and
      fixed with screws. The ipsilateral facial artery and vein (or other available vascular axes
      in case of lack of the facial vascular axis) will be anastomosed using the operative
      microscope via a reversed vein graft to create an AV loop harvested from the forearm. The AV
      loop will be laid within the defect. The titanium mesh will be filled with a mixture of:

        1. Silicated Hydroxylapatite granules (NanoBone® vial 1.2 ml, ARTOSS, Rostock, Germany).

        2. Autogenous bone marrow aspirate from the iliac crest.

        3. Bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP 2- InductOs®, Medtronic BioPharma B.V., Tolochenaz,
           Switzerland) The submandibular wound closed in layers.

      Follow up and Evaluation:

      Close monitoring of the patient for the vital signs, patency of the AV loop (via hand
      Doppler) and possible perioperative complications. The patient will be discharged on the 3rd
      day postoperative. The patient will be followed up regularly every week for wound healing,
      patency of the AVL and possible postoperative complications. Serial X-ray (panoramic view)
      will be done monthly to monitor the new bone formation. CTA will be performed after 6 months.

      According to the clinical and radiological findings further dental rehabilitation will be
      planned after complete healing of the defect (6-9 months postoperative). Bone biopsies from
      dental rehabilitation (bone drilling for implants) will be studied for bone quality and
      vascularization using the standard H&E staining after decalcification.

      Qualitative and quantitative data from Panoramic X-rays, CTA, and histological analysis will
      be evaluated for:

        1. Bone regeneration and density.

        2. Vascularization of bone substitutes. Results will be tabulated and compared with
           literature.

      Risk analysis:

      After successful demonstration of the safety and efficacy of the ''AV loop vascularization
      technique'' at the preclinical and clinical levels, we believe it is time to start applying
      the technique for mandibular regeneration. This new application, however, will not be without
      challenges. A major concern would be the hemodynamic changes resulting from the AV fistula.
      Although a similar model was never reported in literature, reports of the use of a distal
      arteriovenous fistula provide evidence that a controlled fistula placed in a peripheral
      artery is well-tolerated, providing that the size of the fistula is less than 1 cm and the
      fistula accepts less than 20 percent of the cardiac output (Blaisdell et al. 1966; Eweida et
      al. 2013; Horch et al. 2014; Tukiainen et al. 2006). Regarding bone density and
      mineralization distal to an AV fistula, contradictory results are shown in literature ranging
      from an increase of bone growth (Vanderhoef et al. 1963) to decreased mineralization and
      augmented osteopenia (Muxi et al. 2009). These studies focused on the hemodynamics and its
      impact on bone growth distal to the fistula. The long-term consequences of an intraosseous
      fistula, however, were not adequately studied in literature.

      An early throbbing sensation or hum would be expected due to the initial high flow. The
      long-term studies at the preclinical level, however, have shown that the vascular bed matures
      with time leading to dumping down of the direct arteriovenous jet (Polykandriotis et al.
      2007; Polykandriotis et al. 2009).
    
  