
    
      Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is an acquired autoimmune disease resulting in the
      production of antibodies directed against the patient's red blood cells (RBCs) causing
      shortened erythrocyte lifespan.

      The main pathogensis of the disease is autoantibodies (Ab) that directed against
      erythrocytes, with or without complement (C) activation. The most common form of AIHA is warm
      AIHA characterized by the presence of warm-type autoantibodies-immunoglobulin G (IgG) which
      reacts optimally at 37 °C, causing RBC extravascular destruction by tissue macrophages .

      Previous studies of the etiology and pathogenesis of AIHA have focused on the autoreactive B
      cells that have escaped tolerance mechanisms and regulatory T cells (Treg).

      The main treatment of AIHA includes RBC transfusion and immune system inhibitors such as
      corticosteroids. During an immune response, CD4 Th cells can differentiate into several
      unique effector lineages that promote different immune responses via the secretion of
      distinct types of cytokines.

      T follicular helper (Tfh) cells are a CD4 T cell lineage whose major function is to help B
      cells form germinal centers (GCs) and produce high-affinity antibodies(6). Tfh cells are
      characterized by expression of the CXCR5, the transcriptional repressor B cell lymphoma 6
      (Bcl-6), programmed death 1 (PD-1), and inducible costimulator (ICOS).

      Follicular regulatory T (Tfr) cells are a newly identified subset of Treg cells that
      coexpress markers of both Treg cells and Tfh cells. In addition to expressing Tfh-related
      markers, Tfr cells also express regulatory markers, such as FoxP3, CD25, CTLA-4, IL-10, and
      transforming growth factor β (TGFβ).

      TFR cells represent a highly specialized subpopulation of Foxp3+ Tregs that co-express
      TFHfeatures, such as Bcl-6, CXCR5, ICOS, PD-1 and Treg features CD25 and Foxp3. TFR cells
      have the ability to inhibit TFH activation and cytokines production and suppress B cell GL7
      and B7-1 expression and limited class switch recombination occurring in the GC via high
      expression of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and production of
      inhibitory cytokine- interleukin 10 (IL-10) and transforming growth factorβ (TGFβ)(5). The
      involvement of TFR cells in the pathogenesis of human autoimmune diseases remains
      speculative, but an alteration of the TFR:TFH ratio is observed in the blood of patients
      suffering from several autoimmune diseases, such as child immune thrombocytopenia, and
      rheumatoid arthritis.
    
  