
    
      The treatment of large upper ureteral stones is still controversial. The American Urological
      Association (AUA) and the European Association of Urology (EAU) recommend that laparoscopic
      stone removal may be considered in rare cases in which shockwave lithotripsy (SWL),
      ureteroscopic lithotripsy (URS), and percutaneous nephrolithotomy fail or are unlikely to be
      successful. In a recent meta-analysis of treatment of large proximal ureteral stones,
      Torricelli et al. reported that the outcomes of laparoscopic ureterolithotomy (LUL) for
      larger upper ureteral stones are favorable compared with those of URS, and LUL should be
      considered as a first-line option when flexible ureteroscopy is not available. After such
      surgery, many surgeons prefer placing a double-J stent, a ureteral catheter that is passed
      through the ureter from the kidney to the bladder. Although double-J stent placement after
      LUL remains controversial, many urologists believe that it may help prevent postoperative
      urinary leakage.

      Intracorporeal double-J stenting is technically difficult, and malpositioning often occurs
      after surgery in clinical practice. However, the actual rate of malpositioning of stents has
      not been reported yet. Although clinicians use different ways to place double-J stents
      precisely, accurate stent placement before the closure of the ureteral incision might be
      difficult to confirm.

      Upward malpositioning of the stent after surgery may necessitate removal of the stent using a
      ureteroscope. It is difficult to remove stents in the outpatient setting without anesthesia
      to reduce pain and discomfort, especially in male patients.

      In this study, The investigators used flexible cystoscopy through the urethral route before
      closure of the ureteral incision to confirm that the double-J stent was placed correctly in
      the bladder of male patients. Upon identification of upward malpositioning of the ureteral
      stent, position adjustments were performed by intracorporeally manipulating the ureteral
      stent through the incision site of the ureter. The aim of this study was to determine the
      malpositioning rate and predicting factors associated with upward malpositioning of
      intracorporeal double-J stents after LUL and to evaluate the usefulness of flexible
      cystoscopy in preventing such malpositioning in male patients.
    
  