
    
      Following consent and prior to randomization, genomic analysis will be conducted on blood
      samples obtained from each potential patient. Triple-negative (TN) results as defined in
      trial eligibility criteria will be required for initial eligibility. Patients with TNmCRC
      will continue in the screening process. Once deemed fully eligible, patients will be
      randomized to Arm A, Arm B, or Arm C.

      Dosing cycles of 28 days will continue until documented disease progression (PD) or another
      criterion for discontinuation is met. Antitumor activity will be assessed at the end of every
      2 cycles (every 8 weeks [Q8W]). At the End of Cycle 2 (EOC2) tumor assessment:

        -  Patients assigned to Arm A (Sym004) with a documented objective response (OR) or stable
           disease (SD) will continue to receive Sym004; patients at the EOC2 with documented PD
           will be discontinued from study

        -  Patients assigned to Arm B (futuximab) or Arm C (modotuximab) with a documented OR or SD
           will be crossed-over to receive Sym004; patients with documented PD at the EOC2 (or
           prior to the EOC2) will be offered the opportunity to crossover to receive Sym004 or
           will be discontinued from study

      To be considered evaluable for antitumor activity assessment, patients must have completed 2
      cycles of dosing inclusive of EOC2 disease imaging studies and must have received any amount
      of their assigned investigational medicinal product (IMP) during that period, or have PD
      documented by imaging studies prior to the EOC2. Non-evaluable patients and patients
      discontinuing from study prior to the EOC2 for reasons other than documented PD will not be
      replaced.

      Note: In December 2018, the decision was made to terminate the trial and enrollment was
      prematurely discontinued. The primary, secondary, and exploratory objectives are no longer
      applicable. Only clinical safety-related evaluations will be conducted.
    
  