
    
      Given that both Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) and PD-L1 appear important in
      cervical cancer pathogenesis, this study is designed to test the hypothesis that breaking of
      immune tolerance by PD-1/PD-L1 blockade will enhance the efficacy of anti-VEGF therapy in the
      treatment of patients with metastatic , persistent or recurrent cervical cancer. There are
      several data suggesting that atezolizumab and bevacizumab may be synergistic. Enhanced tumor
      angiogenesis is commonly associated with absence of tumor-infiltrating T cells in patients.
      There is evidence in ovarian cancer that tumor expression of VEGF is negatively correlated to
      the density of CD8+ TILs and this phenotype is associated with early recurrence, consistent
      with prior studies showing a correlation of VEGF to early recurrence and short survival.
      Furthermore, in ascites, high levels of VEGF correlate to low numbers of NK T-like CD3+CD56+
      cells.

      In addition to promoting tumor angiogenesis, there is increasing evidence that VEGF plays a
      role in cancer immune evasion through several different mechanisms. Indeed, emerging evidence
      suggests that the endothelium acts as a selective barrier, allowing certain T cell subsets,
      notably T regulatory (Treg) cells, to traffic more effectively into the tumor contributing to
      tumor immune tolerance. In addition, some experiments have shown that tumour hypoxia promotes
      the recruitment of regulatory T (T reg) cells through induction of expression of the
      chemokine CC-chemokine ligand 28 (CCL28), which, in turn, promotes tumour tolerance and
      angiogenesis.

      Some immunosuppressive activities of VEGF, however, can be reversed by inhibition of VEGF
      signaling. Mice exposed to pathophysiologic levels of VEGF exhibited impaired dendritic cell
      function, which could be restored by blockade of VEGFR2.

      In turn, the anti-tumor effect of angiogenesis blockade requires CD8+ T cells supporting the
      notion that VEGF-A do not simply promote tumor growth through angiogenesis. Thus, peripheral
      immune tolerance and angiogenesis programs seem closely connected and cooperating to sustain
      tumour growth.

      In addition, there is evidence that anti-VEGF therapy and immunotherapy act synergistically.
      Motz et al have suggested that the combination of anti-VEGF-A antibody and immunotherapy with
      adoptive T cell transfer led to a superior infiltration of tumor-reactive T cells than any
      single approach. Indeed, in a murine melanoma model, VEGF blockade synergized with adoptive
      immunotherapy, as evidenced by improved anti-tumor activity, prolonged survival, and
      increased trafficking of T cells into tumors. These data are reminiscent of the additive
      benefit observed in patients by combining recombinant interferon-alpha therapy and
      bevacizumab, a recombinant, humanized therapeutic antibody directed against VEGF, for the
      treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

      More evidence has come from a clinical study of subjects with melanoma combining the
      checkpoint inhibitor (anti-CTLA-4) ipilimumab and bevacizumab. In 46 patients, the combined
      therapy yielded a 19.6% objective response rate, stable disease in 13%. All responses were
      durable >6 months and median survival was 25.1 months, much prolonged compared to
      ipilimumab's expectation in metastatic melanoma. Activated vessel endothelium with extensive
      CD8+ T cell and macrophage cell infiltration was observed in post-treatment biopsies, as well
      as marked increases in CD4/CCR7/CD45ROm central memory cells in peripheral blood in the
      majority of patients.

      Thus, an emerging paradigm supported by the data above is that angiogenesis and immune
      suppression are two facets of a linked biological program. Tumors seem to co-opt these
      existing mechanisms that are normally required to limit excessive inflammation and promote
      tissue recovery during infection or wound healing. The execution of this program sustains
      tumor growth and promotes immunologic tolerance. Because of the intimate relationship between
      angiogenesis and immunosuppression, it is thus expected that inhibiting both pathways will
      result in improved and more durable clinical benefit.
    
  