
    
      Interleukin 7 is an essential cytokine for the thymic development and the post-thymic
      survival, expansion and maturation of the T lymphocytes in humans. Therapeutic use of IL7 in
      mouse models has shown enhancement of immune reconstitution after chemotherapy or bone marrow
      transplantation. The rationale for using IL-7 as immunotherapy in HIV infection would be to
      support the expansion, survival and functional properties of T lymphocytes and enhance immune
      reconstitution. More specifically, IL7 may provide the means to support CD4 expansions in
      patients with good viral suppression but persistent low CD4 counts (immunologic
      non-responders) or in patients who have no available antiretroviral options. Finally, given
      the role of IL7 in T cell memory maturation and survival, IL-7 may be a promising vaccine
      adjuvant.

      Studies of rhIL7 in non-human primates have shown that T cell proliferation and expansion can
      be achieved at doses that are well tolerated without significant toxicity. A safety study in
      cancer patients is currently ongoing at the NCI. A5214 (Pleiades) will be the first study of
      rhIL7 to evaluate the safety of a single subcutaneous injection in HIV infected adults.
      Eligible subjects (CD4 greater than 100 cells/micro l and VL less than 50,000 copies/ml, on
      antiretroviral therapy for at least one year) will be stratified by viral load (less than 50
      or 50-50,000 copies/ml) and will be randomized 3:1 to receive rhIL7 or placebo.

      Pleiades is a phase I, double-blind trial that will test the safety of a single subcutaneous
      injection of IL-7 at 5 different doses (3, 10, 30, 60 and 100 micro g/kg) tested
      sequentially. Four subjects will enroll in each dose level and dose escalation will occur
      only after all subjects complete four weeks without evidence of dose-limiting toxicities as
      reviewed by the safety monitoring committee. Secondary end points include a PK study of rhIL7
      as well as immunologic studies throughout the duration of the study to assess evidence of IL7
      biologic activity with markers of T cell activation, proliferation and differentiation as
      well as expression of the alpha chain of the IL7 receptor.

      This is an Adult AIDS Clinical Trial Group (AACTG) study and the NIAID will participate as a
      site. The NIAID site will follow all NIAID IRB reporting requirements and all grade 1 and 2
      toxicities will be included in the annual review. Children will be excluded and a separate
      study will be required in the future after the safety and biologic activity of this agent is
      established in adults.

      The study will enroll a total of 40-80 patients followed for a total of eight weeks, with
      approximately 15-20 anticipated to enroll in our site.
    
  