
    
      Background: School age children (SAC) are vulnerable to malnutrition which can have adverse
      effects on their academic performance at school. Micronutrient deficiency affects as many as
      two billion people in the world. About 250 million people out of this suffer from
      deficiencies of iron, vitamin A, zinc and iodine are children. Malnutrition or micronutrient
      deficiencies lead to lower enrolment and completion rates. A nutrition behavior change
      strategy provides individuals with the necessary resources, knowledge, skills, motivation and
      reinforcement needed to encourage positive change in health behavior. So far, there are no
      any studies in the context of the study area in particular and in the country in general on
      the effect of behavior change communication (BCC) on improving the nutritional status,
      micronutrient intake and academic performance of school age children.

      Objective: The aim of this study protocol is to evaluate the effects of the behavior change
      communication (BCC) on nutritional status and academic performance of school age children in
      South Ethiopia. The hypotheses are that the children in the intervention arm will increase
      their academic performance and improve their nutritional status and micronutrient intake more
      than the children in the control arm.

      Methods: A cluster randomized controlled trial will be carried out to achieve the above
      mentioned objectives, so that the findings will be used as an input for policies and
      strategies that will be designed to mitigate the problem. A twelve-month cluster randomized
      control trial will be conducted in 8 schools of 370 students with ten to fifteen years old.
      The school intervention will be included BCC for students and science teachers on essential
      nutrition and hygiene actions (ENHAs) will be provided by background of Health education with
      Nutritionist. Demographic characteristics, knowledge, attitude & practices (KAP) of
      micronutrient deficiencies prevention, micronutrient intake, anthropometric measurements
      (height & weight), and academic performance assessment will be during baseline, mid line and
      end line assessment. The academic performance of children will be assessed by using end term
      semester results obtain for English and Mathematics subjects and for the overall subject
      average.

      The trial (n= 376) have two randomly assigned arms: a control cluster schools (CC) and
      intervention cluster schools (IC) according to their cluster. The IC will be received 12
      months on nutrition behavior change communication intervention using two modes (lecture, and
      posters) while CC receive routine dietary practices. The primary outcomes of this study are
      stunting, micronutrient intake, dietary diversity score, and academic performance of the
      children; assess using questionnaires, KAP of micronutrient deficiencies prevention, and
      anthropometry measurements. Secondary outcomes include thinness, underweight, overweight and
      obesity.

      A multivariate logistic regression analysis will be used to identify independent predictors
      of nutritional status and academic performance of school age children after controlling for
      confounding variables. The effect of BCC on nutritional status and academic performance will
      be determined using generalized estimating equations (GEE) and or linear mixed effects
      models.

      For each of the primary outcomes, stunting, micronutrient intake, dietary diversity score,
      and academic performance of children, the difference in mean change at follow-up between
      intervention and control arms will be compared. The hypotheses will be tested under the
      intent-to-treat principle using Generalized Linear Mixed Models (GLMMs) that will account for
      the correlation induced by the clustering of children within schools. To further explore the
      effect of the intervention, GLMMs will be fit that (1) adjust for baseline covariates of
      interest, consider a priori, relevant to change in nutritional status, KAP of micronutrient
      deficiencies prevention, micronutrient intake and dietary diversity score; (2) adjust for
      baseline variables distribute differently between intervention groups; (3) test interaction
      terms between treatment group and other covariates; and (4) examine completers only.
      Differences in the secondary outcomes, underweight and obesity will be analyzed in a parallel
      fashion. Mediating and moderating effects of the factors mentioned above will also be
      explored.

      Discussion: Results of the trial will provide evidence of the effectiveness of the nutrition
      BCC innovation in school settings of Meskan district. They will provide recommendations for
      strengthening the nutrition component of behavior change communication in child health
      services.
    
  