
    
      The aim of our study is to determine if a goal directed program improves weight loss outcomes
      after sleeve gastrectomy. Bariatric patients are managed by a multidisciplinary team
      comprising of bariatric surgeons, dieticians, physiotherapists, and physicians. In the
      conventional weight loss program, patients were only given their ideal weight to strive
      toward after surgery. Previous patients undergoing bariatric surgery in the standard program
      often enquired about the expected excessive weight loss targets after bariatric surgery. This
      patient driven need led to the development of the goal directed weight loss program. This
      modified program involves a component of behavioural intervention. Bariatric patients in this
      modified program will be counselled prior to LSG and EWL targets will be set for patients to
      achieve at fixed intervals post LSG. These targets are charted on a graph, with the patient's
      actual weight charted on the same graph at each clinic consultation, providing a strong
      visual aid to counseling and motivation.

      The aim of the study is to recruit 120 patients undergoing laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy.
      These patients will be randomized to either the goal directed program or a standard program.
      Patient demographics, preoperative weight, and post operative weights at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and
      24 months post laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy will be collected. Univariate and multivariate
      analyses will be performed between each group with excess weight loss being the primary
      endpoint.

      Such a trial would allow evaluation to know if the effort spent in implementing a goal
      directed weight loss program translates to improved weight loss outcomes in bariatric surgery
      patients. There are no significant risks involved in implementing such a program for our
      patients. This is based on a retrospective review of patients who have undergone the goal
      directed program in NUH. If such a program is shown to improve weight loss outcomes post
      surgery, it could potentially be adopted by bariatric centers worldwide. If the goal directed
      program is shown to have no bearing on weight loss outcomes, the extra efforts by the
      bariatric team into implementing such a program could be better directed to other endeavours.
    
  