
    
      This study aim to compare the clinical outcomes, the rate of repigmentation, and the patient
      perceptions after laser-assisted gingival depigmentation with diode 940 nm and Erbium,
      chromium-doped yttrium, scandium, gallium and garnet (Er,Cr:YSGG) 2780 nm. Two pigmentation
      index were used to compare between the treatment outcomes of using Diode laser or Er,Cr:YSGG.

      The depigmentation procedure essentially involves ablation of epithelial layer of buccal
      gingiva containing melanin pigmentation.

      Sixty healthy patients (22 males and 38 females, aged 21 to 43 years) who presented with a
      chief complaint of having dark-brown to black gingival hyperpigmentation between April 2015
      and September 2018. Participants were randomly divided into 2 groups (30 patients each).
      Randomization was carried out using randomization table; by a computer-generated
      randomization list (SPSS v23.0) with allocation ratio 1:1.

      All of the patients were selected according to the study inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Data collection was done by a dental specialist who was blinded about the provided treatment.
      Data collections included the clinical examination at baseline and follow up appointments. To
      achieve blinding, three calibrated external experts, blinded to the provided treatment
      classified the degree of gingival pigments and gingival topography according oral
      pigmentation index (DOPI) and melanin pigmentation index.

      The periodontal surgery was performed by a periodontist specialised in laser dentistry. The
      periodontist did not interfere with the treatment option.

      Descriptive statistics and statistical analysis was done by an external expert using SPSS
      Statistics software(SPSS v23.0) . Nonparametric tests, Kruskal-Wallis test was used to
      compare between the two groups according the time intervals.

      The patients who did not show in all the study follow up's appointments were dropped from the
      data analysis.

      Patients were asked to evaluate the procedure by using a self-administered questionnaire. The
      patients were recalled after 1 week, 1 month, 12 months and 24 months.
    
  