
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To eliminate exposure to conventional chemotherapy (including anthracyclines), for
      patients with standard risk acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), through use of arsenic
      trioxide (ATO) and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) (tretinoin) based therapy while achieving
      an event free survival (EFS) that is not inferior compared to historical controls.

      II. To significantly reduce exposure to conventional chemotherapy, and in particular,
      anthracycline exposure, for patients with high risk APL, through use of ATO and ATRA based
      therapy while achieving an event free survival that is not inferior compared to historical
      controls.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze the clinical impact of FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) mutations in pediatric
      APL.

      II. To correlate clinical outcomes with the kinetics of reduction in promyelocytic leukemia
      (PML)/retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha) transcript level by quantitative real-time
      (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (RQ-PCR) in bone marrow and peripheral blood samples
      from diagnosis to time points during therapy.

      III. To monitor incidence of coagulopathy complications, utilizing standardized conventional
      supportive care, and correlate with a battery of coagulation testing.

      IV. To evaluate the neurocognitive outcomes of patients treated on this protocol using
      patient-completed, performance-based measures of neuropsychological functioning and parent
      questionnaire report.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients with standard and high risk APL receive tretinoin orally (PO)
      twice daily (BID) and arsenic trioxide intravenously (IV) over 2-4 hours on days 1-28. High
      risk APL patients also receive dexamethasone PO or IV BID on days 1-14 and idarubicin IV over
      15 minutes on days 1, 3, 5, and 7. Patients achieving hematologic complete remission
      (hCR)/hematologic complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (hCRi) may go on to
      consolidation therapy. Patients who do not achieve hCR/hCRi may continue treatment with
      tretinoin and arsenic trioxide for up to 70 days.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive tretinoin PO BID on days 1-14 and 29-42 and arsenic
      trioxide IV over 2-4 hours on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26. Treatment repeats every 56
      days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients then receive tretinoin PO BID on days 1-14 and arsenic trioxide IV over 2-4 hours on
      days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26.

      MINIMAL RESIDUAL DISEASE (MRD) CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients who have APL in the bone
      marrow after 2 courses of consolidation therapy receive MRD consolidation therapy prior to
      continuing onto consolidation course 3. Patients receive cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours every
      12 hours on days 1-4; mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 3-6; and
      tretinoin PO BID on days 1-14. If there are no APL cells in the bone marrow after completion
      of MRD consolidation therapy, patients continue on to consolidation course 3.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 12 months, every 3
      months for 36 months, every 6 months for 48 months, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  