
    
      1.1. Non-Pharmacologic Interventions to Improve Blood Pressure Control: Despite the wide
      availability of multiple classes of antihypertensive agents, compelling data that blood
      pressure (BP) lowering reduces mortality and cardiovascular events, and decades of public
      health campaigns, half of American adults with hypertension do not achieve adequate BP
      control. Randomized controlled trials of interventions to improve BP control in patients with
      hypertension have largely focused on home blood pressure monitoring, nurse- or
      pharmacist-lead education and medication titration, and/or financial incentives. Though many
      of these interventions improve short-term blood pressure control, they are cost-additive to
      health systems, post-intervention data is mixed, and none have been widely implemented.

      Though consensus guidelines recommend dietary changes to improve hypertension control, with a
      particular recommendation in favor of the DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension)
      diet, very few U.S. patients adhere to this complex dietary pattern. The DASH diet reduced
      systolic BP (SBP) by 11 mmHg in randomized controlled trials in which participants were
      provided with food, and 4 mmHg in a study testing a 6-month, 18-visit intensive lifestyle
      intervention intended to promote the DASH diet; however, BP control was not sustained 12
      months after the end of the intensive intervention.

      1.2. Effect of Intermittent Fasting on Metabolic Parameters: In contrast to the DASH diet,
      intermittent fasting (IF) is a dietary pattern that emphasizes temporal restriction of
      caloric intake rather than restricting the number of calories and/or changing the types of
      foods eaten. The simplest and most popular variation of IF involves restricting caloric
      intake to an 8-hour period each day, and consuming no calories for the other 16 hours
      (so-called 16:8 time-restricted feeding). In animal studies, IF has been shown to activate
      cellular pathways with potential disease-modifying benefits in a number of conditions. In
      small human studies, IF is associated with a reduction in SBP by 5-10 mmHg, LDL cholesterol
      by ~8 mg/dl, and weight by ~ 3 kg, though none of the studies of a time-restricted feeding
      regimen included concurrent controls. Some patients report that IF is easier to initiate and
      maintain than other dietary patterns, though this has not been tested empirically.

      1.3. Commitment Devices to Promote Healthy Behaviors: Commitment devices are centered in
      theoretical research that posits a planner-doer framework, wherein an individual can be
      conceptualized as dual sub-selves: The planner, who cares about long-term well-being; and the
      doer, who cares only for the present and prioritizes immediate payoffs. Conflict between the
      motivations and priorities of the planner and the doer sub-selves results in failure to
      follow-through with a plan when the moment to act arrives. Commitment devices are mechanisms
      by which the planner sub-self constrains the actions of their future doer sub-self by making
      certain choices more costly. Hard commitments impose a financial penalty for failing to
      follow through on the commitment, and soft commitments impose a psychological penalty. Hard
      commitments have been shown to change health behaviors, as in a study where smokers forfeited
      money deposited in a savings account if they failed to quit smoking after 6 months. However,
      monetary losses may not be attractive to many people, and effective soft commitment devices
      may be more appealing.

      Pre-clinical research suggests that both intra- and interpersonal commitments might be useful
      components of a soft commitment device. Intrapersonal commitments have also been framed as
      implementation intentions, or specific plans as to where, how, and/or when an action will be
      taken. In small experiments, smokers who set a quit date were more likely to quit, and
      college students who set a date and time to visit a vaccination clinic were more likely to
      receive their vaccination. Interpersonal commitments leverage social networks, so that the
      penalty involves letting down a support partner. Involvement of social networks has been used
      to increase physical activity and improve control of weight and blood glucose in patients
      with obesity and diabetes. Social networks have been used explicitly within the context of
      commitment devices to encourage deposits in a savings account in a study of Chilean
      micro-entrepreneurs who either attended or did not attend a weekly peer support group
      meeting. Weight loss studies encouraging participants to exercise and change their eating
      behavior have employed commitment devices, including some that leveraged the involvement of
      family members or friends of the participant, with mixed results.

      1.4 Rationale for the IFAST Study: The IF dietary pattern, though not inspired by behavioral
      economic concepts, is structured to take advantage of them and thus may be particularly
      amenable to a robust commitment device intervention. Changing one's eating patterns to a
      complex new diet is a cognitively intense process that requires active consideration of
      complex information multiple times per day, leading to cognitive overload and impaired
      decision-making. By contrast, IF, especially time-restricted feeding, is cognitively very
      simple. This simplicity may help participants avoid cognitive overload, initiate the dietary
      pattern and adhere over the long term.

      This study seeks to test how a robust soft commitment device, incorporating both intra- and
      interpersonal commitments, affects uptake and adherence to an intermittent fasting dietary
      pattern, as compared with control, in patients with obesity and hypertension
    
  