
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether the 5-year event-free survival (EFS) rate in pediatric patients with
           Hodgkin's lymphoma with an adequate response after 2 courses of vincristine, etoposide,
           prednisone, and doxorubicin hydrochloride (OEPA) (without radiotherapy) are consistent
           with an estimated target EFS rate of 90%.

        -  Compare the EFS (without a deterioration) of patients treated with procarbazine
           hydrochloride vs dacarbazine (treatment groups 2 and 3).

        -  Determine the treatment outcome of a standardized risk-adapted relapse strategy in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether the 5-year EFS rate in patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma with an
           inadequate response after 2 OEPA courses and standard involved-field radiotherapy are
           consistent with an estimated target EFS rate of 90%.

        -  Determine whether a positive positron emission tomography scan before planned high-dose
           chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation has a negative prognostic
           significance.

        -  Compare the effect of dacarbazine vs procarbazine on the rate of infertility in males
           and premature menopause in females (treatment groups 2 and 3).

      Tertiary

        -  Determine the impact of real-time central staging and response assessment on treatment
           outcome in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, parallel-group, open-label, multicenter study.
      Patients are stratified according to staging and response assessment (central vs local) and
      disease stage (IA/B or IIA [first-line treatment group 1] vs I_EA/B, II_EA, IIB, or IIIA
      [first-line treatment group 2] vs II_EB, III_E A/B, IIIB, or IVA/B [first-line treatment
      group 3]).

        -  First-line treatment group 1: Patients receive oral prednisone (or prednisolone) 3 times
           daily on days 1-15, vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV
           over 1-6 hours on days 1 and 15, and etoposide (or etoposide phosphate) IV over 1-2
           hours on days 1-5 (OEPA).

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients are assessed by fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography (^18FDG-PET) scan.
      Patients with inadequate response undergo radiotherapy within 35 days after completion of
      OEPA.

        -  First-line treatment group 2: Patients receive OEPA as in group 1. After completion of
           OEPA, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral prednisone (or prednisolone) 3 times daily and oral
                procarbazine hydrochloride 2-3 times a day on days 1-15 and vincristine IV and
                cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8 (COPP).

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral prednisone (or prednisolone) 3 times daily on days
                1-15, dacarbazine IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-3, and vincristine IV and
                cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8 (COPDAC).

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients are assessed by ^18FDG-PET scan. Patients with an inadequate response
      undergo radiotherapy within 35 days after completion of COPP or COPDAC.

        -  First-line treatment group 3: Patients receive OEPA as in group 1. After completion of
           OEPA, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive COPP as in arm I of group 2.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive COPDAC as in arm II of group 2. In both arms, treatment
                repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.
                Patients are assessed by ^18FDG-PET scan. Patients with an inadequate response
                undergo radiotherapy within 35 days after completion of COPP or COPDAC.

      Patients with biopsy-confirmed disease progression OR relapse after first-line treatment on
      this study or on protocols DAL-HD 90, GPOH-HD 95, GPOHHD 2002 Pilot, or similar treatment
      proceed to second-line therapy. Patients are stratified according to relapse/progression
      status (late relapse from first-line treatment group 1 [second-line treatment group 1] vs
      early relapse from first-line treatment groups 1, 2, or 3 or late relapse from first-line
      treatment groups 2 or 3 [second-line treatment group 2] vs disease progression [second-line
      treatment group 3]). Patients undergo a ^18FDG-PET scan prior to beginning second-line
      therapy.

        -  Second-line treatment group 1: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 22 hours and
           etoposide IV over 1-2 hours and oral prednisone three times daily on days 1-5 (IEP).
           Patients then receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-6 hours, bleomycin IV,
           vinblastine IV, and dacarbazine IV over 15-30 minutes on days 22 and 36 (ABVD).
           Treatment repeats every 50 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      After chemotherapy treatment, patients undergo radiotherapy.

        -  Second-line treatment group 2: Patients receive IEP and ABVD as in group 1. Autologous
           stem cells are collected after course 1 or 2 of IEP/ABVD.

      After chemotherapy, patients with an adequate response undergo radiotherapy. Patients with an
      inadequate response undergo high-dose chemotherapy comprising carmustine IV over 1-2 hours on
      day -7, etoposide IV and cytarabine IV over 30 minutes twice daily on days -6 to -3, and
      melphalan IV over 1½ hours on day -2. Patients then undergo autologous hematopoietic stem
      cell transplantation (HSCT).

      Patients undergo a ^18FDG-PET scan on day 50-54. Patients with ^18FDG-PET scan positive
      disease undergo radiotherapy.

        -  Second-line treatment group 3: Patients receive IEP and ABVD as in group 1. All patients
           then undergo high-dose chemotherapy and HSCT as in group 2.

      Patients undergo a ^18FDG-PET scan on day 50-54. Patients with ^18FDG-PET scan positive
      disease undergo radiotherapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,150 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  