
    
      Post-percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) physiology The results of functional assessment
      performed after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) taught us that a "successful"
      angiography-guided PCI is often suboptimal in terms of physiology and that physiology result
      after PCI is closely linked to outcome. Yet, post-PCI physiology is rarely utilized in
      clinical practice, being employed in less than 10% of lesions investigated with physiology
      pre-PCI. Reasons for the low use of functional assessment post-PCI and for subsequent
      intervention are manifold. First, physiology is actually used after PCI only in cases where
      it was utilized pre-PCI. Second, randomized clinical trials (RCT) addressing the use of
      physiology to assess PCI results have not been performed, therefore clear instructions and
      cutoffs for its use are lacking. Third, when fractional flow reserve (FFR) is measured, the
      need to administer adenosine several times during the same procedure results in increased
      procedure time, cost and adverse side effects. Fourth, in case of a post-PCI suboptimal
      functional result, it may be difficult to ascertain the underlying cause.

      New indices and tools have been developed in an effort to overcome barriers to the widespread
      adoption of functional assessment. Non-hyperaemic pressure indices (NHPI) including, resting
      distal to aortic coronary pressure ratio (Pd/Pa), and other resting indices have enabled
      functional evaluation without pharmacological arteriolar vasodilation, while
      angiography-based functional assessment have eliminated the need for a dedicated pressure
      wire.

      Importantly, these newer tools may allow operators to understand the mechanism underlying an
      abnormal physiology value after angiographically successful intervention. In fact, the real
      novelty related to their development is the shift from a binary interpretation of physiology
      (positive/negative) to a quantitative site-specific one. For these reasons, they are
      extremely appealing post-PCI and several studies have been recently conducted to validate
      them in this setting.

      Quantitative flow ratio (QFR) In particular, quantitative flow ratio (QFR) is an
      angiographically-derived estimate of FFR developed as an alternative to wire-based
      intracoronary physiology. One advantage of angio-based FFR systems is allowing the generation
      of a pullback curve and discrimination of the physiological contribution of each single
      lesion as well as diagnosis of diffuse disease. The value of QFR to assess the functional
      results of PCI has been tested in the prospective Angio-Based Fractional Flow Reserve to
      Predict Adverse Events After Stent Implantation (HAWKEYE) study. Seven hundred fifty-one
      vessels in 602 patients undergoing angiographically satisfactory second-generation drug
      eluting stent (DES) implantation were analyzed. At the end of the procedure, the operator
      acquired projections for QFR computation performed offline by an independent core laboratory.
      Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis identified a post-PCI QFR best cut-off
      of <0.90 (area under the curve 0.77; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.74-0.80; p< 0.001).
      After correction for potential confounding factors, post-PCI QFR<0.90 was associated with a
      3-fold increase in risk for the vessel-oriented composite endpoint at 2 years (HR: 2.91; 95%
      CI 1.63-5.19; p< 0.001). Further, a very important finding of the HAWKEYE study was the
      demonstration that QFR could discriminate among different coronary artery disease (CAD)
      patterns. In vessels with suboptimal functional result, the site of the QFR drop was in-stent
      in 13% of the cases, while a focal drop outside the stent was identifiable in 32% of the
      cases. Thirty-four percent of vessels showed diffuse disease, while in 21% a combination of
      the aforementioned possibilities was present. It is important to note that QFR analyzability
      depends on quality of angiography and it is feasible in around 80% of the cases. Moreover,
      QFR is not applicable in specific lesion subsets such as left main, bifurcation and ostial
      lesions.

      Virtual PCI The inherent limit of post-PCI physiology is to add measurement and consequent
      actions after the end of a procedure that has been deemed successful by the same operator who
      is performing it. In addition, it is associated with the increase in procedural time and
      costs. Thus, a broad application of post-PCI physiology, although clinically meaningful, is
      implausible.

      On the contrary, the systematic application of QFR before stenting to simulate PCI results
      according to different treatment strategies (virtual PCI) would be an interesting alternative
      to achieve a fully physiology guided procedure.

      The advantages of a virtual PCI strategy based on QFR application are:

        -  QFR is a simple tool, based on what the operator already performs before PCI (namely two
           perpendicular angiographic projections) and not requiring wire or adenosine.

        -  It enables to obtain a full physiologic map of the vessel with a point-by-point detailed
           information of the functional impact of a given stenosis.

        -  It is possible to simulate the treatment of one or more lesions (virtual PCI) in order
           to estimate the final functional value post-PCI.

      Then, virtual PCI based on QFR utilization would not increase procedural time or costs and
      could obtain an optimal post-PCI physiology result in most cases. The "Angio-based
      Quantitative flow ratio Virtual PCI versus Conventional Angio-guided PCI in the achievement
      of an optimal post-PCI QFR" (AQVA) trial is the first step toward this direction and will be
      the basis for a bigger study focused on hard clinical endpoints.

      OBJECTIVES

      To evaluate:

        -  The rate of lesions with a final post-PCI QFR≥0.90 in patients treated with the QFR
           virtual PCI versus patients treated with an angiography-based PCI.

        -  The rate of vessel-oriented composite endpoint (VOCE), defined as the composite of
           vessel-related cardiovascular death, vessel-related myocardial infarction (MI), and
           ischemia-driven target vessel revascularization (TVR).

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION

      In the HAWKEYE trial population, 16% of lesions presented a post-PCI QFR <0.90 after an
      angio-guided PCI. In one third of these lesions, low post-PCI QFR was due to diffuse disease.
      Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that a procedural plan with QFR could be able to
      reduce the rate of lesions with QFR<0.90 by two thirds. Considering that some of the lesions
      with focal disease could also present diffuse disease, the investigators can realistically
      estimate a reduction by 60% with virtual-PCI. Therefore, 300 patients are required to have a
      80% chance of detecting, as significant at the 5% level, an increase in the percentage of
      patient achieving a post-PCI QFR≥0.90 from 84% in the angio-guided group to 94% in the
      virtual PCI group.
    
  