
    
      All individuals enrolled in this study will receive a 4-month Internet-based weight loss
      program followed by an 8-month Internet-based weight loss maintenance program. During the
      first 4 months, each week individuals will be asked to view a 10-15-minute multi-media lesson
      (one per week). These lessons focus on behavioral principles for changing diet and physical
      activity behaviors. Participants are also given weight loss, calorie intake, and physical
      activity goals. They are taught how to self-monitor this information and are instructed to
      submit it weekly on the study website. Automated, weekly individualized feedback is provided.
      Following the 4-month weight loss program participants will receive an 8-month weight loss
      maintenance program. During this time, they will be asked to view monthly video lessons which
      focus on strategies for successful WL maintenance and instructed to continue to self-monitor
      weight, calorie intake, and physical activity minutes on the study website for one week per
      month. Automated, monthly feedback is provided.

      In addition to the Internet program described above, some individuals enrolled in this study
      will be selected to receive phone coaching. Those selected for 'brief' phone coaching will be
      asked to complete 3 phone calls with a coach between weeks 5-8 of the study and those
      selected to receive 'extended' phone coaching will be asked to complete 12 phone calls with a
      coach between weeks 5-16. The first coaching call will be approximately 45 minutes in
      duration and all subsequent calls will be approximately 15 minutes in duration. The coach
      will assist participants in developing a meal plan, problem solving around current barriers,
      and goal setting. Upon completion of all coaching calls participants will have no additional
      interaction with the coach, but will remain enrolled in the Internet program.

      Assessments will occur at baseline, 4, and 12 months.
    
  