
    
      During preparation of root canals, loss of working length (WL) can lead to instrumentation
      beyond the predefined apical limit of the preparation. This effect is mainly attributed to
      straightening of the root canal during instrumentation. Some studies showed, that this kind
      of over instrumentation as well as under instrumentation can adversely affect the outcome of
      the endodontic treatment. Furthermore, all endodontic instruments produce apical extrusion of
      debris, even when the preparation is kept within the confines of the root canal.
      Consequently, preparations ending in the periapical tissue will produce a greater amount of
      debris extrusion that could result from an irritation of the periodontal ligament with
      subsequent postoperative symptomatic apical periodontitis. Therefore, it seems favorable to
      control the determined WL during root canal preparation to avoid preparations ending in the
      periapical tissue.

      Endodontic motors with integrated apex locators offer a solution to the described problem as
      they have been developed with the intention of making root canal treatment easier and faster.
      Besides torque and speed control, these devices also aim to continuously monitor and control
      the apical limit all the way through the mechanical preparation of the root canals and have
      an auto apical reverse (AAR) function that stops and reverse the rotation when the file tip
      reaches the predetermined apical limit of the preparation.

      E-CONNECT S (Eighteeth medical technology Co., Ltd, china) is an endomotor with integrated
      apex locator newly introduced in the market with continuous WL measuring function. It
      contains an optional module for rotary instrumentation, allowing the device to function as a
      low-speed hand piece, apex locator, or a combination of both. This motor has an
      attention-grabbing property that when an instrument reaches the predetermined working length,
      the motor automatically stops the instrumentation. Thus, it can be concluded that
      automatically stopping instrumentation when the instrument reaches the working length would
      decrease postoperative pain compared with manually controlling the working length by using
      stoppers during instrumentation (separate length determination and root canal preparation).

      The Root ZX (J Morita, Tokyo, Japan) is a third generation EAL where no calibration is
      necessitated, and a microprocessor analyzes the impedance quotient. It uses multiple
      frequencies to calculate the distance from the end of the canal. To measure location within
      the canal, third generation units (including Root ZX EAL) still use impedance measurements
      but have stronger microprocessors and can process the mathematical quotient and algorithm
      calculations required to obtain accurate readings. The change in electrical capacitance at
      the apical constriction is the basis for the operation of the Root ZX and its reported
      accuracy, even in presence of different electrolytes in the canal and under different
      clinical conditions; that's why it is considered the most commonly used apex locator.
    
  