
    
      Eligible participants will be scheduled for a baseline visit. During the week prior, they
      will be instructed to continue usual dietary habits and complete an online photo-assisted
      food record, with parental assistance. At the baseline visit, height and weight will be
      measured, a spot urine sample will be collected, and a blood draw will be performed.
      Participants will have their CGM data for the past two weeks downloaded. In a subset of
      participants, an abdominal MRI will also be performed.

      Subjects will then be randomized to either: 1) low-calorie sweetener (LCS) restriction or 2)
      continuation of usual LCS intake (control). All participants (both groups) and their parent
      will undergo a brief, 20-minute orientation where the PI and study dietitian will provide an
      introduction to the study, instructions on completing food records, education on CGM. Those
      in the intervention group will be given sample replacement beverages and a brochure on
      avoiding LCS to take home which will include a list of specific foods and beverages
      containing LCS to avoid during the study. Participants in the control group will be counseled
      on healthy eating as those in the intervention group (in accordance with standard dietary
      guidance for T1D management), with the exception of information and resources for avoiding
      LCS.

      In both groups, text messages will be sent to parents 3X/week with reminders that their child
      should avoid LCS or continue usual intake, per randomization. Adherence will be monitored
      through collection of spot-urine samples for measurement of sucralose and ace-K
      concentrations. daily text message beverage logs completed by the parent, and photo-assisted
      food records with parent assistance in Weeks 0, 1, 6, and 12. During Week 6, participants and
      their parent will attend a mid-intervention telemedicine booster visit, during which the PI
      and/or study RA will reinforce the intervention and remind participants to mail back a spot
      urine sample using materials provided by the study team at baseline. Participants will be
      reminded of the study instructions, including the importance of inserting the DEXCOM G6
      sensor (provided by study team) at the beginning of Week 11.

      At the end of Week 12, participants and their parent will return for follow-up. Participants
      will have their CGM data downloaded using DEXCOM Clarity™ software. Height and weight will be
      measured and a second blood draw performed. Those who had an MRI at the baseline visit (n=30)
      will undergo a second abdominal MRI. Those randomized to the intervention will be
      purposefully sampled and asked to complete a ~20 minute qualitative interview and ~5 minute
      satisfaction survey, together with their parent, about their study experience and the
      challenges of LCSB restriction.
    
  