
    
      Introduction:

      The lipoabdominoplasty can lead to respiratory complications in the postoperative period
      becoming critical early clinical and functional evaluation of respiratory muscles, seeking to
      direct a more effective treatment, which can result in shorter hospital stays and lower
      spending on health in patients subjected to this type of procedure.

      hypotheses: Patients undergoing lipoabdominoplasty surgery with muscular plication, have
      decreased diaphragmatic mobility, strength and respiratory function, in addition to
      presenting changes in the regional distribution pattern of ventilation in torocoabdominal
      system in the postoperative period when compared to the preconditions surgery .

      Goal:

      To evaluate the correlation of regional distribution of ventilation system with
      thoracoabdominal diaphragmatic mobility in women undergoing surgery lipoabdominoplasty
      comparing preoperative, 10 ° and 30 ° DPO DPO.

      Hypothesis:

      Patients undergoing surgery lipoabdominoplasty have decreased diaphragmatic mobility,
      strength and respiratory function, in addition to presenting changes in the pattern of
      regional ventilation distribution in torocoabdominal system in the postoperative period when
      compared to the preconditions surgery.

      Materials and methods:

      This is a prospective cohort study, which will be evaluated 30 women between 30 and 50 years
      underwent surgery lipoabdominoplasty without respiratory or prior cardiac comorbidities and
      body mass index (BMI) ≤ 30 kg / cm2. women smokers are deleted and / or a history of smoking
      greater than 10 years, FEV1 <80% predicted, FEV1 / FVC <70% of predicted and unable to
      understand the commands to perform the proposed methods. For evaluation of diaphragmatic
      mobility and thickness will be used high-resolution ultrasound with a convex transducer of
      3.5 MHz and 7.5 MHz linear transducer, respectively. The assessment of the regional
      distribution of ventilation thoracoabdominal system will be made using the optoelectronic
      plethysmograph (POE). The strength of the inspiratory and expiratory muscles is measured
      through a digital manometer connected to a nozzle with an orifice of 2 mm to reduce the
      closing pressure of the glottis. A portable spirometer is used for assessment of pulmonary
      function and evaluation of dyspnea will be used modified Borg scale. The data will be
      evaluated in the preoperative period, 10 days and 30 days postoperatively.
    
  