
    
      Pancreatic insufficiency (PI) is a common pathologic condition that occurs in approximately
      90% of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Pancreatic insufficiency is characterized by both
      pancreatic enzyme and bicarbonate insufficiencies. Consequently, maldigestion occurs and a
      variety of essential nutrients are lost through the stools, especially fat and fat soluble
      vitamins. As a result, patients often experience growth failure and malnutrition. Effective
      correction of maldigestion is critical to the survival and well-being of these patients.

      Several strengths of PANCRECARB® (pancrelipase) (i.e., MS4, MS8, MS16) have been available
      and used by patients with CF for more than a decade. The digestive enzymes in PANCRECARB®
      (pancrelipase) act locally in the gastrointestinal tract. The active enzymes hydrolyze fats
      into glycerol and fatty acids, proteins into peptides and amino acids, and starches into
      dextrins and maltose. PANCRECARB® (pancrelipase) has the potential to promote increased
      lipase activity with efficient fat digestion. Efficient fat digestion is important in CF
      because it may lead to improved nutritional and pulmonary status and ultimately to improved
      quality of life and enhanced survival.

      PANCRECARB® MS-8 (pancrelipase) has been compared to enteric-coated pancreatic enzymes
      without bicarbonate for its efficacy in reducing steatorrhea in patients with CF. Differences
      in fat excretion, when subjects received PANCRECARB® MS-8 (pancrelipase) versus
      enteric-coated enzymes without bicarbonate, were compared using linear modeling. Mean fat
      excretion decreased significantly in subjects who received PANCRECARB® MS-8 (pancrelipase)
      compared to enteric-coated enzymes without bicarbonate.

      This study has been designed in accordance with FDA 2006 guideline on exocrine pancreatic
      insufficiency drug products. Assuming that the results of this study demonstrate that therapy
      with PANCRECARB® MS-16 (pancrelipase) results in clinically and statistically significant
      improvement in fat absorption relative to placebo in subjects with CF and pancreatic
      insufficiency, the study results will be part of a submission for marketing approval of
      PANCRECARB® (pancrelipase).

      The study consists of two treatment periods with 72-hour stool collections separated by a
      washout period. Study subjects will be required to consume a diet high in fat content.
    
  