
    
      To enhance individual and family well-being among probationers, family life and health
      education, including the skills and knowledge for physical exercise, healthy family
      functioning, strong communication skills, healthy interpersonal relationships, and positive
      self-esteem, should be strengthened and promoted. Based on the strong foundation of the
      FAMILY projects conducted by our research team in the past years, this project seeks to
      promote "FAMILY holistic health" for targeted families (i.e. probationers). The holistic
      health interventions are interactive and designed for behavioral changes to enhance
      individual well-being and encourage positive and sustainable health actions among family
      members. Thus, it is expected ultimately that the participants and their family members could
      enhance their family happiness, health, and harmony (3Hs). In sum, the project has the
      following contributions:

        1. Strengthen evidence-based practice Hong Kong probation-related topics are scarcely
           studied. There is a need for rigorous studies to build and strengthen evidence-base for
           probation services. This study will be one of the first studies to evaluate the
           effectiveness of probation services on individual well-being and family well-being
           utilizing a mixed-methods approach.

        2. Stakeholder engagement Stakeholders will be engaged throughout the research process.
           This promotes co-learning and empowering process, builds on strengths and resources
           within the community, and integrates knowledge and intervention for the mutual benefit
           of all partners.

        3. Train-the-trainer program Training will be provided to probation officers and/or workers
           at the Social Welfare Department. The result of this train-the-trainers program is that
           front-line service workers will increase and enhance their knowledge and skills to
           independently and effectively carry out interventions. Probation officers will act as
           role models for probationers and continue to implement our knowledge and techniques in
           their future interventions.
    
  