
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

        -  To assess whether intervention with aspirin results in a decreased rate of all causes of
           mortality or conversion rate from Barrett's metaplasia to adenocarcinoma or high grade
           dysplasia.

        -  To assess whether high dose PPI (protein pump inhibitor) therapy results in a decreased
           rate of all causes of mortality or conversion rate from Barrett's metaplasia to
           adenocarcinoma or high grade dysplasia.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        -  To assess whether intervention with aspirin results in decreased high-grade dysplasia,
           in decreased all cause mortality, in decreased oesophageal cancer incidence and in
           decreased cause-specific mortality when each is considered separately

        -  To assess whether intervention with high dose PPI results in decreased high-grade
           dysplasia, in decreased all cause mortality, in decreased oesophageal cancer incidence
           and in decreased cause-specific mortality when each is considered separately

        -  To assess whether there are clinical and molecular risk factors which can be identified
           in BM (Barrett's Metaplasia) for the development of BA.

        -  To assess the cost effectiveness of aspirin and/or PPI treatment in the prevention of
           BA.

        -  To assess whether intervention with PPI and/or aspirin induces changes in the expression
           of molecular markers for BA.

        -  To investigate new genes important in the progression of BA, as a unique tissue bank
           will be available with a complete endoscopic, histological, physiology and
           pharmaceutical history.

        -  To assess inherited genetic factors for predisposition to oesophagitis above BM, BM, LGD
           HGD and BA.

        -  To assess what the biological risk factors are for cardiac disease and aspirin
           resistance.

        -  To assess gender differences in outcomes.

      Cancer Research UK approved the study in 2003 for a 10 year period to run from 1st January
      2005 to 31st December 2014. Funding is renewable annually and is dependent on a satisfactory
      review by an independent committee.

      An application for a funding extension will be made to CRUK 18 months before the end of the
      current grant.

      A total of 2513 patients have been accrued for this study. They remain on trial medication
      and follow up.
    
  