
    
      We aim to evaluate the utility of continuous glucose monitors (CGMs) in improving the
      diagnosis and management of neonatal hypoglycemia in infants admitted to the neonatal
      intensive care unit (NICU). Specifically, we hope to assess whether the use of CGMs in this
      population reduces the number and severity of hypoglycemic events, reduces the time to
      diagnosis of the etiology of hypoglycemia and/or reduces the time taken to achieve stable
      euglycemia on a sustainable feeding regimen. We plan to perform a prospective pilot and
      feasibility study comparing the clinical course and outcomes of newborns with hypoglycemia
      admitted to the NICU who are actively monitored with CGMs versus those who receive routine
      care. Eligible infants will be late preterm and term infants admitted to the Boston
      Children's Hospital who have had two documented hypoglycemic episodes during their current
      admission. Families will be approached for consent shortly after diagnosis of recurrent
      hypoglycemia. As all of these infants will be undergoing periodic blood glucose monitoring as
      part of their routine care, enrollment in this study will involve minimal additional
      interventions, including CGM placement, which involves placement of a small subcutaneous
      needle sensor, and the possibility of drawing additional blood glucose samples if
      hypoglycemia is detected by CGM. All enrolled infants will be placed on a CGM monitor and
      then randomized to either the "CGM Protocol" or "Standard of Care" group. Those on the CGM
      Protocol will have a fully accessible CGM that will be analyzed for blood glucose trends and
      will alarm for any blood glucose level approaching hypoglycemic threshold (eg. BG <70 mg/dL).
      Those in the "Standard of Care" group will have a CGM in place, but values will not be
      available to the clinical team except if severe hypoglycemia is recorded (eg. BG <40 mg/dL).
      Whenever the CGM alarms or there is a concerning blood glucose trend as measured by the CGM,
      the nurse will be asked to check a blood glucose value. All clinical management decisions
      will be made by the clinical team based on confirmed blood glucose values. In the control
      group, the only change to current management is the potential performance of additional blood
      glucose checks that may be prompted by CGM alarms for severe hypoglycemia. The CGM will
      remain in place until the infant is no longer being monitored for glycemic stability or the
      infant is discharged. We will record all blood glucose levels, laboratory data related to
      investigation of the underlying cause of hypoglycemia, all intravenous and enteral sources of
      glucose, and uses of other therapeutic interventions such as diazoxide and carnitine
      replacement. We will also compare blood glucose data with information from the CGM monitors
      to assess accuracy. We will then compare severity and frequency of hypoglycemia, as well as
      times to diagnosis and euglycemia between the "CGM" and "Standard of Care" groups.
    
  