
    
      Ample evidence documents that supported employment is an effective strategy for improving the
      vocational outcomes of persons with schizophrenia and other severe mental illnesses. However,
      a significant amount of clients receiving supported employment services work little or not at
      all. With respect to factors that may influence the work outcomes of persons participating in
      supported employment programs, cognitive functioning appears to be potentially important.
      Cognitive impairment in persons with severe mental illness (SMI) is strongly correlated with
      functional adjustment in the community and has been shown to be correlated with work, both
      contemporaneously and prospectively. Studies have demonstrated that clients who did not
      receive the full benefits of supported employment had more deficits in executive functioning,
      memory, and psychomotor speed than those clients who had better work outcomes.

      The current study will use a computerized cognitive training program that will be
      administered by a cognitive trainer. The program consists of 24 training modules (each one
      takes about one hour to complete). Clients in an SEP who have been unable to maintain a job
      that they acquired while in the program can participate in the research. Clients who have
      agreed to participate in the research project will be randomly assigned to either receive the
      computerized training and supported employment services (CT-SES) or supported employment
      services (SES) without the training (i.e., treatment-as-usual-condition). Both research
      groups will receive the same baseline, three-month, and 12-month follow up interviews that
      will consists of a brief clinical and neuropsychological evaluation, an assessment of
      problems associated with finding or maintaining employment, and employment outcomes while
      enrolled in the study. In addition, both groups will receive a telephonic interview at 18 and
      24 months to assess their employment outcomes (clinical and neurological information will not
      be collected at 18 or 24 months).
    
  