
    
      To date, no specific agent has been approved to treat sickle cell crisis, to reduce the
      severity of a sickling crisis, or to shorten the duration of admission. Current therapy for a
      sickling crisis is limited to hydration and symptomatic pain relief with opiates when pain is
      severe enough to cause admission to hospital. Administration of oxygen by inhalation alone
      has not proven effective. Carbon monoxide (CO) binds to Hb S and, while attached, prevents
      and reverses polymerization of Hb S chains and consequent distortion of the red blood cell.
      Carbon monoxide at very low doses also acts as a messenger to cells, reducing inflammation,
      reducing oxygen requirements, and preventing programmed cell death (apoptosis).

      The MP4 molecule can be modified to carry CO and other gases to enhance therapeutic benefit
      for certain patients. MP4CO is therefore designed to deliver therapeutic, non-toxic levels of
      CO, to provide an immediate metabolic signal to cells and to reduce inflammation. Once the CO
      is released from the compound, the MP4 molecule gets oxygenated in the lung and then delivers
      oxygen to ischemic tissues.

      Previously published studies provide a good foundation to postulate that a chemically
      modified hemoglobin such as MP4CO might have the ideal properties as an oxygen therapeutic
      agent for treatment or reversal of a sickling crisis. The initial release of CO from MP4CO is
      predicted to have a therapeutic effect including immediate stabilization of Hb S to prevent
      further polymerization and reverse existing sickling, vasodilation of capillaries, and
      anti-inflammatory properties. The subsequent circulation of the MP4 molecule as an oxygen
      therapeutic agent (after converting to MP4OX following oxygenation in the lungs) will help to
      1) preferentially oxygenate ischemic cells, 2) reverse partially sickled red cells, and 3)
      improve oxygenation of local tissues, thereby potentially ameliorating the painful VOC caused
      by red blood cell sickling. In addition, MP4CO has enhanced chemical stability, which enables
      storage at room temperature while minimizing methemoglobin formation.
    
  