
    
      A cohort observational study evaluating the predictors, incidence, clinical presentation and
      immunopathogenesis of Immune Reconstitution Syndrome (IRIS) in human immunodeficiency virus
      (HIV-1) infected patients with CD4 Count less than or equal to 100 cells/microL who are
      initiating antiretroviral therapy.

      Immune reconstitution syndrome (IRIS) is a clinical syndrome that has been described in HIV
      infected patients after initiation of highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART), and is
      characterized by paradoxical acute worsening of an underlying opportunistic infection or
      AIDS-defining illness. There is no widely accepted syndromic definition, the pathogenesis of
      the syndrome is unclear and there is no specific therapy. The syndrome is more common in
      patients with low CD4+ T cell counts (less than 50 cells/microL) and in those with certain
      underlying infections (e.g. mycobacterial or cryptococcal infection) and is typically
      observed when there is evidence of response to HAART and while patients are still at risk for
      other opportunistic infections (OIs) or AIDS defining illnesses (e.g. pneumocystis jirovecii
      pneumonia or cytomegalovirus [CMV] retinitis). The incidence of IRIS varies depending on the
      studied population and is very frequent in developing countries creating significant
      diagnostic and therapeutic challenges as well as utilization of limited health resources.

      DESIGN: International observational cohort study. Participants will be evaluated at baseline
      and followed according to the protocol follow up schedule after initiation of antiretroviral
      therapy for a total of two years. Acute symptoms that may be representing manifestations of
      IRIS will also be evaluated at additional acute care visits if necessary.

      DURATION: Enrollment is ongoing. Each volunteer will be followed for at least two years.
      Total duration of the study will be approximately 8 years (including the optional extension
      phase in US).

      SAMPLE SIZE: Approximately 600 patients will be enrolled, 200 in Kenya, 100 in Thailand and
      300 in US. (enrollment is US will continue until approximately the other sites are full).
      Based on the incidence of IRIS in patients with low CD4 counts (approximately 20-40 percent),
      we anticipate strong power (approximately 90 percent) to identify baseline factors predictive
      of IRIS.

      POPULATION: HIV-l-infected men and women, age greater than or equal to 18 years,
      antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naive with CD4+ T cell counts less than or equal to 100
      cells/mm(3). Participants will be recruited and followed at three sites: the broader
      Washington DC, Kericho, Kenya and Bangkok, Thailand areas.

      REGIMEN: Participants will be initiated on ART according to the clinical standard of care. If
      an OI or other AIDS defining illness is identified prior to or during screening or at any
      point during the study, they will also be treated according to standard of care.
    
  